[{"Title":"The nice humor makes you forget about most flaws.","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I've always been a fan of Matthew Perry in the sitcom Friends. I still think he was absolutely great as Chandler Bing. But so far he could never convince me as an actor on the big silver screen. Somehow it just didn't work out as well as it did in those ten years of Friends. But this movie is different. I really liked him in this one.Three to Tango is a comedy that sometimes goes a bit too far over the top, but that also offers plenty of fun and laughter which will make you forget about the few annoying moments. I liked the story about the two architects who will act as if they are a gay couple, just to get that important restoration job. When the businessman also asks Oscar to keep an eye on his mistress, believing nothing can go wrong since Oscar is gay, things start to go really wrong, creating a lot of painful but often funny situations...I guess the fans of the sitcom Friends will love this movie. I know I did and the main reason for that is because Matthew Perry is playing the role he knows best the likable loser who doesn't do much right. Sure, the movie has it's flaws and no the story isn't world-shockingly original, but it offered me plenty of laughter and that's exactly what I'm looking for in a comedy. That's why I give this movie a 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"Matthew Perry stole the show!","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"23 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was just fantastic!  It is the funniest movie I have seen in ages!  Matthew Perry has excellent timing (as already seen in Friends) and really was the outstanding actor.  Neve Campbell and Dylan McDermott also played excellent supporting roles.  In fact the movie was so good I am going to see it again and buy it when it comes out on video.  The comedy movie of the year! "},{"Title":"Harmless fun","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie has a chance to be cliched but usually avoids it deftly. It's not perfect nor full of belly laughs but pleasant enough. I haven't seen much of Matthew Perry's work, not being a Friends fan, but I was very impressed by his acting here, his expressions and comedic timing. Neve Campbell is adorable, the kind of spunky kooky girl you wish existed in real life - one of her better roles. If you're a fan of Matthew or Neve, you'll love the movie. Supporting cast does fine, direction, photography, music, all in place unobtrusively. A good director is one who you don't know is there. Damon Santostefano emerges from successful tv shows to do a fine job. (Clueless, The District, Honey I Shrunk The Kids). "},{"Title":"A little diamond","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Watching this film the second time, was just as enjoyable as the first time around.  The balance between comedy and seriousness is well done, as the stupidity never takes over.  Matthew Perry has often irritated me in Friends as he is so over the top, but here he has been kept within better boundaries.  Neve Campbell is also in a role that seem to fit her perfectly, playing a sweet, while little wild woman.  Dylon McDermott and Oliver Platt are also great in their parts.  What made the film work was how believable Matthew Perry is as gay, something he suffers from in Friends as well.  So the whole plot works out, with the chemistry between Matthew and Neve working out beautifully.  This is well balanced romantic comedy which I recommend.  8/10 "},{"Title":"Sweet!","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Neve Campbell doesn't get any sweeter than this. You've seen her as a bitchy Party of Five chic and a Jamie Lee Curtis style victim but this is where she's at her best...quirky, cute, believable and fun. I think this is what Neve is like in real life! She's perfect for adorably eecentric Amy. Matthew Perry (though not looking his best) is charming and fun and at times steals the show!!! Oliver Platt isn't too bad either. The basic story is Perry and Platt are two partners in business, they're competeing with another set of partners. Platt is gay, Perry isn't. The story gets reversed to where the bosss thinks Perry is gay so he asks him to watch out for Amy with whom he's having an affair. End of Story. Did you get that? Within the first five minutes you know whats gonna happen but its a sweet, big hearted little film that makes you want somebody to cuddle up with ) A must see for Neve fans  "},{"Title":"Pleasantly surprising","Date":"16 May 2008","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I had mildly low expectations on this movie. I predicted it would be a second rate comedy, cheesy, hardly any romance at all, and just was unworthy of my time, even though I was eager to see the wonderful Neve Campbell who I always enjoy in movies and thought that it could not be horrible, hopefully somewhat entertaining. When a few certain scenes happened I thought that I was in for another cliché-ridden rom-com. Then, this film totally surprised me by doing something different and changing itself into a very well done and likable rom-com with cute performances from everyone. It's not your average run-of-the-mill rom-com and while some of my expectations were reached, in ways, other thoughts I had about this film were left far behind in the dirt and I was dumbfounded at what a fluffy and fun movie it was. It managed to be slightly unpredictable, and while it was not that romantic at all, I found the comedy to be easygoing and it was just a lighthearted film. I was in this movie for Neve Campbell and came out liking something different about each character in the movie. I don't know if this movie is a must see, but if you have even the slightest bit of interest at all in this film, go ahead, watch it. I was pleasantly surprised, pleasantly surprised indeed. It provides some giggles and smiles, and passes the time effectively. "},{"Title":"Familiar, but fun.","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's true. Actors can take a tired movie plot and make it good. And this movie is a lot like that. Matthew Perry and Neve Campbell have chemistry and Oliver Platt was fun as Matthew's friend. I went in expecting the worst, especially since Entertainment Weekly gave it an F, but I really thought it was good. "},{"Title":"Three to What?","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It takes Three To Tango. So why the rock and roll, not tango, sequence during the starting credits? These credits are James Bondish; silhouettes, but without tango music; a very entertaining sequence in fact, but they point to the bits and pieces nature of Three To Tango. It's a film in parts.But some of the parts are downright funny.Matthew Perry (Friends) plays Oscar an architect who with his gay partner Peter (Oliver Platt , Funny Bones) are after a contract to build some swank building for slime ball rich guy Charles (Dylan McDermott).Charles is two timing his wife with Amy (Neve Campbell, Scream) and thinking that Oscar is gay like Peter, Charles asks Oscar to baby sit Amy because he's fearful of Amy running off with an old boyfriend of hers.Of course Oscar and Amy fall in love but Oscar has to pretend he's gay to Amy to keep the contract with Charles, and this keeps the laughs rolling.For instance Amy gets to confide with Oscar about the sorts of girly things women apparently share with gay men. He also has to deal with the men now attracted to him because they think he's gay.Hollywood has an uneasy relationship with homosexuality. These days its common to have the comical gay friend or two mincing about in mainstream films (As Good As It Gets, Beverley Hills Cop and many others).These personalties are added almost strictly for laughs and they are sometimes genuinely amusing but a good dose of homophopia is necessary to really enjoy Three To Tango.Those not inclined to hate those batting for the other side will be a bit under awed by many of the scenes in this film but there's nothing new about that.Still these sorts of movies may well be seen to be an important step in the true coming out of this minority group on the big screen. Judging though by the ill tuned guffaws on air at the screening I attended there's a long way to go as yet.There are often two or three gags going on at once in any case. This film takes the bird shot approach to comedy. Let off a blast of jokes all at once and one or two might hit their target.But still the two central characters, Amy and Oscar, do develop some credibility which isn't surprising since they're the only ones who aren't vapid stereotypes.That might have been not so easy though. I was often still tempted to imagine death mask, hooded, Scream murderers lunging out on the shadows with big knives at Neve Campbell. But she has successfully transcended that sort of typecasting in this film.Her hair is cut shorter and she's determinably bubbly, very different to the haunted, hunted character she plays in the Scream films.Mathew Perry like Campbell is very likeable in what is sometimes an awkward comedy romance, with a gay fear subplot.But overwhelmingly, Three To Tango is often played strictly for fun. Oscar rushes through a market. Instead of knocking over a fruit cart, standard fare for the movies, about six live ducks are thrown at him. Huh! But that was different. And funny.  "},{"Title":"Fun Tango","Date":"4 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" What you get from 'Three To Tango' is a feel-good (but sort of deja-vu) comedy. It has its own charm, own humour (though very American). Santostefano's direction helps the movie move on a steady track. Matthew Perry's Oscar isn't very different from Chandler Bing, yet he manages to stay funny as hell and never get on our nerves. Neve Campbell's Amy is vivacious, charming, sexy and funny. Dylan McDermott does alright as the arrogant boss. Oliver Platt is decent (although he does go overboard at times). Unlike other more recent American comedies, 'Three To Tango' has a more classy appeal. The background score is very likable. The film is set in the busy city which is beautifully shot. Though it does have its share of toilet humour and over-the-top comedy, I can safely say it's one of the better American comedies, fun enough to watch on a rainy day accompanied by a great background score. "},{"Title":"A date movie that doesn't insult your intelligence","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Typical Hollywood formula guy meets girl, guy wants girl, but girl thinks guy is gay and he must maintain the charade or lose a job.  In this case the guy in question is Oscar Novak (Matt Perry), who, with his business partner (Oliver Platt) is competing for a $90 million renovation project.  To complicate matters, Charles, the guy in charge of assigning the project (Dylan McDermott), asks Oscar to shadow his mistress (Neve Campbell) and keep her away from any guys. Oscar doesn't realize why he's been chosen (Charles thinks he's gay) until it's too late. Of course it's only a matter of time before Oscar and Amy fall in love and chaos ensues.Perry essentially does a rehash of his Chandler persona from Friends, which makes Oscar a charming, neurotic klutz who makes little headway with women.  Campbell's Amy is energetic as the independent life loving bohemian and her omnipresent grin and boundless optimism light up the screen (luckily there's no screaming).  Platt, although uncharacteristically subdued, is hilarious as always and has some of the best lines in the film.  Unfortunately, McDermott's portrayal of the self-absorbed- pretty-boy-Donald-Trump-wannabe is suprisingly lifeless and the only weak link in the film. Tango is not groundbreaking cinema -the straight-guy-pretending-to-be-gay (and vices versa) routine has surely been done in every medium known to man.  Unlike many of its predecessor's, however, it manages to be amusing without being offensive Oscar doesn't try to act gay  - he does not become a mincing, effeminate, fop with a lisp - rather he conducts himself as he always has. Although humor is the method of delivery, the movie manages to honestly convey the difficulty people must face when, for whatever reason, they are forced to live a lie.  Oscar's coming out speech emphasizes this point, and manages to be poignant and educational without being melodramatic. If you're looking for an entertaining date movie that doesn't require a box of Kleenex this movie amply fits the bill. "}{"Title":"Gay? I'm not gay.  I didn't............gay.","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the most all time under-rated films I've seen.WARNING SPOILER ALERTThis is the story of Oscar Novak (played brilliently by Mathew Perry). Oscar and his business partner Peter ( also played brilliently by the under-rated Oliver Platt) have to sell a do or renovation deal to the financially omnipotent tycoon Charles Newman (Dylan McDermott)Newman falls under the misguided impression that Oscar is gay. This mis-information is the inside track that land the job that Oscar and Peter so desperatly need, because Newman needs someone to keep tabs on mistress Amy Post (played winningly and adorably by Neve Campbell).Just when the situation couldn't get any more complicated for Oscar, he just happens to let the most inconvenient thing happen as he falls in love with Amy.Mathew Perry gives one of his all-time best performances as Oscar Novak. Not only does he take his signiture Chandler Bing persona to the next level, but shows his dramatic and romantic side as well.  Neve Campbell is so sweet in this role.  She charms the heck out of the audience as well as Perry. The two make one of the most adorable onscreen couples.The supporting cast does it's part too.  Oliver Platt is priceless as Peter Steinberg, as he displays a flawless comedic performence whenever things get critical Do you know what toilet paper feels like in EGYPT! Dylan McDermont hits the nail on the head as the rich and powerful tycoon.This is one of those movies that does get any less entertaining the more you watch it.  The perfomances and blend of New York style Jazz music work perfectly.  This film also doesn't do anything to frown on homosexuality. It doesn't try to make the sence of being gay freakish or wrong, but more so dwells on the difficulties of dealing with identity misconceptions and paranoia.This film was 50% genuine comedy, 5% social statement , 45% warm-hearted romance and 100% entertainment.This is one of my more highly recommended films of not only 1999, but ever. Just sit back, and enjoy.  I would advise this as a rental, but it seems more like a keeper to me.  "},{"Title":"Truly the best romantic comedy I've ever seen!","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well, I had NO idea that this movie was being 'bashed' or receiving negative publicity. The first I heard about this movie, I only wanted to see it because Dylan McDermott (The Practice) was in it, but when I saw the trailer I thought it would be hilarious too. And I was absolutely right! I don't think I've laughed this hard during a movie for ages! I mean, usually most romantic comedies are way too mushy and when they're over, you kinda think, 'That was IT?' But in Three to Tango, from the opening credits to the little scenes which appear with the ending credits, it is HILARIOUS! Matthew Perry gave a superb performance, being totally misunderstood by EVERYONE (I expecially liked the father's reaction), and Neve wasn't really as bimboesque as I thought she'd be... The whole time I thought it was funny how Oliver Platt was secretly laughing at everyone... I could go on for ages, but my advice is that you MUST see this movie, even if you've been put off by the bad press you DO have to give it a chance, because you might end up loving it totally like I did! My only regret is that at the end they didn't show us Dylan wearing the... the thing that his wife bought him! (Y'know! ^o^) "},{"Title":"Surprisingly excellent, sweet and funny","Date":"25 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I didn't see this movie for years because I heard it was terrible. I happened to catch it on cable today, and they couldn't be more incorrect! Matthew Perry and Neve Campbell absolutely SPARKLE! Matthew is so sweet and funny it reminded me why I loved him so much on friends before the shrew Monica took his balls. Their chemistry seems so real, it's either the best acting job they've both ever done, or they were really into each other, hee! There are a lot of funny moments, some cliché, but its a romantic comedy, you expect a certain amount of formula. But Matthew and Neve keep it real and cute and funny, and I was overwhelmed by how touching it was. Matthew really hit the mark on this one, and Neve is adorable! I missed the scathing and usually-hilarious Oliver Platt, his role seemed a mere supporting throw-away, it could have been played by anyone, but it was nice to see him do something different.Dylan McDermott does what he does best irritating slime ball. I never quite believe him when he plays a good guy, and its much more fun to love to hate him anyway.Yes the film has a message too, but they don't hit you over the head with it. The entire film is nicely sweet and subtle. Everyone (except maybe homophobes) should give it a shot! "},{"Title":"This seems to be a LOVE IT  or HATE IT movie.  I LOVE IT.","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  C'mon, you folks.  You have to admit this movie has some really great laughs in it.  I don't usually laugh right out loud when I'm sitting close behind someone, but not only did I, everybody else did too!Sure the plot is as old as the hills.  So what?  This is an A movie with fine stars and witty, perceptive and often hilarious writing.Oliver Platt's performance is PERFECT.  PERFECT.  It should be required viewing in every acting class.  He's so subtle about the way he gets everything right, just right, just enough subdued moments, just enough flares.  The man has delivered a masterpiece.Matthew Perry is a riot.  Late in the movie he gets a little too Friends-schtickish for a while but most of his performance is fresh, and it's all funny.  Neve Campbell?  I admit I don't really get her.  Sorry, but there are dozens of actresses of her generation who could have carried this role off better.  But she's box-office so I'm probably wrong about her.It's too bad this film got panned, because a lot of people have stayed away from it, and missed one heck of a good time.I am going to go back and see it again. "},{"Title":"What were they thinking?","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Three to Tango has some great slapstick and some amusing performances but two huge problems stop the film in its tracks.Not knowing Matthew Perry from anything other than his I Love Lucy-in-reverse comedy Fools Rush In, which was cute and easy on the brain, I had no expectations of any kind when I attended a sneak preview.  I knew that Three to Tango had something to do with fake gay-ness and that it had been compared to In and Out, a film which I thought was only okay.So I laughed while Perry fell over things and at the other well-timed slapstick comedy, but I kept trying to grapple with a lack of believability.  Suspension of disbelief is so rarely demanded in romantic comedies, but here I was expected to swallow that a young, beautiful, strong, intelligent modern artist character (Neve Campbell) would accept being the MISTRESS of a snake-like rich guy! Excuse me, what were they thinking? It would have been one thing if the character or ANYBODY else in the film brought this mistress life-choice up or asked her why, but it passes unmentioned and accepted as a given to the story.Worse, the big coming out speech that is the climax of the film - in which Perry announces that he must be honest, come out of the closet, and tell his secret...He's not gay! Surprise! - is delivered to an audience of gay professionals who have awarded this fraud with Gay Professional of the Year. Guess what all you people who have been fighting for acceptance and legal rights all your lives, this guy's really a breeder, a het, and he has stolen this honor from you!  What does this audience of thousands of gay people do?  Those softies, those limp-wristers, those pansies - they applaud! They give him an ovation! Yeah, right. In the real world, this would not have been so pretty. And of course, after the one token gay guy jumps up to applaud, the camera only shows us the other heteros in the audience who are so relieved (or disturbed) by this news.As a gay woman, I can usually step out of myself enough to enjoy any kind of well-made film, including romantic comedies about straight people.  But this film just annoyed the hell out of me - because it was clear no one really put any thought into it. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was funny as hell. )  I have seen it multiple times and enjoy it each and every time!  Plus, Duncan Sheik has part of a song played in it...so thats a positive )  I gave it a 10 out of 10 to boost its rating. Reality is probably an 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Just another Chandler movie","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Matthew Perry just seems unable (or unwilling) to let go of his Chandler persona. The jokes he does in Three To Tango (and the rest of his newer movies)are all so similar to his sitcom character it's kind of sad seeing one of the funniest men (and my personal favorite Friend-well, at least until he marries Monica) be so uninventive and unexperimental with his definite acting abilities. On the other hand, there's the ALWAYS stunning Neve Campbell who steals the show. Incredibly sexy and stunning, funny, smart and with just the right touch of a rebel she makes her character a person I'd love to spend the rest of my life with. I know I always say the same things, especially if the women are as gorgeous as she is, but it's absolutely true. Who could not fall in love with Amy Post?There's a believable chemistry between the two and the rest of the cast adds its share as well. Romantic comedies are ALWAYS predictable and rightfully so, but Three To Tango fails to logically and believably wrap up the plot in the last five minutes, filling it with coincidences that are just to big for the viewer to swallow. Nice, kind of funny(you probably won't find yourself laughing out loud very often, just smiling in your mind as the movie goes along) and who can forget-romantic. 6/10 "},{"Title":"A great family-friendly sex comedy","Date":"15 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" For some reason when I picked up this movie for 99c on ebay, I assumed it would be one of those sexually-charged, ménage-à-trois, gender-bender flicks that populated the late 90s like Chasing Amy or even Neve Campbell's own Wild Things. I didn't watch it for that reason, I watched it because it was 99c.Much to my surprise and delight, Three to Tango is a charming, family-friendly comedy that deals with sexual roles tastefully, much like Francis Weber's classic La Cage aux Folles (1978) remade in English as the equally classic Birdcage (1996). Or if you really want to get back to the roots of the mistaken-sexual-identity sex comedy, Willilam Shakespeare's Twelfth Night (1602).It's best to know nothing about the plot, that way the twists and turns are more of a hilarious surprise. But yes, the story centers around a classic case of mistaken sexual identity, and from there the hijinks ensue.What's exceptional about this movie is that it does a great job of reversing roles, not just for the individual characters but for society as a whole. A lot like a surreal Franz Kafka story (such as Metamorphosis where the main character wakes up to learn that he is a giant cockroach), Three to Tango puts the main character into a different identity, forcing us to see the world through a different perspective. And much like Kafka's story, the comedy lies in the absurdity of people's reactions, even though nothing has changed except for their perception of the main character.Yeah that's a lot of heady gobbledygook, so let's just talk about the movie already. The overall vibe is a great throwback to those classic & classy Blake Edwards comedies like Breakfast at Tiffany's (1961) or even the Pink Panther flicks. What I mean is that this story is very prim & proper (no crass potty humor or cheap shots) and yet it's not afraid to sink to few good slapstick moments, such as a couples barf scene that's both hilarious and oddly romantic. There are also 1 or 2 totally surreal moments (again much like in a Blake Edwards flick) such as Matthew Perry panicking and running through the streets of Chicago only to run into a flock of... what's the cliché, pigeons? Haha, not in this case, but I'll let you see it for yourself. It's a quick one so pay attention.Also like in a Blake Edwards flick the music is AWESOME. Some very cool old jazz, swing and big band numbers are peppered throughout, in a way that really punctuates the comedy (similar to the great soundtrack of When Harry Met Sally).Let's talk briefly about the acting. Pay close attention to some brilliant non-verbal acting on the part of each character. I'm talking about their complex reactions without any script. As the story un-twists, each main character has a moment of realization, and I felt they all pulled it off very well. Just by looking at their expressions change, you know exactly what they are thinking and how the wheels in their minds are spinning. Applause for Neve Campbell, Matthew Perry and Dylan McDermott (and director Damon Santostefano) for giving us these powerful yet subtle performances that aren't necessarily as thunderous as George C. Scott's monologue in Patton, but they convey just as much information and emotion to an audience that's paying attention.The script itself is pretty well written, not really full of zingers but very natural and believable. Of course with it being Matthew Perry from Friends fame, a lot of his delivery is in that deadpan sarcastic Chandler vein with Neve Campbell being the perfect spunky counterpart. Also, Oliver Platt and half a dozen other minor characters also did a great job.Definitely catch this movie if you get the chance, whether or not you find it for 99c on eBay, it's worth your time. "},{"Title":"All's fair in love and comedy","Date":"1 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Three to Tango is a perfect romantic comedy. Although it may not have been a massive hit it makes for enjoyable enough viewing due to its fantastic cast who all put in hilarious performances. This film has humour, it has heart - what more could you want from a romantic comedy?Matthew Perry puts in another Chandler style performance but really isn't this the type of role we just love to see Perry in. Playing the sarcastic, goofy guy served him well enough for 10 years on Friends but here we get to see another version of that character.Neve Campbell is very cute in this film and has great comedic ability as well as great chemistry with Perry. McDermott looks a little out of place but still does well in his role.As with any romantic comedy there is comedy support and Oliver Platt provides this in spades. Hilarious in every scene he's in and him and Perry make a good double act.Overall ignore the negative reviews and just take this film for what it is - a hilarious romantic comedy that has a great cast and a unique premise. Perry at his best. "},{"Title":"Matthew Perry - architect of his own destiny.","Date":"9 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Matthew Perry and Oliver Platt (I like the former in the right role and love the latter in almost everything he's ever done) star as a pair of architects vying to win a major contract from steely businessman, Dylan McDermott. When McDermott asks Perry to keep an eye on his mistress (Neve Campbell) things start to get complicated. And things go from bad to worse when, firstly, Perry starts to fall in love with Campbell and then, secondly, McDermott wrongly presumes that Perry is gay after a series of misunderstandings and miscommunication. And so rolls forth the rom-com convoy, heading towards an ending that will be predictable to almost everyone who watches and yet still smile-inducing.If you dislike standard romantic comedies then this isn't for you. If you're not a fan of Matthew Perry's nervy, nerdy, cheeky schtick then this isn't for you. There's actually a lot going against this movie and it's not going to win over anyone who previously stayed away from this particular genre. The direction by Damon Santostefano is pedestrian, as is the script by Rodney Patrick Vaccaro and Aline Brosh McKenna.But what we have in the plus section is very good for those who enjoy that type of thing. All of the leads (and even the supporting cast such as John C. McGinley and Bob Balaban) do a decent job, the comedy is pretty well done and executed with just the right balance between light fluff and broader pratfalls and everything rolls along at a decent enough pace towards that ending that will surprise nobody. Nothing here that will set the movie into anyone's Top 10 list but enough to keep fans of this type of thing very happy.See this if you like The Whole Nine Yards, In & Out, Fools Rush In. "}{"Title":"Not a great comedy but a pretty good sweet romantic movie.","Date":"2 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It feels like the movie was trying to hard to be comical, with formulaic predictable comical moments, fast directing and editing and a typical comical musical score, that desperately tries to make some sequences look and feel more comical. The movie comically mostly relies on cheap gay jokes. With handling gay subjects in American movies always feel 10 years behind in time. It doesn't make the story and movie feel like the most original or clever one. The movie does have its fun and humorous moments but its not ever anything too hilarious. Luckily the movie does work better on its romantic levels. In that regard this movie is a pretty enjoyable and sweet one.It's still a well made movie. Seems to me that Damon Santostefano really is not bad director. Things flow well and it makes this movie a rather enjoyable 98 minutes. The movie has the power to make you forget how incredibly formulaic it all is while you're watching it but in the end you'll realize that this movie really isn't the best or most original movie around in its genre. Also the standard bittersweet ending doesn't help much to this.Matthew Perry isn't good enough to carry this movie. It was just too much his Chandler role from Friends all over again. It was as if he wasn't even trying to play a totally different comedy character. A different haircut is simply just not enough. Dylan McDermott on the other hand was simply good in his role and so was Neve Campbell, whose career unfortunately seems to go nowhere. But the supporting cast is perhaps even better and more impressive with high caliber actors such as Oliver Platt, John C. McGinley, Rick Gomez and Bob Balaban, though they certainly aren't their best playing comical roles, with the exception of John C. McGinley. who is great in basically every kind of role. Too bad his and other roles in the movie are too insignificant.Very well watchable, despite being not the best or most original in its genre.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"A good laugh if you ever needed one","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The genre of romantic comedy is a hard one for a writer to crack. After all, it's a overused, basic plot which you've got to make interesting by adding something fresh to it. Most films like these tend to disappoint, because once you've seen the trailer you've seen it all.But this film has much more than what the trailer shows. The jokes are fairly imaginative and sometimes ingenious, and the plot does have a twist or two plus a little cuteness to make it a good film to watch.Matthew Perry plays his Chandler-esque role from the TV sitcom, Friends, this time as an architect (like the TV show we don't actually see him do any work!), and gives a satisfying performance (strange way of describing it, but it is what you really do feel). Neve Campbell adds to the cuteness of it and all in all it is a fairly decent film.If you are a fan of Matthew Perry, this is probably his best attempt on the big screen, though I'd bet others might disagree. All in all, a funny film that's deserved a watch. "},{"Title":"Laugh a minute","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I had seen this film advertised on other videos before and always fancied renting it out sometime.  However there was a great sale on in a music shop here and I couldn't resist temptation.  So I bought it.  Was it worth my £3.99?  Yes, every penny of it.Matthew Perry is hilarious in this romantic comedy and with Neve Campbell as his love interest, makes it enjoyable viewing.  Chandler still seems to come to mind when watching this but this isn't fair on Perry who really is trying to shake that image off in movies.  It made me laugh from the minute it started to the minute it ended.  For people who hate this film I don't really understand your logic.  It's put to us as a fun loving romantic comedy with a Happy Ever After at the end, so if you don't like the sound of it - don't watch it!  Simple!  That should stop you all from moaning!I would recommend this film and is definately a must see. "},{"Title":"Cute and funny","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Have you ever watched the start of a comedy and thought, 'Ooh, they're just trying WAY to hard too be funny.' Here's a prime example. Perry and Platt's goofball antics, coupled with the piercingly loud big band soundtrack, seems to scream, 'Here are the lead guys. They're funny, so LAUGH goddamnit.'Luckily, once things have settled down a bit, things get a lot better. Perry does his Chandler act (a safe decision) in a plot that seems like a rehash of a 'Friends' episode anyway. People think Oscar (Perry) is gay. He's not, but he has to keep the pretence up because his new boss has him spying on his mistress Amy, to make sure she doesn't cop off with any other guys. A fair concern, as Amy is played by the gorgeous Neve Campbell. Unfortunately, Oscar falls for Amy. Hilarious consequences ensue. Well, mildly humorous consequences, anyway.It's all very fluffy and lightweight, which is no bad thing. Perry and Campbell make a cute couple, and by the time the big band blasts out the end credits, the situations have been resolved, people have been paired off, and certain of the characters get to live happily ever after. Hurrah! Of course which characters get to live happily ever after I'm not saying, but if you can't guess, you don't watch enough movies. "},{"Title":"Very funny!","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I can tell from the professional reviews that they didn't get the gist of this movie.  It's absolutely hilarious and they tried to analyze it too much.  It is not meant to be serious, but just to be enjoyed. Realism doesn't need to be part of every movie, and those parameters do not apply here.It is perhaps the funniest movie I have seen in awhile, except for American Pie.  Everybody liked that movie too, and it was made tongue-in-cheek, just like this movie.Worth a watch!  "},{"Title":"Better than I thought it would be","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Three to Tango went above my expectations. In advance it seemed an expendable and shallow movie, but turned out to be better than that.I saw this movie in an outdoors summer cinema thinking it would be weak, but I was pleasantly surprised. The plot is no big deal, but it manages to keep you entertained and laughing with Matthew Perry's quotes. He is a hell of a funny guy and his 'faces' make me laugh my ass off. Let's hope he can get his life back on track at last, staying away from his unhealthy habits.I hadn't heard of Neve Campbell before seeing this movie, but I think she does a good job here. Dylan McDermott plays a mean tycoon.I won't get into discussing if the plot is predictable, believable or if Perry and Campbell are great together - I'm not interested in that. What really matters is if the movie is your money worth, and this was my case.Three to Tango won't be regarded as a classic (Who needs each movie to be that?), but as an amusing film. Seven out of ten.  "},{"Title":"A great comedy","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was a fabulous comedy with enough twists and turns to make it even more interesting.  Much of it predictable, but handled well enough that you don't mind.This also covers some interesting ground as to how differently a person is perceived depending on his sexual orientation.  Great casting with Matthew Perry, Dylan McDermott, and Neve Campbell.  Oliver Platt makes a fabulous contribution as supporting actor, a position that seems to be suited to his talents. "},{"Title":"Matthew stole the show","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This has got to be one of the best films i have ever seen.Oscar (Matthew Perry) and Peter (Oliver Platt) are a two-man architectural team. When arrogant zillionaire Charles Newman (Dylan McDermott) decides to rebuild a Chicago arts centre, he selects their firm and another, more established one (run by Bob Balaban and John C. McGinley) to make competing plans for the project.On the mistaken assumption that Oscar is gay, Charles asks him to befriend his artist-mistress Amy (Neve Campbell) and keep an eye on her. He's afraid that she might be seeing her ex-boyfriend Kevin (Cylk Cozart). Oscar develops a crush on her before realizing that both she and Charles assume that he's homosexualThe pretense that Oscar is gay and Peter is straight gets taken much further than either of them expects, thanks to a reporter doing a story on the design competition. To his horror - and that of his straight friends - Oscar actually becomes the most famous gay man in the city.Matthew Perry is just wicked in this film and plays Oscar so well, he has a brilliant movie career ahead of him. "},{"Title":"Friends on the Big Screen","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The movie is a friends episode on the big screen.  Perry's character is Chandler from friends, the storyline resembles that of an episode of friends.  McDermott seems uncomfortable in his role and Cambell plays a usual 'Cambell' character. The only difference from Three To Tango and a Friends episode are the other actors apart from Perry.  "},{"Title":"Matthew Perry just being Chandler","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The film wasn't bad or nothing, because i actually enjoyed it (by my own surprise). But i didn't like the fact that Matthew Perry just reminded me of Chandler from the sitcom Friends. It made me laugh, but it did part spoil it for me.  "}{"Title":"Two to tango","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film was great, apart from the ending. The ending was too predictable. The rest of the film was great however. The building up of the gay issue i loved. The charector development was top notch and the performances were great. Matthew Perry, who i was already a fan of, was great. He played the role perfectly. The ending again let it down....2 thirds of the film was great..only to 2 to tango out of 3 "},{"Title":"Chandler goes to Chicago","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie must have been written by a fan of Friends. Except for a pair of glasses, Matthew Perry plays exactly the same role as he does on Friends -- a neurotic but well-meaning guy who has trouble with women and seems gay but isn't.I like Friends a lot and I liked this movie.  If any of the women in the Friends cast quit, maybe Neve Cambell should take the job. She plays well against Perry. She doesn't quite have his comedic timing but she is kissingly likeable and sexy, as usual.My main criticism of the movie was the overplayed homophobia. Even for a comedy. It was slapstick rather than clever. For instance the dad puts a bucket on his head and bangs it against the wall when he hears his son is gay. Please!Great sound track!I thought the opening and closing title sequences were almost better than the movie. "},{"Title":"A nice entertainment movie","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is not outstanding but very entertaining. A comedy of errors and a love story within. Of course this movie will not occupy your thoughts for long, but as a dating and have fun movie it is simply great.  "},{"Title":"MATTHEW PERRY COMIC GOD PART 2","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The film starts going when Oscar(Perry) starts to spy on Amy(Campbell) this starts a very funny chain of events and has a lot of scenes which show off Perrys undeniabile comic talents.The jokes come thick and fast and is more funny then most comedies around today(eg Meet The Parents).Perry is fabulous as always and he should quit friends NOW to concentrate on what i think on a successful movie career. "},{"Title":"Perry is a comic god","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Matthew Perry is absoultely superb in everything he does and if he isnt a massive movie star by the time friends finishes something definitely went wrong.The film is hillarious but suffers in the same was as the whole nine yards because in both movies the opening 20 mins of both films they just arent funny. This film takes about 30 mins to get good but when Perry starts to spy on Neve the sparks and laughters flies.10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"All together now Ahh...","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have to admit I really liked this movie, it is charming from start to finish. Funny, yes. Predictable, definitely. Romantic, absolutely! I suppose it helps if you fancy one of the leads - I think Matthew Perry is really cute. The chemistry between the two leads is spot-on, and it is not unbelievable that Oscar would fall rapidly for Amy, nor is it unbelievable that she would find him very attractive despite her thinking he is gay. She sees him as a friend and confidante whom she would turn to for support. Oscar understands her and loves her as a person, an individual, rather than Charles who sees her as a possession and 'loves' her for the person *he* thinks she is. Amy feels she must be protected by Charles and submissive, but Oscar encourages her to be independent and decisive.Don't expect an unpredictable, award-winning movie, this is predictable from start to finish. Enjoy it for the mindless, undemanding fun that it is. Plus, Matthew Perry and Neve Campbell are really sweet together. I just love the bit when they are cuddling together on the sofa and when they almost kiss in the club.  "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was really surprised the first time I saw this movie, cause I read the story of the movie, and thought it was just like kissing a fool, I mean  a guy and a girl  the guy ask for someone to look out for the girl and he falls in love, but then when I saw it, I loved it, it's totally different, and really amazing. Matthew Perry and Neve Campbell are a really cute couple. Just incredible !!! "},{"Title":"ok overall","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"     For being a satire on homophobia, this movie is pretty unrealistic. OK, so it's a comedy and it's supposed to be a bit unrealistic. But... Gay Man of the Year? (This actually sounds like a satire on gay-pride. There's also Dylan McDermott's character, who never seems like a real person, either because of his dialogue or his God-awful acting.POSSIBLE SPOILER WARNING********** There was also Neve Campbell's character. Her acting was good, but who can believe that a young, down-to-earth, liberal artist such as she is incapable of understanding, when confronted, that her relationship with a considerably older MARRIED man who obsessively spies on her, is abnormal. We have something special, she tells Perry's character. Unfortunately, with McDermott's annoying screen-time, it's hard to believe her.     Matthew Perry basically plays Chandler, which is nonetheless enjoyable to watch. He's always typecast as the proverbial 'fish out of water.' The romantic scenes are pretty darn romantic, however unrealistic they are. It formulaicly follows the idea that Neve's character can say anything to her gay friend, like talk about penis size and cuddling to sleep with him on the couch while watching a black and white romance, after only knowing him for a short time.      The slapstick is borderline, but not too much. For sure, (I'll add this even though there have been many people who have said the same) you won't look at tuna melts the same way again!-Sep "},{"Title":"Extrememly funny","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely loved this movie. It was extremely cute and funny.  Some of the lines just made me crack up.  Neve Campbell put on one heck of a performance considering she does not normaly play this sort of role and Matthew Perry was the heart and soul of the movie.  Its definitely a feel good movie and I reccomend it to everybody. "},{"Title":"Hilarious laugh-out-loud funny romantic comedy","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this movie and must say that I totally loved it. I am a great fan of romantic comedies and this one is very good. Matthew Perry is definitely one of the most gifted comedians of our time. He is very good at physical comedy things (the same in The Whole Nine Yards) and I just *love* the expressions that he can make with his face. I think he is a wonderful actor and I'm very happy there will be new Friends-episodes. Neve Campbell is very likeable in this movie, too. She is good in this genre and should do more of it. Dylan McDermott also played his character very well. Besides the physical scenes of Matthew Perry there are great one-liners and just too funny moments when Oscar is mistaken as gay. Matthew Perry and Neve Campbell have great chemistry together and all in one I had a wonderful time watching this movie. It was worth every cent. I can highly recommend it to fans of romantic comedies. My rate 9/10. "}{"Title":"Oliver Platt is the best thing about the movie!","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  On the whole, this was an entertaining movie.  Both Neve Campbell and Matthew Perry were believable in their respective roles.  However, Oliver Platt was wonderful as Peter.  He is definitely one of the most under-appreciated comedic actors of our time.  Bravo Oliver!  "},{"Title":"Neve Campbell and Matthew Perry - a perfect couple!","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Somehow I wondered that this movie was such a missuccess in the USA. Okay, this movie is full of cliche's - some scenes reminded me of My best friend's wedding and In and out - but who cares? Hey man, this is a romantic comedy! Matthew Perry and Neve Campbell were an absolutely perfect couple! I must say that I've watched the movie just because of Neve. She was just wonderful! She should make more movie's like this one. I've loved it from the first scene on. "},{"Title":"Beginning and End bad. Middle good","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I missed this movie in theaters but it looked kinda funny. You see, I just saw Fools Rush In just a couple of weeks ago and that was a funny movie. So, I wanted to see this because the trailers made it look hilarious. But...the trailers were selling the entire movie on the middle which is where everyone thinks that he's gay. That truly is funny...BUT THE REST OF THE MOVIE SUCKS! So this is what you do, fast forward to when Charles tells Oscar that he thinks he's gay. Watch the entire middle and then go watch Fools Rush In. "},{"Title":"Not brilliant, but enjoyable","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Yesterday I saw this movie in a sneak preview. I would not have gone and see this movie if it weren't in the sneak preview, I have to say. This movie is enjoyable when you don't put your expectations too high.The story is about an architect duo who in order to get a certain project have to pretent they are both gay men. One of them really is a gay man (Platt) and the other one (Perry) absolutely isn't. This is where the same old same old mistaken identity story kicks off. Perry next falls in love with the mistress (Campbell) of the man who is issuing the building project (McDermott) who will stop at nothing to keep Campbell at his side. He sends out Perry to spy on several occasions believing he is gay and does not seem like a threat to his relationship with Campbell. Campbell falls in love with Perry and this all collides into this big reverse coming-out session in the end...Ok, are you still there? Are you still following what I am saying? This story is pretty simple, the acting is good enough for a movie of this caliber and the humour is often well-timed and extremely funny. Especially the three side-kicks of Perry are cool.Go see this movie if you have seen all the really good movies out there or if you want to have an undisturbed evening of non-thinking in the cinema.I give this movie a 7, not for originality, but for entertaining me for about 90 minutes. "},{"Title":"Funny and full of great one-liners","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I found myself laughing out loud at what might have been considered throw away lines. The actors did a great job of putting this light weight movie across and making it enjoyable to watch. Matthew Perry shows he is much more than a situation comedy actor and Neve Campbell is an actress who knows her business and is very easy on the eyes. The supporting cast were all very good and made a fun if not memorable movie. If you just want some laughs and aren't going to be critical of a weak story you'd enjoy this one.  "},{"Title":"Agreeable romantic comedy, good performances, but nothing too out of the ordinary","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  	Have you ever wondered what would happen if you crossed Matthew Perry's TV show (Friends) and Neve Campbell's TV show (Party of Five), throwing in a little dash of  Dylan MacDermott's TV show (The Practice)? Probably not, but if you could actually put the three in a blender together, out would come 'Three to Tango'.	That's not saying 'Three to Tango' is a bad movie, because it isn't. It can be funny at times, there is obvious chemistry between Perry and Campbell (two Canadians in the leads, when was the last time you saw that in an American movie), and it has a good plot. It has been done several times before, the tone, not so much the actual story, and this is in no way the best version. Nearly any of those Meg Ryan romantic comedies are much better (except 'Joe Vs. The Volcano'- stay away from that one at all costs), but 'Three to Tango' is still an agreeable time passer.	See it if it's on TV, or wait until it's out of the new releases section at your nearest video store. The performances, especially Oliver Platt's, seem natural and unforced, as if the actor cared about the project, but not enough to ruin it by trying to hard.6/10 "},{"Title":"Surprising...","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I rented this movie expecting a real doozie. It made, what, a million dollars or something? Anyway, Three To Tango isn't that bad at all. Matthew Perry is very funny, as is Cylk Cozart. The rest of the cast, is, unfortuanly just not funny. Dylan Mcdermott just can't do comedy. And I always hate Neve Campbell. And that's good, because Perry is really the star. He's in nearly every scene, and shines, just really does it well.Perry is definetly one of the funniest guys around. This movie relies a lot on physical comedy, and he knows how to make that funny.The movie is cute. The script is weak, but not s weak for this kind of movie. I seriously doubt that the director wanted this to be the one they remember him for. It's a cute, small, romantic comedy with a really good lead. That's it. Rent, you'll see. "},{"Title":"Hip, stylish and more!","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Three to Tango is such a great comedy. It takes a load off of you, and you just enjoy the film. The dancing, and acting, their all great.The film is also easy on the eyes, because of the gorgeous Neve Campbell. She shows off her acting talent, not playing a screaming teen this time. Instead, she shows off her romantic side, and her dancing side. Friends star Matthew Perry is also great, even though he acts a lot like Chandler Bing.Rent this film, you will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"More great I'm _so_ not gay humour","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Matthew Perry is at his Friends best, again being mistaken for a homosexual. Neve Campbell is convincing, and Dylan McDermott is average.I think that this movies saving grace, Matthew Perry, may be its biggest fault. Perry's role is not dissimilar to Chandler in Friends, and I kept expecting an _Oh_ _my_ GOD! from Janice at any moment.All in all though, a funny movie, and very entertaining. "},{"Title":"A Zany but entertaining comedy","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed Three to Tango because it was a good, funny and zany comedy that's not meant to be Oscar-worthy or even critics-worthy but it is a fun movie to watch nonetheless.I think Matthew Perry was excellent, he is as usual, funny and uses his comic timing skills with good force. Neve Campbell was charming but Dylan McDermott's character was ridiculously dull. There is no doubt that Perry was the full force of this movie and even though the director and editor could've done a better job editing and putting the film together, it is still worth watching in my opinion. It was fun to watch. "}{"Title":"Great diversion!","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't know why so many people have such low opinions of this film.  It was one of the more refreshing romantic comedies I've seen lately, even though it has the usual quite predictable plot, just with a few new twists.  The movie made me laugh more than a few times, and the actors all did well.  Matthew Perry and Neve Campbell had great chemistry, and did their scenes well, and Oliver Platt was hilarious.  The direction was great, I loved the starting credits.  This isn't a movie you should miss, even though the critics are bashing it.  Sure, there are some moments in the script where it doesn't quite work as well as one would like, but the other things make up for its little flaws.I thought Three to Tango was a great film, and I'm going to see it again.  And I'll probably buy it when it comes out on video. "},{"Title":"Funny, but could've been funnier","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It turns out to be the best Mathew Perry movie I've seen.  Perry himself was not at his best, however.  He seemed piqued at having to do his Chandler Bing character from Friends yet again on the big screen. The premise -- girl-crazy architect wins $90 mil project and gets to room with Neve Campbell all because everyone thinks he's gay -- didn't need the elaborate and overlong setup it gets.  Once it gets going, though, the writers and director have tremendous slapstick fun with it for about 45 minutes. Alas, they then expected me to wipe the tears from my eyes, clear my throat, sit up straight, and start taking these cartoon characters and their contrived woes seriously.  There's even a message in there, toward the end, about how we should accept ourselves and each other for what we are.  Gee, never heard that before, thanks for the tip.  It's one of those movies that are much more enjoyable on video, where you can fast forward though all the crap. "},{"Title":"Funny, funny movie","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie on a whim and I am very glad I did. It was so funny, I was laughing throughout the entire film. Dylan McDermott plays a stuck up, spoiled business man who hires Matthew Perry to keep an eye on his mistress, Neve Campbell, mistakenly thinking he's gay. The issue of homosexuality is not really explored in this film. It's not a film about a guy pretending to be gay falling in love with a girl. It's about two people who are meant for each other. It just takes them awhile to realize it. Matthew Perry was hilarious in this movie, with his usual wry wit seen on Friends. If you are in the mood for a funny, original romantic comedy, see Three to Tango "},{"Title":"Awful first ten minutes, awful last ten minutes, and a great film in between","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Warning may contain some spoilers.While I was sitting through the first ten minutes of this film, I was stupified.  The dialogue was terrible and even some of the acting was flat and embarassing.  And the last ten minutes of the film unfolds like any other romantic comedy.  And that made it disappointing.  But the rest of the film was very funny and the stars were charming and likable and when I left the theater I was glad I saw the film.  You can attribute that to the the charm of Perry and Campbell and of course Platt's presence was quite nice as well.  He always makes me laugh whether he is in a campy, cheesy film like Lake Placid, an all out comedic role like Three Musketeers or in a somewhat serious film like Flatliners. There is just something about him that does it, he has an incredible sense of timing and his delivery is so true and honest that you never really think of him as Oliver Platt, he is the character that he plays, in every movie.Besides the film being funny it is also quite the statement about homosexuality.    But the true strength of the film is Perry and Campbell  both Canadians I might add ).  They are funny, observant and they have some humourous lines about movies that comes into play rather nicely at the end of the film.  The fact that Neve thinks Perry is gay enables us to hear many great observations about dating and relationships from a woman's point of view and I enjoyed that.  I, myself find women to be an enigma and perhaps I will never understand them so I have to rely on movies to give me some of the answers.  This one does an admirable job of breaking down the way they think at times and I found some of those observations interesting and others hilarious.  And yes, by the end of the film I wanted these two people to get together.  So I was glad they did, that is not a spoiler, you know they have to get together by the end of this film or it is not a romantic comedy.For a good time and money well spent on a light hearted movie that is funny and will make you grin as you leave the theater, then Three To Tango is good entertainment.  You should give this a chance.   "},{"Title":"Three to Tango=Heads or Tails","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I liked this movie, I found it to be very amusing and funny. However when watching I kept thinking of another film that had somewhat the same plot. A man portending to be gay for the sake of keeping his job. The movie I'm thinking of, was Heads or Tails staring Roy Dupuis, Quebec film, subtitled.I really think the elements and plot from Three to tango was borrowed from Heads or Tails. If you rent this film you'd know what I'm talking about.When I first saw this movie last Friday, I didn't really know what to expect. But I couldn't stop laughing, I just loved it. I know its not probably the most sophisticated films but its good if your in the mood to laugh. "},{"Title":"Three to Tango will make you smile !","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I think I should begin my review with the players in this movie, all wonderful. Matthew Perry continues to show me that he indeed is the real deal amongst the Friends cast.I thought Neve Campbell excellently played a charming and fun part. Both Dylan McDermott, whom you will love to hate in this movie, and Oliver Platt rounded out this cast so wonderfully.This movie will make you feel great when you leave the theatre, so go with friends you will be glad you did. Enjoy !  "},{"Title":"First half funny, second half romantic","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Just saw the movie yesterday, I had a real good laugh, the movie was as funny as I hoped it would be. You could easily tell that this movie was filmed in Toronto with the lakeshore and all. But anyways aside from all that Matthew Perry was really funny as usual and Neve Campell was great, she should do movies more often. If you are homophobic or hate gay jokes then this movie isn't for you, but other than that, it's good to watch to sit back and have a good laugh with. "},{"Title":"good chemistry","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The only redeeming quality of this movie was the chemistry between Neve Campbell and Matthew Perry early in the movie.  Especially Neve Campbell who gives probably her most enjoyable to watch performance watch yet.  Other than that this movie falls flat on its face. "},{"Title":"A queer classic, so to speak.","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Three to Tango is about a rich tycoon who gets one of his recently-hired employees (whom he wrongfully believes is gay) to `babysit' his mistress. The whole movie Neve Campbell was absolutely beautiful and acted very well in this movie.  The cinematography was very well done, with screenshots and sets that give it the ambiance of a classic love story.  The plot revolved around people thinking and appreciating that he was gay man, when he was not.  The director went out of his way (and a little overboard, in my opinion) to put Matthew Perry in every conceivable uncomfortable homosexual situation and I think ultimately, it really hurt an otherwise decent comedy. If you are even SLIGHTLY homophobic, this is not the movie for you at all. "},{"Title":"didn't expect to like this movie, but I did.","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There are enough original funny scenes to make up for the few cliche/cheesy ones.  I liked the opening camera shots of Chicago.  Neve Campbell is tolerable for those who can't stand her in Party of Five. Oscar Novak (Matthew Perry) is a really fun character - somewhat similar to Chandler Bing, yet different enough to make it new. Dylan McDermott's character is a bit two-dimensional -more the result of the writing than his performance. "}{"Title":"Take a look, good 'chick flick'","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Regardless of the name of the film, or the content - it had Neve Campbell in it; so I went to see it.It was actually not a bad film as well as the lovely Neve, Matthew Perry wasn't anywhere near as annoying and unfunny as he usually is, and the storyline developed well towards what was always going to be a predictable end.Worth seeing; I did actually enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Forgettable Romantic Comedy","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a forgettable film that masquerades as a romantic comedy when it is really a satire on homophobia.  Actually, the storyline is quite clever and there are a number of good sight gags, but the dialogue is uniformly dreadful and lowbrow.  The writing is hack and sitcomesque which might explain why they loaded this cast with TV actors.We are presented with two architects who are vying for a contract that can revitalize their ailing business with a roguish developer named Charles Newman (Dylan McDermot).  Charles is married and having an affair with Amy (Neve Campbell), but he is jealous and wants to keep tabs on her. Thinking Oscar (Matthew Perry) is gay and no threat, he asks him to spy on her, implying that it might help him to get the contract.  The rest is pretty predictable.  They fall in love, but she thinks he's gay so there is no hope.  Eventually love prevails (no spoiler here, no-one on the planet could watch this movie and think they wouldn't get together), but not before numerous mistaken gender orientation gags run their course.This film was obviously presented from a gay perspective as a satire on homophobia.  All the gay characters are portrayed as respectable, admirable and wise, while all the straight men are portrayed as rogues, misfits and buffoons.  You see skit after skit where homophobia is lampooned.  Women can't confide in a man unless they think he's gay, because straight men are just too insensitive to understand.  Gays in the closet are bashed repeated with snide remarks.  This probably explains why this film was more well received by women than men, since much the comedy really mocked straight men and their fear of homosexuality.Matthew Perry has made a career out of playing hapless losers with the appeal being that it's funny to see someone who is even more woefully inept than the average viewer.  While I don't find this particularly funny, I will give him his due and say that he is a master of the art.  He gets high marks for being able to simultaneously evoke laughter and sympathy over his plight.  Also, I found his chemistry good with Campbell, and his longing for her was played with a good deal of sincerity and sensitivity.Neve Campbell is really just window dressing here.  Her role is to smile, look cute and sexy and play the love interest.  This is not a real stretch for her since she can essential do all those things by just standing there.Dylan McDermot was pretty dreadful as the scoundrel.   In his defense, he didn't have much to work with since the way his part was written he was portraying more of a caricature than a character.  It is difficult for an actor to slip into the skin of an absurdity and know exactly how to play it.The best acting in the film came from Oliver Platt, who played Oscar Novak's business partner.  He was funny and played an excellent straight man to Perry's clown.  Platt is a veteran and a professional and always brings substance to his supporting roles.This film has its moments but not enough of them.  It is effective social satire and it is mildly successful as a romantic comedy, but it bogs down frequently with too many variations on the same gay theme.  Though funny in parts, it is generally just silliness.  I rated it a 5/10. "},{"Title":"Three to Make a Bad Film.","Date":"19 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Three to Tango (1999) Dir Damon Santostefano / Cast Matthew Perry, Dylan McDermott,Neve Campbell, Oliver Platt, Cylk Cozart Witless and pointless film about conflict. Everybody assumes that Matthew Perry is gay because of his business relationship with Oliver Platt. Dylan McDermott takes advantage of this and convinces Perry to spy on his mistress. As predicted they fall in love while Perry tries to play out this idiotic gay assumption. Those who are not disappointed by this depraved piece of crap have obviously fallen asleep before it ended. It is predictable and boring and director Damon Santostefano does little to help it. He previously directed numerous TV shows that are probably a far cry from this. Doing a commercial for cat litter would be a higher achievement. Perry looks like the victim of a bad joke. McDermott is basically playing a one note role unworthy of his time. Neve Campbell as the mistress is reduced to a prop who comes to the obvious realizations, but not before viewers beat her to it. Platt is a decent actor playing a role unworthy of his talent. He basically stands back and takes the hit for the idiocy provided here. There is no real reason to see this film other than to observe a struggling cast in one of their worst career moves. It all boils down to a pointless orgy that should be tramped upon by no less than three people. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"9 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I can't actually believe that this comedy has so low rating...who are these people without a sense of humor and how can anyone not love Friends and Three to Tango with so many funny scenes? Unbelievable - what's wrong with this world? -o This is one of the best comedies ever if you ask me... maybe it's just because this story has something to do with gay community and those guys are really sensitive about the way they are presented because it's the whole lobby behind them... or maybe the anti-gay people don't like this movie. I can't find any reasonable excuse why shouldn't this movie have at least 8.0 summary of votes, but from me it has the full 10 stars! "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"26 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Romantic comedies are not my thing, and i avoid them whenever i can. Usually because-they are not funny, and they have no real notion of love or romance. But, as this one has Neve Campbell in it, i watched it. The story takes the typical love triangle theme, and tries to add original ideas by making certain characters lie about their sexuality, which in turn leads to problems and jokes. The plot is fine, there are a few pretty funny moments, but it isn't anything that hasn't been done before. Platt and Perry have the best moments, Campbell is good, and the rest of the cast are merely average. Simple, but if you like Romantic comedies you should watch this, if not don't go out of your way to see it. One of the better films of this nature that i have seen though. 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Sweet, romantic film, well worth watching!","Date":"2 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I may be a little biased, being a big Matthew Perry fan, but I honestly don't force myself to like a film! If i don't like it, I won't watch it!I rented this film by fluke, having actually gone to get another Matthew Perry film, and spotting this one. I thoroughly enjoyed this film! It was romantic and funny! I know that people have said M.P's character is like Chandler, but it can't be easy to be the same character for years and years, and then switch to something else suddenly, and also consider, he was filming both things at the same time! Being funny is what Matthew Perry does best... and that is why I'm such a big fan!Overall, I loved it, and it was nice to see Matthew Perry in a movie, rather than on TV! All other actors were good, especially Neve Campbell!Rating 9 1/2 out of 10!  "},{"Title":"worth seeing","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one of the best of all comedys. I loved it, and laughed a lot. Matthew Perry is more funny in this than he is in Friends. I loved it when he wasn't agree at being a gay and when everybody believed he was. He couldn't say anything against it because he was too embarrassed. I hated Dylan McDermot in this movie, but he was some kind of funny to, just thought he had chance to get all he wanted, when he didn't it. Neve Camphell was also great in this movie, off course she is beautiful to. She could have played in more comedics to than horror movies like Scream. I like her. give this movie 5 of 6you gotta see this.  "},{"Title":"cute and romantic !","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  alot of people rip this movie apart. that its not believable etc.. but who cares, i found it to be romantic and cute and charming. definately worth a look if you're in a lovey dovey mood.  "},{"Title":"good","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  leaving aside that the plot is VERY predictable, you end up falling in love with each of the characters. first of all, there's  the insecure all to immature baby faced matthew perry, known to all as chandler bing from friends who plays the goofball who ends up keeping an eye on his hopefully soon to be boss's mistress, the ever charming and sincere Neve (amy) and falls in love with her after a really lousy night, it could have been perfect right there, but the problem here is, amy thinks dear oscar (perry) gay , to these two add oliver platt who plays oscar's gay friend/mentor and he'll manage to get a few good chucks out of you. "},{"Title":"A very pleasant surprise!","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have to say I had no real expectations about this movie. I like Matthew Perry from Friends a lot, his style simply suits my humour well.What really stood out in this movie was the amount of laughs that popped out of nowhere a little now and then throughout the entire movie, not just two good laughs and thats it. It's really entertaining throughout so make sure you stay with it to the end.Excellent script, good actors and a lot of fun, drama and love - all the good things in a movie mixed into one masterpiece.Well done! My vote 9/10 "}{"Title":"Couldn't stop laughing","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Three to Tango is one of the funniest mainstream Hollywood films I've seen. I don't know if I have a warped sense of humour, (my flat-mate didn't laugh as much as I did) or whether I just have a soft spot for Matthew Perry, but I laughed the whole way through this movie.  I normally don't find typical Hollywood comedies funny.  The general theme of the humour in typical comedies is either sexually orientated or is making fun of a 'less fortunate' (geeky, ugly, etc) character.  Three to Tango is good clean fun. A great movie to rent and watch on a Sunday afternoon. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is one of my favourite all-time movies. It´s not boring, it´s not cry-out-loud-romantic, it´s just a very funny movie with a few romantic (and really cute) moments. I love every minute of it. 10/10 "},{"Title":"LOVED IT!!!","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  One of the cutest movies ever and very funny! Matt Perry is the BEST ever, he's the cutest thing to watch on screen! And don't Matt Perry and Neve Campbell make the cutest couple!!?!?! I give this movie 10 out of 10 as it so richly deserves "},{"Title":"So much better than I expected","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When this movie came out I was in no big rush to go and see it.  I like the actors in it and everything, but it just didn't appeal to me.  I saw it on TV one day and I loved it though.  A few of my friends have said the same thing about it- after they missed it in the theatre as well.  You should check it out if you haven't already, it'll probably surprise you... "},{"Title":"Funny and entertaining though sometimes scenes are exaggerated","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This really is a good comedy folks, OK Perry' s The Whole Nine Yards and Fools Rush in are better this one could have been of the same level. The only reason it is not, is because some scenes are much too exaggerated and goofy. I do not like that. But besides that this film delivers a lot of good laughs and also enough romance, without being too cheesy. Believe it or not this picture shows how real love is intended to be.As always I must say something about the actors of this movie, for I like both Perry and Campbell very much and I regret that though they make good movies they just don't get a box &#150; office hit. I really resent that, for losers like Mission to Mars, Scary Movie, Charlies Angels or Little Nicky make good bucks while this one is much better. OK Angels might be fun for the chicks, action and images but hey this one is fun too. But hey effects, half nude - women and action are more appealing these days than loveable characters, a decent story, good laughs and an emotion or two.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Decent but not very well thou out","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's a decent movie but it's really not very thou out. Matthew Perry has proven that he can be a good actor if he is giving a good script to work with (The Whole Nine Yards) but with a bad script, he's as bad as the material. He tries his best, but he comes off a little bland. Dylan McDermott, does worse with his part, He is a charismatic actor but his role in this movie does not give him justice, he come off really bad.The only people who come out of this movie unscathed is Neve Campbell, Who Gives this movie a sense of warmth and fun (Even thou her character is not very well written) And Oliver Platt who gives this movie a breath of fresh air with his performance.  Maybe he could pull of the character of Oscar better than Perry.Other than for Neve And Oliver, The movie really comes off as a bad throw back to the Doris Day romantic Comedies, but with out the charm. "},{"Title":"Likeable Fun!","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Okay, of course Three to Tango isn't a masterpeice but it is definitely hard to dislike! Three to Tango is a movie that could of been lots better, but it definitely doesn't fail the way it is. Neve Campbell was amazing, and Oliver Platt was a great supporting actor. And, suprisingly, the usually annoying Matthew Perry was immensley likeable in his role. I recommend you see Three to Tango if you just like lots of brainless fun!Rating 8 "},{"Title":"Shallow old jokes, predictable","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  They think he's gay, he falls for the girl, she goes on to treat him as a girlfriend followed by his small little dealt-with dilemma love or career.  Some shallow humorous situations, a few stupid stale jokes, quite predictable.  I found most interesting when girlfriends share their man-woman cliches with the supposed gay.The best is the opening and closing Jazz music and naturally Nave Campbell -- though not worth watching the film.  I saw it at a friend who had the DVD -- without first reading any of the rightly negative comments here. What a mistake. "},{"Title":"Light hearted romantic comedy","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought this was one of the funniest romantic comedies i have seen in quite a while.  Matthew Perry was hilarious as the supposedly gay minder of his prospective bosses mistress.  As situation comedies go this is an absolute gem, and there is one 'date' scene early on the film which had me in stitches.  Of course the film is predictable, but it's a fun ride getting to the films inevitable conclusion. The film reminded me of In & Out in a few scenes, not surprising seeming they deal with a very similar subject matter for a large part of each film.  This was one of those sweet romantic comedies that seem to only ever come around once in a long while.  Well worth watching. "},{"Title":"MY LORD, ALMOST THE WORST FILM THIS YEAR","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The makers of Three to Tango are probably the only inhabitants of our little blue sphere who are happy that Jamie Lee Curtis' Virus was ever made, for it guarantees that this ill-conceived slapstick-romantic-comedy will not be remembered as THE worse film of 1999. It will certainly make several bottom ten lists I'm sure. Tango is less film than a motley series of scenes that are being forced upon the viewer in the hopes that the sum of such will equal romantic comedy and hence box office gold. There is a dearth of decent such films and survey after survey tells us that especially women want to see more of them. While studios know that cramming endless shoot-outs, explosions and clever special effects can save your basic actioner, no such rule of thumb applies to romances.There are traditions is this genre and Three to Tango trots them out one after another like a bad dog show.  We get a Nice Guy who needs a big break from the Super Successful Studmuffin and in pursuit of which puts him in an Awkward Situation ripe for Comedic Misunderstanding where he Meets Cute the Diamond in the Rough object of his affection who just hasn't met the Right Guy. Not helping the viewer forget all this is a discussion in the film that calls attention to such clichés (in this case the oft repeated Let's get outta here which I'm sure leaves many with a longing for just such). In place of attractive stars, zippy dialogue and sexual heat what we to make of such bland headliners such as Matthew Perry and Neve Campbell uttering mostly banal lines while never stimulating more than a blush of puppy love.I'm at a loss to explain why anyone thinks Matthew Perry should be headlining films in the first place. With a square head and severe shortage in the lips & chin department he seems custom made for the best friend role. I'm not stupid and know that the culture-piercing success of Friends has Everything to do with it. Fools Rush In is the exception to this and Almost Heroes the rule. Campbell is slightly better, but barely gives off any sparks in what should have been a role played as a firecracker. Of course her role suffers from being as underwritten as the rest of the script and creates the biggest hurdle the audience is asked overcome buying her and Dylan McDermott's relationship.Only in the trite universe that Tango exists in would these two characters become Rich Guy and Mistress. That's right, Campbell's not-really-struggling artist is the kept woman of a tycoon. Excuse me, Mr. Screenwriter, I am supposed to believe that underneath all those funky clothes beats the heart of woman who thinks a sugar daddy's boy toy is her best option?! As for as the comedic aspect of this purported romantic comedy, there's not a single line worth repeating in this whole shebang. Only, and I do stress only, if you are so desperate for a night out that involves seeing such a film (and this summer's Julia Roberts' twosome are no longer even playing at the dollar theater) then see this by-the-numbers effort.  "}{"Title":"If you can see how a film is going to end in the trailers then you really shouldn't see it.","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film explains why lots of TV stars make an unsuccessful transition to film - they not only get offered shoddy projects but then they take them! This is your typical love triangle scenario and even before a synopsis of the plot can finish you know who's going to end up with who.  McDermott gets Perry to look after his mistress (Campbell) because he thinks he's gay. They become great friends and soon fall in love, although she thinks he's gay too.  Soon it's in the newspapers and Perry has to come clean.  The maintaining-the-false-identity or not-being-true-to-yourself storyline seems to be frequented by other members of the FRIENDS crew in their film careers Jennifer Aniston in PICTURE PERFECT, David Schwimmer in KISSING A FOOL and perhaps even in THE PALLBEARER (I haven't actually seen the latter, although I've heard the plot.  I'm probably being heaps presumptuous).  Anyway this is a mediocre film because it's so damn predictable.  It's only redeeming virtue is its soundtrack, and even then it's only capitalising on the huge success of SWINGERS and its accompanying music.  Oliver Platt is wasted. Why is he always delegated the role of the sidekick? "},{"Title":"Neve shines through a plodded script and Lacking costars","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Despite occassional cleverness Three to Tango fails in it's attempts to mix romance and comedy. Definetly one of the hardest genres to do well the whole film usually lies on the actor at the centre of it all. In this case it's Mathew Perry and this is primarrilly why it fails. It boggles the mind why Warner continues to back this box office poision. Wasn't Fools Rush In warning enough! However the saving grace is Neve Campbell who lights up the screen with one flash of her smile and sparkling acting. She is definetly the next Julia Roberts because she has that unique infectious quality that you can't help that love. Romantic comedies definetly is Neve's future and whilst her roles in Scream, Wildthings and 54 have all been great it's this film that you truly fall in love with her. Grade; B-  "},{"Title":"See the first thirty minutes, skip the end","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What can I say. I was very disappointed. The first half-hour of this movie proves that it could be both light, funny and very amusing.Then it happened, the film switched reels and I could have sworn that I was watching another movie from the Jennifer Aniston genre. It changed into a moralistic, preachy, sagging movie. It  tried too hard too be romantic, worked too diligently to be socially redeeming and failed miserably at being funny. Comedy is about humor. Humor is about balance and timing. A game of juggling. Shortly after the beginning this film drops all the balls and starts to throw them at the audience.This could have been a truly funny film if it had been handled more along the lines of Twelfth Night rather than Object of my Affection - Part II. Oh well, maybe next time... "},{"Title":"Very cute, but formulaic...","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As romantic comedies go, they tend to become less and less original and more predictable.  `Three to Tango' is such an example, but it has a certain sweetness to it that is very appealing.  That doesn't go without saying it doesn't have its flaws, because it does; but, first, the chemistry between the two leads is electric.  I really enjoyed Matthew Perry and Neve Campbell work together; they had a sweet connection.  The film also stars Dylan McDermott, in a one-dimensional, thankless role.  `Three to Tango' is about a rich businessman (Dylan McDermott) who mistakenly believes Oscar (Matthew Perry), who is bidding on a $90 million restoration contract, is gay and asks him to keep tabs on his mistress, Amy (Neve Campbell). Oscar, who is not gay, falls for Amy in a big way but she thinks he's gay.  The plot follows the `mistaken identity' genre and big laughs illuminate from it.Now, I think Matthew Perry is a very funny comedian; however, in this film, he is, very much, playing Chandler from `Friends' and his character from an earlier picture, `Fools Rush In.'  He is quite a talent but he is starting to get typecast because of his personality.  I always found Neve Campbell to be a unique actress.  Even though, in every movie she does and `Party of Five,' she does the breathless `Neve Campbell-style' acting always speeding through a sentence as if running out of breath, constantly moving her head from left-to-right and looking to the camera with her mouth open and showing her big front teeth when not speaking.  I forgive her; she was worse in `54.'  There's the always-dependable Oliver Platt, who is given little to do in a small part where he is given some pretty amateurish lines that made me cringe.  Anyhoo, there were many moments where I found myself smiling widely.  There also moments where I felt tension, even when I knew the film was a predictable as a `false scare' in the recent crop of teen horror flicks.  (Sorry, Neve.)I am giving `Three to Tango' a marginal recommendation because Matthew Perry and Neve Campbell make such an adorable couple, but I would better recommend this summer's `Notting Hill' for greatness on all counts.  "},{"Title":"I'll sit this dance out...","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Three To TangoWith art house fare making thoughtful and highly respected works about the homosexual lifestyle, it comes as both odd and insulting that Warner Brothers and moneymen Village Roadshow would finance such a decidedly unfunny comedy. Working with large gay stereotypes in the name of humor, Three To Tango is the type of film, like the nauseating In And Out, that will appeal to mainstream audiences thirsty for a lifestyle film that's about five years-old in jokes and characters.Matthew Perry stars as Oscar Novak, a ambitious architect who is on the cusp of attaining a very important client, Charles Newman (The Practice's Dylan McDermott). Witnessing a moment of affection between Oscar and his partner (Oliver Platt), the client mistakes the staunchly heterosexual Oscar for a homosexual. Asking Oscar to keep an eye on his mistress (Scream's Neve Campbell) while he's not around, Charles has no idea that the two are falling in love, and Oscar cannot believe that now everyone thinks he's actually gay.Like an episode of Three's Company, Tango plays with very over the top humor and situations. The moment you see someone with a pail on their head, banging it against a wall, you pretty much understand then and there that you're screwed for the next 100 minutes. Tango is never funny, only once in awhile attaining a mediocre comedic pulse.Rather disturbingly so, Matthew Perry manages to climb out of this mess unscathed. I like him so much from his Emmy-worthy work on Friends that seeing him play a Chandler-type character again in Tango is very welcome. Without the great writing on Friends to help him out, Perry is left to his own impressive, but tiring, mannerisms and comedy instincts. Coming off his rather underrated Almost Heroes work, I still believe that Perry has a future in features. Just ones that don't require such hyperactivity.Campbell and McDermott are both stuck with roles that don't suit their personal talents as well. My faith in Neve Campbell dissolves with each new film she does. She has yet to fully drop her annoying acting tics and gestures. There's a good actress in there somewhere, proven time and again on Campbell's lovely TV series Party Of Five. McDermott has to play the heavy here, and due to either bad storytelling or last minute editing, he is left with a role so thin that it comes across as a minor miracle that he would even take the part. Both actors are better off on their respective great TV shows.Bothering me the most about Tango is it's odd chic factor. Like a loaf of bread left out for a year, Tango is moldy and indigestible. It's swing dance music score and opening credits come at a time when that fad has been played out (actual proof of a higher power). The rather 1950's stereotypes of gay men is both appalling and out of date. Inundated with such positive images of gay adults nowadays, Tango's reliance on erect pinkies and I'm no homo! humor is just not worth it. The whole film is terrible, but the moral of the story is both frightful and passé.Director Damon Santostefano has a interesting visual palette. The film bops and swings along rather competently. The problem is with the story and the actors. I would be lying if I said I wasn't intrigued to what his next film will be. I wish him luck to find a better projectThree To Tango is basically the typical Hollywood easy comedy that should appeal to the loyal few out there who can fall for this tripe time and again. I don't recommend Three To Tango to anyone looking for a solid comedy, and I wouldn't recommend Three To Tango to anyone with a conscience either.------1/10  "},{"Title":"Plot seems similar to another movie I have seen.","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  First of all, Matthew Perry is not at all convincing as Zuul. Neve Campbell is passable as the gate keeper, but Oliver Platt is miserable as the key-master. The plot is somewhat overshadowed by the presence of those non-corporeal entities that Bill Murray is chasing, but the river of evil below the streets of New York was a nice touch. I hate Annie Potts. "},{"Title":"Passable but feels too thin and too forced","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  While trying to win a design contract from tycoon Charles Newman, Oscar Novak and his business partner Peter Steinberg give the wrong impression that they are gay.  Peter is but Oscar is straight.  Seizing on this, Charles asks Oscar to spy on his mistress, Amy Post, to make sure she isn't falling in with her old boyfriends &#150; Oscar agrees to help out as he thinks it will give them a boost in the tendering process.  However Amy takes to her new friend easily and Oscar finds himself starting to fall for her while his $90million contract seems ever closer yet far away.My wife taped this film and it sat for quite some time before either of us dared to suggest we spend an evening in watching it.  However we did and neither expected much of it, which was good as the film delivered just that &#150; nothing much.  The plot is forced to the point that you know exactly where it wants to go but will be amused by the scenarios the writer came up with to make them happen.  While it serves to lampoon straight men and their (apparently all encompassing) homophobia, it is essentially just a standard rom-com which sticks by the rules and goes where you expect it to.The comedy is a little too stretched with some nice gags but mostly laughs come from the exaggerated set ups from the writers.  The fact that Oscar and Amy's `date' goes as wrong as it does defies sense and makes it feel like the film is just pushing the boat out to try and win laughs without putting in the groundwork.  This takes away from what could have been fresh and witty and just makes it feel forced and slightly silly.While the basic chemistry between Perry and Campbell is quite good, the onscreen relationship is given no time to develop and it never convinces, especially towards the end where it has to go all `pining' and soft music.  Perry is OK but does his usual stuff without really getting out of his well worn career rut of typecasting.  Campbell is given so little to do that she appears no more than a shadow of a beautiful woman.  Worse off is McDermott who has no character to speak of.  Platt fares the best of all but even he can't rise above the material &#150; he has the odd good line but too many that are weak.Overall I doubt anyone will come to this film expecting greatness which is just as well as it is distinctly average at best.  The film's swipe at homophobia is lost in the noise, clutter and cliché of a romantic comedy trying to force the jokes rather than overflowing with them naturally.  Passable for 90 minutes but just don't expect more than that. "},{"Title":"piece of fluff","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Quite contrived premise based on a misunderstanding that could have been cleared up in two minutes if only the characters would COMMUNICATE.Best actor in this sad film is Oliver Platt in a supporting role, but they are all let down by poor direction and a drab script. Only watch this if it's raining out and you have *nothing* better to do.Watch for a glaring continuity error about half way through concerning a very flamboyant wine glass.  "},{"Title":"Three years old and feels more like 30.","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Based on R1 DVD.Your Gay! There is something very odd about the way this movie considers homosexuals - is a sort of larger than life stereotype that plays poorly. Aside from the very pretty Neve Campbell there is not much to look at, the jokes are boorish and the acting hammy.5/10 catch it on TV. "},{"Title":"Gruesome Final Scene","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Occasionally funny, but in general a very boring movie which is incredibly predictive. The final scene (the speech in the auditorium) is horrendous and quite embarrassing to watch. Paid about 8 US$ for this, which is about 10 US$ too much (I should get 2 US$ back for damages). "}{"Title":"So bad, I left giddy with disbelief","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Okay, this movie is horrible. It starts off with one thing going for it. It knows it's horrible. It plays with that fact. It doesn't bother trying to be good, it just wants you to have a good time. Then the entire last half of the movie takes itself too seriously. And the movie just plain awful. I nearly enjoyed myself until the movie killed itself. So sad. It was so young. "},{"Title":"This scatty farce's only virtue is Neve Campbell's cute charm","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Three to Tango (1999) Matthew Perry, Neve Campbell, Dylan McDermott, Oliver Platt, Bob Balaban, John C. McGinley, D Damon Santostefano. Desperate date movie takes three TV series actors and dumps them in an idiot plot. A Chicago architect (Perry of `Friends') is asked by his new boss (McDermott of `The Practice')-who believes he's gay and hires him and his partner to design a cultural center-to spy on his cute mistress (Campbell of `Party of Five'). Then a citywide rumor whispers into everyone's ears about his mistaken sexual identity. This scatty farce's only virtue is Campbell's cute charm, but it's done in by utter stupidity and a forgone conclusion. Pleasant enough, but not smart or cool enough. Running Time 98 minutes and rated PG-13 for sex-related situations and language. ** 	 "},{"Title":"Should have been good but wasn't...","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Matthew Perry, Neve Campbell, Dylan McDermott and Oliver Platt. Great cast like that should have made a great movie. This movie wasn't really that funny... Really disappointing. The script was bad, the whole story was terrible. Even the acting was bad. Most of the stuff that happens in the movie was unbelievable. I'm a real big fan of Neve Campbell, but sadly, she didn't do very well in this one...  (Why, oh why?!? "},{"Title":"Awful romantic comedy that should be avoided.","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A shoddy attempt from all concerned, Three To Tango is a hopeless misfire. It opens well with its jazzed up 60's rock n' roll credits sequence, but when the first scene occurs, you know that this is going to be bad.The entire cast is.... well miscast. Matthew Perry being a particularly bad choice with the ludicrously unconvincing red hair. There is absolutely no chemistry between the characters, the misinterpration gags wear thin very quickly and the acting standard is fairly low. With barely any originality or redeeming qualities, Three To Tango doesn't deserve your attention. 3.6/10. "},{"Title":"Disasterous date movie. (possible spoilers)","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Matthew Perry and Neve Campbell are the young lovebirds of this complex romantic comedy. I'm not going to go through the plot, but I am going to say that the acting is pretty good. Oliver Platt, Dylan McDermott, and Bob Balaban all do good jobs.THREE TO TANGO is probably a forgettable movie that most people will not remember having seen after they see it. You know right away what is going to happen in the end if you are a fan of romantic comedies. So, this leaves me wondering why we all even bother seeing these movies! We all know how it goes! Boy meets girl. Boy likes girl. Girl likes boy. Girl and boy are happy. Boy and girl argue. Boy loses girl. Boy gets girl back. The end. That right there is the basic outline of every traditional romantic comedy made in the last ten years. Everyone say thank you, Mr. Ripper.THREE TO TANGO 3/5. "},{"Title":"couldn't be more obvious","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Annoyingly redundant, one-note comedy which basically has the look and feel of an extended sitcom. Perry and Platt are two architects on the rise out to make a name for themselves. They think they've hit the jackpot with rich, cold-blooded businessman McDermott, but it turns out he's having an affair and asks bachelor Perry to babysit his mistress Campbell after mistakenly thinking he's gay. In formulaic fashion Perry falls in love with her, but unfortunately she doesn't know that he's not gay either. Dull, monotonous romantic comedy with an already predictable setup is only further strained by an abundance of stupid gay jokes, and moments of limp physical comedy. A television show comedy that foolishly casts television stars. *½ "},{"Title":"I've never seen anything so unpredictable","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Matthew Perry plays an architect who's jealous boss thinks he's gay, then asks him to spend time with his mistress. Oh man, I never would have guessed that they'd fall in love. This cheesy flick is filled with monotonous, gay emphasizing hit and miss jokes, one-note performances(especially Campbell) and a script that unfolds in typical by the numbers fashion. You can figure it out by watching the previews. 1/4 "},{"Title":"I want these two hours of my life back.","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I think of all the other things in my life I would rather been doing, like home dentistry or a Tabasco enema, than ever see this movie again. Matthew Perry shows us yet again that all he seems to be able to play are slight variants of his character Chandler from Friends.The movie spins the old best friends but one is in love with the other plotline giving it only a slightly new twist.  Matthew Perry's character is mistaken to be gay and has to maintain the facade through a series of silly contrivances.The characters are on the whole uninteresting (Oliver Platt's is the only exception.)  And no one is really all that funny.  For me one of the most annoying things is a comedy that tries too hard to be funny and fails at almost every attempt.  "},{"Title":"A tired old plot device that goes nowhere..","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There's a scene in Three to Tango in which the two leads, Neve Campbell and Matthew Perry, are platonically (Well, she is, he really isn't..).. cuddling on his sofa, as they watch Laurence Harvey and Kim Novak in bed together in 1964's remake of Of Human Bondage.  Let's just say that if you're looking for a GOOD romantic movie to rent, leave the former on the shelf and rent the latter, which is a masterpiece of a tear-jerker and doesn't pretend to be something it's not, as does the former.The two films make an unintentionally ironic comparison of just how good actors used to be, and just how bad they are these days.  I couldn't help but grin as I watched Neve Campbell watching Kim Novak and nearly shouted at the screen See, Neve?? Now THAT'S Acting! How many times have we seen the Three to Tango plot in the past ten years?  A couple million?  A case of mistaken intentions and identities as the girl Perry loves must continue to believe he's gay, and thus safe to confide in and even live with, because he must pretend to be gay to keep his lucrative contract with the rich jerk who has assigned him to spy on her.. The same rich jerk who she believes she's in love with.  Why?  If she's so smart and so streetwise and hip and savvy, can't she see what a fool he's playing her for?   Of course not, because, if she could, there'd be no movie, would there..Neve Campbell is nice to look with her ample figure almost falling out of every low-cut costume she's poured into, but at the same time she crosses the line over into the county known as annoying.  She forces her cuteness and sexyness, but she doesn't have to. Matthew Perry plays the same character he plays in Friends with a different cast in a different situation, but the badly-written and terribly predictable script don't give him a whole lot to work with.. nevertheless, he has a certain appeal as he scrunches up his lower lip in his continual quest for the unobtainable. Oliver Platt as Perry's non-gay gay business partner is really the most gifted actor in this film, while Dylan McDermott's one-dimensional rich bad guy is pure cardboard. The plot device driving this whole thing is just old and tired and in the case of Three To Tango, simply unfunny.  Will the right guy get the girl before the end titles roll?  Do you really have to ask? "},{"Title":"Amusing, But Wears Thin Quickly","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  **Possible Spoilers**		Director Damon Santostefano delivers a mildly amusing, but predictable one-joke comedy with `Three To Tango,' starring Neve Campbell, Matthew Perry and Dylan McDermott.  Struggling architects Oscar Novak (Perry) and Peter Steinberg (Oliver Platt) have a shot at a ninety million dollar renovation job, a project to be funded by tycoon businessman Charles Newman (McDermott).  Circumstances lead Newman to believe that Oscar in gay, which makes him the perfect choice for another job Newman has in mind.  He has a mistress, Amy (Campbell), a free-spirited artist, and the jealous Newman needs someone to keep an eye on her during the opening of an exhibition of her work, since he will be unable to attend.  Oscar is reluctant at first (and he doesn't have any idea that Newman thinks he's gay), but it may help them land the renovation job, so he agrees.  He has no way of foreseeing, of course, that he will end up falling in love with Amy.  And, complicating matters even more, for Oscar, is the fact that Amy has been told that he is gay.  How to resolve it all?  Oscar needs the job, but he wants to be with the woman he loves; and meanwhile, everybody thinks he's gay. 	All of which wears thin, and fairly rapidly.  The screenplay is neither clever nor imaginative, and Santostefano has done even less with the material at hand, resorting to slapstick for the laughs (and there are a few).  Perry brings an engaging presence to the screen, and he does know how to play comedy; his timing is good, and the best scenes in the movie are the ones he shares with Platt.  Campbell, on the other hand, leaves something to be desired with her Amy; managing little more than the occasional theatrical smile (squint and show some teeth), she comes across as shallow and pretentious.  Amy (as she plays her) simply doesn't warrant the conflict called for by the story.  And Dylan McDermott is too good an actor for this one-note role he's been handed here, though he does well enough with what he's been given.  The most notable performance is courtesy of Platt, whose character, in fact, is gay, but thought by everyone to be straight; and he plays it for all it's worth.   	The supporting cast includes Cylk Cozart (Kevin), John C. McGinley (Strauss), Bob Balaban (Decker) and Deborah Rush (Lenore).  There's some irony and humor in the premise of `Three To Tango,' especially the twist wherein Oscar eventually has to `come out' as straight, but the finished product is somewhat flat and unsatisfying.  The sight gags are good for a few laughs, but, unfortunately, there's just not a whole lot more to it.      I rate this one 5/10. "}{"Title":"A curiously old-fashioned comedy...","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ... yet I don't mean that in the way it opens with a 40's-style jazz number. I mean it in the way that the jokes are about 50 years old. Basically, Three To Tango's about four people Matthew Perry, star of the world's most overrated sitcom, Oliver Platt as his gay friend, Dylan McDermott as the nasty boss and Neve Campbell who I definitely would. I say four as, contrary to the billboards and name of the film; it really is a fourhanded production, McDermott actually getting more screentime than the supposed third, Platt.What happens is that through a series of hilarious misunderstandings, everyone thinks Matthew's (called Oscar in the film, though he's unlikely to see one) gay. And they also think Oliver's straight. So when Neve she's got a no-nudity clause in her contract so why do they keep on giving us hope? Campbell moves in with him, she talks about girlie things and what have you, they start to fall in love, all the predictable seen-it-millions-of-times-before that you would expect. We're supposed to like her character even though she's knocking off a businessman behind his wife's back, but even so she's okay.For a Hollywood film, it's alright. Of course, this is still the sort of film universe where when people hear - shock!, horror! - the word gay they bump into walls, drop heavy weights, faint and electrocute themselves in baths, but it's fairly sensitive as far as the studio market goes. This stereotyping also ropes in a black sportsman who - quick, phone an ambulance, my sides are splitting!! - is well endowed. Seriously. Loads of jokes, which don't really get much more sophisticated than he's got a big dick abound. With, as before, hilarious consequences.To be honest, it ain't that bad, and Matthew Perry is quite amusing at times. The others, though, are the self-consciously humorous types that make you want to punch them, Oliver Platt is being particularly unlaughworthy. Neve escapes by the fact that her character is the straight man, as it were, and for the fact that, no-nudity or not, she does give us a glimpse of her cleavage in every single scene she appears in.Not really a great, but then its not supposed to be I guess. Just a cheap to make picture with TV actors that has an unusual twist done in a usual way. Though it's target audience seems to be a small ratio of the public a gay audience would find the demeaning gay clichés offensive, a straight date audience might still, in these supposedly enlightened times, be uncomfortable seeing it. Still, grab some popcorn, see some lightweight, meaningless drivel with two-dimensional characters for 90 minutes, switch your brain off, then forget all about it for the rest of your life. It's that simple. 4/10.  "},{"Title":"Simply Predictable","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Three to Tango was a huge waste of talent. Dylan McDermott, Matthew Perry and Neve Campbell should have reconsidered their decision to act in this movie when they read the script. Someone I watched it with said It wasn't half bad, but it was the most predictable movie ever! This movie had happy ending written all over it. It was a waste of time. If you want to see the movie just watch the trailer. It will sum it all up and you won't waste 90 minutes of your life. "},{"Title":"objectionable across the board","Date":"8 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The only way you could like this movie is if you're a heterosexual who has remained completely oblivious to the political development of gay people over the last fifty years. You might recall plotlines like this from the Rock Hudson/Doris Day era, because it's the last time they were acceptable. Every conceivable scenario is viewed through the anticipated discomfort of some token oblivious straight viewer. You know, gay people are merely amusing side dishes in the lives of heteros. Every gag reinforces that distaste is the unquestionable, correct response to gay people. I fast-forwarded through much of it, but something tells me that even the assinine drop the soap joke that straight guys have been laughing at for 4 decades (!), makes an appearance. Check the expiration date on these jokes, guys!I guess the only conceivable worse way for an overexposed sitcom star to step into movies might be to star opposite a monkey (Matt LeBlanc). This movie is also an insult to Chicago which is infinitely more modern/accepting of gay people than this tripe suggests. Everyone associated with this project should be sent by rocket into the sun.Laugh, giggle & stay completely mired in your subjective, mindless understanding of human sexuality. You'll probably really enjoy Amos 'n' Andy too. "},{"Title":"One of the worst films I have ever seen","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What can I say other than this movie offers further and undeniable proof that they really ought to put a warning on movies indicating that there is a Friends cast member in the film. It's not necessarily that they ruin the films they're in, but that they have a knack for choosing terrible scripts. I cannot even begin to understand why Neve Campbell, an actress whom I had previously had a great deal of respect and admiration for, selected such a godawfully written movie to even be in, let alone star in. The jokes were not even funny, the references to homosexuals were absurd and disgustingly over-emphasized stereotypes. No, no, I take that back. They weren't even familiar enough references to be called stereotypes. I'd never even heard of gay people displaying the behavior this film attempted to pass off as typical, and even more sickening, as funny. If I were gay I wouldn't bother being offended. The premise of the film was so rediculous and utterly idiotic that it wasn't even funny in the respect of how bad it was. I'm one who tends to find humor in movies which display absurdity. But this film went so over the top that not even the most morbid individual could find it remotely humorus.  "},{"Title":"This movie is AWFUL, TERRIBLE, AND HORRIBLE","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"   I rented this movie because I love Matthew Perry. But even he couldn't save this. The script was bad; all the jokes fell completely flat, there was no character development at all ,and there wasn't really any explanation for why Neve Campbell liked either one of the guys since they never really talked and when they did it was about meaningless things. "},{"Title":"The film has Neve Campbell and was still disappointing","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Oliver Platt & Dylan McDermott offered up very mediocre acting performances.  This movie seemed to drag until Neve Campbell was on screen.  I almost turned off the video, but kept it going because I thought it would get better. Use your time better by watching paint dry. "},{"Title":"'Three to Tango'","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I was bitterly disappointed with this film. I was expecting to get a deep, meaningful film that made everyone understand the homosexual community a bit more. What I got was a 'funny' film, with no real message. (A couple of positive notes include looking at Matt Perry's bum, as is always fun, and having a character share the same name as me, Amy.) The film starts off as Oscar (Matthew Perry) and his designing partner, Peter (Oliver Platt) prepare to present their renovation design for this building to a big firm. The film gets right to the quick when the man they're being interviewed by, Charles Newman (Dylan McDermott) is placed under the misconception that Oscar is gay. Well, some random strangers I don't even know told me he's gay, so I'll believe them, and better yet, I'll have him trail my girlfriend because all gay guys are cool like that and are excellent at stealth!Only,Oscar isn't. Not that I have a problem with Matt's, how do you say, selection of balanced-challenged characters, I'm just itching to see him stretch those real acting muscles of his (RC Story better be good..errr...). What I'm getting at is that Oscar clumsily saves Charles's girlfriend, Amy (Neve Campbell)'s art piece (that's right, she's a glass blower, but don't fall under the false impression that she'll be a lesbian and it'll just be another 'Chasing Amy'), and she immediately takes a liking to Oscar, as he does to her. Awwww...I will admit that the chemistry between Neve and Matt was extremely enjoyable, as was the expression Matt's face when Charles told him that he knew that Oscar was 'gay'.The whole film, Oscar pretends to be gay, just so that he can keep the big job with Charles, all the while falling in love with Amy, who loves him back. At the end, Oscar makes a speech about being who you really are, and not needing to 'hide in the closet', just summarizing what this film symbolized as I sure as hell didn't see that dark, hidden meaning (silly me! I thought it was just another romantic comedy! Now I feel dumb!). I'm sure that the 'being who you are' message didn't get to the other audience members, either.What else could I possibly say? The two get together in the end. ('Let's get out of here.' 'I'd like that.' What? Hey! They tied that in from the beginning! How sweet!) It's a good film, and will definitely make you smile more than 'Sweet Home Alabama' (I've yet to shower that off me!).Matt's orange hair is sexy, Oliver Platt steals the show (I hope he's not that flamboyant in real life) and Neve is the embodiment of adorable. And Dylan? I think he was played by a cardboard man half the time, actually... I should check on that.4, because it was predictable and silly, with no real meaning, but I still smile every time I see a chicken. Rent it. It's cute, but it won't wake anyone from a coma. "},{"Title":"Our reaction to the movie after watching last night","Date":"22 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This hard-to-sit through movie tells a corny story of a straight guy (Matthew Perry) who, because of some misunderstandings, becomes publicly labeled as gay. In order for him and his partner (Oliver Platt)--who really is gay and not afraid to admit it--to get an important contract, he decides to go along with it, but after falling in love with his prospective boss's mistress (Neve Campbell), he has to second guess that decision. The girl is laboring under the misconception that he is, indeed, homosexual and considers him to be her best girlfriend. The only credible acting was by Oliver Platt. Rated PG-13, we felt that it should have been R because of sexual dialogue. "},{"Title":"A Rather Clichéd Attempt at Comedy","Date":"25 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I must admit that I did laugh a few times while watching this otherwise clichéd attempt at comedy. Matthew Perry has yet to establish a big screen presence; his acting abilities seem to be anchored in television. The transition between generating believability between television and motion pictures is possible, however, few actors are able to accomplish the leap without losing their edge along the way. Case in point Near the end of the film, we are asked to accept Perry's conviction to the female lead, however, there is little or nothing to exemplify true love or chemistry between the characters. In addition, I didn't buy Neve Campbell's Woody Allen-esque neurosis. (Was her character bipolar or what?) It threw the picture off significantly. The best part of the picture was Dylan McDermott, a solid character actor who brings honesty to an otherwise unjustified and boorish script. Still, there is little or nothing to recommend here--I'd suggest renting Chasing Amy instead. Similar premise, but far more depth and better character development.  "},{"Title":"Extremely disappointing","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I had high hopes for this movie since it's directed by M Night Shyamalan who did the excellent movie Sixth Sense, one of the best movies I have ever seen. This one, though, falls flat on it's face. In an attempt to make the same kind of surprising turnover end as in Sixth Sense, it only gets embarrasing and feels very cheap. I didn't get the wow-feeling at all like in Sixth sense, instead it felt totally meaningless and so...bad! I left the theatre feeling like this wasn't true, this couldn't be happening. He really spoiled his name with this movie, at least for me. I had high thoughts of Shyamalan and his talent, but after this movie I really flushed him down the drain, figuratively speaking.As I said above, this felt like an attempt to ride on the success from Sixth sense. Too bad he didn't wait for the real inspiration to come before he made his next movie.  "}{"Title":"Starts low, goes to the bottom, and finally goes through the bottom, lower than the lowest of the low... and that's low","Date":"9 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I heard about this film(some three years ago, I think) I immediately shunned the very thought of sparing it as much as a glance, due to my strong dislike of Matthew Perry. Then the TV channels started sending it. Over. And over. And over. And today, after who knows how many times I've skipped it(which I thank myself for, even more so now), I decided to give it a shot... you know why? I found out Neve Campbell was in it. Of course, that's not the only reason... Campbell's hot, and a good actress, but she's not good enough to outweigh Perry's aggravatingly stupid presence. No, what really did it was that I found out that John C. McGinley had a role in it. Believe me, as long as he's in it, I'll watch almost anything. I discovered and immediately loved McGinley when I saw an episode of the series Scrubs, and saw, nay, experienced his character of Dr. Perry Cox dish out one hell of a verbal punishment. I'm not exaggerating, I'd watch Scrubs if it was just half a minute of McGinley giving one of his speeches directly at the camera, once a week. I love his character. Since I know he often plays that same type of character(The Animal, On Deadly Ground and The Rock), I hoped that he would have a big role in this, and that he'd make the movie tolerable. Unfortunately, it was not to be. His entire screen-time amounts to about five minutes in total, and the film is even more horrible that I could have imagined. The plot is one of the most ridiculous and unoriginal that I've ever heard. The pacing is so bad that it seems like the director expects the audience through anything. The acting is not worth mentioning. The characters are all clichés and stereotypes... especially the characters that were supposed to be homosexuals. Believe me, I try to be tolerable. My personal philosophy of, well, anything at all, pretty much, is as follows as long as it doesn't hurt anyone, I'm fine with it. Homosexuality, metro sexuality, sports... anything. As long as no one is hurt, neither physically nor psychologically. I try to tolerate and respect any and all movies out there... but I can't bring myself to respect this putrid piece of trash. I know the majority of people are(at least, so it would appear, from all the 'entertainment' based on this assumption) ignorant when it comes to homosexuality... but this is too much. This is too far. Every single human being is supposed to have that one impulse-controlling part of the brain, the one that keeps you from jumping on every woman that walks by you, and so on... but apparently the director and everyone else who really had anything to say on the production on this... 'film' didn't have that. Just when you think it has reached the bottom, it goes lower. Why must Hollywood portray homosexuals as constantly horny, will-take-what-they-can-get types? Are we supposed to think they are some kind of animal? A genetic mutation? Why? Just because they aren't interested in women on a sexual level? I think if I ever had one wish granted, it would be to have a... shall we say 'talk' with the director of this putrid piece of cinema. Tell him exactly how ignorant he is... if possible, keep him from spewing of more movies like this. It's people like him and the director of other horrible propaganda-like movies like Saving Silverman, which displayed atrocious amounts of misogynistic tendencies in its tone that are the downfall of morality... not violence in popular media. I don't recommend this movie to anyone... stay away... far away. You might catch 'stupid' from watching it. I know my head feels lighter... about 20-30 IQ points. 1/10  "}]