[{"Title":"Quite a fine thriller.","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"62 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was very pleasantly surprised at this film. Denzel Washington proves again that he can handle any role that he chooses to play. In this case, he plays homicide inspector, Lincoln Rhyme who has been nearly paralyzed after suffering from an accident in the line of duty. But now, when a mysterious killer begins killing off people in a very peculiar matter, he must team with a hard-headed rookie cop (Angelina Jolie) to solve the crimes. Supporting cast includes Queen Latifah, Michael Rooker, Mike McGlone, Luis Guzman, Leland Orser and Ed O'Neil. I like the way they have the killer as an intelligent person. Someone who has a knowledge of what he is doing. And the way he leaves clues for the cops to follow. To come up with something this perfect, you must a genius. While not really scary, this suspense thriller is actually thrilling as opposed to the many number of thrillers that are not even thrilling. (Example HANGMAN). Thank you Hollywood for giving us THE BONE COLLECTOR. This is a good one. Highly recommended.....5/5. "},{"Title":"Dark, suspenseful thriller worth seeing","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"61 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Denzel Washington plays a former cop who is injured in the line of duty and becomes a crime scene investigator and expert witness in the service of law firms.  Angelina Jolie plays a cop who is struggling to find a place within a male-dominated police culture, and shows a talent for crime scene investigation, which Denzel's character immediately recognizes and appreciates, since he is bedridden and physically unable to go to most crime scenes.  She is reluctant to get involved, but does wind up grudgingly serving as his eyes and ears as they try to follow clues left by a serial killer who gives clues about his next victims and taunts them and the police.While Denzel's character is almost too brilliant to be believable, if you can overlook that you should thoroughly enjoy this movie.  Denzel and Angelina, together with cops of varying competence, try to follow the clues given to them by the serial killer, who gives them clues before the killing actually occurs.Most people who enjoy a dark, suspenseful movie (such as Silence of the Lambs) should thoroughly enjoy this movie.  "},{"Title":"Well worth a look! Both Jolie and Washington are on form","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"42 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I've read quite a few comments on this movie and some of them I disagree with and others I don't. Sure, it may be a little predictable and a bit 'all been done before' but there is a certain level of originality and uniqueness to it also.For starters it has a fantastic cast and both lead actors (Jolie and Washington)have won Oscars and thats says something. It can't be easy playing a paralysed man and remaining so still and wooden and he plays the frustrations and emotions so realistically that I would imagine a person actually would be like in real life. Jolie is charming, composed and works well with the camera. Her character is convincing enough and this goes for her performance.The support cast is fantastic too, especially Queen Latifa.The film may have the usual iconographic elements found in the psychological thriller genre but they are necessary for it to firstly conform and also progress. 'The Bone Collector' introduces new techniques and a slightly different angle for the viewer. there has to be a certain amount of repetition with this genre for it to work and this is the case for many others, such as romantic comedies and a couple falling in love or teen flicks with a football jock character.I am currently writing my degree dissertation on sexual subjectivity in psychological thrillers and this film is perfect for that. The changing levels of gendered representations is very interesting and both supports and detracts away from the current representations in society.I say, give it a go! Don't listen to people who have already seen it and didn't like it. If I'd have done that then I wouldn't have given it a go and my dissertation would have been short of argument! "},{"Title":"Good film, no wasted time","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"51 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I am one of those older folks who doesn't care for the kind of movies that are made these days. As such, my movie watching is generally confined to old classic films ala TCM and AMC. But, I do subscribe to all of the premium channels via DirecTV and, occasionally, watch a newer film if the plot synopsis appears to be one that I may be able to tolerate. I have read all of the previous reviews of this film on the IMDB and find them very interesting. Many of the reviews mention a movie titled Seven. I have never heard of, much less seen, Seven. I consider this fact to be a fortunate one because I was able to watch The Bone Collector without having to constantly compare it to a previous film. In short, I liked this movie. I was entertained royally precisely because I didn't take the story line too seriously. There was not much time wasted on character development. GOOD !! I don't need to know why the characters became the persons that they are. I simply want them to get on with whatever they must do. Another thing that I liked was the lack of sex scenes, which seem to be almost a necessity it today's movies. The two leads did a great job and their chemistry was excellent. Mr. Washington and Ms. Jolie were very believable. The killer? No big deal. I couldn't have cared less who did the killings. I simply waited for justice to be done. In short, I don't agree with any of the harsh criticism that I have read on this forum. I guess that's because I am a rather down to earth person who has no need to turn watching a movie into an academic exercise, complete with thorough analysis of character motivation, etc.    "},{"Title":"Dark And Moody","Date":"15 May 2007","Score":"23 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A bed ridden, paraplegic NYC detective, Lincoln Rhyme (Denzel Washington), teams up with a rookie cop named Amelia (Angelina Jolie) to try and catch a serial killer, in this dark, moody atmospheric thriller from Director Phillip Noyce. This is a fine thriller.From the get-go viewers understand that an intelligent maniac is on the loose, and could strike at any time. That is the very definition of cinematic tension. In addition, the killer uses dark, subterranean spaces to torture and kill victims. That inky darkness, together with a haunting musical score further amplifies suspense.But, the solution to the whodunit puzzle is ultimately unsatisfying because the screenwriter withholds important back-story from viewers. This could have been so easily fixed with the addition of a line or two of dialogue and/or a brief added scene near the film's beginning. Even so, good plot misdirection creates ample red herrings, so that the killer's identity is not a foregone conclusion.The film's cinematography, production design, and editing are fine. Washington does a good job as the paralyzed cop. But Angelina Jolie is miscast; she pouts her way through the film looking like she's bored out of her mind. The support cast helps a lot, with highly credible performances from delightful Queen Latifah, capable Ed O'Neill, and reliable Michael Rooker.The crime scenes tended unfortunately to be in-your-face grizzly. But at least the gore quotient was minimal.For dark, moody serial killer films set in NYC, I prefer Sea Of Love (1989). Nevertheless, The Bone Collector can be enjoyed for its elevated level of suspense, its fine cinematography, and its generally high level of acting. Be advised, however, that the film's finale may be a disappointment if you expect all the whodunit puzzle pieces to fall into place, neat and tidy. "},{"Title":"Above average film, except the end...","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"35 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I went to this film expecting not too much after all the bad commentaries about it, but in the end I think this film is quite entertaining. The acting is quite good and the filmmakers understand it to build a 'scary' atmosphere. Of course, this is no masterpiece like Se7en, but its okay... What I did not liked at all, was the ending. It was so (!!!) predictable. Some people even made bets à la 5 bucks she will save him. Moreover it was really stupid, that the killer's motive had nothing to do with the entire film. And maybe the worst about the film was this completely ridiculous christmas scene where both lead characters seem to be a couple. It seemed to me like the writer thought Oh s**t, I forgot the two have to fall in love and so he wrote this scene.Bottom line Quite entertaining but too predictable to be good. My vote 6/10BTW What do Angelina Jolie and Julia Roberts have in common? The wide grin -) "},{"Title":"Good thriller; didn't understand the bad reviews","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" One time, when I was about 11 years old, I rented a film called The Silence of the Lambs, and... Wow! I can't describe the the feelings I had. It was the best film I had seen till that moment, and it is on my mind until today.In my opinion, this was the inspiration for all the other thrillers which came out after 1991, specially those ones with a serial killer. Some time after that, I rented Se7en, which was for me wicked, claustrophobic (in the good way), brilliant, almost as good as The Silence of the Lambs. Taking those two films, almost all the other serial killer thrillers were a big waste, specially Kiss the Girls. However, The Bone Collector was released in 1999. But, for some reason, it received many bad reviews. I really don't agree with them.The theme of The Bone Collector, despite the fact that it has already been used in many other films, is really interesting. I won't say much about it to preserve your entertaining, but I can say it is very suspenseful, dark, well-written, well-directed and well-acted. Denzel Washington gives another great performance as the paralitic detective, but the big star is really Angelina Jolie. She's very, very pretty and talented, and has a GREAT future. She has been keeping my attention since the TV movie Gia, and surprised me last year in the wonderful Playing By Heart. I'm very glad that she won the Golden Globe for Girl, Interrupted, and I hope she wins the Oscar for that part. Angelina deserves it for walk one more step on her brilliant career. Her acting in The Bone Collector is not different. Her dialogues with Denzel Washington in the film are intense and provoking, and without her the film would have been a little lost.So, when you see The Bone Collector, try to forget the bad reviews and have fun. It is not The Silence of the Lambs. It is not Se7en. But it is a fine film if you want to feel your hands cold and your heart beating fast. And appreciate Angelina's beauty.7/10 "},{"Title":"Dark and tense, but ultimately lazy story telling","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When NYPD cop Amelia Donaghy uncovers a mutilated corpse she shows a natural eye for detail and preserving crime scenes. When the killer turns out to be a serial killer leaving clues to his next crime, NYPD turn to the paralysed ex-forensics cop, Rhyme to help them piece together the clues. With Rhymes bedridden, Donaghy becomes his eyes, ears and legs as she walks the scenes under his guidance to uncover the trail.This is a star vehicle - two Oscar winners and some good supporting actors (Luis Guzman, Michael Rooker to name two). However the plot is below the Washington and Jolie. It is the old killer taunting cops to catch him chestnut. It is slightly spiced up by the use of forensics etc and watching Washington putting together the logical clues is quite fun - mainly because you get the feeling that you're right there with him and that it all makes sense. However most of it doesn't makes sense, a lot of the forensics is bull and relies of coincidence or Washington dragging facts from the back of his head. This is a shame because it feels like the film is just being lazy at times and is cheating us out of logic. This laziness feeds right through to the ending - if you thought that the Scream films were lazy and stupid wait till you see the stupid ending to this! Up till this the film does have plenty of horrible scenes and lots of tense bits with Jolie walking round in the dark with the killer potentially just round the corner.Jolie is good and deals with her character well - despite the fact that a beat cop would never just be able to become a crime scene officer on the whim of an ex-cop. Washington deals well with his character being paralysed for the whole film but does get a bit silly at the end where he fights the killer with just his head! Support is fine - but Guzman is not as good as he usually is.Overall this is a B movie that got an A movie budget. The film is dark and tense but ultimately a bit lazy and blows it totally with a stupid lazy conclusion. "},{"Title":"Above Average Serial Killer Flick, But Ruined By a Ridiculous Ending...","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"19 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Bone CollectorThe serial-killer genre received a big boost over a decade ago when 'The Silence of the Lambs' was released; Hannibal Lector himself spawned a newfound interest in not the slasher genre of the eighties, but of the psychological slashers.Unfortunately, like all movies and their genres, they simply get&#133;old. I'm tired of serial killer movies that try to cash in on the success of 'The Silence of the Lambs.' We've had countless films over the years since 'Silence' that are just tragic rehashes of each other with predictable and ridiculous endings.Now we have 'The Bone Collector,' another typical 'psychological thriller' brought to life by a great cast and director.Angelina Jolie plays the cop-on-the-streets who discovers a corpse next to a railroad. She immediately sparks interest in herself as the chief of police starts watching over her more, and a paraplegic man named Lincoln (Denzel Washington) summons her to his home to ask her a simple question.Washington wants Jolie to help him catch the killer.Denzel Washington plays Lincoln, a man who used to be big but is now immobile. His only moveable joint below his neck is a single finger, which he uses to click a computer mouse by his bed. He is watched over by Queen Latifah, a caring woman, sure, but not exactly loving.'The Bone Collector,' based on the novel of the same name by Jeffery Deaver, could easily have slipped into the average slot, but because of a great cast, is just good enough to recommend. There are some gut-wrenching scenes in 'The Bone Collector,' but then there are some scenes (including the end) that recede into the stereotypical psychological thriller.Director Phillip Noyce uses some great shadowing and a dark, moody atmosphere to bring the surroundings of his film to life. Exterior shots are dark and withdrawn, and interior shots are almost brighter. It is as if the darkness symbolizes the chemistry in the characters. The more Denzel talks to Jolie the brighter the room gets; when they are outside it is darker. Why? Because she doesn't know anyone outside. It is as if the surroundings are tailored around her character's emotions. She's happy, it's bright. She sad, it's dark. Etc&#133;All in all, I was going to give 'The Bone Collector' a higher recommendation than three stars before I saw the ending, but it turned out to be quite ridiculous and average; plus, it was very predictable. I guessed it before it happened.3/5 stars &#150;John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Disappointing one dimensional whodunit","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The storyline has too many flaws and illogical sequences to be worthwhile. Jolie's acting is pretty flat and poor, Washington's is OK, the rest of the cast are cardboard cutouts. Somehow almost everything about this film oozes mediocrity. The plot is lame. The only thing I liked more or less about this film are the fairly original methods the perpetrator uses to end his victims. Technical details are worse than the most far-stretched CSI 'knowledge' and gizmos and halfway the movie one wonders if the director even cared about detail credibility. (Some Spoilers hereafter!) I mean, an EKG machine with a pure sinus wave reflecting a man's heartbeat, a quadriplegic with full body muscle spasms and one working index finger, sure. A killer gutting a man's bowels whilst keeping him alive to allow the rats to feast on him followed by a rat aiming for the guy's FACE! What's with all that stupidity? Then there are quite a few continuity goofs, but you can find those elsewhere here on IMDb Honestly I found it a bit of an insult even to my limited intelligence.Waste of time. Still 4 out of 10 to keep my girlfriend from kicking me. "}{"Title":"There's Suspension Of Disbelief and Suspension of Disbelief!","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Am I the only person who thinks that the entire Forensics and Scenes Of Crime community in the USA must detest this almighty slap in their faces. A rookie cop is first to a crime scene where her back up is so slow to respond that she has time to send the kid who found the body to the local store to buy a disposable camera. By the time he returns (still no senior cops, SOCOs or other assistance for the lovely Jolie - this is New York isn't it??) it has started raining and she gets to work photographing the evidence, only after she'd stood in front of an Amtrak to stop it disturbing the scene.I want to know the name of that camera as the photographs were so incredibly detailed that no amount of zooming in distorted the images!! The horror continues- not in the film itself (pretty ordinary I'm afraid) but in the Lincoln Rhyme character as played by Mr Washington. This man is a highly dedicated Forensic Crime Scene Examiner with years of experience who, instead of the highly trained but invisible local Crime Scene Examiners, entrusts the work to an untrained cop, a rookie cop, who proceeds to find the very obviously placed clues and move them before photographing them thus contaminating every item and making DNA profiling well nigh impossible. Now that was a bright idea eh? I know one should be able to suspend disbelief to a degree but those who say this film is intelligent must have entirely disengaged their ability to think in order to find this film believable.I have given this film 4/10 for the superb acting of Denzel Washington and for Miss Jolie's lips which are the only items requiring my disbelief to be suspended! "},{"Title":"Not a horrible movie, just a recycled one. Everybody is too familiar with the plot. ** (out of four).","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"31 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  THE BONE COLLECTOR / (1999) ** (out of four)By Blake French	Everybody has seen it, the notorious suspense thriller in which a serial killer madman plays cat and mouse games with a distressed cop; seldom are movies as predictable, dispensable, or formulaic. One of the most recent in this generation's trend of serial killer movies is called The Bone Collector, and stars Golden Globe winning actor Denzel Washington and the sexy actress, Angelina Jolie. As often true, the production is well acted, directed with focus and precision by Philip Noyce (The Saint, Patriot Games), and creates an appropriate mood for its characters. But even big stars and a appropriate atmosphere cannot save a movie this familiar and predictable. 	Denzel Washington plays a heroic cop named Lincoln Rhyme. He is an underdeveloped character, however, the screenplay supplies him with a vast reputation and experiences as a cop; he has written a dozen books on crime scene tactics and his mind in an encyclopedia of crime solving methods. As the movie opens, he is paralyzed at a crime site, leaving him bedridden in his Manhattan apartment with control of only a single index finger. His headquarters  is decorated with all sorts of high-tech gadgets and a kind nurse named Thelma (Queen Latifah), who is always there for him when he goes into violent seizures.	A few gruesome murders transpire, leaving a rookie cop, Amelia Donaghy (Angelina Jolie), whose assistance is selected by the paralyzed but smart cop who uses her as his body to stop the psychopathic serial killer. The killer uses a taxi cap to lure his victims to their final and disturbing death. What is most bothersome about this production is that it teases us with intriguing implications of the graphic murders instead of portraying guts and irony by exploiting the supposedly grotesque images.	The production consists mainly of sequences in which various characters loom in dark hallways, allies, rooms, or sets designed specifically for the killer to lurk around in. Of course there is plenty of suspenseful music and a few surprising moments, but the actual story greatly lacks imagination and edge. Angelina Jolie is the movie's standout performance, but she is mainly used as a plot device to explore such areas as listed above. 	The Bone Collector is not a horrible movie, just a recycled one. The material has been experienced so many times before we can never become too involved in the story or too interested with the characters. What bothers me most is how this kind of story has no cause or purpose; the serial killer's motive, as always, is explained during the climax sequence, and is disposable and contrived. Why do screenwriters create killers with disturbing motives, but no reasoning behind them? Kind of defeats the purpose of rationalism, doesn't it.  "},{"Title":"Some Chilling Moments","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  **May Contain Spoilers**  Director Phillip Noyce delivers an atmospheric thriller with `The Bone Collector,' a somewhat grisly tale of a serial killer in New York City.  Homicide detective Lincoln Rhyme (Denzel Washington) is an expert in the field of forensics; he has also been a quadriplegic for four years, the result of an accident sustained during the investigation of a crime scene.  From the neck down he has the use of only a single finger, with which he controls a computer and monitor from his bed.  Useless though his body may be, his mind is still sharp, and circumstances bring him together with a young NYPD officer, Amelia Donaghy (Angelina Jolie), who has just received a long sought after transfer to the Youth Services Division.  Destiny takes her elsewhere, however.  		When she is the first officer to arrive at a crime scene, Donaghy proceeds to secure the area and take the appropriate measures to insure that any evidence is not compromised.  Rhyme is consulted on the case (a murder), and takes note of the precision employed  by Donaghy in handling the crime scene.  When he meets her, he learns that while at the academy she had read one of his books on the subject (He has written a dozen, on forensics and related issues).  Rhyme then presses her into service as his eyes and ears, to physically do at a crime scene what he cannot, by talking her through each step via radio.  Reluctant initially, Donaghy soon exhibits an affinity for forensics and becomes much more than merely the physical extension of Rhyme; they become partners, and continue with the case accordingly. 	`The Bone Collector' offers some chilling moments, especially in two scenes, one of which involves a steam pipe, the other, lots of rats.  In each case, it is all the more horrifying because the victims can see exactly what is about to happen to them, they have time to think about it, and there is absolutely nothing they can do about it.  It makes for an eerie, disconcerting story, and though inherently dark it never descends to the appalling level of a predecessor in the genre, `Seven.'  Washington gives a top notch performance, keeping Rhyme interesting though confined to bed for the entire movie, and Jolie takes Amelia to a believable level that far surpasses the typical ingenue rendering of such characters.  Unfortunately, character development, on the whole, is sacrificed for sensationalism; with the exception of Rhyme, whose character is readily established, we are offered mere glimpses of the rest.  We have hints as to what motivates Amelia, but we are left guessing as to the agenda of Captain Cheney (Michael Rooker).  Along the way, some characters are used like obstacles thrown into the path of a race track (Cheney is one, a bookstore clerk is another), with the sole intent of manipulating the audience.  With a little more depth, this could have been a remarkable movie.  												The supporting cast includes Queen Latifah, who brings a welcome presence to the film as Rhyme's nurse, Thelma; Ed O'Neill (Detective Sellitto); Leland Orser (Richard Thompson); Mike McGlone (Detective Solomon), Luis Guzman (Eddie Ortiz); and Arthur Holden (Bookstore clerk).  While this film provides for some real gut wrenching reactions, it is not `The Silence of the Lambs.'  On a dark night, however, when you're alone in your living room with nothing but the flickering of the television and the wind howling outside, it'll do.  I rate this one 7/10.       	 	 	 	 "},{"Title":"yawn","Date":"24 May 2004","Score":"15 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  SPOILER ALERTA cliché-riddled film that somehow makes an anti-death with dignity statement, though it attempts to do the opposite. Washington is a paralyzed forensics officer who has been suffering and wanting to die for the past four years (apparently he wrote his huge selling book only a year ago though, so it hasn't all be despair). He arranges for an assisted suicide with his doctor who will return in a week.In the meantime, he helps out on a serial killer case. He recruits the gutsy, I don't wanna do it, but I'm just so good at it, cop Jolie, and they track down impossible clue jumping to highly unlikely conclusions in matters of moments. Hey, that old bolt means that the killer has the millionaire's wife in a steam tunnel by the old Woolworth building. Shyeah, right. It's laughable. Yet no is smart enough to figure out that doctor who's going to assist him is the killer.When he comes to Washington to murder him (ahead of schedule), he has a change of heart and struggles unbelievably for his life. Cut to the obligatory bad guy about to shoot the good guy scene when BANG the gun goes off--- but the bad guy didn't fire! No the woman steps out of the corner, she has just shot him in the back.  "},{"Title":"Just when you thought Noyce couldn't do any worse...","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"16 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Bad directors are generally a lot more reliable than good directors, in the sense that even the greatest of directors can make a poor movie every once in a while, but bad directors hardly ever let you down They keep churning out turkey after turkey without ever a trace of intrusive talent or inventiveness seeping into their works. Phillip Noyce is a prime example of this. In my opinion, he is one of the very worst directors, not only working today, but in the whole history of Hollywood cinema (he's got Ed Wood beaten by a mile); and this view is reinforced every time I watch (or, more appropriately, endure) one of his films (I would call them something else, but bad language will prevent this review from being posted I'm afraid). I'm not sure if the problem lies in his limited capabilities for the art of storytelling, or in his appalling penchant for choosing wretched screenplays, but the truth is that all of them (and I regret to admit I have seen no less than six) have made me wonder whether to laugh or cry at their incompetence, or simply go to sleep from the boredom. The Bone Collector is, of course, no exception. In fact, I think Noyce has outdone himself with it, as it is an exceptionally terrible movie. I cannot find a single redeeming feature in it. For one, Jolie is quite obviously miscast, and even the usually solid Washington takes this as an opportunity to overact (Well, It's not like there's any actor's director around on set to restrain him, is there?). The storyline is absurd from its very inception, and I find it extremely hilarious that it pretends to be about the elusive science of evidence-gathering, when this kind of left-there-on-purpose evidence that only a movie killer would leave, is precisely the one kind that requires no talent at all to find. BECAUSE IT IS RIGHT THERE. And then the investigations made from this evidence seems to follow little logic other than Rhyme's whims and *intuitions*, or risible strokes of luck. The film keeps throwing one-or-two-line characters at you so that you wonder which one the killer might be (oh how very exciting), but still the ending won't fail to underwhelm you. I have to admit one thing this pathetic excuse for a film kept me hooked not because it was interesting, but because I was morbidly curious to find out how dire it could become as it went on. But of course, that's because I saw it on TV, and I didn't have to pay a ticket; I swore years ago (more precisely, after I saw the narcolepsy-inducing Clear and Present Danger) that they would only take me to the cinema to watch a Phillip Noyce movie if I was WRAPPED IN CHAINS.Note This review was written before Noyce directed Rabbitproof Fence. OK, so it turns out he IS able to make a decent film. But it doesn't change the fact that the rest of his output is awful. "},{"Title":"Hey Hollywood, we've seen this before","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"24 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I can envision the writers of this story thinking up this script1.Let's make a serial killer movie like Se7en, Knight Moves, Copycat, and Silence of the Lambs. People like serial killer stuff. It'll sell... 2.The killer needs to adopt some sort of pattern. I know; he'll copy it out of a serial killer mystery novel. That hasn't been done yet, at least not exactly like that. 3.Now, we need some kind of way to make this movie unique; of course, the good guy can be bedridden like in Rear Window. 4.Lastly, we need a twist ending that will give this movie the success of The Sixth Sense and The Usual Suspects.Okay, now that you know these things, you know the whole movie, so don't waste your money. One thing I really hate about moviemakers is that they take a perfectly good concept for movies and completely run them into the ground. I wrote better stories than this when I was in Junior High. I just kept checking my watch every five minutes. When the twist ending finally came, I wasn't shocked, I just said, Oh. Who cares?! The characters are two-dimensional. They have your typical movie personalities. This movie is just proof that stealing the elements of other successful movies is no excuse for a bad script. I give this movie 1 out of 10.  Normally, it would earn at least 2 or 3, but I'm so sick of the unoriginality.  When will they learn? 1/10 "},{"Title":"Over Complicated, Very Scientific But Really Dumb","Date":"11 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie is a genre movie a master detective follows the trail of a really clever serial killers who plots complicated murders based on a 1900's murder mystery novel. This only happens in the movies, of course, but we can buy some of that. But without revealing too much of the plot, this killer is doing this as a revenge on the master detective, Lincoln Rhymes played byDenzel Washington, who is a quadriplegic from an accident he suffered on a crime site. But the killer, who is seeking revenge, is totally a phony savant character ala Hannibal, who has everything calculated to the last nano-gram of the victims' emotions. He had plenty of chances to do in Detective Lincoln Rhyme in a more conventional manner, but he plots these complicated but empty murders just to mess with our Sherlock's head. That is why this is just another unreal techno killer movie. Funny, Mike Rooker appeared in this one, as a pompous careerist cop named Cheney, get it, when he carried the classic Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer. That creepy low budget film worked because he was plausible as just a quick, clever loner who enjoyed killing random people in random uncomplicated ways which never alerted the police. It was 10x as frightening and real as this over produced star studded turkey. Even Copycat was more real than this one. For all the techno CSI geekiness, the motivation of the killer and the plot were really primitive. But none of that was germaine in the story, it was all a red herring.Angelie Jolie plays Patrolwoman Amelia Donaghy, who discovers the first victim on the Amtrak tracks and stops a train, then photographs the whole scene, impressing Sherlock. Like all special types of movie detectives, he gets called in as a special assistant by the pompous NYPD suit, Cheney, as the NYPD's conventional methods fail. Queen Latifah makes her obnoxious presence felt as Sherlock's home health aid/nurse, giving up her usual stereotypical loud ghetto-fabulous schtick. Then they throw Ed O'Neill in as an amiable detective funny-straight-dumb guy, and you have a real three ring circus. Angelina Jolie is the only one who earned her pay, she did a good job in her overly complicated role. Denzel was a mannequin and then they throw in Luiz Guzman as a friendly CSI scientist Pete Gomez, great match! Ed O'Neill would be more believable as a scientist, but they have the smart people of color versus uptight and stupid white folks angle. The subplot of the suit detective, Cheney aka Rooker, harassing our hard working bedridden Sherlock and his female Holmes, was way over done. It's simply amazing that such money and talent be employed for such paltry results, it almost ranks down there with Striking Distance as far as high priced mediocrity goes. "},{"Title":"His catheter's blocked! A total mess.","Date":"24 June 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Bone Collector is set in New York City & starts as one of the world's foremost criminologist's & crime scene experts Lincoln Rhyme (Denzel Washington) is involved in an accident which leaves him a bedridden quadriplegic. Jump forward four years & Alan (Gary Swanson) & his wife Lindsay Rubin (Olivia Birkelund) are kidnapped, soon after New York cop Amelia Donaghy (Angelina Jolie) is called to a crime scene & finds the buried & mutilated body of Alan. Amelia notices some unusual crime scene evidence & makes a note of it which impresses Rhyme when he is asked to work on the case, he quickly realises the evidence are in fact cryptic clues to the whereabouts of Lindsay. Having cracked the clues the cops get there too late to save her but this is just the beginning as a sadistic serial killer continues to kill & leave forensic clues for Rhyme & the police...Directed by Phillip Noyce I watched The Bone Collector last night & I have to say it's one of the worst big budget post The Silence of the Lambs (1991) & Se7en (1995) serial killer thrillers I have seen, in fact it makes Friday the 13th (1980) look sophisticated & realistic! The script by Jeremy Iacone was based on the book by Jeffery Deaver & is so poor on so many levels I hardly know where to begin. For a start it takes itself deadly seriously & that makes all the other flaws seem twice as bad. The character's are truly awful & I didn't believe any of them were actual human beings. First we have Lincoln Rhyme who is paralysed from the neck down & there's just not a lot the script can do with him, in fact he quite literally can't do anything but lie in bed for the whole film. He is seemingly impressed with Amelia because she stopped a train & thought a fresh footprint near a murdered person might be of relevance, I'm not being funny here but wouldn't any cop realise a footprint near a murder victim might be of some relevance? Why is he so impressed with her? Then there's Capatin Cheney who is not only unlikable & shouts at everyone for no apparent reason but is so incompetent that he failed to connect several murders committed in a short space of time where each victim had sections of flesh & skin surgically removed from their bodies, how exactly did this guy get to be a police Captain? Then there's the killer whose motives are less than plausible, are you trying to tell me they devised an intricate plan to murder at least seven people because they spent six years in jail for something they actually did? If they wanted revenge on Rhyme why did they kill all those other people who had no connection to anything, I could maybe just about buy someone wanting revenge against the guy who put them away but not to kill several other people who have no connection to themselves, the intended target Rhyme anything else. Also after devising an intricate plan to kill these people & get away with it they suddenly turn into the most stupid person in history as despite holding a large knife & being able to walk & use their arms they are actually defeated & nearly killed by a quadriplegic who has no movement in his body below his neck! How did that happen? I should also mention Amelia who is a terrible character, she actually buys her own camera to take crime scene photo's & shoots rats for no apparent reason.Besides some of the worst written character's ever the story & plot isn't much better We never find out why the killer is using The Bone Collector book as inspiration We never find out why the killer was taking strips of flesh from his victims. It's never explained why a rookie cop like Amelia is allowed to enter crime scenes even before the proper forensic teams. There is no reason given for why the killer chooses his victims. Also the killers clues are a little obscure aren't they? I mean a bloody animal bone & shaved rat hair? Logically how does someone go from a bone & rat hair to the exact pinpoint location of the next victim & has the whole of New York to choose from? There's some nonsense about a bird that sits on Rhymes window ledge which is just totally random & at almost two hours The Bone Collector is really slow going. There is so much wrong with The Bone Collector & it all comes down to one of the worst scripts ever, it's atrocious on all levels & has zero credibility. Apparently Angelina Jolie has stated that she shot nude scenes for this film but they were cut because they were felt to be too distracting.With a supposed budget of about $48,000,000 The Bone Collector is well made with good production values & that Hollywood gloss about it. I also must add right now that I think Angelina Jolie gives one of the worst performances I have ever seen, I think she is absolutely terrible in this. Denzel Washington just sort of lies there really, Queen Latifah is awful & even Michael Rooker can't do much as he is stuck with a clichéd & one dimensional character.The Bone Collector has to be one of the worst Hollywood films I have seen in a while, I saw it for free on telly last night & I still feel cheated & ripped-off. There are just so many things to poke holes at it's silly, embarrassingly awful or should that be awfully embarrassing? Works either way to be honest... "},{"Title":"The Yawn Collector","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"     A formulaic story with all the tired cliches. I was shocked that the horrible script became a movie! What a waste! How many ORIGINAL scripts are scattered around without being produced?     At the climax I could predict what will happen in every single shot.      Oh, and don't even get me started about the idiotic sexual tension between the gorgeous female cop and the paralyzed cop who can barely move a finger. YEAH RIGHT. I CAN BUY THAT. What next? Fingers porn? "},{"Title":"Read the book, don't see the film","Date":"24 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is an abomination of the source material. I'm surprised Jeff let anyone mess with what was a suspenseful, well thought-out novel. The changes to the characters (names, genders and ethnicities) was the hardest part to take. The biggest of these being that Lincoln Rhyme is white in the books, and Amelia Sachs is the granddaughter of a German Jewish immigrant.SPOILERAnd they shied away from depicting the romance that develops between the leads, as if they were uncomfortable with the notion of a non-disabled woman having a relationship with a quadriplegic. I find that distasteful. "}{"Title":"A Derivative Diluted Disappointment","Date":"12 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A slick serial killer movie that has some interesting and creepy moments that are overwhelmed by some really silly situations and stiff characters. It is atmospheric and attempts to be dark and disturbing but is turned trite and tiresome by the typical Hollywood treatment.It has one romantic scene that will have you shaking your head, rolling your eyes, and slapping your knee. The suspension of disbelief is a strain and the lame script can't rise above mediocrity. The film's potential is constantly polluted by popular audience pleasing formulas and it is frequently flaccid and fails to maintain a constant feeling of foreboding.A derivative movie that has been done much better many times and adds nothing really new to the genre. A misfire that so often happens in mainstream movies and is a good example of what not to do when you are attempting to make cutting edge, true crime thrillers. This is a watered down disappointment that has some good cityscape cinematography, but little else to keep you interested or involved. Contrived, clichéd, and completely couched in a silly situation that demanded serious, intelligent intrigue, but delivers a droll, desperate melodrama that loses its way in the dark underground and along the rainy side streets and can't seem to find directions out of the fitting of a friendly nightmare. "},{"Title":"A very clichéd movie","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The bone collector is one of a lot serial killer movies which tried to copy Seven and The silence of the lambs. The movie hasn't got an original screenplay, it's very clichéd and truly uninteresting.Philip Noyce is a director who made some great movies(like Rabbit proof fence or The quiet American) but his career also has false moves, like The bone collector. Denzel Washington could not save the movie.The bone collector is a bad thriller. If you wanna see a great thriller, watch Memento but don't watch this crap, in which I regret having wasted my time and my money.Rating4 "},{"Title":"Suspense ruined early","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers follow.Caught this on video.  The comparisons I've read with Seven seem obvious, but there was one significant difference.  Why do most Hollywood scripts always require that in most serial killer flicks the main character has met the killer in the first 15 min. of the film?  Here astute movie watchers had the choices narrowed to two early in the film.I believe this is probably due to the meddling of studio management in making stories more commercial.  What's wrong with serial killers we don't know as the villian?  Does this make them any less scary?  These movie of the week rewrites only scream one thing to an audience;  We think you are too stupid to enjoy this unless we dumb it down for you. "},{"Title":"Lame movie, useless acting, boring plot, need I say more...","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is standard fare.  It follows the usual conflicts of all cop movies.  It has a hungry rookie cop played by Angelina Jolie, and the sly veteran cop played by Denzel Washington (who is  paralyzed from the neck down, except for one finger).  It has the funny underlings, played by Luis Guzman, and Ed O'Neill and of course the hard nosed and unlikeable Captain, played by Michael Rooker.  Now throw in the big murder spree, with carefully left clues for the cops to follow, and you have this movie all wrapped up in a bow.Even the end of the movie ties things up nicely.   There is nothing left for us to ponder, nothing to wonder about, and no thinking is involved.  Boring.There are much better movies like this, for instance, Seven, that will at least capture your interest, rent that and skip this one.....My Rating (1 - 10)  3 "},{"Title":"this movie was so bad I forgot I had seen it.","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Talk about a boring movie, the script was awful, the acting average, the characters predictable, there was barely any suspense. Jolie's performance was as it all time low as it was Denzel's. I am sorry for the actors but I have  to say this , this movie was so bad i forgot that i have seen it.  "},{"Title":"Heart pounding","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Ok so I haven't seen Seven or Silence of the lambs or any other 'scary' movies... not really since Fatal Attraction. These types of movies scare the wits out of me but I kind of saw The bone collector by accident.Anyway, I can't compare it to other thriller/suspense/horror movies but what I will say is that I LIKED IT. The ending was not really that predictable and the acting was incredible. The storyline was nothing special but the directing/producing/editing of the film is fantastic.*SPOILER BELOW*I did not like the fact that Thelma died. That was pretty pathetic having Lincoln and Amelia turn out ok but her, a 'good' character die. The other cop guy dying I didn't mind...Anyway the whole movie got my heart pounding. I loved the music/ sound effects. I give it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Some all time lows","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I wouldn't recommend this to anyone, except cinema-goers who like to laugh at a film, not with it.Quite a promising premise and set of actors get progressively worse over a film which ends with perhaps the worst ending ever seen in a film. I won't spoil it, but basically the most over-used set of movie cliches get done badly and half heartedly for the most disappointing last five minutes to any film, ever.The movie also includes the most cringe inducing scene ever, the attempt at on-screen chemistry between the two lead roles when we're presented with a close up of Angela Jolie stroking Denzel Washington's finger lovingly. It may be the only thing he could move, but quite why the viewer is treated to a zoom of Washington's finger getting stroked amidst the kind of dimmed lights and music appropriate for a sex scene is beyond me. I laughed out loud and shook my head.The direction of the storyline borrows heavily from Se7en, but here it is executed far more simplistically, and far too obviously. To call it a poor-mans Se7en would be an understatement, this really is nothing more than a made for TV movie and even Jolie and Washington's best efforts can't convince that this is a box office film. "},{"Title":"The Bone-Head Collector.","Date":"11 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Bone Collector (1999) Dir Phillip Noyce / Cast Denzel Washington, Angelina Jolie, Micheal Rooker, Queen Latifah, Ed O'Neill A bag of trash that includes footage of a finger skinned to the bone. Do we really need to see this? He is a taxi driver known as the Bone Collector. Instead of collecting stamps or parking tickets like normal people, he collects bones, and details are not needed as to how he achieves this hobby. Denzel Washington plays a cop shackled to a bed due to an injury that left him paralyzed from the shoulders down. Angelina Jolie plays a young policewoman who discovers a hand containing a skinned finger with a wedding ring emerged from the ground. One poor sap is eaten alive by rats. The killer's identity is left to the pointlessly graphic conclusion. Director Phillip Noyce achieves a certain level of tension but locations are drab. He previously made another bullshit film called The Saint. Washington does well in a role that is mainly bed ridden but his climatic survival is pathetically violent. Jolie completes the duo playing off Washington's physical demands while investigating the crime. Then she does the hero rescue scene just in time. Queen Latifah and Micheal Rooker are totally cardboard. Ed O'Neill makes an appearance as a detective but perhaps if he was using his Al Bundy persona then this crap would liven up. The result is total barf bag potential. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"Denzel Washington and Angelina Jolie are one step behind a serial killer","Date":"22 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Bone Collector is typical Hollywood-packaged entertainment, which is something like a well-known soup recipe with just enough difference to be somewhat diverting but still a bland soup with little or no depth.The twist in this case is to have a Sherlock Holmes type of detective (Denzel Washington) who is a quadriplegic, and he finds a protégé (Angelina Jolie) who is in the field doing the crime scene forensics.The movie is predictable all the way. The music adds nothing to heighten suspense, in fact it slackens it. The characters are clichéd. The good cops-insensitive cops rivalry is clichéd. The romance between Washington and Jolie is clichéd. Jolie's character is clichéd. She starts with a chip on her shoulder and soon melts. The serial killer plot has been beaten to death.The story is pure fantasy, lacking all realism. It exists only in a Hollywood substitute reality that looks pseudo-real for having been done so many times before.This film is listed sometimes on neo-noir lists where it does not belong. It's a straight thriller, but an uninspired one. Some of the scenes are dragged out interminably. The movie drags, slowly and repetitiously. There are a few moments of suspense, not anywhere near enough.For all that, it has Denzel and Luis Guzman and Queen Latifah, and they tend to bolster it. Michael Rooker can act, but his part is just a cliché. In the end, it's Denzel's star power that you will remember and that carries the film, supplemented by Jolie's lost girl look. "},{"Title":"Boneheaded","Date":"14 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Bone Collector is a weak serial killer movie from the usually reliable Phillip Noyce. It stars Denzel Washington as a disabled, bed-ridden detective hot on the heels of a demented serial killer. All of Washington's scenes range from good to powerful, but he's attached to several terrible subplots involving both a woefully miscast Angelina Jolie and a generically written serial killer.The film boasts some good moments, some good shots of New York city, another good performance by Hollywood's token-Latino, Luis Guzman, but its last act twists are all clichéd. Like most serial killer movies, The Bone Collector's chief villain has no bearing on reality, is a giant bogeyman, and constantly toys with his pursuers, subjecting them all to a variety of elaborate games.7/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. See The Pledge and L'humanite. "}{"Title":"Interesting base story, clichéd result","Date":"2 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A young and talented cop gets involved into a series of brutal murders and is given the chance to support a brilliant veteran but bedridden detective to solve the case. Sounds promising yet you-heard-that-before- like. And so the movie starts with ex-model Amelia Donaghy (Angelina Jolie), working as a cop since her father got murdered (not quite unfamiliar movie hero cop background, eh?) being called to a routine job during her regular morning hot-dog breakfast with a teammate just to find a corpse hidden under grit in an old railway station. Bravely stopping a train to save evidence and using creativity at capturing it she gets laughed at by the typical asshole idiot boss but greatly praised by a famous since successful but after his last case for years lamed (except for head and one index finger) and tired of life detective that sees an upcoming talent in her.As the movie goes on though, the stereotypes and the pity-seeking as I call it get worse while the case gets more interesting, including the woman having trouble to work with a corpse and #beware of heavy SPOILER# the future victims (it's always a hunt to try to rescue the victims before they get killed -> evidence = hints) you can actually sympathize with being the ones that get saved.#SPOILER end# The end includes a nice little twist but is partly predictable as well.A promising basic story with a (in my eyes) way too dramatic surrounding add up to a 6,5 for me, so I'll rate it a 6 with room for improvement. "},{"Title":"The Bone Collector","Date":"4 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" There is a serial killer at large in New York City, and like many movie murderers like to do, he is leaving clues for the detectives, toying with them and apparently conducting some sort of a personal vendetta against the police force. To capture him, a quadriplegic forensics expert Lincoln Rhyme (Denzel Washington) needs an inexperienced street cop Amelia Donaghy (Angelina Jolie) to be his eyes and hands when investigating the grisly murder scenes.The visuals look nice; the urban street views, rusty, run-down crime scenes and the old infrastructure of the city's forgotten industrial areas suit the style and mood of the story very well. In the beginning the character of Amelia also shows potential of becoming an interesting person with many traits of vulnerability and commitment issues, making a good pairing for the cold and logical Rhyme, but ultimately the story doesn't really pay enough attention to the character development to make it worthwhile to see. Donaghy and Rhyme do grow closer to each other, but it's all so predictable that it's hard to care about them. Washington handles his almost entirely bed-ridden role at ease, but I wished the character had been even more bitter about his situation &#x96; it could have helped to heighten the necessary tensions of the plot.The lack of decent drama would be acceptable if the thriller aspects of the story would be really good, but sadly, they are not. The elaborate murder methods are morbidly amusing, but in a world where the Saw movies are mainstream, they look very tame when it comes to graphic exploitation of the victims' horror. As the suspense never tightens enough to make up for the lack of gore, we aren't really left with much to enjoy (or be appalled by). The finale where the killer's identity is finally revealed is also disappointing; the scene is so lame and clichéd that it can be called a borderline anti-climax for the whole movie.All in all, there is little originality or element of surprise in The Bone Collector, but nowadays that can rarely be expected from mainstream movies anyway. Technically the film is competently directed, the music is clearly above average and some supporting actors do a good job (namely Luis Guzmán as a forensics technology expert), so the movie can be comfortably watched if nothing better is on; I wouldn't go out of my way to seek it out though. For crime movie fans only; that is my verdict. "},{"Title":"Gets the finger","Date":"12 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Denzil Washington plays a cop who is crippled and has to spend the entire movie in bed solving crimes with the help of his super-bed with built in computer, his one working finger and a rookie cop who he ropes into the investigation.The rookie cop is Angelina Jolie and I've got to say at no point in the movie does she at all look like a real cop. She looks like she is off to a fancy dress party at best. There's no chemistry whatsoever between them despite the script pretty much pushing for a bit of cop friction like proper cop films tend to have.The entire policework element is totally unrealistic and I don't mean in a pedantic oh that's the wrong fingerprint dust sort of way I mean more in a oh lets cut this womans hands off to take her fingerprints way. I'm not making that bit up! What really stinks about this film is that it doesn't offer you clues you can find. Denzil just say oh right I just worked something out, based on information the audience don't know. Now onto the next scene! and so it goes on. A lot of viewers don't seem to have noticed that the incredible detective work he does is based entirely on things the audience hasn't seen, and therefore he could simply say any old crap, and indeed he does.What's wonderful about this movie is the tacked on ending which is so bad I honestly can't think of a worse way to end the film with the components on offer.Having a main character with only one working finger is a brave move, but this film still gets a single finger from me for insulting my intelligence. "},{"Title":"Average storyline but great in many other ways!!!","Date":"12 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I had barely heard of this movie before when a friend of mine recommended it to me and i watched it. and in may ways, i was impressed.first off, i haven't read Jeffery Deaver's book so i cannot judge whether this movie was a good adaptation or not. what i can say is that the script is nothing out of the ordinary and merely consists of police trying to track a serial killer and trying to stop him from doing his next crime, which is quite simple. I, for one, would have liked to see more action scenes.The characters, however, is what kept the plot afloat and the actors portraying them pulled off wonderful performances 1)Rhyme (Washington)is a brilliant near-paralyzed detective who is often asked assistance with some cases despite his condition. Washington's performance continued to confirm that he is a marvelous actor. i say this since during the whole movie, he only got to move his face and finger, but still managed to make the character believable and intriguing 2)Donaghy (Jolie) is a doubtful but brilliant officer whose character develops marvelously during the story. Donaghy was not that seductive tantalizing super-hot woman that Jolie is usually casted in most of her movies. her character is deeper and she portrays it beautifully. 3)Thelma (Latifah) is a helpful and caring nurse. It is not a big character in the movie but Latifah seems to make the most of it and gives, as usual, a strong performance 4)Cheney (Rooker) is a meddling officer who helps to create a certain tension to the story.The soundtrack and sound effects were OK and it did not interfere with the action on screen.Over all, i think this movie is worth watching as it keeps you entertained and interested. The Directing and screenplay are also very well done. If I were you, I would not miss this movie. I give it 7/10. It is not a masterpiece but it is worth praising. "},{"Title":"Angelina Jolie's Lips!","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  SpoilerNot recommended for murder mystery fans. Cliché Characters and unbelievable situations. Too many close-ups looking up at Denzel's nostrils & Angelina Jolie's lips. Spoiler Intense Blue-eyed killer is actually Hazel-eyed wimp with confusing motivation & choice of victims. Very obscure clues always made sense to Link, he knew the meaning right away. Phony bloody ending disappoints any who might have been trying to follow what could have been a fascinating thriller. Denzel was great acting within his character's handicap! But how could he afford that fantastic apartment & Medical set-up? I want to have his HMO! Some interesting support characters, but anti-climactic story.  "},{"Title":"Circuitous and pointless.","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  While the film begins interestingly enough with its premise and initial character development, it settles into mediocrity thereafter and provides decreasing interest with each scene.The actors in this film plod their way through the story; this is not to say that a different cast would have done better, as the film's dialogue is so basic that even over-the-top performers would draw a yawn out of the audience. Rather, no role is a challenge, no character illiciting any degree of love or hate out of the viewer.Where this film suffers the greatest is at the root of the plot. A twisted, murderous psychopath is one thing; one with mission and purpose is another. There lies the difference between a slasher flick (Friday the 13th, Halloween) and a psychological thriller (Seven, Silence of the Lambs). The Bone Collector instead lies somewhere between. The villain here is twisted, calculated and smart, yet for all his plotting and planning they have no effect whatsoever on his ultimate goal.By the time the credits roll we care nothing one way or the other about any of the characters that died, regardless of  whatever amount of plot development they received. We care only that the movie made little sense and over the course of 2 hours, took us nowhere. "},{"Title":"Those meddling screenwriters !","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  After watching this movie, I immediately went to the user comments to find out if the plot in the book had been changed for the movie. I see that it had.This film is an edge-of-your-seat thriller. Denzel and Angelina are excellent together and are very believable in their roles. The movie is paced nicely and draws you in. So, what's with the ending ??? When the killer makes himself known, I was immediately reminded of those Scooby Doo episodes, where the criminal fills in the plot holes when he is captured. I had a hard time believing that a thriller writer as well known as Jeffrey Deaver would have come up with an ending like this.This would have been an excellent film if it wasn't for those meddling screenwriters !  "},{"Title":"A waste of some talented actors.","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Well the serial killer genre has clearly arrived at the derivative phase. What's sad about how nasty this film comes across is that there is so much talent going into making it.  Washington is charismatic, even lying in bed, Jolie is striking, and Queen Latifah has real presence in spite of having nothing to do.  I don't much care for movies where people are supposed to be super smart but act dumb (such as Jolie's going to one crime site with no back up).  Guys from Law & Order woulda caught this guy in 35 minutes of screen time tops.  Plus if we've learned anything about the serial killer genre it is the old horror movie cliche...got to care about the characters before we care they are in danger.  Since the film starts out with characters who are, at best, ambivalent about their own existence, I found it hard to worry for them.  Not that I ever really feared that either of the principals would die (or kill themselves).  This is the kind of movie that parallels a bad episode of Star Trek...you know Kirk and Spock are gonna survive, so chances are the rest of the bit players are either gonna die or kill someone. "},{"Title":"my opinion may not be shared with most critics, but I liked this movie","Date":"18 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I am fully aware of the fact that most film critics here in the United States did not approve very highly of the 1999 Denzel Washington film The Bone Collector. But despite the fact that only twenty-eight percent of them would agree with me, I think that The Bone Collector is a well-made mystery thriller with solid performances, especially toward Denzel Washington and Angelina Jolie, a good plot, great tension, and a well-executed story.Academy Award-winner Denzel Washington plays a quadriplegic detective who is asked to help with an investigation dealing with a serial killer operating in New York. He appoints a rather reluctant female detective played by Angelina Jolie to lead the investigation outside his hospital room since he cannot walk himself. He communicates with her through radio, giving her hints and tactics as they try to figure out who the killer is, who he will strike next, and how they can stop him.Yes, this plot is one that has been reused many times and this yet another case. But just because you reuse a plot does not mean the end product is going to be horrible and not entertaining. I myself enjoyed The Bone Collector and did not find one scene where I was bored, even though I had a pretty good idea on what was going to happen next. It gets a strong rating for its performances, action scenes, and good general entertainment value. "},{"Title":"Great movie - not as good as the book, though","Date":"25 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I enjoyed this movie very much. Although the end is a bit bumpy (I agree with some other writers that you can really tell what's going to happen), the rest of the story is just brilliant and pure suspense. You always wonder what's going to be next and you're stuck to your seat until the end. Anyone who read the book might want to stay away from the movie, though. The book is much better. They should have stuck to the original more which would have left the possibility to make movies of the other Lincoln Rhyme stories by Deaver as well. Denzel Washington was brilliant in THE BONE COLLECTOR. Being tied to the bed does not leave much room for acting, but he can pull it off! Great job I have to say. I also like Angelina Jolie as Amelia, although both of them, Linc and Amelia, are described quite differently in the book. As a stand-alone movie I still think this is one of the best thrillers ever. "}{"Title":"impressive","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The best parts of this movie are the actors and the suspense. Good performances, especially by Denzel Washington and Angelina Jolie, and a suspenseful atmosphere highlighted an otherwise routine thriller. The twist of the main character being a quadraplegic was also a plus.You might like the book better. It provides more insight into the characters and storylines.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"A solid thriller despite some clichés","Date":"31 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Protagonist Lincoln Rhyme is a former detective and a forensics expert who was left a quadriplegic after an accident. He is not enjoying life and tries to persuade a doctor friend to help him commit suicide&#x85; before that can happen he is approached by colleagues wanting help. The film's other protagonist, rookie cop Amelia Donaghy, is the first police officer at a murder scene and impresses Rhyme with the way she processes the scene&#x85; so much so that he wants her on the case. The dead man was last seen entering a taxi with his wife and she is still missing. Rhyme, with the help of forensics experts, processes the clues deliberately left by the killer workout where the killer is holding the woman and when he intends to kill her. Donaghy heads to the site with other cops but they are too late to save her. This isn't the end though; clues point to further victims as well as suggesting that the killer is forensically aware and has an interest crimes and locations from the turn of the twentieth century. Before the case can be solved Rhyme and Donaghy will have to decode a lot more clues, deal with incompetent senior officers and face personal danger.This film may contain plenty of clichés but it is still effective. Denzel Washington impresses as Rhyme; apart from the opening flashback scene he spends almost the entire film lying in bed. Angelina Jolie is also good as Donadhy; making us believe in her character even when things get a bit far-fetched. The deaths are a bit gruesome but either take place off screen or the scene ends before things get nasty. The ending is a bit cliché as the killer targets Rhyme and it turns out that everything we've seen is part of his attempt to beat Rhyme as he holds him responsible for things that went wrong in his life. This does at least lead to a fight where an able-bodied is badly injured by quadriplegic man! There are plenty of tense moments throughout the film and the identity of the killer isn't obvious. Overall a solid thriller that fans of the genre should enjoy. "},{"Title":"Too Much Coincidence To Hold One's Interest","Date":"8 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It never seems to amaze me, but even through the most contrived films out there, Denzel Washington could still pull off an amazing thriller. His body language in his comfort zone which is why he more often gets cast as an athlete or a military personnel. He truly has the gift of the gab and The Bone Collector' clearly exemplifies that. It's a bit shameful that Washington is for most of the film quadriplegic. In The Bone Collector, Washington is a forensics specialist named Lincoln Rhyme who works for the NYPD. In the opening scene at the lower depths of the subway station, he's hit by a beam which was the cause for his immobility. As a result, the only joints that are still in tact are a finger, his shoulders and his brain. In order for this film to work, requires someone extraordinary to equally match Mr. Washington's talents. In one of her earlier starring roles Angelina Jolie steps up to the plate as a rookie detective Amelia Donaghy who's been assigned to fill in his running fieldwork for him. And even though she's drenched in sex appeal, backed by a upbeat soundtrack and a tantalizing view of the Manhattan skyline, The Bone Collector could still be a potential dust collector.The plot involving a methodical, macabre sadistic killer with clues scattered around is unoriginal of a story, and it reminds us all of the 1995 film Se7en, but at least in the aforementioned story, it is executed more subliminally. Some of Rhyme's conclusions are illogical and implausible. Spending most of the film planted flat on his back, Mr. Rhyme is able to unravel esoteric clues with pieces of bones and skin particles situated overhead, like Velma of Scooby Doo fame, he can easily trace these small clue fragments towards the murderer being a NYC cab driver committing sadistic acts from over a hundred years ago. Rhyme is able to track down the killer's next whereabouts located to what appears to be a old slaughterhouse. Rhyme is able to know exactly which one it is. Based on the best-selling novel by Jeffrey Deaver, the script by Jeremy Iacone, The Bone Collector had the potential to be a very intriguing mystery thriller in the same vein like Sherlock Holmes, the only problem that makes this film too unbelievable was that Rhyme was never once wrong about all his fragmented evidence. And to top it all off, wasn't it just coincidental that Queen Latifah as Nurse Thelma who seems very savvy at putting pieces together almost like it was a hobby to her. And another reason this film is not mind-numbing brain work can be found in the cab itself. If you look closely on the rear-view mirror, you will see a doll with a noose tied around his neck. I mean would you hop into a New York cab seeing something like that? To all cabbies watching this movie I'd advise you to avoid this one, unless you want your clients to fear you that you might drive them to a slaughterhouse. Even though this film's genre is billed as a psychological thriller, it actually work better as a romantic drama. It might not look that way, but through watchful eyes I can see the connection. We can see through the character of Jolie's character Amelia Donaghy. From her evidence she unraveled from the killer's first victim, Rhyme narrowly believes that Donaghy has the talent for forensic science, but it's clearly obvious she is still very green in experience. He also believes that she is the only one who is capable of digging up evidence to clue-searching. I'm sure the NYPD can find more experienced people than her. I think he's hiring her because he loves her company. Director Philip Noyce's close-ups of Rhyme looking over his inexperienced cohort. Sure she's nice on the eyes and the way they look at each other, it shows they have feelings for one another.The performances are what makes this story at least not a complete letdown. Second-generation performer Jolie bears a striking resemblance towards her father Jon Voight in the classic film Midnight Cowboy. Knowing her dominance and charisma, she really can out-perform her cohorts whether she's playing leading or supporting roles. Washington lets his eyes metaphorically do the talking, his intelligence is what carries the movie quite well. Next to Morgan Freeman, Washington is able to embody an infallible detective none the better. "},{"Title":"Atmospheric serial killer thriller with a great performance from Washington","Date":"12 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This serial killer thriller-chiller was severely underrated by critics on release &#x96; and I'm not sure why. The film is impossible to dislike and even if not magnificent or original it has all the right aspects. The score is good, the dark and moody photography excellent, even the script gives light to some interesting characterisations once in a while which is a bit of a surprise. The usual elements torn from the two most popular serial killer films of the 1990s are all present and correct but the film does have some interest in the shape of its central pairing, Denzel Washington and Angelina Jolie.Washington takes the role of Lincoln Rhyme, a top cop who gets his back broken and spends the rest of his days as a quadriplegic lying in a bed in his huge, spooky house. Although bedridden he's still a force to be reckoned with and Washington is typically excellent in the role, especially in the scenes where he deciphers puzzling clues and puts two and two together like a modern day Holmes. The sexy Angelina Jolie, on the other hand, is a young, tough female police officer who initially spars with Washington before growing to understand (and love?) him as their relationship deepens and they grow respect for each other.Fair enough, the plot of the serial killer is familiar and the deaths are all as unpleasant as they should be. Victims are eaten alive by rats and boiled to death by steam pipes. The film goes for a dark, unwholesome SEVEN vibe here which pays off dividends. These scenes come as no surprise but are pleasingly atmospheric and spooky, especially the hunting through dark underground tunnels. One thing I will say is that the identity of the killer is far too easy to guess; I had narrowed it down to two suspects early on and at the end my suspicions were confirmed. Saying that, the adrenaline-pump of the finale is excellent (if predictable), proving that you should never underestimate the power of the human will.The supporting cast is pretty efficient for this kind of movie, with nice turns from Queen Latifah (a real surprise, this one), and especially Michael Rooker who excels as the hard-nose police Captain in charge of the case. Plus we get some turns from distinguished character actors like Leland Orser (weird and geeky as always) and Luis Guzman (underused, sadly). Despite the lengthy running time the film fairly flies by, with a good pacing and some excellent suspenseful and taut sequences showing the killer trapping his victims. You could certainly do a lot worse, which I why I recommend this movie to fans of the genre. "},{"Title":"Bleh","Date":"7 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I never saw an Angelina Jolie movie before. If this one is a representative example of her acting abilities, I will never watch another. She is not the worst actor I have ever seen, but she certainly lacks believability. Maybe it is just a role she is not suited to -- a street cop? The other problem with this film is the script, which does not play fair with the viewer. The killer turns out to be someone totally unexpected, which would be fine if any clues to his or her identity had been given somewhere in the movie. Denzel Washington is good, given the limited scope of a character confined to a bed. All in all, an average movie that is not quite a waste of two hours of my life. "},{"Title":"It wouldn't be my cup of tea but it was entertaining to an extent but there is far better films in this genre.","Date":"3 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A quadriplegic ex-homicide detective and his female partner try to track down a serial killer who is terrorizing New York City. Quadripeligic ex-cop Lincoln Rhyme was looking forward to his assisted suicide when he got the news some sicko was abducting people in a taxi and leaving them to die in particularly sadistic ways. With time counting down between each abduction and possible death, Rhyme recruits rather-unwilling Amelia Donaghy, haunted by her cop father's suicide and thinking she's next, into working the crime scenes to track down the killer. Roger Ebert wrote The Bone Collector is assembled from off-the-shelf thriller contrivances, likable characters and utter absurdity, with one of those scores that's the musical equivalent of trying to scrape the burnt meat off the bottom of the pot Unnngh! Unnngh! Unnngh! Its big romantic scene has the girl cop caressing the index finger of the boy cop, which is the only part of him below the neck that still has any feeling. It wouldn't be my cup of tea but it was entertaining to an extent but there is far better films in this genre. "},{"Title":"Bone-headed but fun.","Date":"22 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" From what I have gathered, The Bone Collector deviates quite a lot from the Jeffrey Deaver best-seller, which goes some way to explaining the film's more ridiculous elements and many dangling plot threads, Hollywood having a nasty habit of turning perfectly good literature into patently absurd movies. Fortunately, this Se7en-style psychological thriller has the benefit of a decent director and a fine cast who manage to make this an entertaining effort despite the many flaws in the script.The pairing of Angelina Jolie and Denzel Washington is the film's strongest suit I'm not a massive fan of Jolie, but she's not at all bad here (in a rare role that doesn't require her to push out her tits and pout) and the always affable Washington puts in another winning performance. The supporting cast, which includes Michael Rooker, Ed O'Neill and Queen Latifah, do equally as well with their material. The film also benefits from one or two enjoyably grisly scenes and several well crafted moments of tension that still have the desired effect despite their decidedly preposterous nature.So, while it might seem unlikely that the film's killer would ever concoct such a convoluted plan, and it is clearly ridiculous to expect novice Amelia to examine a fresh crime scene all on her own, and the script gives zero explanation for such seemingly important details as the Peregrine Falcon and the use of antiquities in the crimes, The Bone Collector still manages to be a reasonably entertaining time waster. Hell, I recommend it purely for the chance to see Washington's quadriplegic forensic expert managing to kick butt despite only being able to move his head and one finger. "},{"Title":"Chilling yes, brilliant no!","Date":"2 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Denzel Washington plays Lincoln Rhyme, a brilliant homicide detective who's paralyzed after a job gone wrong. When an influential couple gets kidnapped and the husband is found dead his former colleagues turn to Lincoln to help them make sense of the evidence. They are joined by Angelina Jolie, a street-cop who managed to stop a train in order to preserve the evidence on the tracks. Soon it turns out they are trailing a gruesome murderer who leaves pieces of evidence at the scene of the crime to dare the police to stop him. This is a dark thriller yet not a very original one! There are a couple of gruesome murder scenes. I was particularly startled by ( WARNING SPOILERS) the case of the NYU student who is tied up in a former slaughterhouse, his leg gets torn open by the killer and the blood attracts rats. Lots of rats....the scene where a bold rat attacks first got me jumping in my seat. If you are in for a halfway decent thriller with an always amazing Denzel Washington. This one's for you! "},{"Title":"Not bad, just too formulaic all.","Date":"24 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Basically this is a movie that offers nothing new. It's a typical genre movie with all of the typical elements and twists. It's not a bad movie, it's just not original and surprising enough.The Bone Collector is your typical average thriller. Whenever I have to mention an average and typical thriller, The Bone Collector always springs to mind. It's an average movie in basically every way thinkable and is only made interesting and worthwhile to watch thanks to the presence of Denzel Washington and Angelina Jolie.Phillip Noyce is not really a favorite actor of mine. His movies always seem to lack in style and they are well made but yet in a very simplistic manner. He's a director that hardly takes any risks with his movies, with as a result that all of his works are typical and average movies, that often add very little new to the genre. But I think still the biggest problem with this movie is its story. It's just too standard and formulaic. Basically when you've seen only a couple of thrillers before in your life, you've also already seen The Bone Collector, since it adds so little new to the genre. The story progresses in a predictable manner and the story also features the usual expected twists and turns in it. On top of that some story elements and characters just don't work out in the movie.It's the type of thriller in which basically every male character is a suspect but yet the movie doesn't mange to become truly suspenseful or surprising. Therefor it as a thriller also just isn't the most effective movie around.Luckily the movie still has a good cast. I can't imaging how this movie would had been like with a different cast filled with unknowns. Denzel Washington plays a good role, even though he plays a character that is bound to his bed and has lost almost all of his body functions. The movie is an early Angelina Jolie movie, or at least its from the time period before her real glory days but she obviously already shows her talent in this movie, although I think that her character isn't always handled well but this was perhaps more the director fault. The love story between Washington and Jolie also doesn't really feel credible and perhaps the movie would had been better off without it. Besides them two, the movie also features some other fine actors in supporting roles such as the always surprising great Queen Latifah, Michael Rooker, Luis Guzmán, Leland Orser and Ed O'Neill in an early serious movie role from him.It's an average movie and therefor nothing too bad but just don't expect anything brilliant or original either.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Good Story, Good Build Up, Poor Casting","Date":"23 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Though I enjoyed the movie because of the intensity it would have been more enjoyable with a better cast. Then entire police force was annoying and came off as corny. Though I enjoyed her presence Queen Latifah would not have been my first choice for the nurse. I was really hoping for an intimidating bad guy however I was very disappointed with the actor that emerged. An actor who always plays meaningless and pointless characters not to mention nerdy ones. Last but not least Angelina Jolie. Why in the world they picked her to play this role I have know idea. But she did not pull it off, she was annoying, her accent was cheesy and half the time she looked like she didn't know what was going on around her. Denzel Washington as always did a fabulous job, but I just couldn't figure out how he got stuck with the rest of the cast. I'd pin it as a good Saturday night popcorn rental for Denzel Washington fans. "}{"Title":"The Bloody 1990s !","Date":"30 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I have a friend who loves the horror and crime movies just as much as I hate them ! Or maybe as much as I love the 1950s' musicals and the 1960s' comedies where there were always a sexy lady, a comic star, and a lovely music in a colorful atmosphere. The 1970s were a bit realistic, but the 1980s were a bit dreamy and enjoyable again, at least the comedies were still innocent and not filthy yet. Then it's the sad horrific 1990s...The world turned into uglier place, so the movies largely too ! At the start of it you'd have (The Silence of the Lambs - 1991) a creepy yet great movie where all the time some shocking images will hit you right in the face. Then (Reservoir Dogs - 1992), (Pulp Fiction - 1994) as 2 crime movies that redefined the genre for the decade. So sudden hits for horror franchises like (Scream), (I Know What You Did Last Summer) and (Urban Legend). In the same years at the TV there was (The X Files &#x96; 1993  2002) another great work but with the same shocking images. But why not ? Since that became so ordinary and usual everyday on the TV news ?!It seemed that the deformed human body became a good fashion to be viewed ! To have as a result at the next decade in TV for instance  CSI Crime Scene Investigation, CSI Miami, CSI NY, NCIS, Dexter, Bones !, and as a resistance just Las Vegas or Monk ?? Is it self-torturing for being released like the old horror movies used to do ?, or is it because the refined images of the previous decades became old fashion ?, or does the world itself become more and more violent, and movies or shows are just the clear mirror of it ? Whatever the reason was, can somebody tell me why we don't have movies about the genius of the women's charm anymore ? Like the 1950s' Marilyn Monroe comedies, or the 1960s' James Bond movies ?Anyway, after (The Silence of the Lambs - 1991) a lot of movies tried to imitate the formula which became a genre in the genre. To have a flood of good and bad movies, indie or from major studios, where there were always  one maniac serial killer, and one exceptional expert, or strong cop (or maybe both) after him. Surely with melancholic atmospheres, and mostly with dark concepts about the lowest level of cheapness that the human reached recently. So the list is big  (Seven &#x96; 1995), (Copycat - 1995), (The Glimmer Man - 1996), (Kiss The Girls - 1997), (Postmortem - 1998), (The Bone Collector - 1999), (Resurrection - 1999), (The Watcher - 2000). Not to mention that (The Silence..) itself got at the very decade and after  one sequel (Hannibal - 2001), one prequel (Hannibal Rising - 2007), and one remake for its original part one (Manhunter - 1986) as (Red Dragon - 2002). But perhaps all of that would make my friend happy...Not me !Here, despite everything I must admit it's strong and well-made. The idea of a paralyzed genius cop is superb. (Angelina Jolie) was rarely wonderful as an actress or as a beauty. Her strange lips were a matter to discuss with my friends after we watched the movie back in 1999, and let me tell you that was some hard argument indeed ! (Phillip Noyce) can make the thrill masterly only when he has the right script like in (Clear and Present Danger - 1994) which's one of my favorite movies. However there was more than one thing that bothered me  the violence, the blood, the rats !, and that alleged end with the unpredictable killer had been shown in unpredictably stupid way !, and the fact that I didn't have a movie in the theaters at the time to call it mine, and maybe I still don't ! All of my friends loved the Bones and their Collectors ??, it's only me&#x85;The forever outcast who wishes for a polished sexy comedy or a good merry musical for once (and not to be Chicago please , or &#x96;God forbid- Hairspray !) to get nearly nothing at the end just about every time...To tell you the truth I kind of liked the black suit that (Denzel Washington) wore at the last scene more than the whole movie ! "},{"Title":"Good movie with a lame ending","Date":"10 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Bone Collector is an intense thriller with superb acting. Angelina Jolie is very good as Amelia and Denzel Washington is wonderful as always. It's a nice change to have cop who was paralyzed from the neck down. The character of Eddie Ortiz was hilarious, and Queen Latifah was also brilliant although her role wasn't very big.However, the ending was very cliché. Keep in mind that the killer's true identity was VERY hard to predict. But his REASONS for killing Linkin were pretty lame. Another serial killer out on a revenge path? Geez, where have I seen that before? Also, it doesn't really make sense that if the Linkin's doctor was the killer, then that means they were in the room together countless times since Linkin's accident. Not to mention that there's one line that clearly states, Jesus, he was trying to send messages even then. So he would have had plenty of opportunities when Linkin was alone in his apartment with just Thelma, who the doc killed anyway. Amelia coming up behind him and shooting him in the back JUST in time was incredibly predictable as well.One last thing. This movie would've been SO much better, cliché ending and all, if there hadn't been any romance between Amelia and Linkin!Anyhow, still worth watching.6/10 "},{"Title":"Very entertaining murder-mystery that resembles Se7en, with two strong leads. Recommended !.","Date":"8 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Bone Collector is a very good genre-movie. As a murder-mystery it prevails gloriously it's well put together, well acted and exciting to follow every step of the way. TBC is based on a book and I've noticed most book-based films are more intelligent, have a thicker plot and are just plain better than films with screenplays written from scratch.( Just look at the recent Zodiac...). The Bone Collector follows quadriplegic forensic expert Lincoln Rhyme(Washington) and rookie cop Amelia Donaghy(Jolie) in their pursuit of a serial killer. The killer leaves clues at each murder-scene concerning the time and place where his next victim will die. Amelia, haunted by her father's suicide and Linc, who has a strong death-wish since his accident 4 years ago, have to overcome their fears and deal with their issues in order to focus on the investigation, save the victim before her/his death and catch the killer before he strikes again. Linc guides Amelia through the crime scene investigations (through radio contact) and she becomes his eyes and legs on the scene...The Bone Collector reminded me a lot of Se7en and though it is inferior it's certainly as entertaining. It may not have Se7en's brilliance( though it is brilliant at times) but I can't help but love it too. The main leads are in top form Denzel Washington's always exceptional but Angelina Jolie is surprisingly good in this too. She's a good actress but I've seen mediocre performances of her too. There's a lot of controversy about the ending but I found it to be very satisfying, though I can see why some people didn't like it. I don't mind putting aside a little believability for excitement. The rest of the cast is decent, though the two leads steal all of their thunder.The dialog is OK, though no one-liners come to mind. The music and sound were very fitting it aided in building up the right mood and it was never too explicitly present( which can break the mood too...see Notes On A Scandal). The Bone Collector isn't as harsh or brutal as Se7en but it's definitely disturbing. It's probably not for very sensitive viewers, there are some close-ups but they're essential to the story (the gore is functional, if you will).I've seen the film multiple times and I've never been able to turn it off when I come across it flipping through the channels on TV. There's some charm to the film I can't describe. It's definitely worth a look and will give mystery-thriller fans what they need...I highly recommend this very entertaining film.7.5/10 (rounded up to a vote of 8, since you can't vote half's on IMDb...)>C. "},{"Title":"Weak ending","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" In this film, Denzel Washington plays an egotistical detective (and author) who has been partially paralyzed by an accident. Angelina Jolie plays a cop with a knack for forensics. Between the two of them, they try to apprehend a serial killer who leaves clues behind. Sound familiar? It should - this movie basically copies many before it, most of which are much better. (Copycat comes to mind.) All the ingredients were there, except for a good plot. This movie is interesting and engaging at the beginning, but then it becomes dull. Overall, it is nothing new. The resolution of the plot is terrible and contrived. It reminded me of Fallen in that Denzel played a cop but didn't bring much nuance to the role; the acting was mediocre, but nothing to call home about; the premise was interesting; and, the finale was terrible. I wouldn't even suggest this one as a rental.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Queen Latifa's character references Rear Window?","Date":"29 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I admit that I thoroughly enjoy crime/detection/noir films. (If you don't, as many posters here seem, then why are you watching this movie?) It's the journey (characters, atmosphere, dialogue, psychology), not the end (shocking surprise ending) to me. Thus, I don't care about total uniqueness of plot -- because it's all been written/filmed before.In that vein, and I mean this in a good way, I see some (enjoyable) similarities here with Rear Window. For example, does anyone think that Queen Latifah's character, named Thelma, was a reference to the wonderful Thelma Ritter, who played the nurse assisting Jimmy Stewart in Rear Window? Both of them were caring but sharp and full of zingers.Maybe I'm reading too much into it...but I really enjoyed this movie and especially the main characters and the performances of the actors. Jeffrey Deaver has an entire series of Lincoln Rhymes books and I wish Angelina Jolie and Denzel Washington would reconvene to do them all. "},{"Title":"Worth a single viewing at best, but not all bad","Date":"14 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I will not beat around the bush; I saw the movie because I had nothing better to do, and because I knew that Ed O'Neill was playing a cop, which I know is his favorite kind of role. After seeing most of the episodes of Married... With Children TV series, and loving just about every scene involving Ed in the role of Al Bundy, I was interested in seeing a role that he would enjoy even more... and I can say, that based on that, the film was not a disappointment. It's obvious from every line of dialog delivered, every movement, every second he's on-screen, that he loves it. He's really enjoying playing a cop, much like he did for the short amount of screen-time he had in K9, and it makes the film that much more enjoyable. The film itself is the standard run-of-the-mill, dime-a-dozen mystery thriller with the psychotic killer who desperately wants to get caught(meaning, he leaves all kinds of clues to his whereabouts, his intentions and his identity on purpose). It holds few(if any) surprises, really, and adds nothing new to the genre. However, it's not all bad; apart from Ed's enjoyment of his character, there are a few good things about the movie. Jolie and Washington have somewhat good on-screen chemistry, and the film does have its share of disturbing imagery(which is a requirement by now, for a film like this) and scares. Personally, I found the twist at the end to be so unlikely and far-fetched that it was ridiculous, but some might like it. Not to say that I had figured it out, the film does a pretty good job of keeping you guessing to the end(which is more than what can be said about several other recent films with twists). The visuals are pretty good, and the editing(though at times overly stylish) looks quite good. The plot is OK, but it's not particularly original. The pacing is OK. All in all, a pretty standard film, but not all bad. I recommend it to fans of any of the actors and fans of the mystery/thriller genre. Fans of Ed O'Neill(such as myself) might also enjoy it, just to see old Ed doing what he loves to do; portray a cop. 7/10 "},{"Title":"It is a good movie, but not excellent.","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Bone Collector is a good movie, but it is far from excellent. There were too many things that annoyed me to make it perfect. The actors' performances were good. Denzel Washington is a great actor as he shows in this movie and Angelina Jolie did a good job as well. But good actors alone isn't enough to support an entire movie. There needs to be a good script as well.The first 30 minutes were just too mixed up to keep me completely focused. I always had the feeling the director didn't already know where he wanted to go with his movie during the first half hour. Afterwards the movie was more straightforward and became a lot better. What bothered me as well were the cliché's used in this movie. You've got the good cop versus the bad cop, the good cop that solves all the problems while the bad one that tries to stop him in his investigations... It's all done so many times before but you can find it again in this movie.Denzel Washington is Lincoln Rhyme, the former head of forensics in New York City who got cripled at a crime scene. 'Former' because he isn't able to move anything except for his shoulders, his head and one finger. Even though he is almost entirely paralyzed, he remains a valuable consultant to the police. Angelina Jolie is Amelia Donaghy, a former model who has become a street cop, and Rhymes's protege.Overall I would say this is a good movie, which would have got a 7,5/10 from me, if the start was a lot better and if there weren't as many cliché's in it. Now I think a 6,5/10 is more appropriate.  "},{"Title":"Not Bad!","Date":"14 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Lincoln Rhyme, head of forensics in New York City is crippled at a crime scene and though paralyzed, remains a valuable consultant to the police. Although author Jeffery Deaver had Tom Cruise in mind, Denzel Washington makes the character his own, having the necessary gravitas to hold the screen with only the use of his eyes and voice to connect with the audience. Angelina Jolie is perfectly cast as Rhymes's protégé, Amelia Donaghy. A former model turned street cop.The story involves Rhyme's investigation of a series of grisly murders that ultimately threaten his own life. Suspenseful and intelligent, the narrative fails only at the unmasking of the killer, whose motivations are unclear and unsatisfying at best. The casting of an actor who has made his living playing psycho killers makes the murderers identity rather obvious.Since The Bone Collector was not a smash, it's unlikely any of Deaver's other Lincoln Rhyme novels on the big screen, but hopefully an enterprising producer will give us television adaptations of The Vanished Man or The Empty Chair someday. "},{"Title":"some great, some bad, some ugly","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I wasn't going to bother writing a review of this film until I saw some of the reviews already posted, and was then compelled to set the record straight. One disclaimer - I am commenting on the movie, not the book. Those who've read the book all seem agreed that the Lincoln Rhymes character is great, the stories are great, and most of the problems with this movie, for them, appear to stem from the fact that this movie strays from the book in significant respects.Some people are comfortable writing a review even though they obviously didn't pay any attention to the film, leaving their comments misleading at best and downright ridiculous in some instances.THE GREAT As a forensics expert, Rhymes is brilliant. He did NOT immediately interpret the clues in all instances, and needed plenty of help from his trusted and trusting assistants, all of whom have worked with him, read his works, and know the guy is good. It's a well-functioning community where all respect each other's roles on the team. Watch Ed O'Neil's character Sellito to see this in the clearest action.The development between Rhymes and Donaghy is half-baked, the book will no doubt supercede what they cooked up on screen. In fact, the development of Donaghy herself is half-baked, although Jolie does a great job of showing internal conflict that evolves into a new sense of self-discovery and purpose, which reflects the change we are made to understand also happens for Rhymes.The manner in which Rhymes and his team collect and then analyse the clues is pretty nifty, seems close to authenticity. After all his years on the job as well as his academic merit, the subjective skill of interpreting the clues becomes abstract, so that he CAN make those jumps - see Se7en as another example. And, as in real cases so often, once your science gets you into the ballpark, it's often a stroke of luck that breaks it open. Nothing I could see difficult to accept here.The relationship between Rhymes and his nurse Thelma (ably conveyed by the beautiful Queen Latifah) is excellent. She is strong, devoted, loving, and thank merciful heavens she doesn't end up a jealous murderous madwoman as Donaghy and Rhymes clearly connect. No no, Thelma is genuine, and their relationship is pure. I'd say more, but that would spoil it.THE BAD Rooker plays the political cop boss guy, such a tired cliche. Rhymes is well-read, widely written, proven, he travels and lectures all over the world, and some city cop is lording over him, as though they are not all on the same team. So tired, so trite. Not compelling at all.THE UGLY The bad guy and his development in this film absolutely stinks. His modus operandi is so absurd it's beyond insulting. Don't want to spoil anything, so if you want, email me and we can talk about it.A FINAL CONSIDERATION...(MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS) Not sure it's fair to say there is a high degree of similiarity between this film and Se7en, but there are a few very strong connections.1. Both main cops (Washington/Freeman) are leaving the force in about a week, for different reasons.2. Both main cops are extremely insightful. Washington for his academic intellect, Freeman for his experience on the force.3. They both take on a a protege, so to speak, and interpret clues left by a killer who is planning to come out at the appointed time4. both follow a false trail left by the killer based on false finger prints.5, 6, 7...there are other parallels, but I don't want to spoil it.All in all, a decent film.  "},{"Title":"Denzel Washington does his best in a bedridden part.","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A paralysed forensic expert called Lincoin Rhyme (Denzel Washington) enlists the help of an inexperienced San Franciscan police woman called Amelia Donaghy (Angelina Jolie) to track down a serial killer who picks up his victims in his yellow taxi cab and leaves them to die in extremely nasty ways according to a turn of the century crime novel and removes bone from each of his victims...An underrated thriller featuring a strong performance from Denzel Washington who does his best in a bedridden part, a bit like Raymond Burr in IRONSIDE.  Director Philip Noyce gives the preceedings a good atmosphere and the gore shock is neatly judged to scare the audience while not alienating them, a lesson that other modern day film makers would do well to learn.  THE BONE COLLECTOR was one of my favourite movies that I saw at the cinema in 2000. "}{"Title":"Denzel doesn't disappoint","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The only way to describe The Bone Collector is that it has smart dialogue, talented actors and an excellent script with puzzles and clues that will keep the viewers guessing until the very end.With a talented cast that includes Denzel Washington, Angelina Jolie, Queen Latifah, Ed O'Neill and rising star Mike McGlone, The Bone Collector is sure to please viewers as it did me. Washington always seems to select the perfect roles as he seems to fit right in and perform so well.What makes the role of Lincoln Rhyme so good is Washington has to act without the use of his arms and legs. He makes it look so simple and yet pulling a performance off that believable is hard. Jolie and O'Neill serve as perfect support for Washington.It seemed that each scene was pulled off with a very low amount of takes since all the actors seemed to know what the others were doing and timed everything just right. I give a lot of credit to the writers of The Bone Collector for putting together a marvelous script that included intricate puzzles and clues that kept me guessing about the identity of killer a secret until the final showdown at the end. Also, it was a work of art how Lincoln Rhyme took out the killer. I don't think anyone could have forecasted how perfect it was.This is a must see movie for mystery buffs who love to play along as the home detective and find out who did it. THUMBS WAY UP. "},{"Title":"Good acting a highlight","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Good acting highlights this highly, highly predictable and usual film. Don't see it unless you're a fan of Denzel.It's the tale of a paralyzed detective searching for a serial killer who (as the title suggests) collects bones. Decent movie, but like I said, highly predictable. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The only thing that sucks about buying suspense movies is that you'll have lost interest in it from the first time watching it cuz you know who did it. Denzel was awesome as Lincoln Rhymes. He took the physical handicap of the character and mastered it by showing the audience that he could work with his mind. He's a really talented guy. Angelina Jolie was ok, but you didnt really get her character after you found out about her father. She kinda just sinks into the background even though she's supposed to be his body. She wasn't horrible though. Latifah wasn't bad herself either. I like how the killer was following a book like a moron. As smart as he was supposed to be, he wasn't too quick. Ah, all killers miss something eventually. I guess he wanted to be found anyways. A good movie to rent, but you can't watch it for another 5 years or however long it takes you to forget the killer in a movie. "},{"Title":"great movie!","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I just saw this movie and loved it. it was suspenceful. Denzal Washington plays a bedridden cop who finds a serial killer posing as taxi driver the ending is really surprising  i liked all the actors except Jolie the movie is really dark and bloody so beware some parents might their children to see this movie but everyone else go see this gem  "},{"Title":"i had to get by prejudice to like this","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  i remember going into this film anticipating the pairing of denzel and jolie. i also anticipated seeing a spry washington in only his (virtuosity, richochet, ) in only his third at bat as a cop (training day was not heard of yet). I was taken aback to find him all cooped up in a house for over half the picture. While i can relate to being a sexy black hunk, I was uncomfortable identifying with his bed sore fighting crime fighter. I had a nausea unease in fact. I also felt betrayed as though a movie that promised a new super duo was lying down on the job (i'm full of....puns). A day after hating the film I had an epiphany. How could I appreciate diversity and have a prejudice against the prone. I went back and saw it and liked it immensely. I watch it from time to time and continue to enjoy it. "},{"Title":"A Denzel Washington Thriller with Angelina Jolie as Leading Lady","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  From beginning to end, Denzel's energy and charisma dominate this film. He has earned the right to be a leader of men, and despite the gory deaths that the storyline engages with, you are glued to your seat for the duration of the film. Just who is the killer that is committing all these murders? Queen Latifah as supporting artist demonstrates her successful transition from rapping to film acting, but faces an unexpected death towards the end of the film.  At this stage in Denzel's career, he is just 'the man' as all of his fans alike would say. "},{"Title":"One of the better from book to film movies","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was a generally good movie, a surprising delight.  When I first saw it in the video store, I was skeptical.  But after watching it, I was impressed.  It doesn't rely on gory effects to promote the film and it has a storyline.  Superb acting by both Washington and Jolie, great chemistry.  "},{"Title":"It has some flaws, but it's bone-chilling to the end","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The relationship between Denzel Washington and Angela Jolie seemed kind of unrealistic. I just couldn't understand why such a successful private eye detective would take such an interest in a rookie cop. However, aside from that, the scenes of the crimes were really good and nail-biting. Those urban scenes of New York city, underground places, lost subways to the final waterfront were very good. It was really creepy to watch the crimes by some warped pervert who mutilated his victims by cutting their flesh to the bones, and then subjecting them to a heinous death. All actors did a good performance, but it left me sitting on the edge of my couch.  "},{"Title":"It's so cool!","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I liked the movie, because it isn't a standard, typical horror movie where teens get chased by some psycho killer and ripped into pieces. Don't get me wrong, I LOVED 'I Know What You Did Last Summer, I Still Know What You Did Last Summer' and the Scream movies, but this one is different.It is a scary movie and you get caught up in it, 'cause it's hard to figure out who did it.I was surprised to see in the end who was the killer.I would never expected it.I must say, I really enjoyed this one. "},{"Title":"A Great Thriller spoilt by a poor leading lady.","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was trying to think back after watching the Bone Collector if Denzil Washington has actually made a bad film and i could not think of one and certainly the Bone Collector has added to his impressive list of entertaining movies. The shame is his leading lady in this film,not known for her acting ability but for her gormless expressions and lip pouting and she certaily does a lot of it in this film. The Bone collector is about a serial Killer who kidnaps people from the back of his taxi and leaves the minutist forensic clues for the rookie cop,Angelina Jolie( and rookie actress by the look of it) to find out who the killer is. Although this film does leave a lot of questions unanswered it is also very clever and very scary too. So turn the lights out ,pop the video in the recorder and be prepared to be entertained. 8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"We enjoyed it.....","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  We sat down to watch this film slightly worried after reading some of the comments on the IMDb.We thoroughly enjoyed the movie!Listen, just suspend disbelief and sit down with your popcorn and go for it! Yes there are stereotypes and predictable moments but the acting was fine (Washington was on his best form and in the best Poitier way) and the story kept moving and the atmosphere was kept nice and tense.This is a good nights entertainment without a doubt. Don't expect 'Silence Of The Lambs' or 'War And Peace'. Take it at face value. We do go to the movies to have a little fun, don't we? "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This serial killer flick can't hold a thread to Se7en or Silence of the Lambs, but it is still pretty entertaining. Denzel Washington and Angelina Jolie are well cast as the two cops on the search for a serial killer. A cross between Silence of the Lambs and Rear Window, this is an OK thriller. 6.5/10. "},{"Title":"Owes a debt to se7en, but not bad.","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The film seems at first to be trying to be se7en but is actually just borrowing from it to tell its own story.  The atmosphere and plot are very seven like (reference to literature for one)but the characters slowly come into their own, unfortunatley Angelina Jolie never really gets a chance to shine and Queen Latifahs third billing is a bit of a joke.  Overall could have been better but if it had it would be se7en. "},{"Title":"The plot just doesn't make sense","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Why would mr. Expert (Washington) all of a sudden believe that miss Lips (Jolie) is THE cop to do all the Forensic work, when there should be other, more experienced persons around. Also, why must Hollywood always put some kind of Love affair in their movies. Finally, what's wrong with wheelchairs? "},{"Title":"I quite liked it actually....","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Tense, clever in places and with great (but not overbearing) sound design.My real problem with the film is my knowledge of less well-known actors, hence I was able to figure out who the killer was because he was deemed important enough to be in the opening credits even though his character doesn't seem to do much throughout the film (until, of course, the somewhat-different-than-usual showdown scenario).Overall, a good evening's watching if you haven't got something like Withnail and I, Twelve Monkeys or Blue Velvet to watch. "},{"Title":"Flawed but entertaining","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Bone Collector was a much better film than I had expected. It's very far from a masterpiece, and it's constant attempts to create the mood of Seven are quite pathetic, but as two hours of entertainment I certainly think that the film succeeds. A great cast is of course one of the reasons why the film works Denzel Washington is one of the finest American actors working right now, and he does a great job here, and Angelina Jolie was okay. I also liked Michael Rooker's performance, and one can only hope that he gets more leads in the future, he is brilliant here and he was fantastic in Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer, he's also been good in e.g. Bastard Out of Carolina.Where The Bone Collector is successful, apart from the acting, is in the suspense. Many thrillers are better in that area than this film, of course, but I thought it was quite suspenseful. However, it tries to be Seven and here is where it fails miserably, and I say that not even being a fan of Seven. However, it's quite suspenseful, the acting works, and as entertainment it's an okay film. (6/10) "},{"Title":"Good suspense and thrilling plot, good cast and overall very entertaining movie!","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  After reading some of the comments on IMDb, I found a lot of peoples have mixed feelings about this movie. I myself find it to be an excellent crime/suspense movie with an entertaining plot, and overall good acting (from both Washington and Jolie). The only thing really missing in this movie is a thrilling ending, I find the POSSIBLE SPOILER!!!!!!!! final confrontation of the killer (well, you have to admit he's a bit more than a plain killer) a bit disappointing, but I couldn't think of a better ending myself (writing an ending to a movie like this is very hard). The story is very interesting, thrilling and entertaining. Overall I really liked this movie, I guess it's partly because I haven't seen this type of movie in some time (last one being SEVEN) and I'm a fan of the genre, to say at the least. Just to sum it up Acting is good, maybe even excellent. Story is good, needs minor polishing though. Camera work is excellent. Atmosphere is brilliant (that counts doesn't it?).I rate it 8.5 out of 10, mainly because I really like this particular kind of suspense movies. If you're a fan or simply like this genre, you need to see it.And to those who didn't like it, you have to admit it was very entertaining at the least!Jacob "},{"Title":"Nice movie, but does not deliver its potential","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Bonecollector has a lot of potential, and is definitely an interesting movie to watch, but it fails too much on suspense and consistent script to be top. Performance of the actors is good, filming is excellent, score is good, it just lacks on the script.I rate it 7 out of 10. Good movie to watch if you like suspense/crime movies, but otherwise not exceptional.  "},{"Title":"An Interesting and Entertaining Mystery.","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Unfortunately I missed The Bone Collector at the movies, but I was really excited when it came out on video since I had been wanting to see it for such a long time. When I watched it, I thought it was great. Definitely not a top 10 quality film, but an interesting and entertaining mystery that will keep you enthralled for an hour and a half. Angelina Jolie, Denzel Washington and Queen Latifah but on great performances, as each of them try to piece together who the murdering monster is. Rating 8 "},{"Title":"highly improbable story line but good movie","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  `Bone Collector'  *** ½. I read the book and liked it.  The story line has a highly improbable story line, but&#133;A New York City cop (Denzel Washington) is a forensic expert.  He's paralyzed from the neck down following an accident and wants desperately to die. His wish to die is side tracked by a serial killer case that's plaguing the city.  A young cop (played by Angelina Jolie; are her lips real?) becomes Denzel's on-the-scene right-hand-man.)  Together they catch the bad guy and Denzel has a new reason to live. Worth the price of admission.  "}{"Title":"What i saw seemed interesting","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Well, I only got to see about 30 minutes of this movie, because my friend who saw it with my was scared out of her wits so much, she ran out half way through it, and upon following her, she told me that she was too scared and refused to go back in there. However, when i asked a friend who was brave enough to watch the whole movie, it turns out i guessed who the killer was. The rest of it looks good, and I'm really looking forward to seeing the rest of it on video!  "},{"Title":"Great Story, with Hitchcockian overtones, well filmed and scored.","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is one hell of a terrific, but TOUGH entertainment.  Maniacally brutal, yes!...but it is a tale of the finding of a brutal maniac. Angelina Jolie shows that she really has it as a film actress, as does Queen Latifah, in a lesser role.  The film is very slickly lensed and certainly well edited.  The pulsating and driving music is not only well composed but extremely well scored.  We should all keep an ear out for Craig Armstrong's next film score. While the story is extreme, to say the least, and does get somewhat stretched in the last reel, this is a movie that will be of interest to anyone who wants to see what Hollywood is up to today with suspense thrillers. CAVEAT!....If brutality interferes with your appreciation of good film making, stay away from this picture. "},{"Title":"Sheer Luck - Films","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The plot and acting for this feature were very good.  I do have to comment on the fact that the killer could not have been guessed, although the movie itself concluded with you believing you should have been able to.  The killer was out of the blue and as I reviewed the movie the 2nd time through was convinced that the book would have been a better bet. (maybe) "},{"Title":"Misses the point","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I didn't read The Bone Collector, but I did read a subsequent Jeffrey Deaver story about Lincoln Rhyme, The Coffin Dancer. I really enjoyed that book, and on the assumption that the two novels are similar in their attraction, I would have to say that the movie The Bone Collector misses the point. What really entranced me in the novel was Rhyme's brilliant forensic talents, the way he found clues in the tiniest and most obscure places. Of course, his active and alert mind was contrasted with his numb and useless body. Denzel Washington and Angelina Jolie failed to capture the depth and fascination of the characters I know. But it's an okay movie, anyway. Maybe the movie of The Coffin Dancer will be better. "},{"Title":"Cookie-cutter thriller, not too bad","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Well, if you don't have anything else to rent, get it. It's got some entertainment value, but otherwise it's generic.  Kudos to Angelina Jolie for taking a non-glamorous role.  The thing that I noticed was that it has the obligatory studio ending added in, when, IMHO, the movie was headed in a different direction.  There is a final shot of Ms. Jolie in a (reinforced) spaghetti-strap dress, also at the end.  Proof-positive the studio interfered with the film.  On DVD, there are some very loud noises that will scare the beejeezus out of you! "},{"Title":"A Clue For The Audience - Did you get it?","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Yes, another predictible follow the clues and catch the serial killer movie.  It is a watchable movie, holds interest well enough, and if you can turn off your intelligence long enough to ignore the glaring gapes in the plot then it's a good enough time.  This is one of those movies where the clues were all-important and where, had it been better written, everything would have meant something.  What interested me from the very beginning was the presence of that dangling monkey in the killer's taxi.  I kept thinking there must be a reason.  And there was.The dangling monkey is a clue for the audience of what's to come.  I won't give away the ending of the movie, but the monkey does represent what happens.  Note  the following is a vague spoiler, so skip it if you don't want to know anythingOne of the final scenes from the film is borrowed - okay, stolen - from another movie featuring an individual with quadriplegia and a monkey.  So while the serial killer leaves clues with all his victims, the director has left a clue with the serial killer as to his fate. This was a very clever device.  And if you want to see how it was done the first time, watch Monkey Shines. "},{"Title":"Passably entertaining","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  After my future in-laws told me and my fiance how great this movie was about 16 times, we saw it this past weekend.  It's OK, nothing more.  Everyone did an OK job acting, the scenery was all right, the plot was standard, etc.  It's not great, but it will fill 2 hours if needed.What was up with the bird?  We are trying to figure out any symbolism. "},{"Title":"a collection of different sorts","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is not only a movie of collecting bones, but also of collecting ideas from different movies.  Take the ideas from SEVEN, KISS THE GIRLS and a few others in this genre and wha-laa you have THE BONE COLLECTOR.  **1/2 at the best. Don't waste your time on this one. "},{"Title":"Not particularly original, but scary in parts","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Bone Collector is similar to Seven, Silence of Lambs, Copycat etc, so we are not seeing anything new here.  There is a different setting, and having Denzel as a quadraplegic helping out with the clues was a nice twist, but was that not similar to Weaver's character in Copycat who was afraid to leave her apartment, also helping out with clues to a serial killers identity?  Washington and Jolie do wonderful jobs in their respective roles.  The New York setting was nice, always raining, dark and gloomy- just for atmosphere we presume.  It was definitely scary in some parts, but the ending was a bit of a letdown.  I thought it was quite formulatic in its approach.  Still it wasn't a bad two hours entertainment. "},{"Title":"A thriller with twists and turns ....Four Stars","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Unlike some jaded reviewers, I found this movie entertaining. Denzel Washington portrays an ex-cop- bedridden with paralysis-turned crime writer.He is consulted after it is realised that a serial killer is on the loose.  The computer technology available to him from his bed makes me want to draw up a wish list for new computer capabilities.  Adding to the cast is Angelina Jolie who shows that she can act as well as look great too.   The storyline revolves around a serial killer who is taking his MO (modus operandi) from a gothic book called The Bone Collecter.  The forensic technology used to try to catch this killer is intriguing.  Ed O'Neill as always a good character actor, plays a helpful cop also in pursuit of the killer.  The three main players interact well and the chemistry between Denzel and Angelina's characters is obvious.  There are some gruesome scenes depicted but works well with the storyline.  This is the kind of movie where you just sit back and enjoy watching for the fine performance it turns in. A must see for those who enjoy the crime drama genre. "}{"Title":"Thriller","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I thought the movie was great. It kept me on the edge of my seat the whole time. I like to watch anything that Denzel Washington is in, he is always great, and so good looking!!! Angelina Jolie was really good too. She really got into the character with her emotions. There was one time in the movie where I screamed and scared my friends to death.I just thought it was a great movie and would recommend it to anyone that likes Denzel and also thrillers. The ending will really surprise you!!! "},{"Title":"Why the changes?","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I read the book before seeing this movie.  With the book being excellent I wasn't sure what to expect from the movie.  The movie was actually very good.  What I didn't understand was the changes that were made from the plot of the book.1.  **The identity of the killer was changed.  In changing the killer you lost a believable motive behind the murders.** 2.  In the book more of the victims were rescued, just in time.  This led to more suspense and drama in the story. Would rats bites really kill you that quickly? 3.  Linc's desire to self-terminate was down played in the movie. 4.  Many other small details.I understand that there is a lot more room in a novel to go into detail. But why change the killers identity?  The changes only brought the movie down a notch, in my opinion, from **** to ***. "},{"Title":"Good, moody thriller gradually falls flat","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Bone Collector is a dark, foreboding movie filled with suspense, intrigue and a touching romance between its two leads.   Unfortunately, all of these elements can't make up for the fact that it doesn't play fair with the audience.Denzel Washington plays Linc Rhyme, a New York city detective who, due to an on-the-job accident, is a quadriplegic, able to move only his facial muscles.   Oh, and one other his right index finger, which controls a mouse hooked up to his computer, enabling him to investigate a mysterious and disgusting murder.   Through an impressive system of voice hookups, Washington can communicate with the outside world, instructing his cohorts on what to look for at the scene of the crime, and more.   His body may be dead, but his mind is as brilliant and malleable as ever.Enter Angelina Jolie, who plays Amelia Donaghy, a rookie New York cop.   Linc takes her under his wing, coaxing her to lead the case.  He sees in her an innate ability for forensics.  He also sees a beautiful woman.The investigation continues, the murders pile up, each ghastly and grisly.  Tiny clues left by the murderer are gathered by Amelia and examined by Rhyme until his genius and years of experience unravel the murderer's plot.   A final tussle at the end of the movie seems to doom Linc, but once again we witness how the mind can overcome any obstacles.I think this could have been a great movie if it wasn't so unbelievable.  Jolie is constantly being put in harm's way for no logical reason.  Washington sends her alone, into dark and dank places where the murderer may very well be hiding, because he is afraid that her fellow officers will disturb the crime scene.  That silly concern alone is worth endangering a person's life?  Give me a break.  (Obviously Linc hadn't seen any of the Scream movies, where this very issue of never going into a place where the killer may be by yourself is bandied about at length!)A sequence in which an old man dies by the hands of the killer and his little girl is saved is supposed to make us feel good, because at least someone lived, and she was saved by Jolie's wiles, grit and determination; the implication being that an innocent man's death is worth Jolie's moving up in the forensics world.  The clues left by the killer are so tiny and minute that it is hard to believe that the killer really expects the detectives to follow them to their logical conclusion.  The last clue, having to do with the numbers on a subway train and a corresponding police badge, leaves so much left to coincidence to have any meaning, that it strains the limits of credulity.  Instead of an Aha! feeling, I was left with a Huh?But the part that left me the most frustrated was the end, in which the killer's identity is revealed.    Sure, it was unexpected (as all killer's unmaskings should be), but it is someone who, according to the information given the audience, had no right to be the killer.  We had seen this character only for a few brief, fleeting instances in the picture, and there was no reason to suspect this person.   In the final battle, the killer spills the beans as to why he had been committing these murders, and why he wants to kill Washington.  But my reaction was, So what?    For me, there was no surprise for having incorrectly guessed the killer's i.d., because it was someone that I could never have suspected for any reason, based on what I knew at the time.  This is not playing fair,Just after seeing The Bone Collector, I was able to look back on it and think about how much I enjoyed it, for the most part.  But then I realized how much better it could have been if it had been fair to its audience.  "},{"Title":"Engrossing...","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  is the one word to describe this flick with Denzel Washington (who turns in a mighty good performance) and Angelina Jolie (another fine performance).  I liked the film because it had such a heavy NYC backdrop (although I see that part of it was filmed in Montreal?).  The story is solid, the acting exellent.  Rent this video!   "},{"Title":"Intriguing and satisfying","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  We've all seen this before. A nut bar is kidnapping and brutally slaying civilians. It's up to Lincoln and Amelia to pick up the clues and stop the murders. Washington does a pretty good performance as the crippled Lincoln, yet Angelina still feels out of place in all her movies. I just cannot get used to her! The movie has satisfying acting and good overall direction to make for a good experience. The clues are intriguing enough to keep you interested as well. There just should have been more suspense in a film where the cops actually have a chance to stop the bad guy. A good film to pass the time. "},{"Title":"Good thriller, clever plot, a little gratuitously nasty.","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Good thriller with a great cast headed up by Denzel Washington and Angelina Jolie, both of whom are excellent. Very difficult to predict; lots of misdirection. Clever plot with a bit of a new angle on the crime thriller. A bit nasty at times, but really well worth seeing if you're not too faint-hearted. "},{"Title":"Nice Film, bad ending","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I really liked this film I enjoyed every second of it but the end.I mean I have nothing against the Amelia/Lincon relationship , in fact I kind of like it, but they act like a couple at the end and they not even know each other's middlename, that's kind of strange, it's like all the writers got together and said Okay lets give them a little sexual tension and they put that in the film without even warning us that there was something in there.The movie has some unexpected twists but nothing far away from reality, everybody made a big party about this movie but it isn't as good as the thriller shows it.If you like thrillers you'll enjoy it but the end is awfully bad, they do not even give you a clue about who the killer may be. The movie has almost nothing to do with the book.That's all I'll give 7 points to this movie because of the acting Denzel and Angelina really got into their parts and that's what gives the movie a little taste. "},{"Title":"Acting with the mimic","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I've never seen the movie like this. Almost along the film, Denzel Washington has to lie down on the bed. If the other movie-star act with their body languages, he acted with his mimics. As an invalid detective, he had to solve the serial murder. Luckily he 'owned' Angelina Jolie, beautiful and smart, and became his eyes and legs.But to me, this movie is too scary. Too much blood, too much tenses, and too many ... bones. Maybe why it is called The Bone Collector. And at the end, I can't understand, why person as tender as the killer, can kill people just for the ... pleasure? Or, is it revenge?Still, it is an interesting movie. "},{"Title":"Nothing new - but a very good movie!","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I really don't know why most people criticize this move so much. It's true that there's nothing new in The Bone Collector - but I really don't care. The acting and the story are so good, that it makes up for it. I really look forward to be seeing more of Angelina Jolie - she did a fantastic job! I think that Phillip Noyce (the director) where as good as he where when he instructed Patriot Games! Don't go to the cinema and expect, that you are going to see a scary movie. There are some pretty scary scenes, but The Bone Collector lives on its story - and not the scary scenes like for example I Know What You Did Last Summer.I voted 8/10 "},{"Title":"no oscars for originality, but entertaining nevertheless","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Okay what do you want the good news or the bad news? Let's start with the bad. The bone collector is not going to be the most original film you'll see this year, not by a longshot. It sits very comfortably in between the like of seven and Kiss the girls. In fact if they'd gotten Morgan Freeman instead of Denzel Washington this Film could have completed the trilogy of Dark Serial killer movies starring Mr. freeman. Instead we have the suave and extremely charming Mr. Washington.  That's the bad news over with. Moving swiftly to the good. The entire film is an exercise in suspense. It never lets down. If there is one thing that raises this above your average serial killer flick, it is the relationship between the two lead characters. Their characters are developed throughout the movie. They both have very dark pasts that now define who they are. In finding each other they learn to bury the past and get on with the business of catching serial killers with a penchant for collecting human bones. There is also the added bonus that the screen sizzles everytime Angelina Jolie and Denzel Washington appear together. The chemistry is apparent and infectious. What's the film about you ask? I'm sorry I thought the title gave it away. There's a serial killer going around collecting the bones of his victims. Denzel plays The foremost forensic expert in whatever state they're in. He used to be the best until an accident left him paraplegic and bitter. Now he spends his days dreaming of suicide. At least until a new case that only he can solve is thrust in his lap. He finds the case intriguing but more importantly he finds a rookie cop (Angelina Jolie) with a knack for forensic science even more of interest. Since he's bedridden he has to play the brains while she in turn plays his eyes and ears. If you like a bit of gore sprinkled with a hint of romance check it out.  "}{"Title":"Suspenseful, Dark, Worthwhile Thriller.. with a few flaws","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Weary of the run-of-the-mill teen slasher epics with formula characters and outcomes, I looked forward to release of The Bone Collector.   For the most part, thanks to another great performance by charismatic Denzel Washington, and stylish, dark depictions of grisly murders sprinkled throughout the film, I was not disappointed.Like almost any cops-chase-the-psycho-killer-to-save-the-victim-in-time movie(see silence of the lambs,) a suspension of disbelief on the part of the audience is a necessity.  Take, for instance, the willingness of the NYPD to outfit the bed-ridden Washington's apartment with a staff of perhaps 30 pathologists, scientists and detectives complete with appropriate computers, lab equipment and state-of-the-art telecommunications center. Once these excesses are overlooked, Collector moves at an extremely fast pace, and delivers the chills and action as promised.Several graphic, realistic mutilations are performed during the film, so the viewer should be advised in advance. Other than that, a family film!  Hardly any swearing or sex. "},{"Title":"First of all...I loved it.","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  First of all....I loved it. Denzel Washington plays a severely disabled former New York police detective who is called upon to help solve a rash of recent murders. With the help of Angelina Jolie, a foot patrol officer, he is able to track the killer's next moves. This film is extremely intense and some of the scenes extremely gorry. I found myself jumping numerous times and kept on the edge of my seat for the rest. Bottom line...no wonder this is rated R, I could just imagine some kids wanting to collect things other than baseball cards or stamps. "},{"Title":"Good film, bad ending","Date":"10 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The actors are very good (although I don't know if a depressive and nearly suicidal quadriplegic would have all the vitality Denzel Washington had in this film...) (and Angelina Jolie did not present us with a nude scene - after Hackers, Gia, Mojave Moon, and Foxfire one would expect this of her!) (she is still lovely, nevertheless - those lips, not even Alicia Silverstone is lovelier!) but the script certainly leaves something to be desired, especially about the end. What the *** did the author think about when he chose who the guilty person would be? There's *absolutely nothing* in the film to show motivation or any sort of psychological history of the murderer. Thrillers should have a logical-but-not-obvious thread running from beginning to end; picking an entirely random person with a motive lacking any relation to the plotline is definitely not kosher!  "},{"Title":"Disturbing as Se7en, great acting, but doesn't quite deliver.","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film definitely has some of the most disturbing scenes since Se7en. The on screen chemistry between Denzil Washington and Angelina Jolie is superb, both play their parts very well. Jolie seems a very fine actress with Washington managing to convey much emotion and stress despite his condition. The story is very well created, not the usual happiness and light, this is dark and gloomy, and it keeps you guessing right up until the final minutes. Unfortunately it feels like the ending lets most of the rest of the story down, it's still well worth the watch, even if it's only for the scenes where Washington coaches Jolie. It builds suspense extremely well and the puzzles are skilfully weaved and picked apart. Good writing and casting. "},{"Title":"Not so much Se7en - more like Three","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  *Warning May contain spoilers*The Bone Collector is the latest in a long line of serial killer thrillers that for the first two thirds of the duration isn't too bad. Bear in mind this was the first big screen film I'd seen since Rancid Aluminium, one of the worst British movies of the 21st century.So naturally in such an offering there is the clever killer and the cop on his or her trailNo great surprise there - except for the fact that our hero - Police detective Lincoln Rhyme (Denzel Washington) is paralysed after an accident in the first few minutes.Thankfully, director Philip Noyce doesn't dwell too long on Rhyme's recouperation or him coming to terms with his condition. There's enough material there for another movie and it would probably be a Christopher Reeve biopic with Dean Cain or Reeve himself.What we do have is a bed-ridden Lincoln sucked into the case of a killer who has kidnapped a wealthy couple. We know that the husband is dead - his hand is found in the gravel by a railway line, his finger cut to the bone and his wife's wedding ring placed on the naked digit.Amelia Donaghy (Angelina Jolie) preserves the crime scene by flagging down the oncoming train and using Rhyme's teachings as her guide. She records the evidence with a camera and our bed-bound hero is suitably impressed by her quick thinking.Alas, not everyone shares his opinion. Stereotypical ignorant copper Captain Cheney (Michael Rooker) sees her as little more than a glorified rookie who's getting in his way. Yes, nice to know that when it comes to one dimensional cops, Noyce thinks that this will satisfy an Y2k audience. How wrong he is - not that it matters as Jolie has enough sex appeal and full blooded realism to carry the movie forward and Washington is his usual charismatic self. Does this man never age?Rhyme, with the aid of his jigsaw-loving nurse (the excellent Queen Latifah, last heard on the ambulance intercom in Bringing Out The Dead) and lovable Latino expert with a microscope and a witty aside (Luis Guzman - that bloke from Out of Sight who Jennifer Lopez roughs up in Miami) examines the photographic evidence, an ancient bolt and a bit of asbestos.Before long, Jolie arrives at the exact spot where our rich hostage is being held. Well, nearly. She's separated by a wall and at 4pm, the poor woman will be roasted alive, thanks to a cleverly arranged steam pipe.Will she get there in time to save the hostage? Well that would be telling but Noyce handles the tension with admirable skill. That all too rare commodity in Tinseltown is laid on thick in this movie and it's to his credit.Alas, the Aussie director has a history of making cracking thrillers that fall apart in the third act. Dead Calm, Patriot Games and this movie suffer from peaking too early. By the last half hour, everything is a little too cosy for a coincidence.For example, Jolie knocks a bunch of books on the floor and finds the exact one she's looking for; vital information is found with barely a pause for breath...Obviously with such a mainstream and streamlined film like this, it's nice to keep the action coming fast enough to prevent your brain kicking in and questioning the little details, but by the time the movie is over and you're going for that beer, pizza or early night, you will question the credibility.It may be a litle on the gory side but TBCis gripping enough and rather old fashioned with that Rear Window-style pay-off being one of the most disappointing in many years.If you like movies with a Scooby Doo ending then this will be right up your street.It's a shame that when we do eventually find out the identity of the killer, many will have guessed it straight away.Noyce (seen at one point in the book shop) throws in his fair share of red herrings but the problem with the exposition at the end is that it bears little relation to anything that came before it.Perhaps if there had been some mention of the critical evidence that causes our deranged villain to murder the innocent then fair enough, you would go home happy in the knowledge that he or she was Looney Tunes within the context of the movie - not in the context of something that seems to have been made up at the last minute and tagged on.It also boasts the most cavity inducing epilogue of any serial killer thriller in recent years. Any plausibility built up in the previous 90 minutes goes straight out of the window here. Remember those Police Squad spoofs where everyone cracks up, the action freezes and the closing titles roll? This is worse.The movie looks great thanks to some good casting and Nigel Phelps' production design. The man who designed Judge Dredd and Alien Resurrection, lends his impressive skills to a movie that is well worth the price of admission, just as long as you don't question things too hard.  "},{"Title":"Attempt at a toned down seven, but no way near as good......","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  pretty stupid movie really, but lightly entertaining. It never really decides exactly what it wants to be. At times it is desperate to reach the highs of horrific mutilation Seven provided us with, but never quite makes it. If they were going to go for grotesquely mutilated bodies, they could have at least given us a good look at them! The only thing really worth going to see this for is a chance to drool over Angelina Jolie - she looks absolutely stunning and makes up for all the lose ends no-one bothered to tie up in this movie. Otherwise, don't really bother. "},{"Title":"What a bad knockoff","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie feels throughout like a bad knockoff of Rear Window and Seven combined. Paralyzed detective tries to find the killer  who is committing murders according to a storybook outline. Angelina Jolie does a good job in an overly familiar role in this movie.   But I could tell who the killer was WAY too early into the movie, and though there was gore aplenty in the movie, the suspense required to make it frightening was sadly lacking. Overall, because I liked certain elements of the cinematography, I'd give it 4 stars, and that's generous.  "},{"Title":"Great Angelina but not so great movie","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Oh, Angelina Jolie is in this movie? So, I must see it! That was the first though I had about The Bone Collector. OK, I was really impressed by its intriguing name but as I'm not a big fan of suspense and action, Angelina was always the main reason to watch it. The Bone Collector is a good movie. It's mysterious, thrilling, well-done but I'm not sure if I should write that it's realist or not. In fact, at the same time it is and it isn't. Almost all the victims of the killer died although they were always very closer to save them, for minutes. This is truly realist. BUT the way they find the places where the victims were is completely unrealistic. In seconds Rhyme (Denzel Washington) was solving the clues given by the killer. You may not believe but it was like thisClue a green card. Rhyme  Well, he gave us a green card. Green - forest. Forest - trees. Threes need sun light. Sun - sky. Sky - clouds. Clouds - rain. So, he's gonna kill in the park (green) in a rainy day (rain) near the shop (card).  No, I'm not exaggerating and I'm sure you'll fell that while you're watching the movie. You're intrigued by some strange clues and signals given by the killer and Rhyme, in seconds, resolve everything breaking all the mystery and taking from us some good moments of suspense. But even with that little-big problem, the movie was running  greatly. Angelina was amazing (both in performance and beauty), Denzel was very good, the killer was very bad (not in bad performance, he had bad behaviour), the final answer to the clues is interesting, the movie had some dramatic parts... But the end is pathetic. Some dramatic moments are good but romance? Romance in a suspense movie named The Bone Collector? Super-extra-happy ending? Oh, no. I was really appreciating the movie but I fell tempted, obligated to take out at least 1 point from my rating. So, I'm sorry, its first 90min deserved an 8 but the latest 15, a 4.  <><><><><> 7/10 "},{"Title":"Chilling tale of a nutter re-enacting gruesome murders.","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film did not attract much attention when it first came out but has rapidly become a must-see.  Denzel washington plays a genius ex-cop who is now a paraplegic.  He is on the brink of suicide when a string of strange murders start.  His life suddenley takes some meaning and with the help of Amelia (Angelina Jolie) tries to catch the murderer. "},{"Title":"Acting and directing far above the script's quality","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I don't know, why there are so many serial-killer films in the recent film history. Since Seven -I think- there is no need for another film, because I can't imagine a film better then Finchers 1995-masterpiece.Phillip Noyce is a good director. I liked his thrillers, because he is able to give momentum to his films. Not many directors of the second line in Hollywood are that good. Even in Bone Collector you can see, what he wants to do. But it is very difficult to feel it. The script is not able to captivate some interest for the characters. The dialogues are terrible, the whole story predictable. You can bring it down to a usual mentor-scholar story, with all the standard-problems, for example the uneffective, but very loud speaking counterpart to the old mentor.Without the very good cast -fabulous Denzel Washington in lead- the film would have been worse. Washington is able to make the silly lines he has to utter seem like reliable dialogue.I think we can thank Noyce and his cast. The film is slightly above average, not because of the story. I would have been more satisfied with another script. The film would have worked much better, it would have had atmosphere and maybe I would have felt something like suspense. But for now, it is just watchable for those, who don't know the mechanisms behind thrillers and aren't bored by predictable gore-effects. "}{"Title":"A good movie","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What should you expect for a film starred by Denzel Washington? At least, you can expect good acting, entertainment and a lot of suspense. That's it. The bone collector has all these things. Washington plays a role in which he can't walk, he spends all the time in bed but from there he rules a whole team of professionals investigators of crime scenes. He is an experienced cop and writer of a book of crime scenes. Angelina Jolie is a rookie cop who accidentally becomes part of this team. Denzel immediately assigns her the leading role of a team searching the path of a serial killer. The way Denzel previews the next crime it's amazing, sometimes unbelievable, but this is part of the fiction we can accept.  "},{"Title":"Net as bad as it looked","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I must admit to being a bit dubious about this one going by the trailer - it looked absolutely pants from that!Denzel Washington is a forensic cop and author who is paralysed whilst on the job, but - as if you didn't guess - he overcomes his disability and works an entire crime investigation from his bed.  OK, suspend any reality around about now.The stunning Angelina Jolie is excellent as his rookie sidekick, and the story works well all the way through.  It's a good thriller, and worth seeing.Although it appears I was the only one in the cinema who worked out who the killer was! "},{"Title":"Good Film","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Well I liked this film. It investigates the concept of investigation by proxy ( a term that I just coined right now!!) whereby Denzel does all his investigation with the help of computers and Angelina. The plot is ok but it is the execution of the actual murder scenes that really take the cake. The build-up to the murder is done very well. The end is predictable of course but I think that this is a movie worth watching. A good film also if you are interested in inter-racial harmony, ha! ha! "},{"Title":"Suspense and great acting what more do you want","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Though I have not read the book, unlike the Red Dragon Trilogy, This was a very well made film. The acting for the entire cast was great. Denzel showed why he won the Oscar. With only a finger and his head and shoulders, he was great. Anglina Jolie should her genes (John Voight's Daughter) and was on par with her on screen sparring partner even Ed O'Neil(Al Bundy) was amazing.To finish up, it kept me glued to the edge of my seat from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Bone-Chilling","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Bone Collector is one of my favorite films of 1999 because it is laced with mystery, suspense and twist-filled tale that is very unique. Denzel Washington is one of the reasons that this movie is a success. In The Bone Collector he is Lincoln Rhyme a paralyzed forensics detective who with each seizure he fears will leave him in a vegetative state, must locate a serial killer before he strikes again. This is a role that I believe Washington is perfect for.  For example, in most cases actors must be on the move to make the film worth seeing, Washington was limited to a hospital bed for much of the film. This gave him the opportunity to stretch out his acting talent and create the suspense from his bed. Angelina Jolie is like bird spreading out her wings in her role of Det Amelia Donaghy, Rhyme's assistant and legs on this case. I must praise Ed O'Neill because I was surprised to notice the amount of wide variety and range of talent he had. From comedic roles in Dutch to a dramatic role in The Spanish Prisoner. O'Niell really steps into the foreground as Det. Paulie Selitto and it is refreshing to hear dialogue from him that includes words that Al Bundy would say. The scenes and dialogue were set up with such mastery I was left with questions such as was this rehearsed, was this even written or was it that they knew exactly what they were doing. I could barely stay in my seat to see what would happen next, I really enjoyed Washington's riveting performance, Jolie's brilliance and O'Neill's variety of talents as they put their talents together to put out The Bone Collector.  "},{"Title":"formulaic, although well-done, bad ending.","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Someone who drives a taxi with a hanged monkey toy hanging from his rear-vision mirror is killing unsuspecting taxi-riders in the cold streets of New York.  His trademark is to leave bones from his victims lying around his crime scene.  Enter Angelina Jolie, a rookie cop, who, guided by quadriplegic inspector Washington is sent to scope out the area and let her instincts for forensic investigation run wild.  This plays a lot like THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS.  First you've got the young female investigator fresh out on the streets who must bear the sexist posturing of her male colleagues and who finds it difficult and emotionally trying to stomach the awful crimes which she is trying to understand, however unwillingly.  She's also carrying the emotional burden of losing her father, who died in a work-related incident (both fathers play cops).  Then you've got the confined genius who provides the brains for the particular operation.  And finally the whole overarching story is the same.  There's a killer on the loose and in order to trap him the female cop/FBI agent must go through one genius to get to the other (both killers leave 'clues' or signature objects lying around).  It's an interesting story.  I especially like the scene where Jolie stumbles on the first crime scene which is strewn over a train track.  Inevitably a train approaches.  Unfazed (only until she stops the train does she let out a breath of relief) she stares down the enormous phallic symbol which screeches to a stop.  What a woman!  However her bravado is continually undermined throughout the movie by Rooker's incompetent inspector.  Gripes about the film - stupid ending.  It tries so hard throughout to keep you from guessing the identity of the killer that inevitably no one would guess who it eventually is.  And it overstates the case of Washington's transition too much.  Would have been better if especially the killer aspect could have been redone. "},{"Title":"A great excuse to see Angelina! .. as well as an entertaining flick..","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Bone Collector was not initially on my list of movies to run out and see, but as soon as I realized Angelina Jolie was in it, I did. Denzel Washington also being in the cast I was certain it would be worth seeing. I wasn't entirely disappointed being that it was suspenseful and exciting, but as others have mentioned, it wasn't exactly an original. Nonetheless, Angelina is as stunning as ever and does a good job playing the tentative beginner cop. "},{"Title":"UTTERLY HORRIBLE... BUT NOT BAD","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Wow!! What amazing scenery! Ugly, rundown, rotten buildings by the dozen, scary dark places full of rats and debris... this movie gets 10/10 for truly awesome set pieces! Or were these filmed on location?? A really neat way to see New York, a nice change from the glitz of Godzilla (god forbid).A cab driver commits grisly murders and torture, this is yet another of those who-done-it flicks. I found it was a bit slow in places and not much seemed to happen, but there was enough action to make up for the slowness. How would YOU respond, being the first to a horrifying murder scene, and being forced to do the forensics on it?Denzel Washington didn't do too much, bedridden and a quadraplegic. He did get the chance to do some action at the end... there were also one too many irritating scenes of that rookie cop's face up close. Her lips!! Huge!!However, I found this flick to be very absorbing, if somewhat loosely explained (for example how some clues were solved). The last clue was totally impossible - no normal human being would've figured that one out... or is it just me? "},{"Title":"Scary, but could have been better","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie did have chills.  But you needed to suspend disbelief entirely to enjoy the movie.  I won't go into it that much, but I was dissapointed especially since one of the producers was Bo Dietl, a highly decorated NYPD Detective and the subject of a terrible movie, One Tough Cop.  The movie was okay, but a total renter. "},{"Title":"a good one!","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A well made movie. Denzel is superb as usual and Angelina shines in her first major role other than Hackers. The resemblance to 'The silence of the lambs' is obviously there but then that has become a norm in all serial killer movies, hasn't it? Philip Noyce offers some brilliant shots but over n' all this one isn't as good as his previous ones, especially those of Jack Ryan series.  "}{"Title":"Who Dun IT??   They do'od it....","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie protrays its intent perfectly.  It follows the classic who dunnit formula.  You'll never guess who did it until they tell you.  So guess as you may, its still a guess.  The story was entertaining and suspenseful.  I thought the cute, tough, unfeeling, irreverent girl role was overdone but glady it ends after 45 minutes or so.  This is the tyoe of movie that will keep you guessing trying to figure out the clues of the latest murder or the meaning of the clues.  You get so caught up in trying to interpret the clues, you almost forget to figure out who did the murder.I emjoyed it.  Some gross moments but entertaining.  "},{"Title":"A Tense, emotional, sometimes wrenching movie.","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  We went in with mixed emotions due to the variety of Newspaper and IMBD reviews on this movie. Overall, a very good movie. A very powerfull performance by Denzel. Not academy award but much better than in Fallen. It was a stretch for believing he would send a Rookie Cop into those Crime scenes with Backup hundreds of feet or floors away and no idea who was waiting in the dark. Angelina was great. She can act but didn't look quite physical enough to carry the part let alone the equipment. Still you root for both of them to find the killer before the next victim becomes a victim. I picked the Killers ID first. My wife picked the next most probable. They gave you several to choose from but if you pay attention, it can be done.A somewhat bittersweet ending knowing there was a price for the outcome.Worth seeing!  "},{"Title":"The Bone Collector is Bad to the Bone","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Hollywood loves to make serial killer movies, unfortunately not too well. Within the past decade only a minute group was superb (Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer, a horrifying character study, the highly intelligent Silence of the Lambs and the stylish and sinister Seven), the rest fall into the mediocre to awful category.  Unfortunately The Bone Collector falls into the latter.  I say unfortunately because The Bone Collector is based on Jeffrey Deaver's most chilling and interesting, if somewhat flawed novel of the same name.  After reading the book at a breakneck speed, I really wanted this movie to be good or at the least, give me chills.Lincoln Rhyme (Denzel Washington) is a brilliant forensics specialist who career is practically over after a horrible accident four years ago that has left him completely paralyzed except for movement in his face, shoulder and his right index finger.  Bedridden to a life of misery which he decides to end with the help of a doctor, Rhyme is called upon to help track down a brutal serial killer who picks up his victims via cab and then tortures and kills them, leaving behind sets of intricate clues. Enter rookie police officer Amelia Donaghy (Angelina Jolie, with an unusually pumped up set of lips) to become the so-called legs of Rhyme, investigating the crime scenes while Rhyme calls the shots from his high tech bed in his stylish and spacious Soho loft.While the book took great detail in explaining what goes on in the mind of a quadriplegic, the bond and attraction that grows between Rhyme and Donaghy, and the grisly, methodical, tortures and murders, all gets totally lost in the transition to the screen. Not only that but in most cases of novels becoming films, The Bone Collector changes drastically and not for the better in the film version.  What is left is a slow paced, clumsily directed, poorly photographed and ultimately boring film.  Director Phillip Noyce sets up most scenes with little tension and suspense, which is a major problem if you are directing a crime thriller.  But even with a great director at the helm, the script is plain flat and the characters are not that interesting to really even care about.As far as the acting goes the best that can be said is that at least the actors get their lines out.  Denzel Washington, who is one of my favorite actors, basically goes through the motions and never really captures Rhymes tortured soul (although character wise he isn't given much to work with). Angelina Jolie, who was brilliant in the HBO movie Gia, comes off looking lost and not really conveying much of anything.  The rest of the actors do not fare much better with the underdeveloped characters, although Queen Latifah gives her best shot in the thankless role of Rhymes health caretaker.By the end of the movie when the identity of the killer is revealed (which comes out of nowhere, which was also somewhat of a problem with the book), some of you will wonder why you sat this long in the movie theater.  The serial killer theme has been pretty much worked to death, so maybe it is time to give it a rest for a while.  The Bone Collector is major proof of that. Do yourself a favor, skip the movie, pick up one of the most chilling novels written and read it in your dark room late at night. Not recommended.  "},{"Title":"A terrifying chase through the relics of New York's infrastructure","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Lincoln Rhyme is a master crime-solver who one day, while crawling around a murder scene is turned into a paraplegic when he his hit in the back by a falling beam.His days of cracking the big cases are over it seems, and with the periodic seizures that come with his injury threatening to turn him into a vegetable, Lincoln begins to think about exiting on his own terms.But while Lincoln is planning the big goodbye, New York's finest are scratching their heads after the body of a big-time developer is found while his wife remains missing.They turn to Rhyme. And if that's not enough to get him going again, the entrance of Amelia Donaghy, a rookie cop who shows a previously-undiscovered talent for forensics, brings the old bloodhound back to life.With Donaghy acting as his eyes and ears at the murder scenes, Rhyme puts together the pieces of the puzzle that will lead to the perpetrator. But will they track him down before the inevitable showdown between the perpetrator and Rhyme himself?Such is the premise of The Bone Collector, starring Denial Washington as Rhyme and Angelina Jolie as Donaghy, a movie made in the tradition of those murder mysteries where the most unlikely of people solve the most difficult of cases.The Bone Collector has potential on many levels the love-hate relationship between the mentor and the protoge; the motivations that the two main characters have for doing what they do; the tension of knowing that Rhyme will eventually have to confront the killer.But where this movie really excels is in the sleuthing. It's not an easy case, but the oddball duo of Rhyme, who has control of only his head, neck and right index finger, and Donaghy, whose abilities are matched only by her reluctance to do the job, make a championship team.Matters for Donaghy aren't helped by the fact that she must deal with some incredibly grisly murders let alone the fact that her father, who was a police officer, took his own life. Simply having to face a crawl through another abandoned subway system or slaughter house is tough enough without having to deal with those issues.The Bone Collector can be unfocused at times. Is it about a great man overcoming a crippling injury? Or is it about looking to the past as a way to deal with the present? Or is it about a woman learning to overcome her fears?But while it fails on some levels, The Bone Collector does an admirable job of taking movie-goers on a terrifying chase through the dark side of New York's infrastructure. "},{"Title":"great thriller","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  wow, this movie really impressed me!  I was expecting it to be terrible, since it had been out for weeks and I'd heard nothing good about it.  But I was just blown away.  I like the twists in the movie, the bed-ridden Denzel Washington, the tension between the characters you don't usually see in movies of this type.  Of course it was a little excessively morbid at times, but I don't think that took away from the drama at all.  "},{"Title":"A great suspense-thriller in the genre of Rear Window","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Denzel Washington and Angelina Jolie combine wonderfully in a formula for suspense that omits the expected startling elements designed to scare you our of your seat. In a style similar to Rear Window and Wait Until Dark, The Bone Collector pits intellectual savvy against criminal genius, and youthful courage against the terror of a madman.  There is a fair share of high-tech gadgetry, but not beyond believability.Queen Latifah adds a wonderful character as Washington's nurse and girl Friday.The Bone Collector is good entertainment.  While it could be argued that there is a lack of character depth, and take-away value, The Bone Collector is a great mystery and worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"Great Bed!","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This serial killer likes to hack a hunk of bone out of his victims!	The Bone Collector is Australian director Phillip Noyce's latest film following Dead Calm, Sliver, Clear And Present Danger and Patriot Games. Noyce appears to have become adept at playing the Hollywood game, a skill for which he surely should be admired.	It must be murder sometimes weighing the wishes of the accountants and bankrollers who run Tinsel Town, let alone the actors and writers. But the rules are simple really. Fit the mould, balance the books, make a few (million) dollars for the investors and you'll get to make another film.	I heard an interview with Noyce the other day. He with others has been trying for years to film The Quiet American, Graham Green's excellent Vietnam novel. The problem is, as Noyce said, the bad guy's American. Difficult politics!	The Bone Collector goes resolutely by the numbers. This is a carefully constructed mainstream film designed to please as many of the general population as possible. The step by step opening scenes signal its essential banality, but to Phillip Noyce's credit the film survives. It's quite entertaining.The Bone Collector has elements of Copycat and Silence Of The Lambs, not to mention Rear Window, but a Rear Window in the shape of a computer screen.The always good Denzel Washington plays Lincoln Rhyme who was a crash hot New York forensic detective before his back was broken when he was crushed by a falling beam. There's a rather neat plot element.He's now a quadriplegic with only the use of his head, his shoulders and, rather remarkably I would have thought, his right index finger. Useful for clicking on a computer mouse.	This hasn't cramped his style as much as it could have. By some miracle he sits up in his special bed with a zillion dollars worth of computer equipment in one of those immense apartments in which nearly all Hollywood film characters live in New York. A serial killer begins to butcher victims and Lincoln sends out police rookie Amelia (the big lipped Angelina Jolie) to be his eyes and legs.There are plenty of conventions to follow if you make one of these films. The Silence Of The Lambs set the pace.  	Gore is pretty standard. These serial killers sure like to have their victims suffer. And they like to work in the dark. This gives the film maker plenty of scope for having characters sidling along, torch and gun out, with rats and other squirmy things about to fall upon them.There will be two or three sudden belts of sound to make the audience jump and it's standard for the killer to want to knock off the cop who's on the chase. But what if said killer only has to knock the cop off his bed?  How can that be made into a fair fight? Mmm. There's a challenge for a film maker.Phil Noyce and the team handled this fairly well and they even let a dullard like me pick the identity of the killer's identity. For that I remain grateful. And I suppose I'm sort of grateful for the following as well. It seems that it is admissible in a film like this for a black man to have a relationship with a pink/white woman. Perhaps though only if he's crippled.But with all of this The Bone Collector, with all of its predictability, moves along smartly as an effective 90's thriller. Meanwhile good luck to Phil Noyce and his The Quiet American project. I'd like to see that.  "},{"Title":"Predictable, but a pretty good flick","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I didn't want to write a review for this movie after my first viewing of it because I arrived late and ended up sitting on the first row.  So, after seeing it again tonight, I've decided that this is a pretty good movie.  The few flaws I did find were majorly overshadowed by Denzel Washington's performance as Lincoln Rhyme, a quadriplegic former forensic crime scene investigator.  Also, Angelina Jolie did surprisingly well with what little she was given to work with, as her character was uninteresting for the most part.  The scene with her boyfriend was completely unnecessary, but in her first meeting with Rhyme she revealed just a glimpse of what she is capable of.  Unfortunately, we only see that part of her in that one scene.Like I said, there were definitely some glaring flaws in this movie, and being a criminal justice student I usually pick these movies all apart.  But I really did enjoy Washington's performance quite a bit.  It reminded me of his work in Glory, for which he won an Oscar, if I'm not mistaken.With just a little alteration to the script, slightly different direction and a bit more character development, this could have been a real block buster.  As it is, Washington, Jolie, and (to an extent) O'Neill carry the movie.  Am I sorry I saw it twice?  Not at all.  Would I see it again in the theater?  Probably not.  Will I rent it on video?  Most likely.  I give it 6/10. "},{"Title":"Fall is not a good season for Denzel","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It seems last Fall's The Siege and this Fall's Bone Collector are misfires for this talented man.  The movie made me laugh towards the end too.  Peter Gabriels song was the best highlight for me.  Angelina Jolie is hot though, damn those lips!! "},{"Title":"This film has the Boogieman written all over it.","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"      As with most suspense/crime films, this one follows a long bloodline of brutal murder films that entertain a small minority of the population with calculated heinous brutality.    The film actually does have some good character acting though.  Denzel Washington did a good job from a bed through the entire film.  Ed O'Neill, shook off his typecast role as disfunctional father from Married with Children.  Ed can actually act pretty good.  Angelina Jolie, performed as the central character, that was mostly believable. A shy and feminine cop in the NYPD, is well...an unlikely resource for solving brutal homicides, but this is one of the charms of the plot.    Although the film could have went farther into the ugliness of humanity, it went as far as it needed, to make a point.  There were a couple of gruesome scenes of disfigured victims, that may satisfy a youth's curiosity, but I would be very careful about letting tender-minded youths see this. Seeing the face of the disfigured victim has some usefulness.            Bloody murder films will never go away, just like murder, itself, will never go away.  They are a part of the American Cinema Scene, since they accurately reflect the reality of savage behavior that takes place all over America.  There is no community without a Boogieman.     "}{"Title":"A clean miss...","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I don't know when I started to get bored with this movie.  It may have been when the heroine (Jolie) stopped a train with a flashlight and a loud shout, or it may have been when Captain Cheney (red herring bad guy) yelled at her for doing her job for no apparent reason.  In any case, when I stopped being involved in the story and started noticing the faults, it seemed to me that on just about every level, this film was mediocre in its best moments and downright manipulative the rest of the time.  The only bright spot may be the 'acting' of Denzel Washington.  He plays the bed-ridden detective as well as the part could be played, I suppose, and displayed hidden depths that would have contributed to a much better film with better casting and direction.  Too bad, I was really looking forward to a good film after seeing the great trailers they presented... "},{"Title":"An atmospheric thriller.","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  'The Bone Collector' is an atmospheric thriller. Benzel Washington plays Lincoln Rhyme, an ace forensics cop who becomes paralyzed in the line of duty. Only able to move his head, neck, and one index finger, he spends his days bedridden and besieged by seizures that threaten to kill him. When his former colleagues encounter some peculiar murders, they enlist his help. By using Officer Amela Donaghy, played by Angelina Jolie, as his eyes and ears at the ensuing crime scenes, Rhymes works on the puzzle from his bed. The acting is great. Washington is able to convey so much from a basically immobile performance. Jolie works hard to get something out of an underwritten character. The problem with the film is impossible to figure out. The characters are one-dimensional at best. If you enjoy great acting, then, perhaps that can counter the ill-conceived characters and plot devices. "},{"Title":"B-Movie with A-List cast","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Without the presence of Denzel Washington and Angelina Jolie and even most of the fine supporting cast, this would probably be a 'straight to video' film. Glaring plot holes and bad dialogue are 2 of the reasons why. A good actor can make ridiculous dialogue sound believable but a bad actor serves to shine a spotlight on it (and vice versa). This is true of every scene, all blessedly short, in which Mike McGlone appears. But there is genuine chemistry between the 2 leads, indeed Washington's  character, a quadraplegic, comes closest to his first believable love scene. Only actors as talented as these 2 could pull that off.  But the ending is a cheat. (I won't spoil it here.)  "},{"Title":"tsk tsk tsk...","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I don't know what the filmmakers were trying to achieve but they certainly failed at many things here.  Unclear plot, no purpose, no motivation, big budget, big stars...reminds me of the G.W. Bush campaign, lol!  But politics aside, I still feel ripped off by this flick...what could have been an interesting murder mystery got muddled in a bunch of extraneous sub-plot junk that only confused the story that wasn't that interesting to begin with.  Too bad for the cast.  This is an example of too much talent crammed into thin roles.  This is nowhere near where Silence of the Lambs went so don't be fooled by what the newspapers say. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but not outstanding","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  They say that when the economy is good and the world is at peace that we have an urge to indulge in the darker side in our fantasies.  Thus, 1999 has been one terrific year for spooky movies. It all started with Sixth Sense and will end with a bang with End of Days and Sleepy Hollow. Poor Bone Collector kind of gets lost in the shuffle, a mediocre attempt at horror that entertains, but lasts in memory just about the  length of time that it takes the hero to solve a murder mystery (and that is not too long).The hero is played by Denzel Washington and he is the bright ray of sunshine in an otherwise dim bulb of a movie.  He plays a quadraplegic who was formerly the top homicide detective in the NYPD.  He is in a state of deep depression about his condition and has lost the will to live.  But then a prominent couple is kidnapped and a lady streetcop happen upon the murder scene of the husband and Denzel is suddenly back on the job, his curiousity piqued once more. When he gets a full forensic team in his apartment to aid him and he is solving murders on a moment-to-moment basis, the movie gets exciting.I had a friend who would not go to this movie, because he said he figured it would be too gory.  In my opinion it was not gory enough when you consider the bizarre way that some of these murders took place.  If I had been the makeup artist, there would have been some horrific corpses, but here I think it was toned down so as not to offend.  (Think of Seven as an example of how it SHOULD be handled.)  As for the acting, I think that Queen Latifah did a great job as the nurse, but that Angelica Jolie was woefully miscast as the lady cop.  (At least they tried to explain her beauty a little bit, but it still did not equate that a girl that looks like that would give up modeling to become a street cop, even if her father HAD been on the force.)To sum it up, I would say to go see this movie if you have seen everything out there that's better or better still, wait till you can rent it.     "},{"Title":"A really creepy film with a real downer of an ending...","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  `The Bone Collector' is, in fact, one of the creepiest thrillers of the decade.  It is wall-to-wall with relentless suspense and powerful performances from Denzel Washington and Angelina Jolie.  Unfortunately, after building such a tremendous amount of tension, the revelation of the killer is quite a letdown.I am a huge fan of one of director Phillip Noyce's earlier films, `Sea Of Love' with Al Pacino and Ellen Barkin, which was one of the best thrillers of the 80s.  He has a knack for generating anxiety in his audience.  `The Bone Collector,' much like `Seven,' is very gruesome and disturbing.  The production value is wonderful and creates a threatening atmosphere.  The film is very fast-paced but what really drives the story along is the dynamic chemistry between Washington and Jolie.  Academy award winner Denzel Washington is already an established actor and it would be pointless to point out his greatness.  Now, Angelina Jolie, who won two much-needed Golden Globe awards for `Gia' and `George Wallace,' is one of the most beautiful and talented actresses in Hollywood today, and one of my personal favorites.  I loved her in last year's `Playing By Heart,' a film that deserved more exposure than it received.  I must also mention how much I respect Queen Latifah as an actress.  She demonstrates here, and she did in last year's severely underrated `Living Out Loud,' that she is a great screen presence.Women, nowadays, are getting more front-runner action-thriller roles by the minute.  Recently, Ashley Judd starred in the box-office hit `Double Jeopardy.'  She is also one of my favorite actresses and was great in the film, however, her performance was just too good for the screenplay to handle.Anyway, about the downer ending in `The Bone Collector,' when the killer was revealed, my first reaction was, `THAT'S who the killer is?'  The ending was rather unpredictable, but I think it was the actor alone that made it a disappointment, meaning I wished a different actor was the villain.  All the tension I had during 90% of the film drained out of me at the ending.  By that, it has missed greatness on the levels of `Seven' and `The Silence of the Lambs.'  Oh, well.  Having said that, I still maintain this is one of the year's best films because Washington, Jolie and Latifah were wonderful, the story was driven, Noyce's direction was uncanny and the suspense was very substantial. "},{"Title":"I thoroughly enjoyed it!!!","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What is wrong with just enjoying a movie???   It seems that mostcritics just go to see how they can tear it apart.  They all want to be so intellectual and cynical.  Movies are ENTERTAINMENT.  They are not the holy grail.  Lighten up, guys.This was the fourth movie I've seen this week.  I saw Being John Malkovich, The Insider, and I even saw Pokemon.  (With my grandkids).I won't comment too much on Pokemon, but I really liked the other three.  They all had a lot going for them, but this movie was the only one that never slowed down.  It kept you on the edge of your seat the whole time. Denzel was wonderful, as always.  I thought the intimation of a romance in the offing between him and Angelina Jolie, was a little far fetched.  But it was a minor irritation.I recommend this movie to anyone who likes suspense movies.  You will have a good time!!  "},{"Title":"Glad I don't use yellow taxi cabs!!!","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If I'm ever in the U.S. I don't think I'll be stepping into a  yellow taxi cab after seeing this movie. Denzel Washington's part as a paraplegic forensic expert, must have been a difficult one for him to play, but I thought he did an excellent job. It's a cat and mouse game and keeps you thinking. It's not right to tell all for those who still have to see it. Made me think of the responsible jobs, our policemen and the people who work in forensics have to do on a daily basis. If you like movies with suspense ...you'll find it in this one.  "},{"Title":"Copycat of Copycat","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  After and all during my viewing of the film, I kept asking myself one question Why am I seeing this again?  The question was easily answered, and I knew all along  The premise, the formula, the chain of events--all pointed back to COPYCAT...literally.  From the way the house/bedridden characters Denzel, Sigourney react to the first sign of evidence to the use of only ONE vocalized song--both sung by the Police (Well isn't that interesting, you say!).  The bad guys had the same loser qualities; heck they looked the same, acted the same, even carried the same pouch of shiny tools and unfolded then gently as if they were some relic worth millions and should remain in the wall unit under a light for display rather than be used.  Both bad guys get killed the same way--after a similar fight with Denzel/Sigourney.  You have Denzel talking Jolie through the crime scenes at points--just as Weaver did to Hunter.  The bad guy gets inside the door--roughly the same way as well.  There are differences too, don't get me wrong, but the whole jist of the movie was way too similar to Copycat to be enjoyed.  The film had some moments of real rustic/dated set design, similar to what you'd find in Se7en.  The story line, however, was weak; the characters were way underdeveloped; and the plot was held together by the few homicides that were well studied from pictures in a really old book (just like Copycat). Well, it's just another number to the production companies and if you've seen Copycat and enjoyed it, like I did, do not waste your money on the Bone Collector--there's no need to pay for the same movie twice.   "},{"Title":"Will Give You Chill Right To The Bones","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was a decent movie with a very good plot. I thought Denzel and Angelina did a great acting job in this movie. Even though Denzel played most of his part in a bed, he still delivered a powerful performance. Having a killer act out murders from a book isn't anything original, but having a female juvenile official do fuerensics to help solve a murder is unique. Angelina did an outstanding job showing her discomfort with the task at hand. The type of murders were also very chilling and will make people in New York think before jumping into their next cab. The only really bad thing about the movie was knowing who the killer was halfway through the movie. I was able to narrow it down to 2 people and I figured it out that one was probably a decoy. It wasn't too hard. Ed O'neil and Queen Latifah also supplied a nice supporting cast. An overall a well done movie that's worth seeing.  "}{"Title":"A very suspenseful exercise","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Bone Collector seems to mine the vein of historical suspense recently accessed by Caleb Carr in Angel of Darkness and E.L Doctorow in Waterworks.  Gee, crime just seemed more fun back in turn-of-the century New York.  Angelina Jolie is good but not believable as the novice forensics specialist.  Denzel is believable and good as Dr. Rhymes.  I wonder if Christopher Reeve auditioned for this film?  The suspense was there, along with the unnecessarily gory shots of the victims, which I found to be a bit much. Silence of the Lambs was more understated, and the villian was much smarter.  I did like the little skeleton doll which oscillated under the cabbie's rear-view mirror as he picked up more hapless victims.  Not bad. "},{"Title":"Lots to like, questionable storyline","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  There is a lot to like about this movie. This movie is filled with great acting and likable characters amid the dank surroundings of the crime scenes.  Denzel Washington is the bright quadraplegic forensic expert asked to find a murderer with the help of reluctant young patrol cop played by Angelina Jolie. There's the usual friction at first that turns to admiration between the two.  There's even some sexual tension that crops up later in the show.  In the end, however, it's the script that lets us down.  We follow along waiting for the big payoff at the end to find out who did it. The killer seems to come out of blue towards the end.  It is fun to watch up to this point and I found myself laughing at the ending.  This could have been a great movie but the story was asking too much of the audience. "},{"Title":"Epilogue woefully out of place","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Warning Frequent Spoilers!!Another movie that doesn't seem so bad while you're watching it, but becomes more mediocre the longer you think about it. The final battle, for instance, should have been incredibly suspensful (think about it--fully mobile serial killer vs quadraplegic), but for some reason generates little or no emotional response.Also, the overly upbeat epilogue seems woefully out of place compared to the tone of the rest of the film. The characters trot their beaming families into the hero's apartment for the big xmas bash, it's implied that there may be something going on between hero and heroine, even his life-threatening physical condition seems to have improved. The only thing missing was a surprise entrance by Queen Latifah, sassily telling everyone that it'll take more than a knife wound to keep her down, and the hero suddenly standing up out of his wheelchair, healed by the love in the room. I wouldn't be surprised to find out this ending was tacked on after test audiences complained of a downer ending. "},{"Title":"It's Copycat all over again...","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  But that doesn't mean it's not a good flick.  The first and foremost goal of a movie is to entertain, and this film succeeds in all the right ways.  As with any picture, there are some things that may be a little on the thin side, but all in all, it's going to be hard to walk away from the Bone Collector without having had a good time.I imagine that there will be plenty of I've seen this all before... kinds of comments, but luckily for me, I almost never have a movie experience spoiled by that type of thing.  In reality, how many movies do you see that are completely original ideas?  Not too many, so you have to evaluate them individually, or you'll never be happy.I mentioned Copycat earlier, and if you think about it, this picture could almost qualify as plagiarism.  All that's missing is Harry Connick Jr. asking for someone's SQUIRREL COVERS.  Denzel Washington is the shut-in this time, playing Lincoln Rhyme who's bed-ridden because he's been paralyzed in the line of duty.  He's a forensics expert in an almost psychic way.  He sees what no one else can see.  That's why they come to him after Angelina Jolie, who plays Amelia Donaghy, photographs a grisly murder scene.  Sounds like Copycat was copied, for lack of a better term, you think?Anyway, Rhyme looks at the evidence that Amelia has photographed and gathered and feels that she has a gift for forensics work, even though she's just a beat-cop.  So he decides that she'll be his eyes and ears at the scene of the next murder.  They know that there will be another one because the evidence tells them so.The story goes on from there, time after time they examine the evidence and find the right places to be, but they are just one step behind the killer.  Of course you know that after about 2 hours they will have caught him/her, or killed him/her.From an entertainment standpoint, this an excellent film.  It pushes all the right buttons.  The characters are generally believable, but Amelia's initial indifference towards Rhyme seems written in as opposed to genuine to the script.  The same is true for the character Capt. Howard Cheney played by Michael Rooker.  His complete lack of respect for Rhyme seemed phony because it was just there, it was never explained.  At least with Amelia, you could see that she was supposed to be cool towards Rhyme because he was trying to get her to do things she didn't want to do.Denzel is excellent as usual, Ed O'Neil is good, and in general, this is a great movie.   "},{"Title":"A Good Chill!","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I thought this movie was good.  I liked the overall effect of creepy people, and keeping them guessing.  Angelina Jolie was great.  Then again, she usually is.  Denzel soared through this movie, but wasn't the greatest. Between Jolie and the very talented Queen Latifah, they brought this chilling movie to a chilling climax. I loved this movie.  "},{"Title":"Very Terrified","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was very terrified with the crime scene in the movie. The scene was very realistic and played with brilliant idea by a copy cat killer. Like any other movie, these cops are looking for the killer and the killer is someone they   can't expect. Whole time, I was thinking who might be the killer and guessing that the rude police chief might be killer or the nursing lady... etc. But now, I am thinking, instead of thinking who the killer might be, I must value the process of how, where, and why the crimes were happened. This movie wasn't all about chasing the killer physically, this was about preventing it by going back to the old century when you weren't existed.  "},{"Title":"A scary film with fellow viewers dying from heart attacks in the theatre","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a movie which deserves a good rep. Phillip Noyce (Director) delivers some high paced suspenseful drama. Even though Denzel is bedridden in this movie, He still maintains his strong personality, and his skill in acting is shown strongly. He delivers a great performance. Surprisingly, the movie isn't just another kill, mutilate live in horror movie. It is highly suspenseful, and the director does a great job of jolting the entire audience out of their seats. The lady detective, played by angeline jollie, leaves something to be desired. Maybe acting wasn't for her. She plays one of those i am a strong woman hear me roar types. Who complains about Denzels treatment of her, and bitches half of the movie because she is given a real role. One opinion to Hollywood is that they can start to be a little more realistic. (Blair Witch Project?) "},{"Title":"Not bad.","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  As the thriller genre goes, The Bone Collector is a fairaddition.  It doesn't rise to the level of Seven or The Silenceof the Lambs, but it also doesn't fall into the depths ofSliver, which was also directed by Phillip Noyce.  Noyce doeshandle the subject matter well and what we have is a slick pillthat goes down easy.  Denzel Washington is confined to a bed forthe film, and in the scenes with him, we are always drawn to hisnatural charisma.  Angelina Jolie is fine in her role, and Ithink that we shall see her in far better roles in the future. The movie has all the requisite twists and turns and grislyimages, but what it doesn't have is that far more sinisterundertone.  Silence and Seven both had that.  Even though themovie was over, there was something about them that we justcouldn't shake.       "},{"Title":"Already ripe for its porn-parody retitling","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Denzel Washington is a sort of quadraplegic Sherlock Holmes, and Angelina Jolie is the rookie cop who becomes his eyes and ears in a creepy form of telepathic mind-body bonding that feels like a variant on cybersex. If this sounds a bit like a David Cronenberg riff on JUNGLE FEVER, it's more interesting than anything in this by-the-book retread of SEVEN, SILENCE OF THE LAMBS and Caleb Carr's THE ALIENIST. The only thing that holds the attention here is the cinematographer Dean Semler's, and the hair and makeup team's, curious vision of how Angelina Jolie should look. As a green cop pacing through slimy subway tunnels, Jolie is glossed and lighted like Lana Turner in a Douglas Sirk movie. Cool for those, like me, who swoon over all things Jolie; but doesn't make a lot of sense--much like the preposterous cripple-on-a-rampage climax, guaranteed to send audiences out on a knee-slapping note. "},{"Title":"Fun and well-directed... But makes NO sense at ALL!","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I quite enjoyed this movie. I had heard that it was dark and gory, but from the first moments you can tell that you're in for a reasonably tame ride. It wasn't all that gory, either.This movie means to be a Silence of the Lambs type thriller, with a smart detective after a smart killer that leaves clues that must be deciphered, but the difference is that where Silence held up under scrutiny, this film makes ABSOLUTELY NO SENSE WHATSOEVER. It's a whole lot of fun, and seems to make sense while you're watching it, but once you walk out of the theater and reflect back, the whole thing falls into shambles. In fact, I'm kind of amazed someone adapted the book to a film without a little bit of reworking-- it's that bad.Nevertheless, this movie did creep me out. It's very New York and plays a lot on urban paranoias, and when I walked out of the theater (at midnight) and realized I was the only one on the street, I got a little freaked. I'm a big guy and I would normally walk home from the theater, but this movie made me a little paranoid. So I jumped in a cab (which is, of course, how the killer in the film finds his victims).One New York thing that made me laugh, though, is that the investigators would get a clue about a location in Manhattan, shout It's right here! and then circle it on the map. Thing is-- they'd circle about a ten-block radius! And of course the people in the field would be able to find the exact location right away. Ha!Denzel, I have to say, is pretty amazing. It's about halfway through his terrific performance before you notice that HE HAS NOT MOVED. Go Denzel, you rock.Angelina is good, I thought, though sometimes I have to remember which one she is and which one is Ashley Judd. Unfortunately the script has her do a few things that ANY CHILD in the audience would know better than. I tell you, I knew more about forensics from the first five minutes of the movie than she did, and spent the rest of the movie going She shouldn't have done that... And the fact is revealed in the movie that she was a model before joining the police force!!!! I guess this is gonna be Hollywood's new thing from now on Those models could really all be brilliant detectives and scientists if they wanted to, but the pay isn't as good!One person who is fast becoming a favorite (and most desired) actor of mine is Luis Guzman. I loved him in The Limey, and he's one of the more vital presences here. And he's hot. HOT. So that's it. I recommend that you go see it, just be sure not to think about it after you leave.--- Check out website devoted to bad and cheesy movies www.cinemademerde.com "}{"Title":"Great creepy film","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was a creepy, atmospheric and well-made thriller that showcases Denzel's acting abilities as well as show us that Jolie is an up-and-comer. Actually the acting is great all around especially from the supporting cast (Ed O'Neill, Queen Latifah, Luis Guzman). The murders were inventive and truly sick and the tension that led up to their discovery was fabulous. Jolie was totally believable as anyone would be when placed into situations like hers for the first time. Sure, it's not SEVEN or SILENCE OF THE LAMBS, but I doubt we will ever see films in this genre that can match up to that calibre. "},{"Title":"Sick, dark movie! (Not too mention a nonsensical script)","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  After watching the movie Seven I was already slightly disturbed by the dark vision.With The Bone Collector I got the same impression again, especially since there are lots of gross scenes again. It would be quite enough to just see the crime scenes from afar and have the more gruesome details of the murders discussed after the fact, but no, we of course have to look at corpses in various disgusting states and photos of open wounds etc. - thanks a lot!If this movie had been advertised as some horror flick, fine, but for a thriller it is way too disgusting!  "},{"Title":"an intense movie","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I once read a film review by Roger Ebert that said when a critic reviews a movie they must realize that a man is sitting beside him and that man is himself.  How does a film make that man feel?  Sometimes I think critics forget that there is a person watching a film and they concentrate way too much on what shot is being used in what frame and if they are using a dolly or a crane or a whatever they are using.  All I have heard from critics since this film came out is negativity towards it.  That I can not understand.  This film is as intense as any of the great horror that I have seen and it is as well acted as any film I have seen, so what is not to like about it?  I have heard words like impropriety and unrealistic and absurd.  And my response to those words are,  How do you know?  How is it exactly that critics seem to know everything about everything?  The problem with this movie is that they say that the Angela Jolie character is much too inexperienced to be handling the responsibility of doing forensics work in a crime scene.  But how do they know that is true.  If you go with what the film is saying (which I do)then she is the right person for the job because a man that does have experience has recommended her for the job and that should be all you need to suspend disbelief.  When you go into a film and all you want to do is be a critic, you are missing the point of going in the first place, and that is to have fun and be entertained for two hours.  Of course there are films like Double Jeapordy that are just plain garbage ( my opinion of course ) but a film like The Bone Collector is a tense and tightly woven movie and if you want to be on the edge of your seat then this is the film for you.  It is not a scary film in the same sense as Stir Of Echoes and Sixth Sense and Haunted Hill, but it is tense enough that it will have you gripping the seat quite aggressively.I really think Denzel Washington is one of the best actors in the game today.  He easily could have won a best actor Oscar for Malcolm X and he did win one for Glory.  And when you look at him in a film like The Seige, you understand his full range and body of work, The Bone Collector is another triumph for him.  Here he plays a quadripilegic man that is thrusted back into the spotlight when grizzly murders begin popping up all over N.Y.  With his genius and the ingenuity of his protegee, they have to solve a crime of a smart serial killer before he cna carry out his ultimate plan.  As I said, the acting is stellar in this film including people like Ed O'Neil.  The only qualm I have about the film is the misuse of Michael Rooker.  Here he plays the always-angry-for-no-reason-police-chief.  His scenes are not written on the same intelligence level as the rest of the film and the only reason he is here is to throw you off the real killer's identity.  The film spends so much time trying to make you think that Rooker is the killer that by the time Rooker has been an ass for the second time you already know he is not the killer, it would be to easy to figure that out.  So his acting talents are wasted on a forgettable role.  Michael Rooker, and this may sound strange to a lot of people, but in my opinion, is one of the best under appreciated actors in Hollywood.  I think he has taken over that distinction from Bill Paxton who has now gone on to be a recognizable face, not just as Chet and Hudson.  But think back to a film like Mississippi Burning or JFK.  Those two roles were Oscar material and they certainly helped him find work in Hollywood but this film is a waste for him and his character would have been better if he wasn't there.That aside, the film is wonderful.  We spend so much time with Jolie as she enters into dark and misty tunnels looking for clues to the killers next move.  And as she is nervous, so are we.  I was afraid to see what was around the corner as the camera became her eyes, we saw what she saw.  And that wasn't always pleasant.  There are some gruesome looking deaths in the film but this isn't a light hearted family film so you should expect that going in.  I also really enjoyed the chemistry between the two leads.  Washington and Jolie are explosive together.  When their realtionship grows we feel more empathy towards both characters and we want them to win the game.  I enjoyed Bone Collector for everything that it wanted to be and strived to be.  It does a great job of keeping you guessing at the identity of the killer.  And when you find out who he is and why, you are a little confused.  But when the dust clears, you are just glad that it ended the way it does.  This is a great film and a good suspense thriller.  I'm not sure where the negativity is coming from, but my advice to those people is realy simple. Lighten up people.  Not every film has to have a gritty pretencious feel to it like Bringing Out The Dead.  Some films are actually entertaining and make you feel something more than fatigue when you are watching it.  The Bone Collector may make your heart race a little faster and that is always a good thing.  This is a good, tense movie and if you don't believe me, then go see so for yourself.  Just don't listen to those that say it is garbage.  These are many of the same people that say Citizen Kane is the most exciting film ever made.  "},{"Title":"Eerie, Scary, and authentic !","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie had me on the edge of my seat from about 10 minutes in, until the credits began to roll. Denzel was spectacular, and Angelina Jolie was terrific. I spoke with a friend who does forenzic work for a living and she was amazed on the authenticity of this film. The scary, and too real feeling of being below ground in the bowels of New York City made me squirm in my seat. I highly recommend this movie to anyone who wants to see a nice piece of film making. But I must warn those who may be a bit squeemish, this movie is not for the meek. On a scale of 1-10, a solid 8. "},{"Title":"What Was Denzel Thinking?","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film is about an hour too long.  Unlike Silence of the Lambs, Seven, or even Copycat, this does not invite us into the mind of a killer.  There is no suspense, no tension, and the characters are less than unbelievable. A waste of good talent. "},{"Title":"Mindless fun . . .","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  As far as Hollywood serial killer movies go, this one is right about down the middle of the road.  The Bone Collector is no where near intriguing nor as intelligent as Silence of The Lambs.  The best comparison is a pretty good episode of the X-files.  The plot holes are many.  The ending is a little too neat and a little too formulaic.  However the acting is excellent and is what saves The Bone Collector from being another Copycat or last year's horrible In Dreams.  Denzel Washington seems to pull every movie he is in out of the sewer of Hollywood tripe.  All that said, The Bone Collector is definitely entertaining, even gripping at times, only if you don't think too much. "},{"Title":"I Got A BONE To Pick About THE COLLECTOR.","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Bone Collector was how bad?To count all the bad elements in this movie would take up at least an hour or two.This movie needed a good editor among all the other things it was missing.New York Police Department Forensic expert Washington ,injured and bedridden from a previous accident and wishing to use assisted suicide because he does not want to become a vegetable if another one of the promient seizures he suffers from hits him again,is asked by a fellow police officer to handle the investigation of a grisly murder of a millionaire and the kidnapping of his wife. The first murder is investigated by the hero of the film(Joile).She understands the importance of not tampering with evidence,she stops a subway training barking out orders like a general to the train conductor.She then puts a dollar near a footprint and that wins over Washington, who notes the importance of not tampering with evidence,and as we can all see that he believes this junior officer is the only police officer in town with a brain in her head. The crux of the problem with the film is that the two heroes of this film,Washington and Jolie,their characters are so infallible,and everyone else is so useless and one dimensional that the movie can't inspire any idea of excitement or originality.Everyone who see this kind of film of late says,I passed this way before.You do feel cheated that this movie costing you eight dollars is no more than a run of the mill TV movie. Joile has a character that is an actor's dream.She can do no wrong.She barks out orders and talks back to everyone.She is the only one who can follow Washington's orders to the tee and supposedly not mess up things.She is tough,honest,smart,brave,and unbelieveable all at once.If the bedridden forensic expert can only rely on a young former fashion model(how was this thrown in the movie?)junior officer and bypass the entire New York City Police Department for help then it is a wonder they don't solve all the crimes in New York City by themselves. Washington is still a top actor,but this film is beneath his dignity,more than one can say.The other actors in the film are fine actors as well,but they aren't given anything to work with.Their characters are cardboard cliches out of a comic book.And they all revolve around Joile's character,everybody says how terrific she is,you're terrific,for what's it's worth,I thought what you did today was terrific,I thought you were terrific,and so on.Jolie's character should have been named Ms. Terrific. The character Joile played was similar to the character played by Ashley Judd in Kiss The Girls,with Morgan Freeman in the lead role(the two films are kind of similar in so some ways) a spunky, tough,brave,backtalking,female who can do what a man can do,only better.Given all the advantages she had then,Angelica Joile did not do a very good job since everyone knows she is the hero of the film,.She like the film,however, is too predictable to believe. The Bone Collector is not exciting,it is not scary.It is filled with unnecessary grisly scences,filled with some horrible writing,and lacks a great deal of logic concerning police work in general and policemen in particular.The worst performances of the film belong to the Puerto Rican forensic expert, .They could have done us all a bigger favor concerning making this movie by starting all over.Next time let Chris Rock be the bedridden forensic expert,and let the OlsonTwins catch the killer.If you want to make a comedy go all the way.  "},{"Title":"Failing attempt at shocking the audience.","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Another one of those. I guess the makers were relying on the shocking scenes and concepts to make it a good movie.The ending is very predictable and the story pattern very familiar.By the way, thank you Hollywood for giving some serial killer out there another idea.Jack. "},{"Title":" A gruesome thriller compared to movie heavyweights like `Seven' and `Silence of the Lambs'. How does it stack up?","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Bone Collector By Dean KishA gruesome thriller compared to movie heavyweights like `Seven' and `Silence of the Lambs'. How does it stack up? Well first here's the premise. Paraplegic Forensics Officer Lincoln `Link' Rhyme (Denzel Washington) is asked to help in solving a series of gruesome cases. Where something is always surgically removed and linked back to the turn of the century. Rhyme obviously can't enter the crime scenes and uncover the clues so he enlists in rookie detective Amelia Donaghy (Angelie Jolie) to examine the evidence and bring it back him. The Bone Collector is directed by Phillip Noyce who directed other Hollywood ventures like `The Saint', `Patriot Games', `Sliver'. The story on paper sounds like `Rear Window' meets `Silence of the Lambs' but what we get isn't a moody noir film laced with grueling shocks but a very textbook thriller with mildly grueling overtones. What made `Seven' and Silence of the Lambs' so amazing and shocking was their endings and their look. The Bone Collector has no moody look except for a couple strenuous scenes which I credit to relative new comer Jolie. Its in her performance that I believed we had a movie. She is going to be a draw sooner than Hollywood thinks. Because Hollywood didn't want her in this picture saying she wasn't attractive enough. Do all actresses have to be beautiful to be shocked by gruesome bodeis? The films title flaw has to be the director who doesn't really deliver us into the mind of the madman but except focuses on the strains of a paraplegic policeman. Aren't these kinds of thrillers supposed to see into the villain's mind? Coupled with this failure is a non-shock ending which is so cliched it made me shake my head and yearn to see  `Seven' again. If you are looking to jump and cringe some then see the `Bone Collector' but be sure to watch `Seven' afterwards to get the full effect. (3 of 5) So Says the Soothsayer.  "},{"Title":"Made for an interesting two hours.","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Although the plot wasn't incredibly unique, this movie did have some interesting visuals, inventive death scenes, and an exploding rat. Not a gem of film-making, but if you just sit back and enjoy the mindless violence, it's quite entertaining. Don't try to read into the plot too much, it wont work, just enjoy the ride. "}{"Title":"Tedious but creepy with fantastic acting","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Bone Collector joins the list of thrillers that have made an impact on us today.( Seven, Copycat, and Silence of the Lambs). Though this film is not the best serial killer thriller  it's still a very enjoyable film that was very creppy at times.This has to be denzel Washingtons best performance. it had to be difficult for him to just lie in a bed the entire movie. He was still very good and very effective in the role. The most praise goes to Angelina Jolie. She was very good in the film and i hope to see her in more films. Queen latifah was also solid as Denzel's nurse.Another thing that made this film lack was the very lackluster ending. it just left me saying that's it.but the good does out shine the bad and this film delivers. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"make sure you read the book to get a better overall perspective","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I've been looking forward to this movie ever since I heard they were doing an adaptation of Jeffery Deaver's novel _The Bone Collector_.  Sadly enough, they didn't quite adhere to some of the crucial characteristics of the novel.  They changed a lot of details and tried to gloss over too much in too short of a time.  It was a little too formulaic in terms of good cop/bad cop phenomena, but overall I felt it was a decent cop film that gave some good scares.  However, I do hope that those who saw the film will read the book as well.The addition of Queen Latifah as the nurse's aide to Rhyme was quite a good choice, and Jolie did well as the tough-on-the-surface Amelia.  I wasn't so sure about the casting of Washington as Rhyme, but he did an admirable job with a physically limited part.  I liked O'Neill and McGlone in their portrayals, but thought they were too predictably Bad Cop-esque with Rooker's portrayal of Captain Cheney.  I especially liked Ortiz as the forensic evidence expert.  All in all, enough bright spots in the cast to outweigh the dimmer ones.The #1 thing I wanted to do after leaving the theater was go buy the book and read it again... and make sure to take the bus home, instead of a cab. Just in case. "},{"Title":"Typical Hollywood Throw - Away Pap.","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Loving movies as I do, I will steer clear of most slick, formulaic Hollywood product that seems to exist solely so some actors and production people can have some reason to get up in the morning for a few months. Every now and then, I choose to forgo my gut instinct and see some fluffy trash because my friends are interested. As the lights go down, I try to withold judgment but know I will be vindicated. This is another one of those instances and another one of those movies. This movie has nothing new to say or show. Plotting, camerawork, and SFX are workmanlike, but show no flair or energy whatsoever. As far as the gripping storyline I have read about in some other posts, I found myself checking the old watch on more than one occasion. By far, however, the worst elements can be traced to the alarmingly flat, cliched and tired cast of characters. Was Birth of A Nation the first American film to feature the outrageously overbearing and pointlessly Jacka**ed police Chief, bent on stifling the heroic underdogs in his employ? Oh if only they would leave Denzel and Angelina alone to do their jobs; they'd catch that killer in no time! Darn that Mean ol' Police Chief! Of course that isn't all. You also get a slice of Trash talkin', tell - it - like - it - is nurse, Queen Latifah, to lend that You go, girl aspect to the proceedings. Please don't forget the Tough As Nails, Former Model, now Cop character portrayed by Angelina Jolie and her humongous set of lips. The only qualification this stick thin, whiskey drinking waif seems to have for being in the NYPD is that New York inflection she seems to have picked up from her Dad. And yet that is not enough! She is also somehow qualified to be a forensics investigator because she can snap a few pictures with a disposable Kodak. ( Did You Know; There are ACTUAL COPS in New York City whose JOB it is to take pictures of crime scenes? Were they all busy getting chewed out by the Police Chief at the time? ) Pointless deaths and joyless gore ( not nearly as extreme as has been claimed )  hang like trashy window dressing the director threw up on the screen. Denzel alternately wallows in, and then auto - pilots his way through this mush, perhaps giving some indication every now and then as to his actual flair and talent. HOW can people readily compare this movie to Silence of the Lambs and Seven? Because it's raining in some parts? Some say they don't want to spoil the ending of this movie or give away too much; I say that's no problem because believe me; if you have seen one garbage-y, throw away, slick production in the past 10 years, you've already seen this all before. Stop Making Movies Like This! "},{"Title":"Oh dammit...","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I usually like that kind of movie.. Suspense, some actions, some funny lines... But that movie, even with the fact that Denzel Washington with a garbage on the head stay my favorite actor, was... bad. I really did not like it. The plot could have been great but look.. 2 minutes after the beginning of the movie I bet 20 $ on who was the killer and I won.. Angelina Jolie is a great actress.. And I mean it. But *The bone collector* , I'm pretty sure, won't make her a big actress. There are some disgusting things happening.. That did make me look somewhere else. But the rest of the movie I just tried to find a comfortable way to seat. Without falling asleep. Conclusion, if you really want a great movie, run to the video store and rent *The negotiator* or *L.A. Confidential**½ out of ***** "},{"Title":"Thanks a lot trailer!","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Despite what the commercials claim, this film is nowhere near Seven or Silence of the Lamb.  It still is rather enjoyable, if you don't think too much about the logic of the plot.Here's a tip for the people who make trailers don't put the killer's voice in the trailer.  My friend and I had seen the trailer for the movie in which, during a montage, you hear the killer say something like, I've given you so many clues!  My friend commented that the voice sounded just like such and such actor from these films.  By no means is he a big name actor (we didn't know his name), but he had memorable enough roles in those films to be identifiable.We went to see the movie and we're not five minutes into the film before that actor appears on screen.  My friend pointed at the screen and said, That's the killer. Thanks a lot trailer!It didn't ruin the movie, but really trailer people, was it really necessary to include the killer's voice? "},{"Title":"Explosive!!","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film was great. It was very thrilling and scarey!! It definitely ranks up there with Se7en. You know Denzel Washington never fails to deliver and Angelina Jolie was also excellent. Very suspenseful. Kept me on the edge of my seat and has a lot of those type of scenes that make you jump out of your seat and scared the heck out of you. This movie is non stop thrills and chills not a great date movie though, tends to scare to point where your shaking at the end of the movie. "},{"Title":"An Interesting Twist and Turn through the sewers.","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Can I just say Denzel Washington even plays a good role as a cripple.  As one of the smartest men in the world Denzel is brought in to help with a difficult case.  This movie takes us through the underground of New York.The Bone Collector plays with the police, he kills, and leaves evidence so that the police may find where he will kill next.  This game he plays with the the police begins to get to Denzel and Angela Jolie.  Eventually we come to a climatic ending that actually filled me with a sense of satisfaction. Go See It... "},{"Title":"Chills you to the bone!","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Universal has a given us one of the best suspense thrillers to come down the pipe in a long time. The Bone Collector is a fantastic crime thriller about a killer that wants to be caught. Angelina Jolie plays Amelia Donaghy, a NYPD beat cop that discovers a grisly murder one day. A man buried beside the train tracks with only his hand sticking out of the ground. His index finger has been stripped of its skin right down to the bone and his wife's wedding band placed on it. The clues to finding the wife are there and Donaghy knows it. Thinking quickly Donaghy gets pictures of all evidence that she believes is important, even going as far as to stop a train travelling through the crime scene. When Lincoln Rhyme (Denzel Washington), NYPD's best forensic scientist and a recent paraplegic, hears of what Donaghy did at the crime scene he makes her a proposition that she can't refuse, as much as she wants to. She is to be Rhyme's eyes and ears on the crime scene while he offers her the tutelage and knowledge that is needed to solve this weird case. You see the murderer in question has gone to difficult lengths to make sure that the forensic team finds out where his next victim is going to be found. Director Phillip Noyce (The Saint, Patriot Games) has given us another winner! Washington gives a powerful performance even though he is a confined to a hospital bed for 99% of his scenes. Jolie blossoms as an actress right before your eyes, destroying any doubt that she is one of the most talented young actresses in the business today. This film pulls no punches at the crime scenes, in the same way that Seven shocked audiences a few years back. Definitely not one for the squeamish, but if you enjoy a little well placed gore in your movies then this is right up your ally. So do whatever you can to see this film while its in theatres, just don't take a cab! "},{"Title":"An Okay Movie","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Why is it that every action/thriller movie has to have a romantic subplot? Even one as improbably as in the Bone Collector?  Anyway aside from that very annoying subplot, this was a rather mediocre story, albeit with a good cast.This movie annoyed me on so many levels really.  But the acting was decent enough to almost save the muddled script and contrived subplots.  Basically this par for the course movie the genre (not including the pseudo sex based thrillers that have to be considered separately). "},{"Title":"Chemistry between Denzel Washington and Angela Jolie does not transcend the ending","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Not having read the book, the advertising for the Bone Collector lead me to expect something along the lines of Seven Monkeys with its macabre details. The Bone Collector is long on attempted shock and gore what with various mutilations, corpses, sadistic scaldings, and you may as a watcher find yourself trying to keep apace of Denzel Washington's sherlock holmesian deductions as he filters through the clues provided by the killer and retrieved by his new forensic partner who is his set of legs and eyes. Denzel Washington does a good turn in leading us to believe he is a bedridden quadraplegic who can only move his head and two fingers on his left hand which are seemingly permanently attached to a computer mouse.  Of course I won't give anything that would constitute a spoiler -- except the stretches of imagination and serendipity that keep the story moving along do not lead to a natural satisfactory conclusion. "}{"Title":"A vast improvement over the book","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  As a novel, The Bone Collector tried to be too many things, not least a treatise on forensics and crime scene procedure.  But despite its often florid writing, the book introduced us to two compelling characters, quadriplegic criminalist Lincoln Rhyme, and model turned cop Amelia (whose name in the movie has unaccountably been changed from Sachs to Donaghy).The movie preserves what was good about the novel.  Then it improves the material. It pares away all but the most necessary details on crime scene procedure and forensics.  Thus unencumbered, the plot is allowed to unfold at a compelling pace.Here's what's up a killer masquerading as a taxi driver is spiriting people away to their doom.  At each crime scene, he leaves forensically significant clues which, if deciphered quickly enough, could bring rescuers in time.  The clues seem designed to draw Rhyme's attention.  But bedridden and paralyzed, he can't do much investigating.  That's where Amelia comes in.Any more than that would be telling.Except that Washington does more with his head and one finger than many actors in full motion.  Except that Angelina Jolie will make every red-blooded American male want to join the force.  Except that Queen Latifah adds crucial leavening, and one day someone is going to give this woman a chance to really strut her stuff.There's nothing terribly new or original about The Bone Collector.  We've been there and we've done that -- but rarely in such good companyIf The Coffin Dancer can be similarly improved (and does that book ever need it!), we could see more of Lincoln and Amelia.  Why not? "},{"Title":"Seven, Silence of the Lambs it was not.  Not even close.","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I am not sure why movies like this get made.  And the amazing thing to me is how someone could possibly think that the ending of this movie in any way was intelligent or even good for that matter.The serial killer aspect of this movie was going in a decent direction right up to the end.  But like so many other movies of this genre, it took a STUPID turn at the end to wrap things up in a nice neat little package and basically made a really crummy movie out of something that could have been decent.  I had no real expectations for this flick at all.  But was enjoying the pace and plot for the most part.  But with an ending like this, the rest of the movie ends up looking really lame.  All the wonderful setup in the world couldn't make up for what I perceived to be a predictable, uninspired turn.Too bad too.  Denzel is so much better than this.  He deserves better roles in much better movies.  My dog could have written a better movie than this. Ok, maybe I exaggerate, but not much.The only redeeming quality of this movie is Michael Rooker's character.  I love watching him play this kind of role and doesn't disappoint in this performance.Too bad.  Guess I'll go see the Insider and hope for some real movie making. "},{"Title":"Disappointing Adaptation From Novel To Film...","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Even after hearing The Bone Collector had gone through massive changes from novel (by Jeffery Deaver) to screenplay, I was still excited to see one of my favourite books make the transition to film.  However, the movie takes extreme liberties with the book's content and therefore suffers dramatically.Gone is the intriguing character study of a quadriplegic ex-cop and subtle sexual tension.  Instead, the audience is bombarded with uninteresting character portrayals and blatant sexual inferences.  The director tries desperately to create a dark atmosphere, but instead appears listless. All but a few scenes are filmed at night and the day shots look underdeveloped and underlit, instead of somber.  The filmmaking is clumsy, often appearing unskilled and brazenly inept save for one inventive transition from killer to cops.  I can't help but feel that the actors are capable of so much more than the script and the direction they were given.However, contrary to what many other reviewers have said, Angelina Jolie is perfectly cast in the role of Amelia (I refuse to acknowledge the ethnic last name given to the character in the script); she fits the description almost exactly as it's written in the novel. Denzel Washington is also well cast and brings Lincoln Rhyme to life with equal ingenuity and finesse in an otherwise stale and disappointing adaptation of a great novel.The tacked-on Hollywood ending is a pathetic attempt to tie up all the loose ends and leave the audience feeling warm and fuzzy when that's the last thing we should be feeling.  Save your eight dollars and go to the nearest bookstore and buy the novel; it's much more exciting and far less contrived. "},{"Title":"A thrilling, if someone gruesome, film","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I will not hesitate to say that I saw this movie for one main reason only and that is Angelina Jolie.  Ever since Hackers back in 1995, I have been intrigued by her and have seen her rise from humble beginnings to reach the level at which she is at currently.  The reviews of this movie were less than spectacular from our local paper, so I was a little scared that she would not live up to the potential set forth by her performances in Playing by Heart and Gia.  Luckily, her, as well as Washington, delivered spectacular performances.  The story was one that kept my attention the entire time, although there were the times when I wasn't completely sure I wanted to look.  I must say that this will be another movie that will land Jolie as one of the top female actresses of our time.  Overall, I would give this movie an eight out of ten. "},{"Title":"ok but predictable, cliche-ish","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Bone Collector is a pretty good movie. Both Denzel Washington and Angelina Jolie are very good in this film.But it is fairly predictable. And the worst aspect of the movie was the unbelievably cliche-ish character of Captain Cheney just annoyed me alot. How many times do we need to see the boss take our hero off the case, act like an idiot, and be completely against our hero. I thought movies were starting to get away from this amazingly dumb cliche by making the boss character more realistic. This movie brings the jerk boss back.**spoiler below**I was hoping that the captain's actions were done for a reason, i.e that the captain was the killer. At least that would give his actions credibility, but alas, that isn't the case.  "},{"Title":"Poor Ending","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Up until the end of Bone Collector  I was putting it right up there with Silence and Seven. Then the end came and I was really mad. The ending did not really make sense to the killings that were carried out.I will not divulge the ending,but I am sure many people will be turned off. "},{"Title":"Formula plot, but good performances","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a standard-variety thriller, obviously inspired by the likes of Seven and Silence of the Lambs. Much of the plot doesn't truly surprise, and picking the killer is fairly easy, even without the clues. But Denzel Washington and Angelina Jolie do quite nicely as the paralyzed forensics expert and the young cop who serves as his roving investigator. And they have good chemistry together. "},{"Title":"A good thriller thats only downfall is that it is too gruesome.","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I went into this movie with no knowledge of what it was going to be, but relying on Denzel Washington's acting skill to at least keep the movie decent.All in all, the Bone Collector uses quite a lot of gore to convey it's point and because of that it will turn off most audiences.  Had it not been for the excessive amount of gore, it would have beaten the Blair Witch Project as most thrilling movie to appear this year for me.Washington does an excellent job playing his character, and the skill that every character is presented in caused this movie to be a well developed horror flick, if nothing else.If you are interested in a movie that will keep you on the edge of your chair until the very end and you aren't turned off by buckets of gore, then perhaps the Bone Collector is your movie, but if you are of the faint of heart -at all-, you will probably leave the theater during the most grotesque parts. "},{"Title":"Well made thriller","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  THE BONE COLLECTOR`The Bone Collector' is the latest in the sub-genre of dark noir-like police thrillers. Phillip Noyce (Patriot Games, Clear & Present Danger) has directed Denzel Washington and Angelina Jolie in this roller coaster ride of a film adapted by Jeremy Iacone from the novel by Jeffrey Deaver. Washington is Lincoln Rhyme, the guy who wrote the books on forensics. Unfortunately, four years ago he had a work-related accident sentencing him to bed as a quadriplegic. The highest tech equipment available surrounds him enabling him to communicate and be somewhat mobile within his confines.  When a couple is kidnapped, Amelia (Jolie) is the officer at the scene of the crime and ably secures the site gathering excellent clues which point at a serial perpetrator. Rhyme, who is ready to throw in the towel and make the final transition, recognizes Amelia's skill and together they proceed to investigate this series of crimes where the villain cuts the victims to the `bone' as his signature.Noyce has used surround sound to heighten the viewer's participation in this `ride'. There are some gruesome sights here (open wounds, rats feeding on a corpse) so this is not your typical date movie. However, the characters are appealing and the revelation at the climax not readily apparent. Queen Latifah, adding to her fine gallery of supporting parts, is Rhyme's live-in nurse. Luis Guzman portrays a police high tech expert in a departure from his usual roles as criminal low-lifes. If you are in the mood for a well made mystery/thriller, Denzel Washington and Angelina Jolie (Jon Voight's real life daughter) will provide the emotion and Noyce the thrills and suspense. Just be prepared to jump out of your seat now and then!  "},{"Title":"a great movie!","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is full of suspense and surprises.  Denzel Washington gives the superlative performance that I knew he was capable of.  The entire cast was great and the movie maintained a fast pace from start to finish.  Despite this movies' similarity to such films as Silence of the Lambs and Seven in plot and style, the performances of the cast and the work of the writer/director have given The Bone Collector has a unique flair. "}{"Title":"I really tried to like this but . . .  (Spoilers)","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film had enough going for it (acting, set design, lighting) that I was able to overlook some minor script problems that threatened suspension of disbelief. It's a convention in the horror genre that if a woman hears some strange noise on a rainy night, of *course* she is going to go out and investigate it - otherwise the story might not continue.But I'm sorry - a NYPD police officer is NOT going to leave her apartment on a rainy night without her gun. Ain't gonna happen. Someone at the screening I saw yelled out incredulously And you're a *police* officer??!! Audience reaction indicated that for Jeremy Iacone to write the script that way undermines not only Amelia's believability but also the story line.Unfortunately, two much more serious faux paus totally trashed this film for me and although I think the first I could reveal without a spoiler warning, I want to err on the side of caution and say don't read any further until you have seen the film.One Lincoln is a master at forensics - the film is set up that way;it's established he's written the Academy manual on field technique. It's evident that he has amassed a lot of data over the years in forensics and any overlapping fields. If this is the case, it's a major cheat by screenwriter Jeremy Iacone to have Amelia stumble over a historical book of murders in a bookstore - murders that parallel those she and Lincoln have been working on. It would be bad enough if this was just happenstance, but no - after collecting fragments of paper found at crime scenes, Lincoln determines that the face seen is the logo of a publishing company dealing with true crimes.He knows this because he *read* all these books when he was a kid. OK - so Amelia goes to a bookstore, tries to get a book from a top shelf and a number of books fall down. Including one entitled The Bone Collector - a collection of true-life murders.I'm sorry - if we are to believe that Lincoln is the expert that he is, there is NO WAY he would not recognize the details of the murders as being historically based when he first sees them - he would know that history. The man does not forget what he reads.Two I don't care WHAT you do to a medical monitor hooked to someone whether they're a quadriplegic or not - you will not turn that person into a carrot, a zucchini, a squash, a pumpkin, or whatever. It's a MONITOR, not a ventilator, not a pacemaker.We know Lincoln's big fear is being a vegetable. His big fear is not really some wacko who thinks he can turn Lincoln into a vegetable via ranting & raving over his medical monitor.Too bad Jeremy Iacone didn't keep that in mind. "},{"Title":"An OK serial killer movie","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Bone Collector is just another serial killer movie that offers nothing new to the genre.  Sure, Denzel Washington and Angelina Jolie give great performances, but it just doesn't make up for the derivative story and predictable ending.  The green eyes thing was so cheap a device to use. I was sitting there wondering why these two actors signed on for this.  I give it a 7 out of 10 for the performances.  Just don't expect to see something fresh and new. "},{"Title":"A very good movie, but not for the squeamish","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Director Phil Noyce has done a nice job in creating audience reaction throughout this film.  The  on screen charisma between Denzel Washington and Angelina Jolie make the film totally worth the price of admission.  We saw the film at a prescreening at SUNY, Stony Brook and only heard positive comments as we left the auditorium. "},{"Title":"entertaining mystery-thriller","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Bone Collector is a decent, well-paced, and entertaining mystery-thriller from genre director Phillip Noyce (Dead Calm, Clear and Present Danger). The film could have been edited a bit better, and some of the scenes lack the necessary tension for this kind of movie, but there's enough here to keep us interested. The plot itself is very formulaic, but actors Washington and Jolie make a great odd-couple pair and that helps raise the film above the typical Hollywood fare. "},{"Title":"A familiar but creepy thriller with good acting.","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie will be familiar to anyone who has seen movies like Silence of the Lambs and Seven, but it had such strong performances in Denzel Washington and Angelina Jolie that I didn't care. The director of Patriot Games and Clear and Present Danger sets a creepy tone from the beginning with some great camera work and sets. He also presents grotesque/squeamish material without being exploitive (which is always better since it allows one's imagination to go to town). I would recommend this film (***). Just don't eat before going to see it. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining crime mystery set in New York.","Date":"3 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I had somehow missed this one back when it was fresh and finally got around to seeing it. There isn't anything particularly novel about the story but it is well-told and both Washington and Jolie are superb in their roles. Denzel Washington is Lincoln Rhyme, world-famous criminologist who via an unfortunate cave-in while doing a rescue resulted in his being confined to a hospital bed at home. He will never walk again, but has control of at least one finger and everything above the shoulders. So with the help of modern electronics can help solve crimes from his bed.Angelina Jolie is Amelia Donaghy, just an ordinary street cop who has applied for a desk job. In her back story we find out her dad was also a cop, but killed himself. She doesn't want to follow in his footsteps.By a simple stroke of being in the right place, Amelia gets to a new crime scene first, takes the action to stop a train to preserve evidence, gets a homeless kid to go buy a couple of disposable cameras, and properly records the crime scene. Rhyme was so impressed that he insisted she remain on the case, to try to find the killer, who turns out to be a serial killer.This was an early role for Queen Latifah, as Rhyme's at home caregiver Thelma. She of course has gone on to quite a nice career but even here she shines in her character.Overall a good diversion for almost 2 hours and good roles for all involved.SPOILERS The serial killer was recreating the crimes detailed in an early 1900s book The Bone Collector. Shards of evidence at several crime scenes allowed them to piece this together and arrived at the last scene in time to save one victim, a small girl. Meanwhile they figured that Rhyme was the last target, and the murderer was about to kill him when Amelia, who had figured out he was next, came and shot him. He had once been a policeman but Rhyme's expert testimony some years back had resulted in his spending time in prison and his motive was to win the game against Rhyme by committing all the murders then kill Rhyme. He was better than Rhyme, but not better than Amelia. "},{"Title":"Queen Laifah and Angelina Jolie...what else do you need?","Date":"22 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A startlingly good performance by a heretofore rap star brings this exceptional crime drama to life. Queen Latifah is poised, polished, and professional as Thelma, the live in nurse who cares for Lincoln Rhyme, played by Denzel. Rhyme is an academic cop, a forensics expert who's life has been reduced to what he can manage from his bed, with the help of his assistant and nurse. Angelina Jolie is perfect in the role of the young police officer who has talent and is convinced it may lead her toward the same path as her police father. Micheal Rooker plays the Captain, once Rhyme's understudy and now uncomfortable with living in his shadow. Ed O'Neill and Mike McGlone are add the right tone as the more experienced detectives, and Luiz Guzman shines as the talented forensics scientist who analyzes and assesses the physical clues. The film is fluid and never pauses, and the ensemble cast is a testament to both director and casting agent. Definitely not a film for the kiddies, since there is graphic violence and some images that might even disturb adults. If you are a fan of who-dun-its, this film is for you. "},{"Title":"One of the best thrillers of the nineties","Date":"21 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I am really surprised about how this film is getting so many bad reviews. I thought that The Bone Collector was a great thriller with plenty of nerve racking suspense that is guaranteed to have you on the edge of your seat. The acting is good and the methods of murder that the killer uses in this film are creative and interesting. The Bone Collecter may not be the best thriller of the nineties but it definitely is one of them. Partly because of its classic and smart ending and its creative and originally good plot that involves a young female cop who is trying to catch a serial killer, using the help of paraplegic cop Lincholn Rhyme.What I admire most about The Bone Collector is the way in which it is so original. It does not steal ideas from other movies and everything in The Bone Collector is totally original and scary. What The Bone Collector could use though is a little bit of a better ending. In the ending, some of the things that happen appear to be really stupid. But it still has a decent ending despite some of the things that happen in it.The acting in The Bone Collector is good, but not great. Apart from the brilliant performance from Leland Orser. Although he only appears in two scenes, he still does really well.Overall, The Bone Collector does not reach the brilliance of some other 1990's thriller films like Seven, Pulp Fiction and The Sixth Sense. But it still is definitely a great film that it worth watching. "},{"Title":"Good Score","Date":"10 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Since it's release, I'd watched this film once before tonight. This evening there was 'something' that just kept popping up in my thoughts, and I Could Not, for the life of me, bring it to my forebrain... Finally it came to me... The background music (Score) was Almost Exactly the same as in The Silence of the Lambs. Next time you watch this film, pay attention to the background music and you'll hear what I mean. (That's really all I wanted to mention since I'm not a big blogger or 'Poster') As far as reviewing the TV Version of the film for it's entertainment value; it does deserve at least a 7. It has good interpersonal communications between the characters, a few anxious moments, and a well thought of plot. It may be a bit too disturbing for children under 8 or 9 though. "},{"Title":"Chilling, Above-Average Crime Thriller.","Date":"29 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Bone Collector centers around a Amelia Donaghy (Angelina Jolie), a New York city cop who is assigned to the case of a brutal serial killer who is picking off citizens and collecting the bones of their fingers. Teamed with a quadriplegic retired detective who is familiar with the killer, Lincoln (Denzel Washington), Amelia begins a desperate search to find the killer, linked to the paralyzed Lincoln through sound and video equipment, before another person falls victim to the brutal serial killer.An above-average crime thriller, The Bone Collector is a chilling and nicely done film. I saw this movie when I was fairly young (my grandmother had read the novel the film was based upon, decided to rent it, and I was in the room as she watched it), and it really petrified me. The image of that partial finger sticking up out of the gravel pit in the beginning of the film never left my mind, and the movie as a whole creeped me out. Now, years later, I've seen the film a few other times and while it wasn't nearly as scary to me (it's really not a 'scary' film), it is still a very well done crime film that is above most others. The plot is nicely tied together, and while I'm not sure how this compares to the book, the storyline this film is constructed around is nicely done.Angelina Jolie leads the cast with a fairly well-rooted role, and plays it very well. Denzel Washington is like her mentor, and while he has hardly any motion or body language throughout the film, his performance is really great. Queen Latifah plays Washington's caregiver, and I was surprised to see her acting in a serious role - she was good as well. Character development and motivation is a little lacking here (a lot is left unexplained), but I didn't see too much of a problem with this. The direction here is nice as well, lots of gloomy atmosphere, dark sets, and moody camera angles. There are some pretty chilling scenes in this movie as well, all of the unfortunate people who fall in the hands of the killer meet gruesome fates, and some of these scenes were really cringe-worthy and scary. The killer in this movie is menacing, and is presented well throughout until his identity is revealed.Overall, The Bone Collector is a really nicely done, eerie crime thriller that is worth watching. People who enjoy crime movies and/or thrillers will want to check this one out, it's well above-average and is surprisingly chilling. While it may be no Silence of the Lambs, it's still worthy. 8/10. "}{"Title":"An Enjoyable Serial Killer Flick","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Lincoln Rhyme (Washington) is an expert forensic detective who was almost killed in the line of duty, leaving him paralysed with little will to live. Amelia Donaghy (Jolie) is a street smart cop on the verge of moving to a nice desk job. When Amelia finds a gruesomely mutilated corpse, she and Rhyme's are thrown together as partners; and she must be his eyes, ears and legs as they hunt down the killer before his list of victims grows even further.Washington and Jolie both portray their characters very well, and the story builds steadily with plenty of intrigue and exciting moments. And although 'The Bone Collector' is a good film, it does fall quite a long way short of films like 'Seven' and 'Silence of the Lambs' it simply doesn't have the style or presence to compare with movies of this calibre, it is more in line with films like 'Copycat' and 'Along came a Spider' enjoyable, but definitely not a classic.Worth watching 7/10 "},{"Title":"THE BONE COLLECTOR (Phillip Noyce, 1999) **1/2","Date":"22 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Another watchable but utterly routine serial killer thriller in the SEVEN (1995) tradition which even cannibalizes Alfred Hitchcock's REAR WINDOW (1954) in having the male detective figure invalidated in bed and a female rookie cop doing the on-site investigating; Denzel Washington does not have much opportunity to shine here in his restricting role but Angeline Jolie is quite good and arguably the only real reason to watch this movie at all. The cardboard characters (Michael Rooker's senior cop is particularly annoying) and the air of deja' vu hanging over the whole production do the film no favors and the identity of the killer when it is revealed comes off as merely unconvincing; on the credit side, the detailed sequences of police procedural maintain one's interest. "},{"Title":"mediocre, no chemistry","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I saw the trailer for The Bone Collector way back (1999-2000?) and don't remember why I didn't make it to the cinema to watch it. So, discovering the DVD in the $5.50 bin at the store, I picked it up. I now know why the film didn't stay in the cinema long enough for me to see it. There's not much to it. There is definitely no chemistry between the main characters (Denzel Washington and Angelina Jolie), nor is there much depth to the characters, though there are many, many attempts at eliciting our sympathy toward them rather than letting us discover who they are. The look of the film is mostly okay, though its glossiness doesn't create that dark, horror effect/feel (except at certain moments). The plot/story is probably the film's strongest point, and as a police/suspense/mystery, I never guessed who the killer was. However, I never got the feeling, either, that there was a legitimate, people-bonding police investigation going on. And whatever happened to Donaghy's boyfriend from the start of the film (a string that failed to be tied!)? The Bone Collector gets a C/C- from me (I did watch it all the way through without the temptation to turn it off), but by five minutes after turning it off, I didn't feel it anymore (couldn't care less about the characters or the situation). "},{"Title":"Jolie is beautiful","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Unfortunately I don't have a fistful of things to say about this movie other than that it's entertaining as a mystery movie. Angelina is my inspiration and is beautiful in all her movies. This was a different role for her since she is more of a wounded bird. But I liked it just the same. She is emotional and closed off, but still retains the wantonness she embodies.Denzel is good and interesting as an invalid injured on the job. My favorite those is Queen Latifah. I really thing she has serious potential as an actress as a whole. Sometimes it's a little forced, but I do like her and found her very comforting in the movie. "},{"Title":"A fairly engaging thriller but nothing special to make it stand out from any other film of it's sort","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" STAR RATING ***** The Works **** Just Misses the Mark *** That Little Bit In Between ** Lagging Behind * The Pits Going in to examine a crime scene, Detective Lincoln Rhyme (Denzel Washington) is the victim of a freak accident that sees a giant crane fall on top of him. Four years later, and confined to a hospital bed in an incapacitated state that will eventually see him become vegitated, his expertise is called on once more to solve the mystery of a serial killer who's been driving around New York in a taxi cab selecting random victims. He finds a new protégé in Amelia Donaghy (Angelina Jolie) and they must work together to catch the killer before he strikes again.Denzel Washington is easily one of my favourite actors, so why I've waited six years to see this fairly acclaimed thriller is beyond me. It's a role that's well suited to him and he commands it naturally, spending the majority of the film in one location, and he has a good co-star in Jolie, who, 24 when the film was made, is catching in a role that was quite advanced for her. The film is weighed down by a knawingly standard (like the film itself) supporting cast, from Michael Rooker as the arrogant a$$hole police captain to character actor favourite Luis Guzman as one of the special team.The film itself works okay as a thriller, but just as that. It's a very ordinary feeling sort of film, and there is nothing that really makes it stand out from many other films of it's type. There are no other faults, other than a plot hole in the shape of none of the victims seeming to possess a cell phone they could call the police on to alert them of their scary predicament, and there are some nice over-shots of the Big Apple to savour, but just don't go expecting anything more than what you've settled down to see. *** "},{"Title":"I quite liked this...","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Well folks, who's read the book that the film was based on? Anyone? OK, its called The Coffin Dancer and it's by Geoffrey Deaver. I believe that the film is a well thought out adaptation of this book. It's always hard for producers and directors to screen books, but i am of the opinion that they have done a good job! The stars in this movie represent the characters from the book impressively, and in particular, Denzel stood out. It must be hard for someone to play a quadriplegic detective, simply by studying material from a book never intended for the big screen! To summarise, make sure you read the book, then watch the film. I hope you'll be of the same opinion as myself. "},{"Title":"An exciting thriller","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  OVERALL MOVIE RATING *** stars. A good movie.THE BONE COLLECTOR REVIEWI was surprised with how good this movie turned out. I was expecting something really stupid to come out of this, but it proved to be more than I ever expected. A really good movie with a really good plot.The Bone Collector is about a series of murders that are being investigated by a disabled FBI agent (Washington). Along with Washington is Jolie, a cop who helps him out. But if they don't figure out how to stop the murders, they will never stop.A really good, and I suppose not too fake thriller, this movie has some really good realistic writing in the mix. I was happy to see that this had such good writing and it made the characters so much more realistic.The writing also made Washington's character more interesting by giving him some cool lines, so he wasn't just a cripple.I was impressed with how well Jolie played her part in this movie. It's too bad that a lot of her others are terrible. Washington as usual was a good actor in this. He seemed really believeable. It was interesting to see O'Neil in this movie, I recognized him instantly from Married...With Children.This is a good thriller that has good writing and actors. This movie manages to still remain a thriller without over doing scenes. This is a good movie for anyone wanting to see one of the better thrillers out there. "},{"Title":"A beautifully crafted film, well adapted from the novel.","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Too often, novel adaptations fail to capture the original essence of the book.  This was not one of those movies. The tension was captured beautifully and the characters were well realised.  I loved the use of the shots vertically down into New York, giving a feel of looking into a map, almost.I highly recommend this film to fans of Thomas Harris, Patricia Cornwell, Kathy Reichs and, of course, Jeffrey Deaver. "},{"Title":"Enjoyed very much","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gee only 226 reviews? I don't think that is quite enough. I have tried to watch everything Jolie has done for obvious reasons, and before I watched Bone Collector I saw that there were many bad reviews for it compared to most anything I could compare it with. Why, when it had a good budget, a good director, a script that was a hot property in Hollywood, good actors.I decided to watch it and see where the flaws were as a learning device, and I could see more Jolie. I thought what a dark film, but yet so colorful. I was surprised how much I enjoyed it. I read some more negative reviews and then decided to buy the DVD to watch again and learn from it.The second viewing was much more enjoyable than the first viewing. That is very rare with me, but I understood much more what the film was trying to do. I then watched the director's commentary all the way through and was impressed with how much respect the actors had for his intensity and hard work.I learned a lot from the commentary and watched the film again. This time I thoroughly enjoyed what was attempted. The focus was on the people who were trying to catch the serial killer. The insurmountable difficulties that faced them, but the demand for stopping the killings pressed them on. The idea of Jolie falling in love with a quadrapelegic blew my mind. When Denzel studied her problems with her father's death and with a few sentences reduced her to streams of tears, bringing her out of her shell and making her productive...I don't think it is the responsibility of the film to do some creative thing to us. We have to meet it half way many times to get what is inside the package. In one shot there is a camera pullback from the serial killer's murder on a street to the top of a skyscraper penthouse where the detectives are studying the evidence. I liked this better than any similar film including Silence of the Lambs.I heartily recommend this, but bring some energy for the observation. "},{"Title":"Boneheaded","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A waste of talent.  There was so much talent in this movie and it was all wasted on a boneheaded script.  Seems the writers sat around a hat and pulled cliches out of it and strung them together to make a movie.  The only suspenseful part was waiting to see which Hollywood cliche they would use for an ending.  They opted for the total unknown character showing up as the killer.  Denzel Washington tried to bring life to the character but was hampered by boneheaded dialogue.  Angelina Jolie tried pouting her way through but her character had no substance.  She has some great lips though. "}{"Title":"Silly, tiresome and distasteful.","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I'll start by saying why it's silly.I don't think it's giving anything away to say that when the killer is unveiled it turns out to be someone we've met.  But of course, you say. One expects no less of a detective story.  Fine but this isn't a detective story, and to the extent that it thinks it is, it labours under a delusion. This is a story about the tracking down of a serial killer, and serial killers are like wild animals.  In a story about the hunting down of a tiger there's no requirement that we meet a tiger in scene two who turns out - surprise! - to be the same tiger who has secretly been killing people ever since.  Imagine how silly Silence of the Lambs would have looked if the man Starling was tracking had turned out to be her hairdresser, or something of that kind.This failure of tone, culminating in an utterly ridiculous confrontation with a killer who kindly explains his motives to the audience, is the main problem, but many subsidiary problems help make it impossible to take anything seriously.  When Amelia discovers the first body she takes photos of everything on a disposable Kodak camera.  Then we see the photos, and they have a level of resolution you wouldn't believe - at any rate, I didn't believe it.  Lincoln Rhyme and pores over the microscopic forensic evidence in order to make rather fantastic deductions from the presence of, say, petrol, or oyster shell particles - but there is a ruddy great big lead staring them in the face all the time the fact that the killer owns and drives a taxi.  Why doesn't someone try to trace THAT?  But nooo, they'd rather peer at the ground through their magnifying glasses and do the Sherlock Holmes routine These footprints were made by a six-foot red-headed man who smokes a pipe and was born in February.  And when everything is revealed at the end, it just makes no sense.  The killer has been trying to attract Lincoln's attention - yet, quite apart from the fact that he seems to be generally omniscient, he KNOWS that Lincoln was confined to a bed, out of touch with the outside world, and, for some of the time, in a coma.As for tiresome and distasteful ... first of all it needs to be said that none of the emotional keyboard-playing really worked.  Amelia and Lincoln seemed likeable enough people, but we were no reason to believe in ANY feelings they might have felt for each other love, lust, friendship, mutual respect, mild affection - all are unexplained bolts from the blue. And the anti-euthanasia preaching was sickening.  Lincoln's problem (we are told) is that he suffers from a seizure every few days, any one of which could turn him into a vegetable; and, not unreasonably, he would rather die than be a vegetable.  At the end of the film he STILL has this problem. Nothing has changed.  Yet he has mysteriously decided not to kill himself after all.  (Surprise, surprise.)  What makes it more mysterious is that otherwise this is a standard last-case-before-retirement movie.  There's nothing dramatically wrong with a policeman who has just completed his last case before retirement, to retire.  It's what we expect.  But somehow I can't see a mainstream film, certainly not THIS craven film, allowing its central character it say, Well, I've had a good innings, but I HAD decided it was time to die, and so it is.  Bah!  It would be fine if he'd changed his mind for some reason or other, but no reason is given.Apart from this it's hard to analyse the feeling of nastiness that pervades this film.  The comparison with Silence of the Lambs suggests something to me.  Despite its gruesome moments, the earlier film had a warmth that The Bone Collector conspicuously lacks.  Silence of the Lambs felt for its characters.  The Bone Collector couldn't care less.  There's a telling moment when the killer's umpteenth victim turns out to be a small girl everyone gasps in horror and says, Oh, no - he's got a child! - as if it would have been perfectly all right for him to have captured and tortured another adult. "},{"Title":"Very Disappointing","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Like a lot of people I was looking forward to seeing this movie and I was really let down. There must of been a different movie I saw from all the reviews I've read! Denzel Washington was OK BUT Jolie was terrible in this movie and the thriller this movie was supposed to be just about put me to sleep. This movie should not even be talked about in the same breath as Silence of the Lambs or Seven! I gave this movie a 2. "},{"Title":"Here is a movie that makes me forgive Hollywood for the total disappointment I felt at the end of Seven","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  ****** (R) The Bone Collector Here is a movie that makes me forgive Hollywood for the total disappointment I felt at the end of Seven, a movie that started out strong but ended on a very weak note. Although Roger Ebert and I disagree on the substantial quality of the movie, we do agree on the performances.  Mr. Ebert had this to say  Denzel Washington and Angelina Jolie create characters we really like; there's chemistry when they're together, and they're surrounded by the good energy of supporting players like Queen Latifah, Luis Guzman and Ed O'Neill.Washington plays Lincoln Rhyme, a cop who was paralyzed in the line of duty, and an expert in forensics.  Amelia Donaghy (Angelina Jolie) is the first on the scene of a gruesome murder. Lincoln is so impressed with her handling of the crime scene; he brings her on the case as an extension of his diminished abilities. From here I pleasantly surprised to see an affection develop between the two. A meeting of minds that transcended physical attraction and impressed me. I am usually disappointed with movies about serial killers. I expected nothing from this one, and I was surprisingly entertained. "},{"Title":"My dog could have have written better","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was so predictable. Had it it not not been for a mishap in the theater this would have been a bust. Typical Hollywood drivel. Why does Hollywood always end on a positive note. Perhaps Americans are afraid to see a depressing ending. The best movies I've ever seen end in either very depressing endings or hanging endings. Americans are so lazy they can't exercise their imaginations. Bone Collector is a perfect example. Rubbish!!! "},{"Title":"Ill-conceived forray into serial killer genre","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I just got back from the premier, and what can I say...? Going into this, all indications and rumors described this movie as Seven; but with a chick, and I wish that were the truth. Seven had plot. Seven had a serial killer with a motive. Seven had acting.For two long, slow, and gory hours I sat watching this movie, hoping from the start that it would end so I would not have to put up with it any longer. But alas, the ending did not come soon enough. Instead you are subjected to needless gore and blood which was painfully unneeded, and in the end, when you finally see the killer, you discover his motive; or general lack thereof. When you ponder the motive, it is discovered that the whole movie is basically pointless and without reason.Avoid it. Go out and rent Seven. "},{"Title":"Been there, done that","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  There's a good chance you'll enjoy THE BONE COLLECTOR while you're sitting in the theatre watching it.  By the time you get home, however, you will have shot so many holes in the plot that your opinion may change.  The film starts strong, but uses more and more tired thriller techniques as it goes on.  If I give examples, I could be accused of spoiling the movie for others, so I'll let the filmmakers do that for you.  Too bad, because Denzel gives a nice performance as the paralyzed ex-cop.  That, however, is the only unique aspect to this story.  The rest... you've seen it all before. "},{"Title":"Fine film .","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I love mystery thrillers ,or interesting, exciting crime movies.This time Angelina Jolie,and Denzel Wasington plays to us the main part of the story ,and I think they are good,but it's just a part of the success,the screenplay has some little mistake ,but that mistakes are won't disturb you to enjoy the film.Somehow the director take your attention and you will enjoy it.There's not too much blood and violent on this film,and this is good too.This film enough intelligent,and emotionally to take you to the happy,life lover mood.While you watching the end credits ,you can thinking about your life's meaning ,this was just an example. "},{"Title":"Denzel Prone to Over-Acting","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a very silly film.Denzel Washington has obviously reached that tiresome but inevitable point in a glittering career where he wants to stretch himself as an actor. He's a cop, and he's in a WHEELCHAIR! was, I guess, the original pitch - an echo back to Ironside, if you will - only Washington evidently vetoed this on the grounds that being quadriplegic wasn't quite disabled enough.Wheelchair-bound cops are ten a penny, he probably told his agent. I want to be bed-ridden, on the verge of merciful euthanasia and only able to communicate with wistful eye-rolling and the occasional dignified grunt. Who needs to be an action hero? I'll win the Oscar through facial expressions alone. His character is Lincoln Rhyme, a genius crime-scene investigator crippled by a falling girder but retained by the police as a consultant due to his encyclopaedic knowledge of all New York's grizzly murders.And when a devious serial killer with a penchant for mutilation and historical copycatting runs amok, rookie cop Angelina Jolie (forensics experience zero) is brought in to act as Rhyme's eyes and ears, before those pesky professional crime scene teams get in there and contaminate the evidence. Meanwhile, much of the New York Police Department ups sticks and relocates to Denzel's bedroom.At this point, all plausibility has officially left the building. Washington smooth-talks Jolie into a little light amateur amputation, along with several other flagrant breaches of forensics protocol. I can't claim to be an expert, but I've seen enough CSI to know that William Petersen et al would not tolerate an uninitiated beat cop zooming in and cutting up their corpses, before they've had time to seal off the area, remove their aviator shades and stare quizzically into the middle distance.Hey ho.Jolie is almost as constricted in her role as Washington is in his, shorn, as she is, of any kind of sexuality. Indeed, she spends most of her time covered up in either clunky body armour or an unflattering blue boiler suit with only those famous bee-stung lips betraying any hint of trademark glamour. Her modest appearance would make sense if the institutionalised sexism storyline (implied by the early quips at Jolie's unsuitability for the case and the barefaced recruitment of Michael Rooker as the brash police captain) was fully thought through, but the director (Phillip Noyce) seems reluctant to make it an issue, so the rest of an impressive male cast (including Ed O'Brien, Mike McGlone and the genius Luis Guizman) are frustratingly underused.Surprisingly, what little empathy there is, comes from Queen Latifah's no-nonsense nursemaid who dabs Washington's brow tenderly and provides pithy asides to the masculine posturing of the police officers.Any Se7en-influenced cleverness accumulated during the intricately planned trail of clues at the murder scenes, is immediately ruined by a shockingly lazy ending, and, though Washington manages a melancholic smile during final fade-out, all dreams of Oscar-winning pathos have been long since banished.5/10 "},{"Title":"Preposterous!","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Bone Collector is so relentlessly stupid that I felt like screaming. You're expected to believe that Denzel Washington, as a quadriplegic former cop, is the sort of genius that puts Sherlock and Mycroft Holmes to shame; he's read (and apparently memorized) thousands of books, has written twelve, has a vaster-than-encyclopedic knowledge of New York City history, whips opponents at computer chess, and is so superhumanly adept at solving crimes that the NYPD lets him direct an entire serial-killer case from his bedside. Except for jealous captain Michael Rooker (cast because of his own Henry the Serial Killer connections), the guy appears to have the entire police bureaucracy under his command! You're also supposed to believe that doe-eyed, puffy-lipped Angelina Jolie -- whose New York accent fades early in the film -- is a respected street cop with a preternatural crime-fighting talent to rival Washington's own, and that Luis Guzman -- admittedly, always a delight, even in this nonsensical role -- is a brilliant forensic chemist. It's the sort of movie where, when Washington asks for the locations of local asbestos-removal sites, within 30 seconds someone comes up with a map on the computer, complete with two or three red dots that blink on and off and actually go beep-beep-beep! The murders themselves are gruesome, needlessly sadistic, and quite ridiculous in their intricacy and supposed motive. And get this The killer -- whose identity is so obvious even I could spot it -- wears a full-head black mask despite dealing with victims who are about to die. That's the sort of thing done strictly in silly whodunits. "},{"Title":"Nice and with suspense, but nothing special","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Bone Collector is a movie with a plot and a story that has been done before. The movie is not able to really stand out except for the actors but it is entertaining nonetheless. As usual there are some things somewhat far-fetched but that isn't the thing where it is all about. It is about the suspense of trying to save the victims before they are killed and catch the killer who leaves clues for the hero to decipher. Just watch this movie and try to enjoy yourselves. It has suspense and nice actors and you'll find yourself trying to figure out who the killer could be, even if you know that is impossible to guess. It is not the most brilliant film in it's genre but a film is also made to entertain and to grab your attention till the end. Just a nice movie. "}{"Title":"Totally pointless film!","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Why was this movie ever made? There's no redeeming aspect about this overblown TV movie. It's not even as gruesome as some people have been saying it is (they should go out more often). Boring, boring, boring!!!! No suspense, no gore, no interesting characters, NOTHING! The killer's identity is pathetic. When some people die in the movie, you don't feel anything. One of the dullest movies I've ever seen in my entire life! "},{"Title":"Al is always funny, but the rest ?","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Al Bundy (Ed O'Neill) and Queen Latifah have some smaller roles in this movie. They where funny, and maybe the only little reason to watch this one. Most of the rest of the cast was not that good.Anything else to notice ? No. The story is just boring. A very average crime story, with some nice ideas, but a very weak implementation.The main character had to lie in bed because he had an serious accident. I didn't understand why he could live at home this way. Everyone with at least a little bit reason would have put him into a hospital, where he can get better help.And what do you think about a killer which leaves hint where, when and how he would kill someone the next time ?!?That all made the movie look absurd. It was not really bad, but it was lifeless. You could have leaved it in the middle and you would never worry that you don't know the end.But I liked the following effect at the end of a scene on the street the camera is going backward very fast some hundreds of meters until we're in a room of a house, where a totally different scene starts. That was nice. If I remember it correctly, it was already in the trailer.Well if you like crime stories you might like this one, but even then you won't get exited. It really has no suspense at all, instead it was lifeless and sometimes even foreseeable. On the other hand it was very brutal. But even that was without any style.  "},{"Title":"Fair good film ruined by two major pitfalls","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The film making, suspense, horror and general build up of this film is terrific. It was engaging and had me on the edge of my seat. Furthermore, I really enjoy murder mystery films where the killer leaves cryptic clues that a only a gifted cop can unravel. OK... it's a done to death formula. But I still enjoy the genre and individual creativity within this formula.But there are two major pitfalls. First, the background of Angelina Jolie's character is absurd. A supermodel who became a street cop? Come on!!! You don't have to explain why these everyday characters are so beautiful. None of my doctors look as good as the ones in ER, but I will hold it against them if they start inserting the I was going to be a model but I decided to go to med school instead explanations.Second, when the killer is revealed, the whole thing seems a bit convenient or co-incidental. One thing I appreciated about seven and copycat was that the killer was simply the killer - he wasn't someone we encountered earlier in the film.Much like kiss the girls, where the killer turned out to be one of the homicide detectives, it feels that we need to have a shock ending by revealing that the killer was an unsuspecting character that kept popping up throughout the film; one who we never would have guessed. Lame! But a good film nonetheless "},{"Title":"Bad,bad,bad!","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  How did this show rate 2 1/2 stars?  It dragged from one shot to another. Totally predictable and boring. Also got tired of looking at Jolie's puffed up lips.If you read the book you would be disgusted with the ending......What a waste of Washington's talent. "},{"Title":"It's really scary...","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" ...That this film was ever made. I rented The Bone Collector with very low expectations but I was still horrified at how bad this piece sh#t was. Not only was it incredibly offensive towards my intelligence, there wasn't even a second of suspense during the entire movie! And another thing, just because you're paralyzed (like Denzel Washington's character is) doesn't mean that you are confined to your bed! There are wheel-chairs for God's sake! Anyway, it's a truly horrendous movie that I wouldn't recommend to my worst enemy. "},{"Title":"One of my bottom five ever.","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I guess if you took away the absurd leaps in logic that give The Bone Collector its plot, and the ending that was only surprising because it was so disappointing, the movie wouldn't be all that bad.  But that might be because it would only be five minutes long.I don't really even know where to start with my criticisms of this film.  I guess I'll start with the premise a paralyzed detective is the ONLY person in the world who can solve a string of murders.  Even if we suspend our disbelief and pretend that he really is THAT good, there's still the totally unreal logic he uses throughout the film (you know the kind the one in a million shot that is always right).  Let's pretend that that too is possible.  There's still the fact that Jon Voight's daughter's character, who has as much detective training as I do, is the only police officer in the city who can help Denzel solve the murders.I won't tell you the ending, but I will say that you'll be very disappointed.Please do not watch this movie. "},{"Title":"About Being About","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This thoroughly mundane film is based on a story woven around a very intelligent idea. Many films these days are written by writers writing about writing. And so it is here.The detective story is a modern invention, invented by Poe and popularized by Conan Doyle's Sherlock. The notion was invented as a specific reaction to Darwin's evolution. People are attracted to the idea that the world is logical and sufficient focus and memory from a human can comprehend it. But Doyle hated Sherlock, hated pandering to the same emotions this movie targets, so he created an equal genius in the evil Moriarty.Some of what Moriarty did was done only for the benefit of Holmes, which opened up whole new possibilities for the genre. The author and reader are engaged in a battle of wits while the detective and master criminal fought a parallel battle of the mind. The possibilities are quite rich while some clues are for the detective and some for the reader. On the other hand sloppy writing often depends on this notion without doing the hard work of creating a real dual puzzle.So much for background. The clever idea in this story is that the clues refer to a detective story -- the fiction of the film mirroring the fiction of the book in the film. The fictional detective in the film is supposed to refer a fictional detective in that book. So, in addition to some rather clever actors, this film gets a running start in having a spine that is richer than say your average Clancy thrash.That is why when this film doesn't deliver, when it is just ordinary, I count it as an extraordinary failure. There is no real puzzle here, no real mental battle of the masters. There is in fact no plain old tension.I recommend that you pass on this. It isn't even an interesting failure. "},{"Title":"Awful waste of time...","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Wow -- this movie was really bad!  You talk about formulaic, typical movie plot?  Watching this movie was like hitting my head repeatedly against a brick wall.  The transitions kept trying to be cool but failed.  The plot twist at the end, where we find out who the bad guy is was unexpected, but doesn't make much sense until his monologue.  Even then... The amount of gore in this movie doesn't help either.  Are all of those images necessary? My last complaint is about the plausibility of chunks of the movie.  Would the PD really send a lone officer into an unlit warehouse, subway tunnel, or wherever to find a body, when the location of the perp is unknown?  And why does the romance at the end just kind of happen all of a sudden?  It's like the writer was trying to fit in every Hollywood cliche he could. Don't waste your time seeing this piece of... something. "},{"Title":"Washington And Jolie Are Both On Top Form","Date":"30 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Plot In A Paragraph Suicidal quadriplegic ex-cop Lincoln Rhyme (Denzel Washington) is paralysed from the neck down, all he can move is one finger. His former partner Paulie Sellitto (Ed O'Neill) stops by his apartment asking for some help with a case (thinking it will help Rhyme as much as help solve the case) someone is abducting people in a taxi and leaving them to die in particularly nasty ways. With time counting down between each abduction and death, Rhyme recruits rather-unwilling Amelia Donaghy (Angelina Jolie) who discovered the first body,( into working the crime scenes to track down the killer.Angelina Jolie (never my favourite actress) gives an impressive performance, this is probably my favourite Denzel Washington movie (as I'm not really a fan of his) and it's always good to see Ed O'Neil on the screen. Luis Guzman and Michael Rooker are both good in their supporting roles as is Queen Latiefa as Thelma, Rhyme's nurse. "},{"Title":"A rookie cop teams up with a crippled detective to catch a serial killer.","Date":"5 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A minor classic with solid performances from both charismatic leads. Washington plays a crippled, embittered detective who recruits a young, troubled Jolie to help him hunt for a murderer who leaves cryptic clues at his crime scenes. Noyce's direction is capable and restrained and the script is fairly taut. Exceptions include the fairly weak ending and a highly questionable CGI squirrel. The real stand outs are the brilliantly conceived, suitably gruesome murder-scene set pieces through, and the accompanying vicarious horror we experience through Jolie's reactions. This is more thriller than horror but has offers of both while tastefully leaving most of the gore to the imagination. Nothing revelatory but well worth the price of admission. "}{"Title":"A Worthy Thriller!","Date":"2 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Based on the crime novel of the same name written by Jeffery Deaver, 'The Bone Collector' is A Worthy Thriller, that successfully arrests your attention.'The Bone Collector' Synopsis A Quadriplegic ex-cop teams up with an unwilling patrol cop, to track down a twisted serial-killer on the streets of New York. 'The Bone Collector' begins effectively, but gathers solid momentum in its second-hour. The sequences that lead the second-hour, are rock-solid. Jeremy Iacone's Adapted Screenplay works. Its indeed thrilling. Phillip Noyce's Direction is top-class. Cinematography & Editing are passable. Performance-Wise Denzel Washington & Angelina Jolie deliver impressively, as always. Jolie, especially, does an excellent job in here. Queen Latifah supports well. Michael Rooker gets it right. Ed O'Neill is awesome. Leland Orser is theatrical.On the whole, 'The Bone Collector' is indeed a well-done Thriller. "},{"Title":"Serial killer drama with two superstars","Date":"5 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Lincoln Rhyme (Denzel Washington) is a brilliant police detective and forensics expert who was left a quadriplegic from a job. There's a killer in the city who traps his victims in his taxi cab. Amelia Donaghy (Angelina Jolie) is a beat cop who discovers two bodies buried in the train tracks. The investigating detectives (Michael McGlone, Ed O'Neill) enlist the help of Lincoln who in turn enlists the help of Amelia.This was right before TV show CSI first air. So it had some fascinating CSI bits for the time. But the movie has two problems. It's a minor problem that Denzel is stuck in bed all the time. It restricts his physicality. It also limits the visual dynamics of his scenes.The bigger problem is the role of Amelia. After all, she is a beat cop without the basic forensics training. The movie is treating this less as a science and more as an inborn ability that an elder can bestow upon a youngling. Also Angelina is so emotional that it's unbelievable anybody would allow her near the evidences. Heck she fires her gun at the rats. What kind of forensics expert is that? There is no doubt that Denzel and Angelina are big time stars. It's a simple serial killer movie. They're shooting in NYC. It looks good. There is a good movie here. They should have allowed Angelina be a techie, and let Denzel have a wheelchair. That way she's more believable, and he could be mobile with her. "},{"Title":"Underrated,Suspenseful and Thrilling,","Date":"4 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Bone Collector is a great movie with a very exciting storyline that will keep you watching all the way through and very strong performances from both Denzel Washington and Angelina Jolie.I find this movie very underrated,critics said it was a failed attempt at trying to be suspenseful,I completely disagree,I thought it did well at being thrilling but still carrying a strong story at the same time,and it's much better than some other thrillers i've recently seen.I haven't read the book,but after watching this movie I really would like to read it after watching this,because it is very clever at has a great twist.If you enjoy thrillers and murder mysteries you should enjoy the Bone Collector.Lincoln Rhyme (Denzel Washington),a disabled forensics expert helps out the police to bring them on the trail of a serial killer in Manhatten. "},{"Title":"A Watchable Crime Thriller","Date":"16 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Bone Collector is a suspense thriller that combines Rear Window and Seven.This thriller is about two cops on the trail of a brutal serial killer must see as one, act as one, and think as one before the next victim falls.It stars Denzel Washington and Angelina Jolie together with Queen Latifah,Michael Rooker,Mike McGlone,Luis Guzman,Leland Orser and Ed O'Neill.It is based on the crime novel of the same title written by Jeffery Deaver,concerning the quadriplegic detective Lincoln Rhyme.Lincoln Rhyme is an intelligent forensics detective who was paralyzed in the line of duty. The author of several books, he has a keen eye for detail and nose for clues that have made him a legend in the law enforcement community. Amelia Donaghy is a street-smart policewoman in her twenties. On her last day as a street cop, before being transferred to a desk job, Amelia discovers a badly mutilated corpse. Rhyme is asked to investigate the case, but he declines. To him, it is an open-and-shut case not worth his time. But when he takes a close look at the evidence, he is intrigued, as the photos reveal complex messages in their details. The lunatic, who might be a taxi driver, amuses himself by paying homage to legendary murders in his own gruesome acts. Amelia is assigned to assist Rhyme, and she must be the eyes and ears of the quadriplegic detective. And they must capture the killer before he strikes again.This settles instead for mere competence and the modest rewards of a well-handled formula.The terrific cast is wasted on a bland attempt at a suspenseful,serial killer flick.Also,it can't overcome the limitations of its screenplay as it shares with most of the films of this genre like a penchant for moody photography, startling bursts of violence and, regrettably, a finale that's so far-fetched and relies on so many coincidences.Good thing that Denzel Washington and Angelina Jolie muster enough electricity to make it a watchable thriller. "},{"Title":"A novel became great on the big screen","Date":"11 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I read the novel of Jeffrey Deaver about a year before this movie was released on the theatres, and I was really looking forward to see the film adaption. It was not a disappointment, it may seem like the movie followed the standard formula, but that's no drawback, it was something different about it anyway. I loved the movie immediately, and based on a novel, it did very well at the theatre too. Denzel Washington has for a long time been one of my favourite actors (Glory 1989), and his chemistry with Angelina Jolie came out very good. That developed in a positive way through the entire story, absolutely something good.I found it very strange with all the negative response to this movie from professional critics, I thought it had good nerve and great excitement, and I was satisfied with its pace. I liked the concept, it had mixed elements of good drama and thriller - even scenes with a touch of horror, I really fell for this movie.Of course there is some changes from the book - most noticeably that Rhymes' nurse was a man, Amelias last name was Sachs, Rhyme was an irish-American white male, and there was a sexual moment between Rhyme and Amelia, but this these details had no importance for the story, or for me as a viewer.For me this movie provided great entertainment and excitement, it had several highlights that got all my attention, it had me on the edge of my seat - I had two thrilling hours! "},{"Title":"Excellent police procedural thriller","Date":"13 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Bone Collector is a superior procedural crime drama, based on a superior novel. Jeffrey Deaver's novels involving quadriplegic forensic expert Lincoln Rhyme and his grid walker Amelia are excellent and gripping crime dramas and this movie, which adapts the first novel (in which they first meet) is also very good.It does rather downplay the novel's subplot concerning Lincoln's wish to bring his life to an end, but the crime story itself is told entertainingly and grippingly.Denzel Washington is excellent as Rhyme (I don't recall Rhyme's race being explicitly stated in the novel, although I had always assumed he was white Washington's performance renders my speculation moot). Anjelina Jolie is good as Amelia, although the character's debilitating arthritis is only infrequently obvious. The supporting cast are all good, with Michael Rooker especially pleasing as the sort of bone-headed police captain you love to hate.The plot is grim, but the film is excellent. "},{"Title":"Destiny is what you make of it","Date":"23 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Certainly much inspired by Silence of the Lambs and Se7en, The Bone Collector works as a serial killer hunt. People are being mysteriously murdered; Denzel Washington's and Jolie's characters become friends and try to understand the clues the murder is leaving, but it may be not that easy. Be prepared to see investigations like they happen in CSI; many of the deductions used here and in that series are impossible to be thought in real life, so it sadly screams Hollywood in some scenes. Directing is one thing to be appreciated here, as well as the acting; my main problem is with the script full of clichés and things that are only possible in Hollywood. Also, I found quite lame the excuse for the murder to kill all these people; I was actually expecting to see a big twist in the end, with the murder being someone from the current police team. See this film for pure entertaining and nothing else and you may have a good time. "},{"Title":"A twisted psychological thriller","Date":"28 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie is a psychological thriller in which a serial killer pits his mind up against a great investigator. The investigator, Lincoln Rymhe, was injured seriously when a girder fell on him, leaving him bedridden and suffering from seizures. At the beginning on the movie he is fed up with his condition and simply wants to die.Then a murder is uncovered by a rather perceptive street cop, who picks up some interesting clues. From here it slowing unravels that the serial killer is actually leaving clues for the police to follow, but the police will have to use all of their intelligence to catch them as the killer is rather devious.There are numerous conflicts in this movie, but it is the conflict that makes a movie. There is the main one in chasing the serial killer, but we also have one between Rhyme and the female officer, as Rhyme attempts to harness her natural ability at investigating while she wishes to work with the youth. Then there is the stupid lieutenant that is trying to work the case himself thinking everybody else is incompetent. The killer is quite smart though because the obvious clue that he plants leads the police down a completely different track.In the end, the movie tries to lead us to think that the lieutenant is actually the killer, but it is obvious that he is not. First of all it is clear that the lieutenant does not think through matters clearly and acts on the first piece of evidence that he gets, even though it might lead him the wrong way. That is probably the ploy of the killer, but the problem here is that the killer is purposefully leaving clues while the lieutenant is openly trying to destroy them. This is illogical for the killer to act in this way, unless he has a split personality, which is pretty lame anyway.All in all, this was a pretty good movie. It could have been ended better, but there are a few things in there that are left unsaid which take the most perceptive to pick out. "},{"Title":"A Good Movie with Horrible Ending...","Date":"25 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I really liked The Bone Collector. I watched it twice, and I must say that it is a good crime/thriller detective movie. The story was good, the acting, I think they are all good.I liked Angelina Jolie's acting performance. Also with a perfect Denzel Washington, the movie is quite awesome.But, I didn't like the ending. I think it is ridiculous to find the book that contains murders, and last murder is last murder in the book. I found it quite dumb. Also at the end the murderer's motive is very funny as well. He just murders dozens of people, just because to catch attraction of a detective. Why ? Because, that detective prisoned him for 6 years ! God, if every prisoner kills dozens of people because of 6 years of prison, then everybody would be a maniac serial killers.So, I liked acting, scenario(except ending) My vote is 7/10. "},{"Title":"Good acting makes contrived thriller watchable.","Date":"23 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Just imagine the time, luck, and unlimited resources these serial killers in today's thrillers must have. Though not as ridiculous as the Saw films, The Bone Collector is yet another of these contemporary movies in which it isn't enough for a killer to simply be a homicidal maniac. He must also set up elaborate death scenes in some of the most Gothic old places, and leave clues for the police to keep them interested. This script is preposterous on many, many levels, yet the film is acted and photographed well enough that we don't turn the channel. As long as its over by the kickoff of the NFC Championship game, which luckily it was.The film stars Denzel Washington is a criminal forensics expert who is paralyzed and lives in his bed with a myriad of computer and medical equipment all around him. An accident on a crime scene years ago caused his current situation. But once this current case heats up, his apartment is big enough for an entire investigative team to set up an operations center inside it. The NYPD must have a hell of a disability pension available for someone like him to have such a huge place. He even has his own live-in nurse played by Queen Latifah! Angelia Jolie arrives on the scene as a beat cop(!) who impresses Washinton with her evidence gathering instincts at an early crime scene left by our killer. Washington soon has her off the beat and working as his main person on each fresh crime scene. This killer leaves plenty of victims with cryptic clues nearby. He is trying to tell us something. But what??? Maybe if we piece it all together, we can figure out who he is!!!Well, we the audience would have no chance. The conclusions that Washington comes up with seem to be pulled out of thin air. Or the deep recesses of his encyclopedic mind. There is just no way these clues could be pieced together so quickly by real cops. Jolie helps him out here and there, but she is mostly there to look at. And she was a looker back then! Ever since she hooked up with Brad Pitt, she has looked anorexic. Michael Rooker is on hand as the obvious suspect Capt. Chaney. He is hostile to all the good cops for no logical reason except to make us think he's the killer. And obviously he cannot be since the conclusion could never be so obvious. Why would he as the killer leave clues, and then forbid the only cops who can solve them from working the scene? So obviously we are being set up for someone out of left field to be the killer. Actually this person came from out in the parking lot if we are to use baseball stadium references. Maybe never before has there been a more arbitrary killer. Why did they even let him have a talking killer moment? We don't know anything about the events he's talking about, so why should we care? The acting is generally very good, even from supporting players. The cast is populated with several familiar faces. Their dialog is good enough, and said with conviction. But many scenes don't add up in how they are blocked. How can one woman with little forensic training waltz into a cavernous and dirty old slaughterhouse and locate not only the victim, but also some tiny clues so quickly in all that debris? How can the killer (who also drives a taxi) happen to know exactly where and when the kinds of victims he needs will be so he can conveniently give them the last ride of their lives? Did he wait in front of Union Station for hours until an older man and a little girl walked out alone together? Wouldn't that hold up the taxi line? At least the city looked good in one of the last major films made before 9/11/2001 when its skyline was changed forever. 6 of 10 stars.The Hound. "}{"Title":"Murder Most Horrid.","Date":"13 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Denzel Washington plays a crippled detective who is planning his suicide, when the details of an unusual murder case come his way. Angelina Jolie plays the young cop who finds the body and collects the forensic details. Washington's character is so impressed that he makes her secondment a condition of his assistance with the crime. At first she begrudges the idea; she had a nice safe desk-job lined up.But - it's a movie. She quickly gets a taste for the criminally exotic and a bit of a crush upon our hero.We join our dynamic duo as they pursue a series of clues in an attempt to anticipate each subsequent crime and save the victims from very gruesome deaths.This is a pretty formulaic thriller which carries a hint of de-ja-vu because there are so many in the genre. Helicopter flights around night-lit sky-scrapers? No CSI would be complete without them. The ambiance in particular reminds me of 'Silence Of The Lambs'; the murders are about as diabolical, there's a lot of Gothic imagery; even the theme and incidental music sounds like it might have been cloned from the earlier movie. The ending smacks of 'Rear Window'. That said; it's extremely intelligently filmed with some very nice set pieces. The leads give good turns with some excellent support from the likes of Queen Latifah and Luis Guzman. There's a solid sound-effects/incidental music track with plenty of deep, visceral tones.I found the denouement a little confusing. Washington's character accuses the villain of deliberately planting evidence in criminal investigations. The villain insists that isn't so. It is not made clear exactly who is telling the truth, and there was scope for an interesting little twist here that was never taken up. There's a cheesy and not very believable epilogue.When you see how much money is to be made in media and fashion, a good-looking woman like Ms Jolie's character would hardly seek out the uncertainties of a police career when she might otherwise 'not get out of bed for less than £10,000'. Anybody know any gorgeous cops? Jolie's just too pretty to be true.This movie would score more highly but that there is so much competition in the crime-thriller genre. Definitely worth a watch - but then most of them are. They remind me of new cars; all very competent but so much alike. "},{"Title":"starts off good, ends badly","Date":"22 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Bone Collector (1999)5 word summaryQuadriplegic detective helps track killerThe Bone Collector starts off as a great new kind of police thriller. It takes a lot of clichéd ideas but turns them into something original and fresh. A quadriplegic detective helps a cop track down a killer who is leaving clues to the next victim, victims who have been put in situations that will kill them by a certain time. A lot of the murders reminded me a little of Saw, a pipe that will blow steam, cuts all over in rat infested areas. The only difference is the police need to save you before you die instead of you saving yourself. it's creative and disturbing and very entertaining. A lot of very tense moments as people are about to die horrible deaths and the police are close to saving them. It keeps the movie very exciting. However, the film loses a lot of my respect when the ending comes. It's a very clichéd, obvious, boring ending and even more so, a disappointing ending. though who the killer is was a bit of a surprise, why he is doing it and what follows after he admits what he's done is a cop out and frankly, a little stupid. It definitely changed my rating but overall did not ruin the film, just made it not as good as it could have been. The acting is good by Denzel Washington but not better than usual for him, just an average performance (which isn't a bad thing.) Angelina Jolie's performance was better than usual but overall nothing special. The rest of the cast was mediocre at best, no one really stands out. I would suggest the Bone Collector to anyone who enjoys crime thrillers. For the most part it is great, it was just slightly ruined by the ending. A must for Denzel and Angelina fans. 7/10 "},{"Title":"The Bone Collector","Date":"20 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Bone Collector&#x85;.The movie revolves around a Quadriplegic homicide detective (Washington) and a female cop(Jolie) who together along with their team try to track down a serial killer. With the first blood, the expectations from the movie begins to soar&#x85;..but at the end the movie fails to impress&#x85;.!!! Denzel Washington plays his part well as the smart, focused man with never to loose attitude lying in a still position throughout the movie.&#x85;.Jolie's character compliments him well but her acting is not impressive. Amongst the rest of the cast Queen Latifah as Thelma plays her part well&#x85; The main problem with the movie is its pace and also the flow of the story&#x85;The movie is just as the joining of the pieces of a puzzle made look easy&#x85; I won't say that this movie is not recommended&#x85;.watch it for a decent performance by Washington, the clues put together to create the mystery are also good&#x85;One time watch strictly&#x85;!!! "},{"Title":"from the book","Date":"28 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" One thing you have to say about this movie is it's got tons of star power Denzel Washington, Angela Jolie, Queen Latifah, Michael Rooker, and Ed O' Neill. what a cast!! Denzel is a crime scene investigator who has the unfortunate luck of being almost crushed to death by what looks like some kind of boulder or something,, he winds up being a quadrapelegic and bed ridden, he makes up for his loss of physical use of his body with his mind, his keen sight, and so forth, A serial killer is on the loose apparently repeating murders that took place almost 100 years ago,, a female police officer , Angela Jolie is now his eyes and ears on the case, together they must find the serial killer before he strikes again, Michael Rooker plays the annoying captain,, Ed O Neill plays a Lieutenant , a very likable fellow, and Queen Latifah is the Nurse providing care for our bed ridden quadrapelgic, this is a tense crime thriller, with the killer leaving mysterious clues all the while, very cat and mouse like.. excellent film. "},{"Title":"Massively underwhelming","Date":"11 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" With a name like the Bone Collector and the killer's trademark being taking a bone from his victims you'd think this 'interesting' plot would all tie in together to create an exciting finale. But even with Denzel Washington leading the way this is so far from what actually happens. This thriller isn't thrilling at all.To start off with, Angelina Jolie's character is used to collect forensic evidence throughout the film, despite being unexperienced, but for serious murder cases you'd think they'd go for an expert rather than use the situation as training. Guided by a paraplegic detective (Denzel) they have to solve a series of murders by someone using the signature described above. Later on in the film it seems that the murderer is copying all of his acts from a book, down to the finest detail for each. With all this build-up I was there hoping it would lead to something that would actually make this film memorable for a good reason.However, the ending is such a massive disappointment, involving someone you only saw once in the film. He reveals his reasons for the murders which all in all makes the vast majority of the rest of the movie utterly utterly pointless. The whole bone collector persona was crap. All it did was link the murders, nothing more. The ending is just pasted on to a fairly dull and unrelated storyline, which is so far from thrilling. The murderer is simply looking for revenge on Denzel, so why does he go through all this extra effort of murdering innocent people when he could simply walk into this guys room and kill him? I've heard people say he wanted to make him suffer, but he's already paralysed and was soon wanting to end his life, so that simply doesn't make sense. He even fails at killing him in the end with the unbelievably predictable scenario in which Jolie saves the day in the nick of time with a gunshot just before Denzel would have been killed.There's much much more but I'm already disappointed that I've gone through the whole ending. It's the only way I can truly explain just why I found it so immensely poor though.Much of this film is either pointless or doesn't make sense. You want a real thriller? See a film like Se7en. Don't see this. "},{"Title":"Not Every Killer Can Silence Lambs","Date":"22 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The cast and the mood in this film are what make it entertaining. Washington & Jolie perform well. Queen Latifa is very good and this is really one of the few films I have seen with her in. Ed O'Nneil gets away from Peg Bundy and the shoe store to become a serious cop in this one.While the plot seems to dig upon a lot of details, the killer motives seem to be a little strange. This serial killer starts off seeming to have a motive for killing, but then seems to veer off totally randomly choosing victims because they are there and killing a cop just for sport at one point in the film.This is one of the least sexy roles I have seen for Jolie. She is obviously attractive in this movie, but not a real sex symbol. This film gives her a more cerebral edge as her love for Washington's character is presented more as an intelligence driven thing rather than being anything physical. Thank goodness her uniforms fit properly as I hate those movies which exploit a woman playing this kind of character by squeezing them into something they can't even bend over in.While this film is not perfect, there are worse ones. After all, not every lawyer can be Denny Crane, so think on it, sleep on it, and pray on it and you will be entertained. "},{"Title":"Great Suspense Thriller Marred A Bit By A Weak Ending","Date":"24 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Almost the entire way through, The Bone Collector is a great ride, with a taut story, a great cast and a completely unexpected murderer. Denzel Washington was very strong in a difficult performance as Lincoln Rhyme, an NYPD Crime Scene detective who's paralyzed during an investigation and confined to bed. Even paralyzed, he's still immeasurably more competent than the boob who replaced him as head of the CSU (Cheney, played by Michael Rooker) and he gets involved from his bed in investigating a series of brutal and sadistic murders. I was hesitant at first about Angelina Jolie as Amelia Donaghy, the street cop who discovers the first murder scene, and who Rhyme takes under his wing as his protégé, because he sees something in her suited to forensics. Jolie seemed miscast at first, but then it dawned on me - that's the point. She wanted to work in the Youth Division (which would have been the stereotypical cop role played by an actress like Jolie) but Rhyme sees something in her that no one else sees. Once you realize (pretty quickly) that she's deliberately acting against type, she works brilliantly in the role.In some respects it's a typical whodunit sort of story as Rhyme and Donaghy struggle to put the pieces of the puzzle together, and it's a very good one. When the killer was finally revealed, it took me completely by surprise. I hadn't even suspected. The movie includes a bit of a psychological study of both Rhyme as he deals with his paralysis and Donaghy as she struggles with what she slowly begins to recognize as her calling - one she'd really rather not have.My only quibbles are with one line near the beginning of the movie, when Donaghy is leaving for work and her boyfriend says to her my therapist doesn't think this relationship is working for me. Aside from laughing at the ridiculousness of the line, I wondered throughout the movie why it was even necessary to have the boyfriend included at the start. Then the end of the movie falls into totally unnecessary romanticism. It should have ended with the solving of the murders and with Rhyme realizing that he's still productive in spite of his handicap. Everything in between those two quibbles worked very well, though. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Creepy thriller","Date":"10 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Most thrillers about serial killers are dumb and lame-brained with twists and answers that anyone could figure out. So here is a rarity; a thriller with brains, and one that is unpredictable and manages to give a good few thrills. Unfortunately it doesn't live up to its full potential.After an accident on the job left Lincoln Rhyme almost completely paralyzed and living with seizures. Rhyme is not a happy person. Enter a killer whose grisly crime is photographed by a street cop named Amelia (Angelina Jolie) who actually read the textbook he wrote, and together they are trying to solve the killer's puzzles before the next victim dies.The Bone Collector is not your average serial killer movie. Apart from being pretty smart and unpredictable, it doesn't go to formula. This isn't a whodunit (although that question is always at the back of everyone's mind). It's more of a race against time, and it comes in short bursts, and not in one long stretch. It's an effective approach, and director Philip Noyce knows what he's doing; he's done this kind of a movie before.There are two problems with The Bone Collector, and they are big ones stiff characters and lack of depth. First off, the characterization is poor. One can't really blame this on any one factor; the actors don't make the characters likable, the director keeps them at an arm's distance, and the writing leaves everyone underdeveloped. It's hard to care about someone when you don't know (or even like) them. The second problem lies mainly with the director. Philip Noyce uses wide, expansive shots everywhere, and while the shot choices make for a unique experience, it doesn't really suit the material, and it makes the viewer feel detached from the characters and the story. Worse, it makes the film seem like a hollow shell that touches all the bases without having the guts to really get into the story.Still, The Bone Collector works. It's a unique thriller, and one that manages to live up to its genre name. Imperfect, but there's enough good stuff here to warrant a viewing. "},{"Title":"The Bone Collector is a spine-tingling serial killer thriller.","Date":"20 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Bone Collector is a spine-tingling serial killer thriller. Denzel Washington stars as Lincoln Rhyme, a bedridden quadriplegic NYPD forensics detective who rivals Sherlock Holmes with his insights and expertise. When a scrappy but sensitive rookie cop, Amelia Donaghy (Angelina Jolie), discovers the mutilated corpse of a millionaire buried in a railway tunnel and stops an Amtrak train from destroying the evidence, Linc knows that he has found the perfect protégé to help him collar this diabolical murderer.Masquerading as a cabbie to trap his victims, their sadistic quarry challenges them by planting cryptic clues at the scene of each crime. When our heroes aren't trying to outfox him, they exchange verbal barbs and contend with an inept police official, Captain Howard Cheney (Michael Rooker of Jumper), who wants Rhyme off the case and Donaghy back walking a beat.Veteran Australian director Phillip Noyce of Patriot Games and One Tough Cop writer Jeremy Iacone have fashioned a first-rate, white-knuckled police procedural yarn that borrows from the best of the genre. Despite the unsavory subject matter, the filmmakers know how to grip audiences without grossing them out. Ace lenser Dean Semler of Waterworld enhances the paranoia with his agile camera work that plunges us into the dark gritty catacombs of the Big Apple. The urban sprawl of New York City where this homicidal maniac lurks has never appeared more sinister and claustrophobic.The best thing about The Bone Collector is that the heroes seldom get a break. Classic thrillers use nail-biting suspense to heighten the tension. Our heroes must hurdle many obstacles before they can capture the killer. As this cat-and-mouse saga unfolds, our heroic duo take on dimension so that by fadeout we know what make them tick. Initially, Rhyme had resigned himself to a physician assisted suicide. Periodic seizures devastate his crippled body, and he realizes that the next seizure may leave him a vegetable. Rhyme has reason then for a rapid assert. Meantime, Donaghy wrestles with her own demons. She saw her policeman father shoot himself, and her boyfriend is pestering her to quit the force. When Linc tries to boss her around, Amelia refuses to let him intimidate her.Ingenious villains make memorable thrillers. Right up to the heart-stopping finale, the mysterious nemesis keeps our heroes guessing. While Rhyme wracks his brains form the confines of his hospital bed, Amelia serves as his arms and legs, rushing off to rescue the poor victims but rarely arriving in time to save them. Sadly, the only flaw in The Bone Collector is the final showdown between Linc and the serial killer. As usual, the over-confident adversary prefers the sound of his own voice to that of his scalpel rending flesh.A fine ensemble cast, featuring Ed O'Neil as a tough-minded NYPD detective and Queen Latifah as Linc's stalwart nurse, bring a modicum of humor to this grim account of a serial killer at large. Moviegoers that crave whodunits like Silence of the Lambs, Copycat, Seven, and Rear Window will relish The Bone Collector. "},{"Title":"If you were any more wound up you'd be a Timex.","Date":"4 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Jeffery Deaver's Lincoln Rhyme stories are really good and it is a shame that this is the only one that has been made into a movie.If I have to settle for one, I can imagine no better actors to enjoy than Denzel Washington and Angelina Jolie. Of course, we also get to enjoy Queen Latifah, Ed O'Neill and Luis Guzmán, too.Being a fan of CSI and Cold Case, this film is right up my alley. The characters are extremely interesting and the procedural details fascinating. The manner of death for the victims is certainly innovative and gruesome.The romantic dance between Jolie and Washington just adds to the pleasure of a good crime story. "}{"Title":"Why bother trashing a great story?","Date":"3 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I was really looking forward to watching this movie, and it had nothing to do with the strong ensemble of a cast. I'd previously read Jeffrey Deavers novel, on which the movie is based, and had found it an interesting, tense and page turning book. I was optimistic, it's my own fault, I set myself up for the fall.The story has been tweaked and altered to suit Hollywood as you expect with all novel to big screen adapt ions, but along with the very heavy editing and poor re-writing of sections of the story, they took out the most vital part...the tension and mood. What we are left with is a 'crime by numbers' flick that provokes little emotion or interest. You just know what's going to happen to all of the characters and plot lines throughout the film, a true shame, and you end up not really caring whatever the outcome.Denzels character should have stayed true to the original. He should have been moody, annoying, sarcastic and angry. Giving only glimpses of compassion and humour. He's meant to want out of this world (they do mention this in the film) but he seems as happy as a tellitubby for the most part. His 'brilliant mind' is only used to do a paper jigsaw puzzle of clues, leaving him miles away from the character of the book. The use of camera angles and excessive head shots make you forget that the character is a quadriplegic, so you never get to see if Denzel is playing the part convincingly.Angelina Jolies performance seems to have been sourced directly from an angry spoiled teenager. Snappy and then meek, loud and then quiet, unsure and then confident. It just leaves you quite bored and then frustrated. A crucial character, second only to washingtons portrayal of Rhyme, done with little enthusiasm or apparent commitment to the performance.Queen Latifah. Utterly pointless casting and part as it turns out, What was an almost an essential cameo in the novel, is used for nothing more than more excessive still frames and head shots, as her limited ability shows us her looking on in horror. Oh, and she is an essential cog in unlocking the massive paper jigsaw clues.I wanted to enjoy this movie I really did. But the actors were not on top form for, what is in the most part, their massive ability.The use of 'forensic science' throughout the movie is limp. They pick up a clue, have a bit of scratch and sniff and instantly know where and when it's from. 'On to the next clue crime fighters!'. It's just not believable.The film looks shoddy in so many shots and points of editing. It looks as though it has been made as an afternoon TV movie. Unfortunately, thats all that we've been left with. "},{"Title":"Sun god and his assistant","Date":"3 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film has a distant echo of Egyptian mythology. A peregrine falcon comes to Lincoln's window. He likes cripples, says the detective. In Egyptian mythology, the old and weak Ra, symbolized by the falcon, must rely on his strong and fierce daughter, Sekhmet, to pursue and punish the evildoers. The relationship between Lincoln and Amelia has a similar mythic quality.Otherwise, a tired formula, with the bright female investigator outshining the dumb, brutish male cops in her pursuit of the monster, much like Ripley in Alien and too many to list White Man Bad/Black Man and White Woman Good movies.The anti-euthanasia theme is unexpected from the liberal Hollywood machine, but not that well executed. "},{"Title":"Doesn't really work","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I'm sure this movie was a fairly enjoyable book, but as a film it doesn't quite come together.The biggest flaw in the film is that there is no incentive for Rhyme to recruit Amelia, who has zero forensic or detective experience. She's a beat cop, with no qualifications whatsoever. His motive for wanting her on the case is never clearly defined; what can she offer other than be a newcomer that he can mold in his image? I could possibly accept that scenario, but not when the clock is ticking on all the victims, and an experienced person would be better suited to the task.I'll echo the sentiment of other reviewers who said the end was weak. The killer's elaborate explanation was ridiculous; what it all amounts to is that he was just playing with Rhyme's head, for a slight that happened years earlier.You won't miss much if you don't see this movie, unless you like Angelina Jolie, or you want to see Queen Latifah's caveman-style acting. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I think the film was great the way Rhyme went through the case step by step and the way he calculated were the person would be and how he walked Amelia through the crime seen. I love the way that the killer gave clues to were the next victim was going to be and who he was. I though the idea of the book being found amongst the mass of crime books is a bad far-fetched you put anyone else in that library and tell them to get that book it would take them at least an 1 hour and it takes Amelia about 1 minute. I didn't find the film overly scaring or it didn't give me nightmares i was scared to go in yellow taxis for a bit but then i got over that laugh out loud. I think Denzel Washingtno was great for the character Rhyme as you could really see him working the role and enjoying it i also think that Angelina Jolie was great as she grew with the character and went from a unexperienced amateur cop to a great detective all under the influence of Rhyme. "},{"Title":"A worthless waste of time and money","Date":"14 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" i don't understand why films like this one are produced in the first place. okay, regarding only the handcraft it is a decent, let's say 'building'. but if you're looking for intelligent art, and even entertainment, this is definitely the wrong way. first of all the film tells the same story that has been told a hundred million times, and also it tells it in exactly the same way. an ill-minded serial killer is on the run and a couple of cops have to overcome various obstacles in order to do their work properly and keep up the fight against the evil and the ignorance in mankind. SPOILER in the end, of course, there will be a showdown after which all questions are answered and the good ones celebrate their victory. the differences are minimal (here, washington plays a handicapped ex-cop and the killer is a cab driver). who needs plots like this? furthermore, what's actually even more annoying, and gives me the feeling of being heavily insulted, is the workout of the characters. they are so flat, one-dimensional, black and white. especially the egocentric, sabotaging police captain (rooker) gained my attention, and actually made me write this comment. that role is so unbelievable, so annoying and so cheap that it makes me wonder what grade of elementary school the scriptwriter might be in. i haven't read the novel, but i'm afraid it wouldn't be much better, since i've read similar books in the past (like 'the relic', for example). finally, what amazes me even more than the people behind the cameras of such sorry films, are the actors. what makes denzel washington as a really good actor do that crap? also queen latifah has made so much better films (set it off, for example). is it really all about money? "},{"Title":"Truly intense, refreshing, edge-of-your-seat thriller","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" THE BONE COLLECTOR, in my opinion, is a truly intense, exciting, refreshing, edge-of-your-seat thriller. I thought that Rhyme (Denzel Washington) and Donaghy (Angelina Jolie) made a good detective team, especially when they were working on the case. When I first saw this, I thought Amy Brenneman was playing Donaghy. There was only one thing that sort of grossed me out, and that was the sight of the skeletal remains of murdered people. When I saw people get murdered, I was scared. I didn't scream, though. I was just scared and refreshed at the same time. In conclusion, I highly recommend this truly intense, exciting, refreshing, edge-of-your-seat thriller to all you Denzel Washington or Angelina Jolie fans who have not seen it. When you see it, prepare to be thrilled and refreshed. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Entertaining","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It was only through chance that i saw this film as my brother has broken his leg and i decided to see what he was watching. I caught the Bone collector. The Bone Collector is a Fantastic film which never lacks in suspense, drama or solid acting. Angelina Jolie portrays a New York city cop who starts out as a youth cop and turns to detective. Throughout the Film she maintains a fantastic accent, good looks and a thoroughly good performance, the best of hers that i have seen to date.The Story unfolds with Denzil Washington's character befalling upon an accident leaving him severely handicapped and virtually crippled from the neck down. It is in this Role Washington steals the show portraying a severely disabled character with solidity, courage and in places light humour. The bone collector really struck me back as to how good it became, with the murders and crime scenes become better as the film proceeds. I feel the Bone collector however lacks a truly fantastic script docking it 2 points from the full marks. However in saying this I highly recommend this film to many people but not for the daytime. The Bone Collector is a fantastic film but by no means a classic, however with superb acting, great suspense and seldom boring. If you wish to see Jolie at her true best with Denzil Washington nothing short of amazing i suggest you watch this. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Damn good thriller","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is one of the best drama/thriller movies I've ever seen.The movie revolves around Amelia (Angelina Jolie), a beat cop who comes across a gruesome dead body. Looking at the evidence it becomes clear we have a serial killer on our hands. The best serial killer expert just happens to be Linc Rhyme (Denzel Washington) a bedridden quadriplegic who has given up on this type of work since his accident. Amelia pushes him for help and eventually convinces him to help out. As they work together the murders keep coming and the stakes get higher and it becomes clear they're dealing with a nutbag.The movie does get a tad disturbing in scenes, probably not a good one to watch with the kiddies. The movie is brilliant though- a great story played out well, a very solid cast and it's shot well. Besides when was the last time you walked out of a Denzel Washington movie unsatisfied (I can only think of one- Fallen) "},{"Title":"Completely in his hand","Date":"13 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a very powerful film which shows that a man can be physically paralyzed but mentally controlling. Through this character, a seemingly unsolvable case was opening to us, and a young female cop gaining her confidence and the sense of work through his continual encouraging.To the very end, the leading role even had to face his own incapability by fighting with the enemy. It was a most gripping moment. Densel has successful portrayed this mentally strong and calm character, to whom the audience give respect and pity at the same time.Probably for contrasting the role of Densel, the female character was too sentimental to me. This is the only complaint from me. "},{"Title":"excellent movie","Date":"3 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" don't know what that guy there is talking about this movie is a knockout, recycled material? no way. its excellent, nothing about it is predictable... try predicting who the killer is, how how hes going to kill the next victim, or how it ends... washington, jolie, latifah, and the rest all give excellent performances... anyone that can predict this movie is god... thriller the whole way through... they want a minimum of 10 lines, but i don't want to say anything more or i might give it away.. i suppose i could say that it deserves more than the 2 stars that other fellow gave... and its suspenseful the whole way through i dunno what else there is to say really its just an excellent movie "}{"Title":"so I’ll be nice","Date":"3 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I finally saw The Bone Collector. It has two of my favorites, so I'll be nice. There is too much formula and not enough originality. Too much grandstanding drama, yet it’s not dramatic. They obviously tried to pull strings, but lacked any real ???, core.Ed and the Queen at least delivered. Did I say Ed? Angelina smiled, and Denzel looked stoic. I guess they delivered also. They tried to be gruesome, yet it wasn't, but it had little else to sell. All in all, I guess it was entertaining. I at least finished it.*****This is not an effort to pad this document, but I am not sure what you want from me. I have rewritten this a number of times. It may not please my English teachers, but what is missing? Please expound, I am a good learner. "},{"Title":"People Please! This movie is EXCELLENT !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Bone Collector Is amazing,clever, fresh and SCARY! Why people want to attack this grate movie, Well, ... What Ever. This movie is based on Jeffery Deaver's novel. What a pleasant surprise that it was incredibly close to the book. The bone collector is just a grand novel and a top movie. T.B.C. is better then Seven, which was very good, but not as great as to all the hype it gets. This is a movie that thriller fans need to see. (Not the, Duh what do I rent tonight because I haven't a life nor a thought deeper then,Blah, Blah,BLAH). It makes you think and search and gives the performance you expect. "},{"Title":"Denzel continues to shine","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The only way to describe The Bone Collector is that it has smart dialogue, talented actors and an excellent script with puzzles and clues that will keep the viewers guessing until the very end.With a talented cast that includes Denzel Washington, Angelina Jolie, Queen Latifah, Ed O'Neill and rising star Mike McGlone, The Bone Collector is sure to please viewers as it did me. Washington always seems to select the perfect roles as he seems to fit right in and perform so well.What makes the role of Lincoln Rhyme so good is Washington has to act without the use of his arms and legs. He makes it look so simple and yet pulling a performance off that believable is hard. Jolie and O'Neill serve as perfect support for Washington.It seemed that each scene was pulled off with a very low amount of takes since all the actors seemed to know what the others were doing and timed everything just right. I give a lot of credit to the writers of The Bone Collector for putting together a marvelous script that included intricate puzzles and clues that kept me guessing about the identity of killer a secret until the final showdown at the end. Also, it was a work of art how Lincoln Rhyme took out the killer. I don't think anyone could have forecasted how perfect it was.This is a must see movie for mystery buffs who love to play along as the home detective and find out who did it. THUMBS WAY UP.  "},{"Title":"Just Another Routine Serial Killing","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Possible SpoilersSub-genres of crime fiction have a tendency to become predictable and bound by convention. Like its predecessors the country-house murder mysteries of the 1930s and the `hardboiled' private eye stories of the 1940s, the serial killer movie has evolved its own set of rules and conventions. `The Bone Collector' follows the pattern set by its predecessors `The Silence of the Lambs' and `Seven' (or `Se7en' as we are supposed to spell it). A dedicated older cop with an inexperienced but keen younger partner battles against an evil but intellectually brilliant murderer who delights in teasing his adversaries with mind games and deliberate clues.In the real world murder, including serial murder, is not simply an elegant game of chess between killer and detective. Apart from their crimes, the main distinguishing feature of serial killers is their ability to hide evidence from the police. (That, of course, is why they survive to become serial killers; those who do not possess such an ability are generally arrested and imprisoned after their first or second murder). Thus Harold Shipman was able to evade detection for so long because he managed to persuade the world that at least a hundred murders were in fact deaths from natural causes, and a number of other notorious mass-murderers (such as John Christie, Dennis Nilsen and Frederick West) were only caught because bodies were discovered by accident in their homes before the police were even aware that a serial killer was at work. When the police do receive taunting communications (such as the notorious `Yorkshire Ripper' tape) these generally prove to have come from someone other than the killer himself.Serial killer films may bill themselves as `psychological crime thrillers', but they have as little to do with real crime or real psychology as do those old Agatha Christie stories where the detective solves the murder like a crossword puzzle and then in the final scene announces to the assembled house-guests that the culprit is the butler. Cut off from reality and bound by a number of formulaic rules, they need a gimmick which will enable the audience to distinguish one from another. Thus in `The Silence of the Lambs' (well enough made in its way) the gimmick was the fact that one murderer was helping the FBI catch another, and in `Se7en' (overrated, although it had a genuinely shocking ending) the pattern of killing was based on the concept of the seven deadly sins.The gimmick in `The Bone Collector' that it gives us a disabled detective. This is not a new concept after James Stewart's character in `Rear Window' and the `Ironside' TV series, but Denzel Washington's Lincoln Rhyme is more seriously disabled than either of those after being injured in the line of duty. Rhyme is completely paralysed from the neck down, apart from one finger which he uses to spell out messages on a computer. The actual investigatory work is done by his able-bodied colleague Amelia Donaghy (played by Angelina Jolie).The plot, as is normal in films of this type, is a complex one, and the general look of the film is dark and gloomy. Washington and Jolie play their roles reasonably well, but there is none of the `chemistry' (to use an overused word) that existed between Anthony Hopkins and Jodie Foster in `The Silence of the Lambs and which helped that film rise above the mundane. The worst thing about the film is that one never gets the impression that one is watching a real-life crime investigation; the whole thing is simply a gruesome intellectual puzzle, concocted for our routine entertainment. And serial killing, even if fictional, should not be something that we find either routine or entertaining. 4/10.  "},{"Title":"Read a good book... I mean it!","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I suppose if you take the Bone Collector at face value, it's not so bad. The story is alright. There's a certain element of suspense. And the characters seem entertaining enough. Unfortunately those of us who have actually read the Bone Collector by Jeffery Deaver can't help but be incredibly disappointed. Let me first start off by saying that Jeffery Deaver is a brilliant crime novelist who has developed the two main characters Amelia and Lincoln in a number of novels (The Bone Collector, The Coffin Dancer, The Empty Chair, The Stone Monkey and his latest The Vanished Man). Having read them all, I am every time amazed at his ability to write something so incredibly exciting, detailed, well researched. He is by far one of my favourite authors, which is why it pained me to watch this movie.Why is it that when Hollywood decides to make a script out of a really great book, they change all the things about that book that make it so great. Naturally you can't salvage all aspects, but basic things should remain the same. Like the victims. Like the killer. Like the main characters.BIG SPOILERS AHEAD!BIG SPOILERS about the novel and the movie. First the VICTIMS. The victims in the book are not the same as the victims in the movie. The makers of the movie probably thought there were too many victims in the book so they mixed them up a little and decided to kill a few victims at the same time. Another big difference is the victims don't all die in the book. That's what adds to the suspense. Is someone going to save them or not? It's what keeps you on the edge of your seat. Second the KILLER. Why on earth would you want to change the killer? I just don't get it. By changing the killer you change the motive or in this case take it away all together. Finally, the MAIN CHARACTERS. The last time I checked Lincoln Rhyme wasn't black. Maybe they picked Denzel because he was just really great for the part, but then again... who knows. And his nurse... she's supposed to be a HE named THOM. And as far as Amelia is concerned, why would you want to change her last name from SACHS (in the book) to DONAGHY (in the movie). Let me guess, because when they said Amelia Sachs out loud, it sounded like SEX. Oh no, what a disaster, because people in the movies aren't supposed to have 'funny' names, not like people in real life.I have tried to look at this movie objectively and objectively it's not bad. It's not great but it's not bad either. I have only one advice for you. If you insist on seeing the movie, read the book first or not at all. If you've already read the book, skip the movie alltogether. I wish I had. "},{"Title":"Bad film","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I watched this for the first time last night, on DVD, and it is poor.The first problem I have with it is the whole 'rookie street cop carrying out forensic duties' thing. Forensic experts train for years. Not only that, but she is asked to go into the crime scenes first before they have been secured because, as Denzel puts it, we need to stop the other cops from destroying evidence. No cop in their right mind, especially a rookie cop, would go into a crime scene alone while everyone stands back and waits...oh my, how silly.When the second victim dies, from scalding hot steam, Angelina does not even check her pulse! She does not check to see if the victim is still alive. Now for the funniest bit in the movie, when Denzel Washington tells her to, 'cut the victims hands off, we need the handcuffs'!If you thought films like Independance Day and Tomb Raider were good films then this film is for you.Grade D "},{"Title":"First-rate thriller","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Bone Collector, The (1999) Denzel Washington, Angelina Jolie, Queen Latifah, Michael Rooker, Mike McGlone, Luis Guzman, Leland Orser, John Benjamin Hickey, Bobby Cannavale, Ed O'Neill, D Phillip Noyce. Gripping cat-and-mouse thriller about a quadriplegic homicide detective with a death wish who comes out of medical retirement to solve a series of abduction-murders occurring on the streets of Manhattan. He recruits the aid of a female street rookie cop (Jolie) to do his fieldwork for the investigation while the serial killer feeds the clues to him. Washington is especially good and takes the challenge of spending most of the film lying immobile in bed, and the suspense scenes are tightly paced, even if most of the violence is substituted at the end as a letdown, also for the `talking killer' conclusion. Based on Jeffery Deaver's 1997 novel, The Coffin Dancer. Running Time 118 minutes and rated R for strong violent content including grisly images and language. ***	 "},{"Title":"Have intellect?  Watch this movie!","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was one of the best mysteries I had ever watched...who would have suspected the killer as being who it turned out to be?  The story was well written, well acted, with plenty of suspense and tension.  Think of the plot...how in the world can a man who has lost most of the ability to move solve these murders?  I thought this story was very well written and actually has a storyline that makes you think and is intellectually stimulating, which is hard to find in Hollywood these days.  As for Seven, while it was interesting, there wasn't much to solve, and in a choice between the two movies, I would much rather watch the Bone Collector. Consider this when choosing to watch, if you'd like to be thrilled, like suspense, like being grossed out with a little bit of humor thrown in, see this movie!  I think it's very much worth it. "},{"Title":"Poor attempt at a takeoff...","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was deeply into the movie in the beginning. But it started to get boring and predictable during the end. This movie tried to copy Seven and The Silence of the Lambs with its grisly images of unsolved murders and mind-boggling clues. The acting was exceptional. "},{"Title":"DENZEL WASHINGTON CAPTURED THE LINCOLN RHYME ROLE!!","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"                     It was a great pleasure reading the book, I just could not put the book down and it held my interest completely.  Denzel Washington (Lincoln Rhyme) put his heart and soul into this character, laying completely on his back, he was able to use facial expressions and pinky fingers to capture your attention.  He also had a very sexy eye contact with Angelina Jolie (Amelia Donaghy)and their acting was like an explosion between the two of them, even with Denzel completely unable to do anything but LOOK!   If you love Denzel Washington, you will want to definitely own this DVD and even buy the book!   "}{"Title":"This is a great movie, great acting by Denzel Washington and Angelina Jolie. Denzel lights the spark in every movie he acts, I like his charisma and intelligence.","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film  is underrated, but it is really a great movie to watch. It is 2 hours of suspence and intelligence. The killer is the most intruiging character because he plays mind games with Denzel and Jolie straight through out the movie. Denzel brings a certain charisma, wit and intelligence to every movie he acts. He proves that he is a professional actor by using his facial expressions throughout the movie. I give this movie a thumbs up!! "},{"Title":"Immobilized","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  SPOILERS.  They're going to have to run out of themes involving serial murderers pretty soon.  The must be a finite amount of synechdoche in the narrative world.  Let's see.  We've had original stories of serial murderers, in which there was no particular pattern to the killings. More recently we've had killers who committed their crimes in such a way as to form a pentagram on a map, some whose victims resembled their mothers, others who killed people who couldn't answer their riddles, others who imitated not one but half a dozen earlier real serial murderers, a guy who lopped body parts off his victims while trying to fashion a statue of Jesus, ones who killed girls according to their somatotype so they could remove particular portions of skin and make a properly taylored costume out of them, others who challenged the cops with puzzles from Alice in Wonderland. (I think I've missed some.)  This one has something to do with the killer repeating his earlier crimes, leading up to his attempted murder of the criminalist he feels was responsible for his earlier conviction, wrapped around abandoned subways, slaughterhouses, old tunnels -- all dating from the turn of the century.  This killer leaves deliberate clues at each crime scene to tease the police.  His presence is revealed at the end and his connection with the whole business is so tenuous that the bed-ridden Denzel Washington has to remind the audience of who he is.Poor Denzel Washington.  He doesn't always get the best parts, the ones that give him a chance to stretch his instrument, but does he ever get the toothsome costars Julia Roberts, Sandra Bullock, and here Angelina Jolie. She plays it pretty straight -- for Angelina Jolie.  There are no nude scenes and no sex, although she massages Washington's only operative digit while he's unconscious, and does it most lasciviously.  But he doesn't get to DO anything with his costars.  He's just a coinvestigator for Bullock, a convenient friend who sleeps on the living room couch for Julia Roberts, and a paraplegic for Jolie.  Angelina Jolie exudes sex in every movie she makes but she can't seem to help it.  Even here, with no simulated intercourse or nudity, where we hardly notice her bosom, and where her grooming is conservative, we are overwhelmed by those protrubent lips and teddy bear eyes, and this despite the fact that in profile, with her flattish nose, she comes close to being compellingly ugly.  She's a reasonably good actress, at least as good as some who have won Academy Awards.  That may or may not be saying much, but the fact is that she's believable enough here.  And so is the supporting cast.  Ed O'Neill turns out to be likably hulky, even when he's not being an egocentric comic goof.  And what's his name, Ruiz -- what a terrific face -- sporting a glabella the size of a .45 caliber bullet hole between his eyes.  I kind of like him better as a good guy, as he was in movies like Q and A and Traffic.  It's too easy to cast him as an immoral roughneck.  Rooks, too, as the ever-present clicheed higher authority in the police force, who's only function in the movie is to become outraged and cashier the hero and heroine, is reasonably good, though he's pretty clearly a red herring.Well.  I don't know where they're going to go next with this formula. I'm trying to think but am having trouble coming up with anything that doesn't belong in a booby hatch.  Maybe -- I know this is pushing the envelope, but hold on -- maybe a serial killer who knocks off people in a way that somehow is correlated with the number and placement of the word tap in Finnegans Wake.  Okay, okay, forget it.  I'm sorry I brought it up.  (Speaking of that, how about the appearance of the phrase U. P. Up, in Ulysses? Still no?  The number and dates of Elizabeth Taylor's marriages?)  "},{"Title":"Cheap Cheating Thriller","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What makes any mystery thriller fun is trying to use the clues in the film to figure out whom it might be that's committing murder.  Then, when you find out at the end, the fun is to go back over the film and remember all the clues you missed.  This film's villain is SO arbitrarily designated by the script that you have a better chance of figuring it out by playing a game of spin the urine sample!!  Only the quality acting (laboring under a completely inadequate script) attempts to keep this boneheaded exercise in celluloid waste management afloat.  I felt cheated never having a hope of figuring out what the mystery was and doubly so when, after the film was over, there wasn't any clues that I missed... in fact there were no clues at all as to the identity of the killer.View it if you must as long as there's nothing else more challenging... like, say, watching your underwear spin in the clothes dryer.3 out of 10 (and that only because I feel charitable today!) "},{"Title":"TV movie in thin disguise","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Bone Collector represents the very worst of formula studio film-making. It's basically a tame woman-in-peril movie passed off as an edgy Seven-esque crime horror, with Angelina Jolie playing the Ashley Judd/Jaclyn Smith role. Director Phillip Noyce seems very self-conscious about the made-for-TV juju of this genre, splicing in some obvious efforts at distinction (overhead establishing shots, just enough violence and swearing) to make sure it doesn't end up on Hallmark.  But the whole project is completely earthbound by its absurd set-up, that Denzel Washington's crippled expert would after two minutes put such trust in this woman that he would confidently steer her into situations that genuine police procedure would label insane. All the cliches are here, poor Angelina having to prove herself to her dead father, the final reel gunshots coming at precisely the right moment &#133; what a waste of time this film is, unless it lets you catch a couple of hours' sleep. "},{"Title":"A thriller but no silence of the lambs!!","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  An interesting film with a good sense of suspense. Unfortunately the story line and the suspense are not enough to keep up the momentum and sadly I felt it couldn't continue at the same pace through the two hours of its length. Angelina is not a particularly impressive beat cop and Denzel is not particularly any sort of cop apart from being very intuitive.A disappointing film but still watchable with a 7/10 rating from me. "},{"Title":"Another average crime movie...","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  *Warning spoilers in this review*The acting of Denzel Washington and Angelina Jolie was not bad and the acting by the rest of the cast was not bad too.The failing point of the movie was the plot. There was too much emphasis on gore and not enough emphasis on certain aspects of the film like the ideas, etc. so the audience were not able to interpret nor understand certain aspects of the plot.Also, some parts of the plot were not very believable. Like the part towards the ending where Amelie escaped from arrest. I can't believe that the officers were not smart enough to keep an eye on her.Also, I don't believe how evidence could just be left lying around on the desk. It's plain obvious that if you should lose the evidence, you're partly to blame and a Captain isn't supposed to do that at all.Other not-so convincing parts were how some of the victims could not be strong enough to try and smash their way out. Normally, when faced with a crisis, the victim will try his best to escape and not let the killer get to him or even suddenly possess an incredible amount of will and do something that's totally unexpected of him.Another rather weird issue was that the film was made in 1999. So, how come there's a lack of cellphones/handphones, even? It's obvious a lot of people owned cellphones or handphones by 1999, so it was kinda weird how none of the victims owned one and therefore, be able to call for help.A last point was the lack of realism in this movie concerning how the victims were picked. It seems that the killer managed to get his victims, by coincidence and not by selecting the victims. If I'm not wrong, he drove the cab only when he wanted to kill so as to avoid getting caught by the police. Therefore, it was odd how he didn't manage to get injured if say, he had chosen a victim who was stronger than him.The pacing of the movie was all right. It was intense at some points but in other parts, the pacing falls flat.Maybe some of today's film directors should take a lesson from the directors who made great films in the past like Alfred Hitchock that no matter how much money you have, it isn't just the visual aspect that counts. It's the plot that ties everything together and makes the audience believe what they see on the screen. If Psycho was frightening only with the visuals but had a horrible plot, I doubt it'd be one of the best movies around.  "},{"Title":"great for genre fans","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Tense, gripping mystery/thriller about a once prominent forensics cop, now crippled and permanently bedridden after an unfortunate accident, who enlists the aid of a smart but reluctant and inexperienced street cop&#x97;with plenty of emotional baggage&#x97;to be his eyes and ears in the investigation of a clever and sadistic serial killer playing a deadly cat and mouse game with the police department. Little do they know that the case will become much more personal than either of them can ever anticipate. Subject matter is grisly, but the film is well-acted, suspenseful, and very eerie, certainly in keeping with the recurring theme of intense psychological thrillers. Solid entertainment that definitely isn't for all tastes. *** "},{"Title":"Seen it all before","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  WARNING minor spoilersFrom the start, you get a strong sense of deja vu watching this movie. The serial killer leaving clues, the twists along the way, and especially the climax that was so predictable you literally know exactly what is going to happen at each moment - not to mention the sickly sweet ending.It has a good look thanks to director Philip Noyce, and Denzel Washington is excellent as always, although he may very well have mailed in this performance. I guess Hollywood just can't help themselves - they followed a tried and true (and overdone) formula, and test marketed the ending to make sure everyone felt warm and fuzzy after 2 hours of watching brutal murders. No wonder Noyce recently felt like he had to get off the Hollywood treadmill/production-line and come back to Australia to make one from the heart (Rabbit Proof Fence).  "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I like thrillers, but this one let me disappointed.D. Washington wasn't believable in this part and the screenplay has so many holes that it really annoyed me.Others had pointed the mistakes and the unbelievable parts of the story (a young, not experienced cop sent alone in dangerous places? a bedridden, almost dying officer that solves difficult crime enigmas in one shot only? and so on ...) because they are so shining that you cannot ignore them. The best thing of the film was the Peter Gabriel song during the end titles.Vote 4/10 "},{"Title":"Not one of Washington's shining lights.","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  ** 1/2Starring Denzel Wasington, Angelina Jolie, and Queen Latifah.I have seen almost all of Denzel Washington's films and this one sticks out.  Now that's strange because this is the worst of his films, and its almost a good film.  The movie is quite gruesome and has its major points of stupidity.  I really don't respect Angelina Jolie.  She's a good actress but her strangeness stops me from getting caught in the moment of the character.  Washington, as always, is excellent.  Queen Latifah is good as the nurse, and I was surprised at what happens to her.  I really have nothing else to say about the movie, so I will recommend you to see it with a strong stomach. "}{"Title":"Give me a break","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The positive side of this movie is that at times it was scary and suspenseful. Now for the bad, and I do mean bad. There is a killer loose and they send a rookie (Angelina) in that is from the youth services department to handle the case. She goes in alone to investigate the crime scenes. OK, I'm a three year old, I buy that. Then you've got Denzel a paraplegic, solving the crimes in record time by pulling the answers out if his a$$, . Well let's choose 1898. What a genius this guy is. This movie is looking for the most gullible audience it can find. If you are past elementary school you will be rolling your eyes at this movie.This is a rental at best. Don't expect much. "},{"Title":"Nice little thriller","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Bone Collector is a nice little thriller with sharp direction by Phillp Noyce. Denzel Washngtion is once again great in the lead role of Lincolin Ryme and always Angelina Jolie is very sexy. The script and cinematography are very good and the revelation of the killer is a nice surpise. "},{"Title":"Grisly and good movie","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Denzel Washington plays a homicide cop, who teams up with Angelina Jolie to track down a killer who gruesomely kills his victims and leaves clues to his next victim.  It is up to them to track down this killer before the next victim bites the big one.  Denzel Washington and Angelina Jolie were both good in this and I would never expect them to be an on-screen duo.  Their performances were still good but its weird to see an Academy Award Winner and a woman who keeps her husbands blood around her neck on the screen together.Overall the movie was cool and I enjoyed this very much.  It's definitely worth seeing for a person who likes suspense.  Rating 8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"I must admit, I had my doubts about seeing The Bone Collector.","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The fact that I knew for the entire movie, Denzel Washington would be sitting in a bed, made me think that this couldn't be that good a film. I figured that Angelina Jolie would then become the entire focus, and I wasn't sure she could carry this type of movie. But I was mistaken. Yes Denzel was in bed the entire movie, but he had all these cool computer gadgets to help him out, and this way Jolie didn't have to become the focal point of the film, she could still ride shotgun to the amazing acting ability of Denzel.Denzel plays Lincoln Rhymes, a forensics detective who was paralyzed while on a case. For 4 years he has been in bed knowing that at any moment he could have a seizure that would kill him, and he decides to go out on his own terms. But before he can do that, a serial killer is found to be on the loose in New York, and Rhymes is the only one who can stop him. But since he is bed ridden, he needs the eyes and ears of someone else to help him out. Those eyes and ears (and lips) come in the form of Amelia Donaghy (Angelina Jolie). She was supposed to go into the Youth Crime department, but gets chosen to help with forensics because Rhymes feels she has the instincts to do the job right. The killer leaves clues as to who he is, and who the next victim will be. Brutal death after brutal death until the next victim is a cop. This movie felt that same as The General's Daughter. In that movie, you had a murder that had a lot of suspects. When they finally revealed who the killer was, I kept thinking that the way the movie was set up, it could have been anybody, and all they had to do was give the killer a reason. But there was nothing that I could see that would have led me to guess who the actual killer was. It's the same way in The Bone Collector. When the killer was finally revealed, there was just a simple reason given as to why he killed all those people. And there was nothing shown in the film, no clues or anything, that would have led you to figure it out. I haven't figured out if I like this kind of ending. I suppose if there were clues and I had figured it out before the end, I would be complaining about how the movie gave too much away. So either way I'd complain. But besides the quick ending, I thought the rest of the movie was pretty good. Denzel gave yet another great performance. Even from a bed, he has the ability to command the screen and everyone on it. Angelina Jolie was able to hold her own against Denzel and even give some back to him at times. Although it bothered me that for the first hour she mostly just yelled and cried. The supporting cast was just that, it supported the main stars. Queen Latifah, Michael Rooker, and Ed O'Neill stayed in the back, coming out to help Denzel and Angelina when they needed it, but mostly staying out of the way. I liked the brutality of the killings. Nothing glamorized here. I liked the fact that the cops weren't able to save everyone, the director actually let people die instead of making the cops heroes all the time. From one of the commercials to the film, it has been compared to both Silence of the Lambs and Seven. I thought that The Bone Collector wasn't as good as Silence of the Lambs or as brutal and dark as Seven but it was good in its own right. Strong performances from the lead stars and a dark and mysterious script helped make this a good movie to see. The ending I felt was a little too rushed and easy, but it didn't take away from the film. So overall I thought The Bone Collector was an enjoyable movie. "},{"Title":"Dependable Denzel in derivative dull dud","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I used some alliteration in my summary line, because that's the most exciting thing to be said about by-the-number feature  The Bone Collector. Yes, it's that forgettable.The Bone Collector has Denzel Washington as a quadriplegic forensic investigator. As you do. He's investigating crimes where people get abducted in taxis and murdered. The killer is leaving little clues behind so Denzel has to have a little partner fetch the clues for him - it's fellow Oscar actor Angelina Jolie as crack cop Amelia Donaghy. You see what they're doing here? The buddy-cop element is being subverted as she acts as his eyes and ears in the outside world. Clever isn't it? No, I didn't really think so either. Denzel is Denzel - he's dependable in whatever role he's chucked in at the very least, and he's perfectly believable here - just like all the quadriplegic forensic investigators I know...Jolie is fine enough too as the cop-gal-with-something-to-prove-and-a-slight-attitude-too-original-huh , and the rest do what they're paid to do.It's the fact that this movie has a boring script that makes it so unmemorable. It's a tad stupid and non-believable (mind the plot holes please). The killer, as many have pointed out, is disgustingly obvious (I gave the writer too much credit because I assumed he wouldn't be that lame). There's a whole labored feeling to the script, as the characters march around from location, to location, picking up clues to a puzzle in a banal manner. Boring. It doesn't hang well together and the final resolution - when we're meant to go Oh my! I never suspected X! is just, to borrow some slang, lame. Direction? Bit of dark, bit of murky, bit of derision from me....The Bone Collector isn't mind numbingly awful. That's the problem really - it's not anything. It's not good, it's not that bad. It's just a right old next please feel to it. There's no real point in bothering is there....4/10. "},{"Title":"Watched It Because Denzel Washington Was in It","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Being a fan of Denzel Washington, I had wanted to see The Bone Collector when it came to theatres in November 1999.When the STARZ! Channel had their free preview in early March, I found out that The Bone Collector would be on.  So I stayed up late, expecting a good film, maybe for the fact that Denzel Washington can competently walk through any role that he takes, whether it be an FBI agent (The Siege), an angel (The Preacher's Wife), a lieutenant colonel (Courage Under Fire) or a quadriplegic forensic officer (The Bone Collector).I was right... Denzel's acting was great, but the movie itself was horrible.I was surprised to learn that The Bone Collector opened at No. 1 at the box office.  This film is possibly one of the worst films I've ever seen, up there with the Christian Slater/Val Kilmer film Run for the Money (which never made it to theatres or was a direct-to-video flick).The Bone Collector is like Fallen and Virtuosity two Denzel Washington movies with great performances, but flopped like a fish out of water.  "},{"Title":"Miss Marple Investigates","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Ok folk my harsh judging and crude comments return as I am a hard t please critic and thats just the way I am. As far as this film is concerned it is just another murder she wrote movie but with out the old duck and a bit more grimness. Denzel Washington is a cop that gets cripled and 4 years later a case arrives that requires him to solve it as the other cops are too dman dumb to solve it for themselves.Anglina Jolie discovers the 1st victim and takes pictures of the crime scene with a disposable camera and then becomes a vital part of the investigation team to help track down the killer, WOW..and original storyline once again but never the less the acting is quite good and the film holds a few scenes of suspense to keep the viewers entrigued.  "},{"Title":"90 Minutes of Thrill, 30 minutes of idiocy","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It seems as if the consensus here is that The Bone Collector is a pretty awful movie.  While it has some very nice qualities, I have to agree that this film was overall a failure.  Like many have said, Denzel Washington is fantastic.  He plays the role of a quadriplegic perfectly depressed and suicidal at times, focused and brilliant at others.  Angelina Jolie is interesting as tough cop with great forensic skills.  I don't think she is miscast as much as unsure with how her character is motivated and driven; the script points her in a few interesting directions, like the pre-film suicide of her policeman father, but we are not allowed to see much further into her life.  I would have liked to see more of what makes her character tick, but the movie chooses to take a much different path.  Ed O'Neill has fun in a serious role here, but I wish he had more screen time.The script is creepy, presenting a cabbie killer who leaves his victims to die in gruesome, unpleasant ways, leaving clues leading to the next crime he will commit.  Washington must guide Jolie through investigating these crimes from his bed (adding a new twist to the tired buddy-cop movie).  The plot holes, while often apparent and gaping, don't detract much from the overall thrill of watching the movie.  Unfortunately, the ending does.  The unmasking of the cabbie killer is so unsatisfying that it nearly ruins the whole of the film. I'd suggest renting the DVD so you can hear Phillip Noyce's commentary, describing how he would have changed the ending (it would have made the film much more successful).  Jeremy Iacone, clearly a talented (though inexperienced) screenwriter, really should have had some help with the climax.  So we've got 90 minutes of great escapist entertainment, and 30 minutes of dreck (with more plot holes to boot). Final Grade 6 out of 10 stars "},{"Title":"Whatever happened to willing suspension of disbelief","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I found this to be a stunning movie.  Yes, it requires willing suspension of disbelief, a concept I first encountered in a Shakespeare class, but most movies do.  And no, that doesn't mean I compare this film to Shakespeare!Perhaps it is my personal prejudice as a cultural resource historian, but the old clues and reliance on knowledge of details of New York history were fascinating.  WARNING -- MAY CONTAIN A SPOILER -- Yes, the clues were obviously placed, but not obvious.  The research to unlock the information in the clusters was realistic, the interweaving of clues and history, their hidden meaning and the ultimate discovery of the old crime story from which the movie gets its name is nearly ingenious.  I found myself urging Rhyme and Ortiz to recognize oyster shell land fill and nitrate rich cattle-related sites.The unusual, but stellar, casting made the story line more believable and the movie as a whole more interesting.  They portray an NYPD crack investigative team  (not to diminish the wonderfully quirky casting of Queen Latifah who is actually the one that solves the puzzle of the woman's face) the way I would like it to be with members of all flavors working outside the box (but hey, I only know history, not New York).  Actually, I found the continued utilization of Rhyme as a forensic genius, in spite of his paralysis, an astute move rather than fantasy.This has become one of my favorite films, every time I watch it there is something new.  I think to enjoy it one has to appreciate the ways Rhyme finds to defend himself, believe it is possible Amelia has a gut instinct for forensics, to understand there are real people who have the cerebral database Rhyme works from, to go with the movie rather than fight against glitches in reality.The versatile Luis Guzman, great as Ortiz, has been a favorite of mine since True Believer, and Washington and Joile have an onscreen chemistry that imbues the choreography of their characters' talents.I highly recommend this movie to mystery and history buffs. "},{"Title":"When will Hollywood stop Insulting our intelligence ?","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This has to be one of the daftest police procedure thrillers of recent timesAbsurd point 1  A crippled former policeman, prone to life-threatening seizures, is somehow put in charge of an investigation into a serial killer.Absurd point 2  On his say-so alone, a rookie cop with no formal training is made scene-of-crime officer.   This is apparently because he thinks she has a good eye for forensic details.Most absurd bit of the movie  The rookie cop is sent alone into a crime scene, not knowing whether the perpetrator is still there.   Despite having no medical training and the victim not even having been officially declared dead, she is told to cut the victim's hands off in order to get the handcuffs which might have fingerprints on them.  Of course, by cutting the victims hands off, our heroine would actually be destroying post-mortem evidence but er..we'll gloss over that point. Sensibly, she refuses.Is this some sort of conspiracy been the police and Hollywood ?  Are the police fed up of movies acting as self-help manuals for criminals, so the film-makers have been told to make new storylines as far from accepted police procedure as possible ?  I think that any real detective watching this movie would be in severe danger of dying from a rupture caused by excess laughter.At no point do the investigators seem to do anything other than follow the leads laid down for them by the criminal himself.  No wonder he gets away with it for so long.  For example, an obvious line of enquiry would be the taxi the murderer uses to transport his victims but this anyone think of pursuing that ?  No.I don't mind daft storylines if the film has something else to offer, but this didn't.  It was a conventional thriller with a conventional psychotic killer tries and somehow fails to kill hero ending.  Frankly, if the film studios can't come up with anything better than this, they should give it up.  "}{"Title":"A Nice Thriller","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A Nice Thriller that Delivers plenty of Chills and Thrills. When I First Saw it I Expected an Average Thriller, But got Much more than Would have ever Thought. It was Superb. Almost as Good as Silence of the Lambs. Recommended for Movie watchers Anywhere. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"An ordinary thriller, nothing more, nothing less","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I find this movie to be neither good nor bad. Plainly it's just an ordinary thriller which gives you the expected stuff, but nothing more.It somehow feels like the plot is somwehat unfinished. Quite early in the movie you find out that Angelina Jolie's father was a police officer who committed suicide when she was young and that she was the one who found him. After this you expect this to have some kind of impact on the rest of the movie, but it doesn't. The murderer is someone that the hero knows, but it doesn't really matter since he's not playing an active part in the movie anyway. The way I feel about this is that there are things in this movie that are just in it, without really having any meaning. Bone Collector seems to me like a movie the writers haven't put too much effort in.The story isn't unique either. A serial kille giving the cops clues, basing his acts on some old stories... Haven't we all seen that before?? And of course, in the end it turns out that the serial killer is an old enemy of the hero, on a personal crusade against him.Well folks, although I'm not too impressed by this movie it is at least worth watching if you have a couple of hours to spend! Don't expect it to be something extra though.  "},{"Title":"Tried to watch this 3 times, kept falling asleep","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I didn't particularly enjoy this movie.  First of all, there wasabsolutely no character development, although they did try butultimately failed with Amelia's issues because of her father'ssuicide.  Give me a break, you may as well have left that out of themovie.  It took me 2 days to get through the whole movie, I keptfalling asleep.  Bottom line  Boring, very unbelievable. "},{"Title":"I really enjoyed this film","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I didn't enjoy this film for the fact that Angelina Jolie is my favorite actress, but for the fact at how dark this movie was.This movie had a lot of suspense in it, and it was worth watching.Angelina Jolie did a great job as Amelia. Denzel Washington did a great job himself for the role of Lincoln Rhyme. Queen Latifah did an acting debut in this film. She did good herself. I think this film was oneof the most well done films in 1999. Angelina Jolie is a greatactress, and i think that if people see this movie (along with Gia and Girl, Interrupted) you will see why i admire her work so much.I give this movie ***1/2 out of ***** stars. "},{"Title":"Predictable, but good range of actors","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I gotta say that I'm torn about this one.  I didn't know much about it before watching, including the cast of actors.  As I read the opening credits, I was pleasantly surprised to see a great variety of actors from a wide range of backgrounds.  I guess I never expected to see Queen Latifah in the same movie as Ed O'Neill.  As I said, it was a pleasant surprise.Then I saw Leland Orser's name come up.  Unfortunately for him, he's one of the most type-cast actors out there.  I've seen too many movies that have him playing the skittish/high-strung/totally insane loser who never has a good fate.  Watch Se7en, Alien Resurrection, and Very Bad Things to see what I mean.  Anyway, from that moment onward, I could guess what would happen. I won't give any details here, but suffice to say that the plot degenerated into a straightforward chase-down-that-psycho-killer, rehashed and unoriginal.  There were a few situational twists to change it up, but ultimately it borrowed heavily from other movies in this genre, most blatantly Se7en.Hmmm.  Overall, it was a disappointment to see such good talent squandered on such a blasé plot.  I generally love the work of Washington, Latifah and Jolie, and although this movie won't change that love of mine, it won't be added to my A-List either. "},{"Title":"OH no not again!!","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Another serial killer on the loose!How many times are we going to be subjected to such puerile rubbish. This is a film for the brain dead, its lacks everything!everything you have seen in this film you have SEEN a 100 times before,it was a chore to watch Denzil Washington lying on his back for half the movie....oh god i could go on WATCH AT YOUR PERIL. "},{"Title":"One-and-three-quarters","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Maybe this film is one-quarter as good as 'Seven', but I doubt it.  It is by turns one of the silliest and nastiest films I have seen for a long time. It was impossible to suspend disbelief in a bed-ridden forensic policeman who is (a) still on active duty despite his parlous condition, and (b) infallible in the face of incredibly esoteric clues, or in an inexperienced, untrained assistant who is allowed to wander alone into dangerous places, and who is, incidentally, impeccably made-up through all perils.  Denzel Washington brings his usual dignity to his role, Angelina Jolie does well with really silly material, and Queen Latifah all but steals the show as the nurse ... but most of the roles are cardboard cut-outs (impenetrably stupid superior, loyal buddy, brilliant albeit untidy side-kick).  Phillip Noyce handles crucial elements of the plot badly.  The villain has been introduced so sketchily initially, that when he reveals himself, we are left thinking, 'Now who on earth was he again?'  All the to-do about the heroine's father's suicide is meaningless.  In all, this is a very disappointing film, with all of the nastiness of Seven, but none of the saving intelligence.  I would not recommend anybody to see it. "},{"Title":"Very Scary!","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"    Wow, is this movie creepy!!! The movie is good though. It is very scary! The movie is pretty violent, but I still enjoyed the story and movie. It is very exciting and suspensful. Angelina Jolie and Denzel Washington did excellent jobs in their roles. This movie is very good and creepy. I have never read the book, so I can't compare the movie from the book. This movie is scary, so don't watch it alone, especially at night! That would really scare you! Overall, the movie is very good and I give it a 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great performances and a ripping yarn","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is bound to be put up for comparison to Se7en and Silence of the Lambs, but only by idiots.Yes, it shares the common threads of grisly murder, psychoanalysis and a pair of detectives - but then they're the things that make this kind of movie so much fun.In the role of quadriplegic Lincoln Rhyme, Denzel Washington proves again that he is a very talented actor, making a fully rounded character out of one finger, a pair of shoulders and a mind.  Humanly portraying the frustrations of a man unable to come to terms with his disability, Washington's intensity throughout the movie is spellbinding - the scene where he unravels the significance of the evidence from the first crime scene is unmissable.His opposite number in the piece, Angelina Jolie playing Amelia Donaghy, is both determined and stubborn while at the same time vulnerable and uncomfortable with her new role as lead crime scene officer.  I'd love some reasoning about why and how the reviewer who called Mrs Thornton miscast came to that conclusion.Add to this a couple of cracking underplayed performances from  Ed O'Neill Queen Latifah and and some terrific visuals - and I'm not talking grisly murder scenes - I'm talking the cinematic vision and style of director, Phillip Noyce - and what you have is a very entertaining, very intelligent movie.You may be let down by the finale, but then the finales of Se7en and Silence of the Lambs were let downs as well - maybe we just like to see if we can unravel the clues, too and when the killer's caught there's nothing else to work on.And a final admission that this may be your kind of movie if you're interested in the treatment of physical evidence and psychological reasoning behind staged crime scenes - so if you've read Paul Britten then you should see this.If you like this movie you may also likeFallen; Manhunter; Cruising; They all have distinctive styles and excellent lead performances - go rent 'em.  "},{"Title":"Typical Hollywood Cheese","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is the late 90s version of trite Hollywood serial killer movie trends. How played out is this theme getting? This movie is a cliche of silly Hollywood trying to pass garbage to the masses and I am sure it made money. I have too many problems with this movie to list here. Especially the counterfeit ending, which was a joke in my eyes. The movie gets a 4 for content and for focusing on a pair of great lips.A waste of time. For Hollywood fans only. "}{"Title":"One of the Worst FIlms of 1999","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Another by the books and stupid serial killer flick whose main purpose is to trick the viewer into thinking there is suspense and tension in the story.  Lacks imagination in depiction of characters and creativity in its murder scenes.  A rehash of Copycat(1995) which in my opinion is a way better movie than this junk.  The acting talents of Denzel Washington, Angelina Jolie, and Michael Rooker are wasted in a motion picture that is undeserving of their participation.  The producers probably casted Michael Rooker in the film because of his appearence in HenryPortrait of A Serial Killer(1986).  Uses many elements in a shamelessly manner from the classic Rear Windor(1954).  I wish someone in Hollywood would make a serial killer movie which the main protagonist is the serial killer without the involvement of an FBI agent, Police officer, or Psycologist.  The Bone Collector(1999) has no passion and fills the screen with boredom. "},{"Title":"This Movie is the Ultimate Thriller of the Millenium","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The best thriller I have seen in years.  It has all the makings of a good thriller.  It is a Mystery/Drama/Thriller.  If a good Thriller comes once every so often then this is that movie.  It really gets your heart pumping.  It has you thinking in one direction and then it goes off in the totally opposite direction.  This movie is one you should have in your collection because your movie collection is not complete until you get this movie. "},{"Title":"startlingly unbelieveable","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" i find myself never being able to take denzel washington seriously in ANY role.  the bone collector simply adds to my hang-up casting him as a filthy rich, quadraplegic forensics detective, ready to pass down his expertise and skill to a glimmering rookie played by angelina jolie.the premise of the movie is overdone. the character depth is predictably lacking. the ending is a surprise... surprisingly absurd.6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"** 1/2  Dull retread of known serial killer movies","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Typical and predictable thriller that is worth watching only for its amusingly gothic atmosphere and a great lead performance by the always stunning Angelina Jolie. Jolie plays a patrolman (person?) who stumbles on a serial killer's trail when she discovers the body of a rich industrialist buried near an old railway station. The case that blows open is then headed by a genius ex-cop (Denzel Washington) who, following a tragic accident, is now a quadroplegic confined to bed who has lost most of his sensory perception in his body but hasn't lost his bloodhound-sharp knack for cracking the toughest evidence. Washington thinks Jolie should be the primary investigator in this case because her inborn instincts are as sharp as his own, and he therefore can do the investigating through her; it seems like she should be impressed, but this little method is a lot more arrogant and belittling than the film seems to realize. Even Angelina looks a bit peeved to be treated like a token cop. Our serial killer, on the other hand, is leaving his victims' bodies with painfully obvious clues as to when and where his next kill is going to be. This wouldn't be quite so stupid a plot element if the characters didn't act so surprised about the culprit's willingness to divulge, but in all their research they seem to be totally clueless to the fact that this guy is obviously begging to be caught for one reason or another (anyone seen Copycat? Sigourney Weaver points out in that film that serial killers DO want to be caught because it's the only way they can be famous).  Undermining our intelligence is clearly what this film's main purpose is, especially since the identity of the killer is quite obvious from the start of the film. That said, the script offers little in the way of gripping distractions, and director Phillip Noyce's efforts in making everything as `real' and `believable' as possible only makes the possible adventures a hell of a lot more dull. Then it all boils down to the most ridiculous denouement in horror film history that is just too much to be believed. Queen Latifah has a wonderful supporting role as Washington's concerned and caring nurse. "},{"Title":"What a waste of time","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Thankfully I saw this movie on a date where I didn't have to pay, because if I had spent money on this movie that so shamelessly (1) played off previous (better) movies, (2) employed so many ridiculous situations, and (3) was so utterly disgusting in certain places, I would have been very upset.First of all, Denzel Washington and Angelina Jolie are completely wasted in this film.  They do the best they can, but the plot details are so utterly contrived that it is ridiculous.  Why is Jolie (or any police officer, for that matter) sent into underground, deserted crime scenes to investigate, when the killer is obviously still at large?  I am not overly familiar with police work, but this made absolutely no sense to me.  With such a horrific killer at work, why would any officer, female or male, be sent out alone purposely?  Another problem I had with it was the pseudo-romantic relationship that was hinted at...at least that's how I took the later interactions between the main characters.  Must EVERY film with a male and female lead end in the requisite romantic connection?  Is it impossible for them to remain simply respected colleagues and friends?  Maybe I interpreted it incorrectly, but if not...When I see a movie, I want to see originality.  It didn't exist in this film.  4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock this is not","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  For some reason there has been a plethora of Hichcock referring movies lately and they still all pale in comparision to the master.for example--> Mission Impossible 2 is really Notorious 2000       Shadow of (a) Doubt remade for TV in 1998 in name only really       Rear Window with C. Reeves for TV (possibly the best of the bunch)    & The Bone Collector as a remake or version of rear window.To tell you the truth I did not even think of Rear Window when I saw the film, which is probably a good thing considering that The Bone Collecter is just an average thriller. The acting is better than average and the story does have some nice twists, but it is still had to get over the cliches of the genre (something that Hichcock could easilly do).For a movie that is not a waste of money get the Bone Collector.Otherwise for a really good movie, rent the real Hichcock.Viewed in theatres (35mm). Rating 5  "},{"Title":"A waste of Angelina Jolie and Denzel Washington","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This has to be one of the worst films I have ever seen, its we've seen it all before, serial killer rubbish. The writer seems to have thought up the most horrific ways he can to kill people and then thinly woven a movie around them. The worst thing about it is the total waste of such acting talents as Angelina Jolie and Denzel Washington, what were you thinking!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Very original","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Very original story and well-acted.  The filming itself was just fantastic and added a high level of suspense to some scenes.Denzel Washington plays a quadriplegic ex-detective who's been asked by the local police to help solve a case of complicated serial killings.  A young female street cop (Angelina Jolie) catches his eye for having a knack for forensics, so he convinces her to assist him in the case.  Queen Latifah plays his live-in nurse and is superb.  She continues to be one of the most underrated actors around.Everything was well-done in the movie, and it's hard to find any weaknesses.  The ONLY weakness is miscasting of Jolie.  Although she does a fine job, her physique and personality don't match the desired traits of the character.  In this instance, they were obviously looking more for a pretty face than for someone who actually fit the bill.  Queen Latifah may have served better for this role.  It's still a great filmI gave it 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Extremely Bad to the Bone","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film takes poor film making to new levels...it is unbelievebly bad.  I can safely say, What a big pile of poo. I have never, seen anything quite as crud as this, and that is the truth. 'The Bone Collector' tries to be in the same league as fantastic films such as 'Se7en' and 'Silence of the Lambs' and fails miserably.  In fact, in trying to do this, it makes itself look even more stupid than it actually is (if that is even possible) Denzel Washington spend all his screen time laying in a bed...perhaps this is a hidden message, reflecting how the audience should be. As for the story line...well, i'm not even going to waste my time explaining this useless rip off of Se7en and other great dark, moody films. Please, please, please do not put yourself through this pointless rubbish.  Rent out Se7en and watch that again instead.  "},{"Title":"a solid thriller","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  this film delivers the thrills, and the solid acting which has a real creepy atmosphere.Denzel Washington is the glue that holds the movie together, he delivers his lines with conviction and even when his mobility is limited he still is the best thing in it. Angelina Jolie has some good moments but it's Ed O'Niell who is great in a small supporting role.Yes we have seen the serial killer before and yes there are moments that are quite hokey (like the happy families at Christmas end scene) but with an actor as good as Denzel in the lead you won't mind watching it.*** out of ****   "}{"Title":"cliched Hollywood schlock","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Cliched plot with ridiculous details and an incredibly lame ending. Just short of laughably bad. Watch good (Denzel Washington) to mediocre (Angelina Jolie) actors struggle with bad dialogue. Direction is typical Hollywood c**p. "},{"Title":"Worst one I've seen in a while","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Bone Collector has absolutely no respect for its audience. It is obviously aiming for the same kind of jugular response that was held for LAMBS and SE7EN, but doesn't want to delve to the same psychological depths as those far superior films did. It also seems apprehensive to show much bloodshed, which at least would have made this movie watchable in some strange way. Denzel's character is a mess. He seems more like a poster child for the pros of epilepsy than an actual person. And his choosing of street cop Jolie to head the investigation just because she measures things with a dollar bill is utterly laughable. Come to think of it, I found myself laughing in almost every scene. Besides that, I was dozing off. For a movie to take a viewer to such different extremes in the matter of minutes is a feat seeming to only apply to good films. But The Bone Collector did it. And it was perfectly dreadful. And that ending! For Christ's sake, why should I care if that guy is the killer? I was just asking myself, Who's he? Why does he matter? Terrible. "},{"Title":"Mr. Hitchcock, where are you now?","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  You certainly would have added essential qualities to this movie.  Like suspense, like non graphic murder scenes, like dialogue, like real clues. Denzel and Angeline inject some interest into this effort but it is structured so thinly and so unbelievably, that I found it a complete time waster.  Police departments would be insulted by the whole premise of this film, moving a centre of operations of a hunt into a police officer's apartment, in New York, puhleese. And what an apartment, skylights, large screens, computer equipment Bill Gates would kill for, a nurse who does not need breaks, food or sleep, she is always on duty, either doing crosswords or holding an oxygen mask over the patient's face and telling him to breathe.  No bed pans here in Hollywoodland, no sponge baths or bed sores either.  We have the standard inept Police Chief ( how do these brainless guys get promoted when they are even unfit to do a flat footed beat), the brazen sassy female cop who enters dangerous crime scenes alone and does not get dismissed for insubordination and does not call anyone for help EVER and has to buy disposable cameras to photograph the scene of the crime and on and on.  Laughable, sad.  If I were a cop I would weep all the way through this one or become hysterical with laughter.  Scenes of graphic horror totally unnecessary but appealing for teenagers, I am sure.  Not recommended.  "},{"Title":"I was expecting less than average...I got it!","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  (SPOILER!)The Bone Collector had an interesting premise to begin with, but it all went down-hill from there! As usual, the main paralysed hero (Denzel Washington) ends up the target of the killer's obsession! Well I guess that's standard, and yes, good thrillers have had that formula but wait to you hear the bad guy's motive! Also the 'rats' thing, I swear I've seen something like that in another film! Plus the whole 'Forensics' angle, I don't know, do you really think an untrained cop would be the main investigator just because some expert who's retired due to injury thinks so! I really doubt it! Some of the dialogue was bad especially when Jolie's character gives the quadriplegic Denzel grief about his persona when she first meets him! It was a little P.C. and unrealistic, no one in their right mind would character assassinate a dying quadriplegic!On another note, some reviews have totally praised this film, which is cool, everyone's entitled to an opinion! But I don't get this comment! Michael Hollywood stated It seemed that each scene was pulled off with a very low amount of takes since all the actors seemed to know what the others were doing and timed everything just right. I'm sorry, but I don't get it, how could any viewer possibly know how many 'takes' a director took to make a film unless they were there! And how can a film possibly 'seem' like it didn't have that many takes? The only ones I know of are low-budget films like the The Castle (only because it took a week and bit to make) but still I couldn't tell how many 'takes' it had exactly and which scenes had less 'takes' than others, it just looked low-budget! The Bone Collector wasn't low-budget! So therefore Im guessing The Bone Collector had a lot of takes and rehearsals because the actors timing was good, not the other way round!Anyway, this film is pretty bad and it's not due to acting although I think Jolie was miscast! The directing was okay, the script was average- full of cliches and the ending was a let-down! Saying that, Denzel Washington did a fine job in his subsequent role, and Michael Rooker is always good! Bad film with some nice cinematography! ** out of *****! "},{"Title":"Do you think they read the book? (Warning Spoilers!  Some for the Book.)","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I've seen the movie a long time ago and I've also read the book a while ago, so I'm a little late.  GOT A PROBLEM?!  I certainly hope not, because then you'd be unhappy and I hate disapproval. Now for the review THE BONE COLLECTOR isn't actually bad, it just could have been so much better.  Like the book was.  It does feature good acting, stylish directing, and the occasional suspenseful moment.  Angelina Jolie is wonderful and wonderfully sexy, Denzel Washington is usual excellent self.  The premise is very good and it's in the classic race-against-time vein of movies.Now for my gripes  They changed the book WAY too much and I wonder if Jeremy Iacone actually read the book or if he asked for the reader's digest summary from his friend who read the book when it first came out and hardly remembers the story. 1) The writer changed the Unsub's identity.  The killer in the book had a clear motive and acted rationally.  The killer struck a sympathetic chord with me when he was revealed yet managed to be menacing with his victims. In this movie, the killer isn't interesting at all. 2) Jeffrey Deaver used actual forensics in story. The clues were more cleverly concealed and this would require clever forensic work. Towards the climax, Rhyme uses his trace evidence to attempt to surprise the serial killer. Rhyme doesn't try this at all in the movie. 3) The police in the book manage to save more of the victims in the book (of course in the movie, they don't save any!).  This adds to the suspense. Where's the suspense if we know their attempts to rescue the vic will be in vain? 4) Speaking about the vics, the vics have more dimension than in the movie.5) Rooker's counterpart in the book was more of a cocky jerk who was so sure of himself but was still very competent.  In the movie he's a goofball and the book didn't toss around the It's Rooker's Character red herring. 6)The novel actually explained why Rhyme chose Sachs instead of a tranied CS TECH. He needed to be able control his technician as Sachs accuses him, but Rhyme says it's because he needs a fresh and untainted tech.  I vote with Sachs. 7) The novel featured bold dashes of wit.  The movie's humorless. 8) The novel feautures a very tense scene between the Bone Collector and Sachs. 9)When the cops realize the unsub's basing their crimes on a book, it's much more believable.  Their are less plot holes in general. 10) The novel ends with a mind-blowing twist.  The movie ends with some cheesey Yuletide celebration. My final verdict is that if they actually kept with the book, we'd have a much better movie. "},{"Title":"Resoundingly average","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  You couldn't really say this is a BAD movie. It is competently directed, competently scripted, competently performed. But is it too much to ask for something more than just competent? Something inspiring, poetic, magical? There are a thousand other formulaic killer-thriller films and we just don't need this. Neither do the two leads. They do themselves an injustice by appearing in this pap, while lending the movie a gravitas (the dignified Washington) and a 'buzz' (the hot Jolie) it doesn't deserve.And as if it wasn't bad enough that sexual relations between Denzel and his white leading ladies are always somewhat strained, now they've gone and made him a quadriplegic, for god's sake! We get the idea! You don't want him to have sex with her! All right!Can't Denzel just play a role? Does it have to be a Black role?Michael Rooker, though... Now THAT is an actor. "},{"Title":"Baked in the same ol' oven","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  (spoiler warning!)Déja vu. Nothing new in this lacklustre, format-written and overlong movie - we've seen it all before the characters are so stereotypical it hurts, the gruesomeness of the murders feels, however imaginative, invented purely in order to shock and disgust (at which they mostly fail). What shocks me the most are the characters. Angelina Jolie is miscast as the standard-issue hostile-police-woman-who's-lost-her-daddy, overly aggressive and needlessly fond of the wooden stick Washington, paralyzed and confined in a bed throughout the movie. As he lacks any kind of radiance to pull that stunt, he turns out rather flat and uninteresting.Another see-before is the ol' police-chief-angry-at-his-crew-for-no-apparent-reason bit, a self-satisfied and pathetic little careerist whose inaptitude would never have gotten him there in the first place. Boring and unimaginative.The same goes for the ending which really shows how the writers had only one thing in mind to spook people. Letting some almost unknown character be the antagonist is evidence of a profound lack of narrative ability, and feels stupid, uncalled-for and most of all it effectively kills the only suspense one can hang onto to get through this slow flick who's the killer?I can recommend many other movies than this one, notably Se7en and The Silence of the Lambs, who are players in the same genre (gruesome, spooky detective yarns) but infinitely more interesting and nerve-wracking. "},{"Title":"Simply The Best","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Simply the best thriler movie i have ever seen in my life.The movie might sound like SEVEN in the book idea but it is way much better than SEVEN.or SILENCE OF THE LAMBS or any other thriller ever made in history. "},{"Title":"Good Start, Pathetic Ending!","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film starts promisingly.  I can live with the plot line of a quadriplegic forensic officer commanding police officers from the comfort of his bed.  I can also live with Angeline Jolie as a rather miscast cop.  I enjoyed the start, the initial plot layout, the intrigue generated when the clues started to appear.What I couldn't live with and found totally pathetic, was the identity of the killer and the reasons behind the killings.  It looked like the writers had thought damn we're getting close to 2 hours here, lets finish it anyway we can.  The ending was weak, disappointing and an insult to the watcher.I feel the lengths the killer went to, to achieve his aim, he deserved far more purpose than he had.   "},{"Title":"Thourghaly enjoyable...","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I very much enjoyed this thriller/romance.  The previews looked to be dull, grotesque, and not to mention inconceivable. Wrong on most accounts. Anjelina Jolie and Denzel Washington pulled off Oscar worthy rolls, but of course you wouldn't be nominated for an Oscar for a  Low grade thriller . Now...this movie was not intended to be a romance, but I was very swooned over by the chemistry between the stars.  I would very much recommend this to the thriller fans.  Greatly enjoyable,clever,romantic, without the disgusting side affects of other thrillers. "}{"Title":"AN ALLTOGETHER GOOD, SUSPENSEFUL, AND ENTERTAINING PICTURE","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Angelina Jolie was absolutely AMAZING in this movie.  It tells the story of a crippled ex-cop and a cop in training on trail of NYC's notorious serial killer.  The story depth goes as deep as the masterpiece Silence Of The Lambs.  The Bone Collector is a truly suspenseful movie with many plot twists.  Angelina Jolie was amazing in this and if you like her acting...I really recommend Girl, Interrupted where she received an Academy Award for her excellent acting.   The crippled cop is played Denzel Washington, who is also good.  A bright part of the movie is Queen Latifah as Washington's nurse who is excellent.  Angelina Jolie brings to the screen a dramatic role as Jodie Foster did in Silence Of The Lambs.  The plot unfolds toward the end and is truly a must see movie.  My score...****/***** "},{"Title":"this is the greatest movie","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  i saw The Bone Collector and i thought that it was the most incredible movie i've ever seen.  it was so intense and the suspense gripped you until the killer was revealed.  angelina jolie was perfect for the role of Amelia Donaghy and i don't think anyone could have played the role better than she did.  Denzel Washington was also incredible. the movie was perfectly cast. i recommend this movie to anyone who loves suspense and thriller movies. it was gory, but nevertheless, it is an incredible movie. "},{"Title":"smart, very smart","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The only way to describe The Bone Collector is that it has smart dialogue, talented actors and an excellent script with puzzles and clues that will keep the viewers guessing until the very end.With a talented cast that includes Denzel Washington, Angelina Jolie, Queen Latifah, Ed O'Neill and rising star Mike McGlone, The Bone Collector is sure to please viewers as it did me.  Washington always seems to select the perfect roles as he seems to fit right in and perform so well. What makes the role of Lincoln Rhyme so good is Washington has to act without the use of his arms and legs. He makes it look so simple and yet pulling a performance off that believable is hard. Jolie and O'Neill serve as perfect support for Washington.It seemed that each scene was pulled off with a very low amount of takes since all the actors seemed to know what the others were doing and timed everything just right. I give a lot of credit to the writers of The Bone Collector for putting together a marvelous script that included intricate puzzles and clues that kept me guessing about the identity of killer a secret until the final showdown at the end. Also, it was a work of art how Lincoln Rhyme took out the killer. I don't think anyone could have forecasted how perfect it was.This is a must see movie for mystery buffs who love to play along as the home detective and find out who did it. THUMBS WAY UP. "},{"Title":"Stupid Ending - Makes you feel like you wasted time","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In bone collector, the detective has the ability to take silly little clues and read vast amounts of stuff into it.  I doubt if anybody in the world could figure all that stuff out based on what little he had to go with and do it so quickly.However the biggest disappointment of this movie is there is no way you can figure out who the murderer is or his motive because all that stuff has little relationship to the story and there are not really any clues in the movie to tell you.This movie is like spending time trying to put a puzzle together and when you are done you realize that 90% of the pieces are missing and all the rest of the pieces have nothing to do with the puzzle.Basically you'll feel cheated after you realized you wasted all that time trying to solve a mystery when the mystery has nothing to do with what is going on in the movie.  The ending comes out of nowhere.  You could almost put a stupid endling like that on any murder movie.  You have to know a bunch of stuff that happened years before the movie takes place and has nothing to do with the movie.  If you are psychic you might like this movie. If you like intelligent thrillers then don't waste your time on this dud.Now if you are planning to see this junk then I think you may want to know how it ends so you can determine if you want to waste your time watching it. Warning SPOILER ahead -- the murder will be revealedAt the end of the movie we find out the murderer is some guy who the detective sent to jail 5 years ago and that subplot is totally separate from the movie.  The guy was just angry at the detective and his main motive was to try and show he was smarter than the detective by killing people.  This guy and his background and what happened 5 years ago comes out of nowhere and there really is no way you could have known this crap and no way to solve this who-dunit movie. It's almost like they ran out of time to create an intelligent ending and throw this junk in to wrap it up in a hurry. Stupid ending.  "},{"Title":"Full of suspense.","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a very good movie. The characters are fairly well developed and the plot is interesting. Angelina Jolie and Denzel Washington play their roles very well. The movie does have it's weaknesses, such as the flakey ending, but overall, it is very much worth seeing. "},{"Title":"A terrific suspense movie","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was expecting other Seven or Silence of the Lambs movie but Bone Collector proved to be a terrific movie, filled with great twists and suspense. I really enjoy suspense / horror movies and this was a must-see film. Denzel Washington and Angelina Jolie are both excellent in their roles. A truly great suspense movie for those who enjoy the genre. "},{"Title":"entertaining film with solid acting","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I recently saw the Bone Collector and really enjoyed it.  Denzel Washington was good as the parapelegic cop intent on helping catch a serial killer. Angelina Jolie was also superb as a cop persuaded by Washington to help apprehend the ruthless killer.  As a big of Married With Children, I enjoyed seeing Ed O'Neal (Al Bundy) in the film as well. The film is suspenseful at times whcih helped it move quickly.  "},{"Title":"Endlessly cliched!","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  THE BONE COLLECTOR (1999)  * *   High calibre cast give good performances to no avail in this endlessly cliched suspense thriller. Never misses an opportunity to strictly stick to formula.    "},{"Title":"An excellent film.","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a seriously underrated film if ever I have seen one. The story is quite different as the main detective on the trail of a sadistic serial killer happens to be paralyzed. Denzel Washington is wonderful as always, truly demonstrating his acting ability in what could have been a limited role otherwise. Angelia Jolie is interesting as the rookie cop forced into what she is meant to do forensic investigation. A person would have to have lived in NYC to truly understand the real police force desire to catch killers, and this is an important element in the film. Suspense is the key, and as this is lacking in so many supposed suspense films today, we are sometimes slow to recognize when it finally comes along. The main thing I would advise before seeing this film is the possession of a strong stomach, because it does get gory at times. Otherwise, it is an excellent and spine-tingling film. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"pointless movie","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I saw no point in this movie having been made at all.  I watched it after hearing that it had been compared to Seven and Silence of the Lambs and saw no real similarities to either.  It was full of boring cliches and uninteresting plot twists.  I thought that the clues that were given to the cops were ridiculous and it was completely unbelievable that anyone could actually solve a mystery using them.  The film was completely lacking of suspense as well as an ability to identify with any of the characters. Thrown into the mix were a few disturbing death scenes, but I was in no way lead to feel sorry for or even care about the victims.  We saw the killer and anything that he did almost never in this movie.  The entire thing centered around Denzel laying in the hospital bed messing around on a computer screen trying to figure out the puzzle of evidence that made absolutely no sense!! And, I could not seem to understand what it was that Denzel was so enthralled by in Jolie's character, and why she was trusted, with no experience and a complete lack of interest in the job at hand, working this kind of case.  It was so pointless that I couldn't even bear to watch it.  I give it 1/2 of a star.  Craptacular.   "}{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I love these kinds of movies and I think Angelina Jolie is a great actress.It was interesting to see how a serial killer is tracked down. I was amazed at all the technology  Denzel Washington's character had. He was only able to move his head and his finger but he was able to do some serious work from his bed.The person that I thought was doing the killings was NOT who it ended up being so that was kind of tricky. "},{"Title":"** 1/2 stars Good serial killer movie but...","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Bone Collector is a good who done it/ serial killer movie but it ruins the whole thing because of the ending!! Beware you will be disappointed. Denzel Washington is very good as he always is and Angelia Jole is satisfactory but their chemisty could have been better. Some scenes are disturbing because of the way the victims die but overall it makes you want to know who the killer is.PLOT Denzel Washington is a cop who broke his spine in an accident and can't move from his bed. There is a serial killer in the city and Denzel gets Angelia Jole, another cop to help him solve the crime before the killer can kill again.VIEWS If you like Silence of the Lambs you will like this movie or compare it to it. Also, the movie makes you think but the moment when you find who the killer is will disappoint you.SCENES TO WATCH FOR Just watch and look for clues.  "},{"Title":"But for Denzel Washington, this movie would suck","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  First, let me say that Denzel Washington, though paralyzed throughout the entire movie, was the best actor in the movie.  Basically, Denzel's character had his back broken four (4) years previously and did his criminology work from his bed.A new police officer/model took these excellent crime scene photos and Denzel's character insisted that she be allowed to do all other forensic work on this major case (nevermind that she has had no training).Anyway, she goes to the scene and Denzel's character tells her what to look for at the crime scene.  The police officer/model is definitely MISCAST as someone said earlier.  I had an extremely hard time believing someone with pouty lips would be doing this gruggy work.Anyway, a killer is on the loose and likes to play mind games with the police dept.  In particular, the killer leaves clues for the next murder he or she will commit.  Thus, making the detectives feel guilty when they get to the victim too late.The killer is not someone you would suspect nor would you care about.  But for Denzel Washington, this movie would not have been watchable. "},{"Title":"A Flawed But Watchable Video Passing As Film","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"    I found the audio tape of the book this film was based upon to be unacceptable, then chanced to read the actual novel and thought even worse of it.  Strangely enough however, on a whim, I viewed this film as a rented video and found it somewhat enjoyable.  The perplexing question this brings about is, why?  The answer, Denzel Washington's performance.   From every other aspect however, the film is a compilation of cinematic writing flaws. It almost seems as though it was put together by several writing teams, each working in it's own vacuum. The end effect is best described by the age old quote - a camel is a horse designed by a committee and seems to fit this production like a glove.  Quite simply, there is also a feel about this film that begs comparison to the key plot element of 70's Raymond Burr television crime series Ironside, sans the gore and overt sadism.    In addition, one has to point to the many interesting avenues for characterization that are opened, but never followed through. And although Denzel Washington's performance is excellent, but the choice of Angelina Jolie as his costar was a glaring lesson in mis-casting. Never for a second could I imagine her as a policewoman, even though I don't fault her acting ability.     Still in all, the film does manage to grab your attention as a mystery and hold it until the preposterous ending when the murderer is revealed by means of outlandish plotting.   Don't waste the money it takes to see this film in a theater, but as a rental at less than half the price, it's okay. "},{"Title":"Entertaining mystery","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Bone Collector is directed by Phillip Noyce, best known for Patriot Games & Clear and Present Danger. This crime thriller features two of Hollywood's best in the lead roles. Denzel Washington is an outstanding actor. He should have a whole shelf full of Oscars by now instead of just one. He is great in this movie, as a paralyzed former cop. The gorgeous and super-talented Angelina Jolie is terrific as the inexperienced cop who stumbles upon a body on a train track. With Denzel's help, she investigates a series of murders related to the original body she found. This is an entertaining mystery played out by two great actors.  "},{"Title":"Not bad, but not good either","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  THis film has everything, a good plot, good actors and actresses (pretty too!! (Jolie)), good actors, brutal killings, no clues for the cops. Shortly, everything for a good thriller, no WAIT, EVERYTHING?? for a good THRILLER???, you mean this was ACTUALLY a thriller???  HAdn't noticed that. HELLO Mr. Noyce where was the excitement??? You had everything for a truly good movie, but didn't use it. Sorry folks. I was ther thinkin ' More music effects, more tenseness more excitement,....PLEASE!!!??? ' NOTHING What a shame, perfectly good potential WASTED, (note that WASTED!!!), not too much though. Still Watchable. Not so gory as I thought. I will give it the highest 6, that can't be upgraded to a 7 by any mathematic, (which is a 6,5), but I'll give it the note one notch lower (6,4), but since that's not possible here IT'LL BE 6 out of 10 6/10  "},{"Title":"I was not disappointed","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was not one of the many people to comment that did not like the movie. Although I am biased, I have never seen Angelina Jolie in a movie that I didn't like. I think that her alone could carry the movie. But she didn't need too.I had read the book before seeing the movie and found it very well written. It's the type of book that I like. I found that whoever wrote the screenplay picked out the right things to write about. If you do want more into Angelina Jolie's character you have to read the book. With a story as good as it was, I don't see how you can explain every character's background in full detail as some wanted.I think that Angelina Jolie did the most amazing job portraying her part. She was absolutely amazing. I am not a huge Denzel Washington fan, but I found that I really enjoyed his acting as well.I don't see how this movie can be compared to Silence of the Lambs. Not only is Angelina Jolie 10 times the actress that Jodi Foster is, you also don't have to listen to Anthony Hopkins annoying voice and slirping sounds. Granted Silence of the Lambs was a movie that made you jump. But I felt the story line in The Bone Collector was so much more interesting. It was not made to be that kind of movie. It was a thriller/drama/action movie. And I believe it pulled off all three very well.So that is what my opinion is. I feel that if you enjoyed the movie, read the book also. It's very much worth your time.  "},{"Title":"a poorly written movie","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Bone Collector was one of the worst films I saw this year.  The plot, though interesting at times,  ultimately fails to deliver.  I don't want to give away the end,  but it is really an anticlimax.  I don't blame either Denzel Washington or Angelina Jolie for the poor quality of the movie, although I have seen them both perform much better in other movies.  The characters have either very cursory or no development at all.  The little that is added to these mostly one dimensional characters seems extremely contrived and adds no real depth to any of the characters. "},{"Title":"Just another red herring driven dark thriller","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  There is a disturbing trend in murder mysteries these days. They keep you guessing who the killer is until the very end and then make it a person that had no significance to the plot and was only  in the movie for three minutes before their unveiling. THE BONE COLLECTOR is a perfect example of this.The saddest thing is that the concept of THE BONE COLLECTOR is very good, but in the end they use this dues ex machina-like plot device to end  the movie. The story is that, an ingenius forensic cop who has been paralyzed from the neck down(Washington) takes a  rookie (Jolie) under his wing to be his eyes, ears and legs in a complex string of murders.The most frustrating thing is that the man you suspect to be the killer, until the end, is uncredited as the masked killer, just to make you think the killer is this red herring character. IT IS A CHEAT. At least with the films it is compared  to (THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS and SEVEN) do not deceive the viewer so maliciously, or at all for that matter.The only slightly positive thing  about this movie for me was the always-compelling Angelina Jolie.    "},{"Title":"Laughable Plot...","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was a huge disappointment. It left me wondering if Denzel Washington actually read the script before signing on. *SPOILER* (Don't continue reading if you intend on seeing the movie.) True, but sad....I found myself laughing hysterically when a paralyzed Denzel grabs the bad guy by the throat with his teeth and is subsequently dragged around like a rag doll while holding on to dear life with his mouth! It was pathetic and a fitting end to such a lack-luster movie. "}{"Title":"Here is what I think about this movie.","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What in the world comes to your mind when you see a title like The Bone Collector? I personally thought it was some guy who killed people and collected their bones. But it's nothing like that. This movie is very interesting.Something the makers of this movie did that is different from most of the other movies of this type, is putting a woman (Angelina Jolie) to make a cop's performance, and allow me to say, she did a great job.One of things I didn't like about this movie is watching Denzel Washington all the time in the same position, in a bed!! But good actors always make good jobs, and even though he was laying down in a bed all the time, he did a great job (as in all of his movies). Denzel is, no doubt about it, one of the best actors if his era.The idea of making all the murders based on a book is fantastic, and the way Denzel Washington discovers that the killer is leading him (them, the police) to a book is great. It's also a little bit hard to believe that the cops (Jolie) always found a tiny piece of paper in every crime scene.I also think they (the writters) exaggerated a little in some scenes, for example When Washington remembers something about some company (or something like that) of the year 1910 (or something like that) .. What was he? A Human Encyclopedia ?? Oh well, movies are movies..Anyway, this movie is pretty good and really worth watching. I'll give it a 9/10 score.  "},{"Title":"Not a near miss, but a wide miss!","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Yawning, bottomless, cavernous, plot holes. A brain-dead story line. A reluctant heroine who offers no credibility whatsoever to anything she says or does.fuggetaboudit! "},{"Title":"Derivative and stupid","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Denzel Washington is such a great actor.  Why is he in this movie?  Completely derivative and forgettable.  Washington is bed ridden, Jolie is doing all the dirty work.  He says in her most terrible situations (dealing with literally steamed people) I'm with you, I'm right there with you.  No you're not.  You're in bed.  If you haven't seen it, don't bother. "},{"Title":"Whew!","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie kept me on the edge of my seat from scene one. I watched it with my sister and since she has the stronger stomach she watched all the scenes, I closed my eyes when it looked like it could be unpleasant.I thought the plot was well drawn up and since I figured out who did it, I think it is an excellent movie for those among us with some detective in our blood.My sister said it had something to be desired in some of the scenes where they were trying to find clues, but, it is Hollywood you know. "},{"Title":"I hate critics","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  You should be ashamed of yourself for criticizing this awesome movie..and Angelina Jolie! She's the best, she didn't win  those awards for nothing you know. This movie wasn't all that bad either, it wasn't even available at any of the video stores around here! Whoever says Jolie does a bad performance in a movie deserves to have their head crushed...real bad. I give it 10/10 "},{"Title":"Ya Gotta see it.","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This show is the best show you will ever see. It is so suspenseful,you're on your seat every second of the show.It isnt one of those Halloween type shows that scare the hell out of you either. Denzel is at his best in this show. You must rent this show. "},{"Title":"Yet another carbon-copy serial killer flick","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  As if we hadn't seen enough sadistic serial killer flicks, The Bone Collector is now on the rental shelves. This cardboard cut-out flick is your typical long, drawn-out game of cat and mouse that culminates with a twisted, implausible motive to an overexaggerated psychopath who has taken way too many pains to leave way to many hints which the experts have figured out way too easy.I have always been a big fan of Denzel Washington. From Glory to Malcom X and especially Devil in a Blue Dress he has never ceased to impress me. He does have some moments as this know-it-all parapalegic, and I understand that the fellow can only move his index finger, but for the most part his character of Lincoln Rhyme lacks depth and interest. Angelina Jolie on the other hand is brilliant as usual. The now-Oscar winner is perfect as the hard-boiled rookie who is (in yet another gross stretch of verisimilitude) picked by Rhyme to work the crime scenes. Queen Latifah is surprisingly tolerable. And why the hell Ed O'Neil was cast is beyond me. He was funny as Al Bundy, but he is so pathetic as an detective that there wasn't even a smile on my face. And you thought he could get no lower than a shoe salesman.The thing that did impress me was the forensics aspect. Having taken two classes in investigation, I noticed how technical the knowledge was in this movie. Most of this comes from the Jeffrey Deaver book from which it is adapted, but Jeremy Iacone also had to know a good bit to script this. Still, when Jolie's character (Amelia Donaghy) moves one of the clues, then sits it back down and photographs it, I had to cringe. I think the French would call that tainted a la O.J.. Ouch. Still, as technically correct as this film was, it was equally improbable.Deaver's book of the same title was lackluster at best, yet far better than the movie. Yet another of Iacone's intolerable offenses were his changes in the plot. For starters, there was no heat in the book between Officer Donaghy and Rhyme. But I suppose your typical Hollywood screenwriter knows that there has to be some sort of sparks flying for the masses to keep interested (as if the grisly images of tortured bodies weren't enough). On top of that,(and this is a spoiler for the movie and the book, so if you have not seen it, skip to the next paragraph) though Iacone decided to add Rhyme's mentioning a desire for euthanasia, he ends the movie with a horridly sappy Yuletide reunion with Rhyme and his estranged sister. However, Deaver ends on a much darker note, leading the reader to believe that Rhyme went through with his plans. A much more credible ending, but we all know how Hollywood has to have that feel-good uplifting BS at the end.With a twisted plot, a less-than-terrifying villain, and one bloody disgusting image after another, this movie is your average run-of-the-mill serial killer flick. Silence of the Lambs and Seven were both brilliant, but I've seen them. Why not scrap this equation for movies and plug in some different numbers. Why? Because serial killers sell, and the average moviegoer is not bright enough to figure out he is watching the same movie with a different cast. Though it is almost worth the watch just to see Jolie's tough chick performance, I would recommend those serious movie fans pass this one up.My verdict Make it a dust collector on the rental shelves. "},{"Title":"Typical Cop v Serial Killer","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was a typical cop versus serial killer movie. Washington deserves a better platform. The only surprise was who the killer was and that was not much of a surprise. Much to much gore for my liking. This format has been the content of many TV series, I doubt if you will see this movie get any awards or any of the actors. "},{"Title":"A Creepy, Spooky Crime Drama ...","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I just saw this movie a few hours ago for free, since it just came to my college's theater. I remember wanting to see this flick when it came out, but I never got around to it. I honestly don't know what all the criticism is about. I liked the movie a lot.Why? Well, here's a short list.1. Denzel Washington was his usual excellent self, playing the quadriplegic New York forensic investigator. His quiet kind of determination and humor, considering his condition, was really part of the heart and soul of this movie.2. I'm a sucker for most movies that have Angelina Jolie in them. Her character swung between tough as nails and vulnerable, and she made it look very believable. My only beef is her job on the story. More on this later.3. The villain is a brutal, sadistic, macabre, and utterly ruthless bad guy, who is excellent, lacking in only one quality - surprise. More on this later as well.4. Excellent shots of the New York City landscape.The movie has two major downsides, but in my case they were easy to overlook.1. The NYPD has a LOT of Forensic investigators on it's staff. There was never any excuse for sending an untrained patrol officer (like Angelina Jolie) as the first one into every crime scene. Lincoln Rhyme can't do it? Fine. Send one of the other dozen or so forensic teams. Talented or not, possessing great instincts or not, Amelia needed a lot more training before she could be trusted to be the first one on a crime scene, with or without Lincoln's endorsement.2. SPOILER ALERT.  The producers and directors apparently wanted to keep the killer's identity a secret, showing no hint of either his inspiration or motivation behind the crimes (much less the killer's identity) until it's close to the end. That was while they were filming. Then, to promote the movie, they do what? GIVE THE KILLER AN IMPORTANT LINE IN THE TRAILER!! Think back to a sentence that went something like this I gave you so many clues and you still failed!  C'mon, folks! I couldn't be the only one in the whole country who recognized that voice as Lieutenant DeWindt the glider pilot in Saving Private Ryan, or that poor guy from the massage parlor in Se7en. All I had to do was look for Leland Orser (yes, that actor has a name) and bingo! The killer's ID was no longer a surprise.2. Even if I haven't seen those movies, The Bone Collector goes out of it's way to give it away. All of the victim's have surgical cuts in their bodies.. Hmmmmm. How many characters that we know about have a medical background? In this movie the killer was supposed to be a surprise. But it wasn't.Also, a mini-beef. I guess there was some sort of semi-romantic subplot with Amelia and Lincoln, but the scriptwriters thought it would be best to wait until the flick's almost over to introduce it. Why? I dunno. Didn't like that part. I mean, c'mon. If they're gonna pair off, pair off! If not, don't try to make the story more interesting with half-baked love plots.I call it 8/10 for the Bone Collector, an excellent suspense thriller in the tradition of Se7en and Copycat that drops the ball in some very easy places. "},{"Title":"morbid thriller","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Bone Collector is yet another in a long line of films that subjects its audience to a mind-numbing assault by nonstop gruesome images, yet tries to compensate us by offering ostensibly upbeat redemptive outcomes for its principal characters.  Unfortunately, the intensity of the suffering endured by the innocent victims in the film overwhelms what positive feelings the story is trying to generate.  Such is not the case in films with a higher thematic purpose - films, like Schindler's List, which try to shed light on the dark side of human nature for a salutary purpose, - but, in routine thrillers such as this one, the grotesquerie becomes both exploitative and offensive.  And, for an added treat, not only are we subjected to the bloodbath resulting from the serial killer's tortures and murders, but the clinical details of the main character's degenerative neurological condition.Denzel Washington, in a phone-in performance, stars as Lincoln Rhyme (there just has to be some symbolic significance to that name somewhere), a crack homicide investigator who, for the past four years, has been reduced to a bedridden invalid after a freak accident while on a routine investigation.  Subjected to frequent seizures which threaten to reduce him to a vegetative state and seriously contemplating an early exit from this earthly existence, Rhyme discovers new purpose in his life when he begins to hunt down a serial killer with the help of Amelia Donaghy, a rookie cop with a natural eye for crime scene investigation.  Together, they manage to hunt down the crazed killer by following the clues he so ingeniously leaves behind.Probably the most impressive aspect of the film is that Donaghy is portrayed as a reluctant helper, made extremely quesy and disturbed by the human depravity she is forced to witness.  This allows her to function as an effective representative for those of us in the audience who are also being dragged along for the ride.  However, this does not enhance the credibility of the script.  The acquisition and successful unraveling of clues seems highly implausible at times, especially when the turn-of-the-century gothic novel - that it turns out is the inspiration for the killer's crimes - literally drops into Donaghy's waiting hands.  And would the NYPD really allow a woman not trained in crime scene forensics lead the investigations - even with the crack investigator Rhyme at the controls?As Donaghy, Angelina Jolie is woefully inadequate, sustaining an expression of openmouthed insipidness throughout.  Then again, all involved, on both sides of the camera, have little to be proud of in The Bone Collector. "}{"Title":"I loved this movie","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Ok when I winished waching this movie I loved it. It kept me at the edge of my seat,it was entertaining and the acting was excellent. But then when I though about it the best thing that I liked was the cemestry between Jolie and Danzel. I wanted for then to live happily ever after. The best thing is that they acted so good that they didnt have to show their fealing by doing it it was in their eyes.So i give this movie ********* out of **********. The one star is missing because the story could have been more about the killer. Danzel is grate but Jolie is even greater , and if she does not win an Oscar for Girl,Inturrapted I will have to kill somebody.  Also this movie is for GUYS and GIRLS.  "},{"Title":"Excellent detective story","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This intelligent crime story is an excellent addition to the genre.  It combines some time honored plot elements with some nuances and twists to provide an effective and intriguing story that has viewers wracking their brains along with the characters to figure out who done it.I was prepared to dislike this film when I rented it because I've increasingly felt that the politically correct crowd in Hollywood has gone overboard lately in their use of films as diversity training for the masses. I was expecting preachy subtext about how the handicapped can be heroes too.   Though that message was inherent in the fact that the hero was a quadriplegic,  I came away feeling that the disability was an essential plot element and was not used for shameless sermonizing.The quadriplegic element was actually an effective novelty in a genre that is often criticized (as was this film) for its lack of originality.  The story's calculating serial killer with a very specific motive was a welcome change from oft used psychopath on the rampage.  So, unlike many who have excoriated this script for lacking freshness, I felt it had a lot of good angles that distinguished it in a genre that has been greatly over plowed. Though a novel murder mystery is as hard to come by as a novel romance, that doesn't mean that such familiar themes can no longer be entertaining.Director Phillip Noyce combines mystery, suspense, and graphic violence and delivers the total package with great impact.  He is extremely effective in his use of the camera to heighten the effect of scenes through extreme close ups, top down shots and interesting perspective shots.  His use of sound is also very compelling as on numerous occasions I found myself startled right out of my seat (having the DTS version of the DVD probably enhanced this effect). The underground sets were fantastic and lent an eerie reality to the historic broken down locations where the crimes were set.The acting by Denzel Washington was first rate.  He is particularly effective in thoughtful, intelligent roles where his character has to think his way through the film while dealing with emotional baggage.  This was a particularly difficult role because he had to deliver the impact of the character without the use of his body, making his facial expressions and voice his only dramatic weapons.  Given these constraints, he did an outstanding job of presenting a dynamic and powerful portrayal.Angelina Jolie has proven once again that she is a serious dramatic talent. She consistently eschews the fluffy girlie roles to take on difficult characters.  She was hard as nails and convincing as the intuitive forensics cop.  It was she who made the chemistry work between Lincoln and Amelia by creating an emotional barrier of spiteful cynicism and then slowly letting it down as Lincoln gained her respect.  She has the range to effectively portray grit and vulnerability in the same character which is no small order.I gave this film a 9/10.  As crime dramas go, it was terrific.  The graphic violence is not for everyone, but if you enjoy a good taut murder mystery, you can't go wrong with this film.  "},{"Title":"NOT QUITE 7","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Treading a little too comfortably in the now familiar footsteps of 7 and particularly The Silence of the Lambs, Denzel Washington plays a forensics expert rendered paraplegic in a freak accident who calls on young cop Angelina Jolie to be his eyes and legs out in the field, investigating the work of a serial killer.Cue a lot of gruesome murders and a frankly rather conspicuous plot that is not made sufficiently different by having a lead character paralyzed.It didn't really do it for Copycat, so it's not going to do it now either.So Washington sits up in bed throughout and you wonder what exactly he got out of it all.It does however mark significant steps up the ladder for 2 talents.After several outstanding support roles, Jolie indisputedly shows she has the right stuff to carry a big movie - the balls that a film like this requires are well and truly hers.And composer Craig Armstrong creates a mean and moody score that's far creepier than the gruesomeness on view.Add Dean Semler's starkly slate gray photography (presumably to hide Montreal doubling for New York) and have sufficient reasons to watch.But it's no classic. "},{"Title":"Wanna be tortured as much as the killer's victims? Then check this movie out...","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Geeze, this movie was bad! It started kind of nice but then it falls apart like a plum-pudding. There are so many holes in the script one could easily fit the entire state of Texas in it. The serial-killer's motives are explained in the end of the movie but do not make much sense. Jolie is good, and so is Washington, but that doesn't save the movie. I'd love to sum up all the mistakes and errors in this movie but it'll take an enormous amount of Mb's...And the biggest joke of all is the flick likes to compare itself with movies like 'The Silence of the Lambs' and 'Se7en'. In your dreams! "},{"Title":"not anywhere near what i expected it to be","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The primary reason that prompted me to see this movie was all those definitive hypes that the film is impressively suspenseful. But after watching the movie, it seems that what I heard is nothing but a complete baloney.The start of the film indeed spooked me with the film's frigidly chilling music. But after a short period of a consternate moment, the film then relies on its appealing cast and a secretive plot to make our time worthwhile.    However, the film gradually proves that it is only but a mere disappointment to those looking for a genuine suspense thrill. The plot is not a commendable effort and is presumably indifferent to almost all perplex flicks. Moreover, there is a slow pacing that drives me to think that what I'm going to see is unmistakably boring. Admittedly, there are sensational morbid scenes that stroke me with, but those highlighted points are incomparable to the film's flaws. In the inevitable climatic moment wherein the audience can now identify the surreptitious &#145;killer', the plot gives a reason to frustrate its audience by simply telling that the killer's main motive is to sophisticatedly emit his malevolence and revenge to our heroic vegetable-in-bed. This is only but a classical example to those flicks with the same genera. And finally, it ultimately sums up to a cliched ending wherein our psychopath killer, who is about to kill the hero with his frenzy, is at the right time to be disrupted by our timely leading lady. 	 Maybe that's just the way it is.  "},{"Title":"Big disappointment","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  *May contain spoilers!*I saw The Bone Collector in a Sneak Preview, and cheered along with the crowd when we saw Denzel Washington's name appear on the screen. After all, in the trailers this film is put in the same range as Silence of the Lambs and Se7en. The first part of the movie had me tied to the screen. But halfway through I found myself thinking Where is this movie going to?. It was not like in Silence of the Lambs that we were getting closer to finding the killer. So when the ending came, along with a ridiculous and laughable plot-twist, I was very disappointed. All the clues the actors puzzled with in the film eventually had nothing to do with the unmasking of the killer. It was more like let's make the guy you don't even remember because he was only seen 5 minutes the killer.But what really made me puke, and lower my rating was the sugary Hollywood happy ending. Was that necessary?? Conclusion absolutely not worthy for a comparison with Silence of the Lambs and Se7en. 6/10 "},{"Title":"The cliche collector","Date":"3 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The bone collector is a real disappointment. It is all there the physically debilitated and very intelligent cop, the mentor-disciple relationship,out of reality gadgets, and a very predictable suspect. All that and a poor, flat script.Not worthy of be put along with seven or silence of the lambs...  "},{"Title":"A killer, a bed and a pair of BIG lips","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What shall we say about this flick? Yep, just another lame old serial-killer movie. We've all seen Se7en and we've all agreed that's the best killer-movie ever to be made, so why does Hollywood keep on trying anyway? Okay, this one isn't half that bad. I thought it to be at least original to confine Washington to a bed, but this plotline isn't worked out very well in the movie. This could have been done way better. The story is okay, but there isn't any real suspense in it. Can anybody tell me why this thing is called 'The Bone Collector'??? I just can't figure it out. The guy doesn't even collect bones, he only skins his victims, but does NOT take away or collect any bones!!!The end of this film is just about the lamest I ever saw. Surprising, but totally stupid in it's own right. Is it just me, or did that appear like it had absolutely nothing to do with the rest of the movie???As for the acting, it was all right, Angelina Jolie is always nice to look at. But DAMN, that woman has got some BIG lips! On a big screen...WOWZA! "},{"Title":"Very impressed. As good as the book !!!","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I have been waiting for this film to come out ever since I read the book by Jeffery Deaver.  I must say I was most impressed when I finally got to see it yesterday.  The director has managed to capture all the important pieces of the books plot and keeps the moviegoers at the edge of their seats throughout the film.I thought that both Denzel Washington and Angeline Jolie played their parts very well and they made a good plot into a great film.Well worth seeing even if the critics don't rate it too high. "},{"Title":"Another professional run-of-the-mill blockbuster","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A so-so Hollywood pulp film.  The initial scenes were thrillingly gripping and the atmosphere creepily filled with a sense of horror/dread. The viewer's interest is immediately perked and made expectant of a first-class film experience.What is wrong in short with this movie is that the serial killer plot becomes a repetitive series of generally the same sequence of events, with deserts of close-up portrait boredom of the 2 main stars. After the second 'episode', any half-decent brain can deduce what is to happen next.Unfortunately, consistency remains only with the serial-gore episodes. Frankly one dimensional 'comic book' characterisation of even the 2 main hero(ine)s, simplified to 5sec/one-liner side references to their respective histories leaves one looking only to how good-looking the stars are, as a means of empathy for them. The 'co-stars' are generally lost in the background, as they usually have the same mood/expression in every scene.The inability of the movie-telling to engage/involve the viewer to participate in trying to solve the clues leaves anyone who tries bewildered. I doubt even a native New Yorker with a good grasp of his city's history can identify with the 'problem- solving' scenes. Hence, we are left to simply accept the solutions and marvel at the IQ and 'database memory' of the Bone- Collector's mind. Oohh.. we are all in awe of his mental prowess!Even when Washington's medic sidekick joins in the 'puzzle solving', she was earlier shown fiddling with a jigsaw puzzle, hence qualifying her expertise. Canny film-making indeed!As I approached dozing-off point, unnecessarily loud 'bangs' of opening doors occur. Trying to find a reason for the director to choose to cause heart failure among the audience, I can only conclude that these may be calculated to wake us up from our slumber.When the culprit is finally revealed, one is not hit by the realisation of who the killer is, but rather by The Killer is... Who? Here, the movie tries to get out of jail by having the baddie ramble on in a classic pulp film-noir spill-the-beans in the end scene. No 'Sixth Sense' confluence of clues for the audience to enjoy here. More so, a resigned acceptance of Ooh so he has a grudge... ooh and then Git on with the gore by the viewer.The technical professionalism with which the movie is prepared is expected of any mainstream Hollywood production. So the ability of the script, direction and editing makes a really good movie stand out from any run-of-the-mill technically competent one. The Bone-Collector is firmly in the latter camp.I dare say that if you swap ANY of the actors with any equally competent one (and there are many in Hollywood), the script/plot and direction will render them in the same one-dimensional 'pulp fiction' characterisation as seen here. I can't see how such characters can provide a platform for any actor (the acting here doesn't require the likes of Denzel Washington to excel too much) to win an Oscar.The profusion of close-up scenes a-la 60 Minutes means Washington's character as a paraplegic is of little consequence. He might as well be fit and healthy, dressed in a feathered cape and sitting at Gotham City's hi-tech Police HQ, directing Jolie's model-cop star character and not need to put in any more acting effort.For me 8/10 for looks, 5/10 as a movie.  "}{"Title":"Preposterous and ugly","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A preposterous thriller throughout; the kind of movie where a cop is instructed to cut the hands of a corpse to preserve fingerprints. What really disturbs me about it, though, is the complacency with which it deals with grisly serial killings. Gone are the days when filmmakers expected us to be shocked by `Silence of the Lambs', `Seven' or `Copycat'... their material is now deemed to be fit for any popcorn movie. "},{"Title":"Dull and lifeless thriller","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I had read some bad to adequate reviews of this film. Some claiming it was bad all the way, while others stated Seven`ish.Since i didnt have any high hopes for this movie, i was just looking forward to seeing some blood&guts be spilt. Unfortunatly, i was dissapointed. This movie is rated 18 in Norway, something i think is a joke. I dont think even a kid would be scared by seing a cut-off finger, or a face sticking out of a pile or rocks.I think that Denzel Washington and Angelina Jolie delivered their performances as they should. The problem with the film is in the story/script and directing. The script hasnt worked on the bad guy enough, and he`s merely a static player in the film. In fact, the script doesnt do much to work on the development of Jolie`s character (her problems with the fact that her father commited suicide etc).The film had a small dark feeling to it, or so director Noyce wanted it to be. That is completely flushed down the drain, when the ending limps along. I dont care for Disney like endings in a so called dark thriller, something this movie obviously wanted to immitate.Dull killings, boring characters and lifeless story and directing.5/10 "},{"Title":"You will soon forget this","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Bone Collector is barely accepted because of its' entertaining value. But make no mistake it offers no surprises, it is packed with Hollywood stereotypes and clichés. The actors of the movie are an Academy Award winning finger, the sexiest lips on the planet and Al Bundy. - 6/10 "},{"Title":"A BAD SERIAL KILLER MOVIE!!","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  his film wasn't that great. I hated the fact that the serial killer was leaving clues on who and where he would kill next. i would much prefer a straight out killer who had to be caught like in Seven. I've heard that the book was much better and a  lot of sequences from the novel were left out of the movie which were great parts in the novel. The story follows a serial killer who is a taxi driver. He is kidnapping people and killing them, copy-cat a serial killer immortilized in a book called the bone collector. And a paralised Denzel Washington and a young street cop Angelina Jolie have to stop him. I also hated the fact that in some scenes were he would go well there this and this and then there this so that mean he going to kill here and kill this person that is total BS. "},{"Title":"great book-shame about the film","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was really looking forward to this after being a fan of deaver's novels for so long but how he allowed this script to pass muster is completely beyond me!The main characters are completely unconvincing and the sense of tension and menace apparent in the book just does not translate.Hollywood murdered James Patterson's Alex Cross character in kiss the girls and the same has been done here. Maybe the next time they might seek out a director who is actually a fan of the writers work in the first place-a total waste of a cinema going experience. "},{"Title":"Not a Collector Movie","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Angelina Jolie pulled it off. I didn't think she could pull off being a cop, after watching her be a heroine addict model. She did, unfortunately that was the only thing that work for me. Had huge problems with the story, to many holes(do not want to give it away), the biggest is with the huge amount of technologically advance gadgets Denzel's character had (at least $500,000 worth), they could have easily hired an investigator as good as Denzel's character to take over the case and not give it to the rookie cop, who didn't want to take the case to begin with.  Of course, it is Hollywood. I have to admit the casting of Ed O'neill was great, his comedic timing is impeccable. "},{"Title":"A dud for Denzel","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  You take an established director, add a very popular and talented actor, throw in a beautiful actress, mix in a good writer and use a very popular genre and you have yourself a top-notch movie, right?........WRONG!!! Even though this film has all the hallmarks of a good movie it shows that Hollywood seems to have sapped dry the serial killer/slasher genre of all ideas, and when no new ideas can be thought of it borrows and steals some from other movies. This movie is proof that a new angle has to be found to these sorts of films in order to keep this genre popular.    "},{"Title":"Suspenseful, but unjustifiably so...","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I almost feel sorry for the guy who wrote this, because he is probably in line for a lawsuit for stealing the storyline of Seven.  The movie kept moving, and kept me on the edge of my seat, but there was no light bulb ending that made you realize that this was a well thought out script.The script could have dedicated a bit more time to the development of Denzel Washington's character, but that was left up to the viewer.  The movie did its job of entertaining me for 2 hours, but not much more than that.  It followed a pretty stereotypical plot line of the serial thriller, and didn't surprise me one bit.  The movie wasn't even good for a scare, when it had plenty of opportunities to do so.  My advice??  Wait until you have a free rental, then rent this. You won't be quite so disappointed. "},{"Title":"Sad.","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  One thing's for sure. This movie does not have any whatsoever that is needed to make a good sad movie. Just not my type of movies. From the start, it was boring. The build up wasn't the best nor was Denzel Washington. The ending was also lame. Watch it for yourself and you will get it. Just stick to Se7en. "},{"Title":"The Film is choppy, slow, boring and poorly directed.","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Film is choppy, slow, boring and poorly directed. All the action is perfectly centered on the screen making the film feel generic and uneventful. The Poorly written script, is exactly the same thing that we have seen countless other times. And the suspense is nonexsistent. The film breaks no new ground, the acting is sub-par, and the characters are never fully explored. The only character you feel anything for is the on played By Queen Latefa, not because of her acting but because you can almost see the bordem of her characters job and because of her overly small roll. All this and an extremely anti-climatic ending contributes to a truly bad film.  "}{"Title":"Ooh, what a giveaway!","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Probably would have been quite a good suspense thriller, if they hadn't given away whodunnit in the first 45 minutes of the film.Nothing happens in a suspense thriller of this kind without a good reason; everything and everyone is there to add to the plot or suspense in some way. When something occurs without a good reason, suspicions are immediately raised.Aside from this really tragically clumsy giveaway, the film had it's moments, but rested a bit too heavily on Washington's attractive charm and Jolie's good looks and ability to blubber. "},{"Title":"OK thriller that has it's moments","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Bone Collector is yet another thriller trying to emulate the success (and unpleasantness) of David Fincher's 'Se7en'.  It didn't get there on both counts, but that doesn't make it a bad movie.  It definitely had it's moments.Bits of the film make you jump, other bits make you squirm somewhat.  As thrillers go, it was not bad at all.Denzel Washington was very good as always, but Angelina Jolie is definitely proving what a fine young actor she is (and she is very pleasant to look at too <grin>).Better than 'Kiss the Girls' -- 7/10 "},{"Title":"The Bone Collector chokes on a bone","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In the continuing tradition of cinematic mysteries, the director seems to think 2 things - 1)We (the audience) are imbeciles and need to be spoon fed every plot piece, and 2)We have an inextinguishable appetite for gore. This movie is an insult to anyone's intelligence, and the coup d'etat was an ending that NO ONE could have solved.  Excuse me, but one of the major reasons Agatha Christie was such a good author, and so popular was the fact that all through the book YOU were able to solve the crime IF you paid enough attention.... This is a despicable piece of garbage bathed in extreme amounts of blood and carnage.  "},{"Title":"They should have called it Trash Collector","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I Like Denzel Washington. I like Horror Films. I like suspense. I hated the Bone Collector. Why?  This film basically lacked all the elements that it was advertised to have.  This movie is compared to Seven and Silence of the Lambs!  Who are we kidding?  The Bone Collector uses sloppy special effects and terrible acting.  I didn't understand why Washington and Jolie liked each other, it seemed they were at each other's thoats, and then suddenly she was molesting him!  Isn't there some kind of law against this.  This is one of those movies that I saw (with my mom no less) that I spent more time looking at my watch than at the movie screen.  Unfortunatly, I can't find in terrible errors, the movie was just boring and made little sense. "},{"Title":"This is the worst movie I paid money for in a while.","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was terrible. It is unfortunate that such a promising cast was trapped in such crap. The characters are thin, the plot is thinner, the suspense is even weaker than that. Sure, there's a couple of scary moments, but they're mainly achieved through camera angles and gross-out factor than any real suspense. Cheap, shallow almost-thrills. I can only assume that the reason Angelina J. always appeared to be on the verge of tears is that she was only-too-aware of the danger of falling into the gaping holes in the plot. Between the irrelevant opening scenes, the bizarrely unbelievable plot contrivances, the completely unsatisfying dramatic conclusion, and the inane feel-good epilogue, this is a movie well worth missing.  "},{"Title":"stay in bed. not worth the effort","Date":"23 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  i was as scared as. But then mirrors scare me. I was however disappointed. I'd heard this movie was reminiscent of Silence of the lambs. It had nothing on this classic though. It was altogether too predictable...too hollywoodish. Somebody, write a story with a story for once.Don't even bother getting out of your lounge chair. "},{"Title":"Tepid Re-Write of Kiss The Girls","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Denzel's bedridden. Angelina's saddled with a mediocre script. So there's not a lot of room for an acting stretch on this Kiss The Girls redux. And please, lord, gimme a CLUE if you're going to set up a mystery. All the explanation and exposition occurs about 60 seconds before the credits roll. Somewhat entertaining, but walk, don't run, to this one. "},{"Title":"Seven...but three better...","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Just got back from the theater...still trying to recover.  Bone Collector was the first movie I've seen in a long time that held me from the opening scene through the end.  This is one film that was definitely worth the price of admission...but not for the faint of heart. "},{"Title":"Tense, gripping story....but....","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Bone Collector is from the same mold as Seven and Silence of the Lambs in terms of a tense thriller about 2 cops on the trail of a grisly murderer.. One of the cops is always new to the job which adds a sense of danger to the whole story due to inexperience.  Bone Collector has its moments but lacks the overall BANG BANG ending of other films "},{"Title":"Worst interpretation of a book ever!","Date":"30 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Bone Collector movie is the worst interpretation of a book that I have ever seen! I read the book before watching the movie, and the book was amazing. Jeffery Deaver's superb ticking bomb suspense writing style was not given justice from this movie claiming that it is based on his book. The director, Phillip Noyce, couldn't direct his way out of an Adam Sandler movie! We all know how Adam Sandler movies are... He's the nice guy/idiot that does something wrong, then does something right, and gets the pretty girl at the end. Phillip Noyce is to a Director as the square block is to the triangle hole... it just doesn't fit! He not only left out huge character developments, but he entirely changed the characters backgrounds. No offense to Denzel Washington, Queen Latifah, or Angelina Jolie, but they just did not fit the roles that they played. I feel a little bit like Phillip Noyce opened the book, breezed through it, then took a crap in the middle of it, closed it, and said you know what... I'm going to do whatever the hell I want! I don't normally get this upset over movies, but I can't believe how bad this was... I almost wanted to turn it off in the first 15 minutes. If you read this far then you must be really bored. lol "}{"Title":"if you liked Silence of the Lambs,Seven or Copycat,","Date":"27 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" you should love this top notch thriller.Angelina Jolie and Denzel Washington are the headliners and are in fine form,but the supporting cast is also superb.this thriller(Like Copycat)has elements of Silence of the Lambs and Seven but,like Copy cat,it is its own movie.the suspense and tension are through the roof on this one.it's also very disturbing.it didn't unnerve me as much as Copycat,but it's pretty close.this one also has some twists,and again some may figure things out quickly,but i still thought they were good twists.if you like Silence,Seven,or Copycat,you should like this one.i would give this a perfect ten,but like i said,it didn't quite unnerve me as much as Copycat,which i gave a perfect 10.for me,The Bone Collector is a 9.8/10 "},{"Title":"Gruesome and silly","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The only thing that The Bone Collector contributes to the world of cinema is gruesome detail and violence, following a story of investigators tracking down a murderer who steals the bones off his victims...and just finds new and creative ways to murder people. There isn't much more that this film has to offer outside violence - and Angelina Jolie. I definitely won't be putting this film into my collection. The dialogue, characters, and relationships come out as rather silly, and the only thing this film seems to do well is to portray grim detail and shock value. I'd give it a miss unless you are hooked on very gruesome films. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie!","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Bone Collector is a very good movie! I don't want to say to much to spoil it but the actors were very good. Denzel Washington was good as always. Angelina Jolie put on a great performance. Michael Rooker was good. Queen Latifah, Luis Guzmán, Mike McGlone, Leland Orser, and Ed O'Neill was in surprising roles! I like how they showed close ups of the actors and views of the city. It was really neat. The score is tremendous by Craig Armstrong! There are some other things to talk about here when it comes to the performances. Denzel Washington put on a one heck of a performance. It was so believable. Angelina Jolie which I think she is one of the greatest actresses ever in cinema history also put on a superb performance. I liked how she talked, the things she did such as getting in front of the train, the tears falling from her eyes, her smiling, and her interaction with Denzel Washington. Her character has so much personality! In My opinion I think both should have been nominated for an Oscar! Also Leland Orser acted very solidly. Another good mention of good acting in this film is by Michael Rooker and Ed O'Neill. I think that The Bone Collector is an excellent movie from start to finish! I recommend every movie fan to watch The Bone Collector!  "},{"Title":"Bad rip-off","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Seen this story about a million times. It's a bad rip-off with a very farfetched plot. Denzel Washington disappoints, and Angelina Jolie is unconvincing as a police investigator. No suspense, I could tell the ending of the movie after watching 15 minutes. "},{"Title":"What the Hell?","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Don't you dare compare this movie with Se7en or Silence Of The Lambs. This was an awful movie, relying on loud noises and idiots who decide to come through the window rather than the front door for scares.  Washington and Jolie are poorly waisted in this film, if you can refer to it as that without insulting every other film out there.  Then there's the killer, whom could never compare to Hannibal Lector or John Doe.  If he were so clever to plant all that evidence and plan all those murders, how come his most clever line was What kind of vegetable do you want to be?  Ugh.  It seems that the film maker didn't decide on who the killer was until the filming of the last scene.  If your going to make it a surprise, make it someone whom matters. "},{"Title":"Intense mystery. A brutal thriller to the end.","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Not for the faint of heart. Not for the weak stomach. If you like a down to the bone, knuckle biting chiller...this is for you. Denzel Washington plays a quadriplegic detective that teams with a beautiful female cop, Angelina Jolie, to track down a sadistic serial killer. The killer leaves clues that lead to a turn of the century true crime novel.Also in the cast are Michael Rooker, Ed O'Neill and Queen Latifah. You will squirm in your chair till the very end. Some scenes are very intense. The script is superior and keeps you involved. Don't pass this one by. Be ready for a mental work out. "},{"Title":"Terrible!","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Could a movie be any more predictable or just plain -retarded?-  The plot of this movie could be written in a paragraph.  Personally, this thriller wasn't very thrilling.  The scariest part?  When an ambulance door slams shut and catches you by surprise.The acting was mediocre, but the plot?  Dumb, dumb, dumb!  Not only is it feasible, but there are continuity errors throughout the entire film.DO NOT waste your time or money on this film, but if you want a good comedy, I'd recommend this one. "},{"Title":"Worst Movie I've Ever Seen - AVOID AT ALL COSTS!!","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie really takes the cake. Everyone must have one movie that raises their ire every time someone even mentions it, and for me, that movie is The Bone Collector. I've seen plenty of bad movies, but this is in a whole other category, because not only is it bad - it is literally SICKENING. I've probably become immune to a certain level of violence in films (The Texas Chainsaw Massacre didn't bother me much), but there are several scenes in this film (one in particular, and anyone who had the grave misfortune of seeing this will know what I mean) which literally made me sick to my stomach and angry at the filmmakers' lack of restraint. There is absolutely nothing I can recommend in this film - NOTHING!! This is the first movie in which I can make that statement. Even the worst movies usually have some kind of cheap entertainment value, no matter how slim, but not here. It is as if the filmmakers stole ideas from every other idea from popular films from recent years, cheapened them, put them in this movie, and topped them off with the most grisly violence I've ever seen. Watching this was about as much fun as getting a root canal without anasthetic, and I really wonder whether the director Philip Noyce is some kind of covert sicko. I really hope the studio buries this one for good. "},{"Title":"Okay, But Needed Less Lip-Service","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"18 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Here's another interesting modern-day serial killer saga which keeps your attention the full two hours. Although grisly in parts, it doesn't overdo the violence.However, once again we have the too-often case of an ending where the villain talks instead of shoots and, of course, he pays for it. Why oh why does this annoying scenario play out so many times in movies? It's so annoying and stupid and ruins many a good show.Acting-wise, Denzel Washington gives another likable performance and we get to see Angelina Jolie's King Kong-collagen type lips which are ludicrous. She's too profane and hard-looking for this old-fashioned reviewer, anyway. I'd rate this movie higher with a different lead actress. "},{"Title":"mostly interesting because I got to see it with subtitles","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Bone Collector isn't really anything that we haven't seen before a rookie detective (Angelina Jolie) has to investigate a case because something happened to the original detective (Denzel Washington). The scene where she discovers the book was, in my opinion, the best part of the movie, explaining much of what was going on. But the movie's ending really spoiled everything; I mean, why just end it like that? So, the movie had no intrinsic neat qualities. But while I was in Spain for a school trip, we watched it, and got to see the subtitles. OK, so that doesn't really add any good traits. But I liked seeing the movie that way. As far as I'm concerned, the movie's worth seeing once.Also starring Queen Latifah, Michael Rooker, Mike McGlone, Luis Guzman (happy birthday, Luis!) and Leland Orser. "}{"Title":"Not good","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I watched this movie last night. Well I started the night before last but couldn't make it through the whole thing in one go. Now, granted I am not going to deny that I fall asleep easily, however, falling asleep during this movie had no influence on my decision that I found this film to be crap. First lets talk about the acting... I was only slightly impressed by Angelina's attempt at a new york accent. Other than that, I thought it was a less than stellar performance on all fronts. Come on, Dezel what the heck were you thinking? Hmm, maybe he thought he had already payed his dues making movies where he actually had to walk, and felt he owed it to himself to take it easy on this one. I felt he over acted throughout the whole picture. And that has got to be hard to do when you are stuck in a bed the entire time. Angelina was so skinny it was uncomfortable to watch. Aside from that, the whole melodramatic feel to the movie took away from it's coolness. It just seemed that the relationship between Denzel and Angie was forced and fake and totally romanticized, forcing it into something it wasn't at all. And what was the whole relationship thing they tried to throw in there? Complete nonsense. Then the killer. He was the dude form Very Bad Things and to me, played the same character but with more words. He was so over the top it, again, made the coolness of the movie turn into a piece of packaged string cheese. Don't get me wrong, I love cheese. Cheese like cabin fever is good. Cheese like Saved by the Bell is good. But Cheese like this picture just wasn't my brand of cheese. Laslty, Queen Latifa. I don't know about anyone else here, but I love this woman. I will watch anything she is in, just cuz she is in it. Now I know what you are thinking.... How can this person be a reliable source on this film, when she is an admitted teef fan. I loves me some Teefs, and I thought that she could've played a bigger part in this picture. In fact, if she played the part that Angie played, and vice versa, this probably would'a been more believable. I rated it a 2, as I truly felt this film could've been a good picture, but sadly was just a waste of my time. "},{"Title":"Nonsense","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is tired old hollywood crap. This story has been written, written again, rewritten, told in 10 different ways, but nevertheless has the exact same plot twists and boring ideas as every other crappy film in it's crappy genre. Save your money and rent something worth seeing - I think that Silence of the Lambs is probably the only notable film in this genre, I've never seen another that didn't stink, and this is no exception.Skip it! "},{"Title":"Really Bad Script","Date":"4 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"    Will someone PLEASE give Denzel a decent script???(I haven't seen The Hurricane yet.) It's really depressing to see such a talented actor having to chew on these leathery lines. Ugh. I felt bad for Angelina Jolie too. I WANT to hate her because she's so beautiful, but I actually think she's a good actress.    It wasn't the acting or even the plot that sunk this movie. It was the pathetic script, which was a bunch of spliced together lines from SUCCESSFUL recent thrillers. Throw together the violence of Seven with the older-guy-younger-hot-girl element of Kiss the Girls, and mix in the housebound twist of Copycat. Then add in some quadriplegic fight scenes that boarder on the SLAPSTICK. That's pretty much your film here.    This movie is totally random. There's nothing to hold on to here. It's SO predictable that it's depressing. It's the most depressing use of recycled plots EVER.     N't like it.                         "},{"Title":"Yuck","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This one rates right up there with I Still Know What You Did Last Summer.  It is another movie that tries to be suspenseful by using weird camera angles, and tried and tired situations.  However, much like ISKWYDLS, I laughed extremely hard.  I mean, I almost died laughing.  See this movie with a crowd, and you will laugh too.  I was not shocked by the move and could spot every single inspiration.Plot  Copycat meets video games.  The movie has a shut-in parapelegic ex-dectective pulled into another case of somebody imitating old murders.  (Sound familiar?)  Then he controls a young dectective by head sets.  (RPG video games).  Tired, and mundane.  Luckily, this movie was free, or else I would have kicked somebody.  However, I do have to give it to the writer, he seems to be overly kept up in current events.  He has a man who is just out of jail for manipulating evidence (as seen in 60 minutes) and takes on the Kevorkian issue.  Why are these sensitive topics in such a trashy movie?Acting  Jolie was good.  I kind of liked everybody else, but Jolie, O'Niell, and Orser, all do very good jobs.  They create the effect of a movie that is extremely bad, but doesn't quite know it. Inspirations  Well, they stole the plot from Copycat, and made it into an RPG.  Then they decided to add scenes from specific movies.  Although sewer lines blowing up from the street have been in several different movies, the most similar was Ghostbusters.  They took the idea for the book from Seven, by saying that this would be the last murder.  There is the typical everything else.  Another inspiration Graveyard Shift with rats and even the shooting of them.Presentation  **** SPOILER SECTION SPOILERS LACED THROUGHOUT THE SECTION  SKIP DOWN TO THE FINALE ****  Once again, gypped from the gore.  The movie is not that gory.  It is slightly sadistic.   We do not get to see the lady get steamed, or her hands get sawed off.  The rats are a little gross, but we do not get to see too much.  I wish they laced the movie with more gore.  We needed more gore and violence to keep the interest up.  The sex appeal was there (Jolie), but we do not get to see anything.  This is a disappointment, but I can live with it, I guess.  Everything else is hokey, and overdone.  Although I did not realize who the killer was, I knew who it wasn't, and that was the chief.  We all know that the person whom they try to make fairly obvious is the killer, isn't.  They should have given us more clues to who was the killer.  How were we supposed to know that Orser had something against Washington?  Finale  Overall this was one of the most unbelievable movies this year.  I also laughed so hard I split a gut and cried.  I was in tears.  However, most of it was from the audience reaction.  I was laughing at them rather than the movie.  If you want to semi-enjoy this movie see it with a big crowd, especially with easily-scared people.  However, I cannot recommend this movie to anybody.  It sucked beyond normal standards of suckiness.  But, it made me laugh-----------3 "},{"Title":"Lots of ideas cooking, but overall film is half-baked...","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Thriller involving a bed-ridden ex-homicide detective in NYC, still on the police payroll, heading up tense investigation into serial killings involving a psychotic cabbie. Overly-familiar movie material, adapted from Jeffery Deaver's book, has a fatal case of Silence of the Lambs-itis. Denzel Washington and Angelina Jolie (as a rookie policewoman) do decent work in underwritten roles, however Ed O'Neill and Queen Latifah are both excellent in colorful supporting parts. Not a sterling example of the genre, yet director Phillip Noyce does everything he can to make it exciting, and cinematographer Dean Semler gets some intriguing shots of the Big Apple. Semler also does well highlighting Jolie's 1000-watt smile--what a beauty this one is! ** from **** "},{"Title":"Keep out!","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I watched this movie in the theater and right from the start of it I felt the movie is underestimating in the viewers intelligence. The movie is about a professional detective which is hurt and now helping a beginner to follow the steps of a serial killer which is ramping in the city. The pro detecive is disabled and using a computer to look at the crime scene. The acting is bad and the directing is awful.The movie was slow and repeated itself which made it boring, reminding me of the movie Seven (which wasn't my taste also). I stopped going to cinemas for 4 months after I watched this movie.Buttom line, don't watch this movie if you are looking for good movies that give you inspirations. "},{"Title":"Evidence collector is totally clueless","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Good thriller shot in NYC with a thought provoking puzzle for the viewer to see unravel. Nothing really new with this one but still interesting and exciting. The big finale was mundane and predictable, however it provided a nice little surprise. "},{"Title":"Ultimately disappointing and uninteresting thriller.","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The only thing to save this film from complete disgrace is the acting, as the film had great performances from its leads, Jolie and Washington. Otherwise this can be described as no more than an empty thriller which is a pale shadow of what it could have been.  After watching the film, the only thought I had was why didn't I watch something else. The who-dunnit in the end was totally inappropriate and the killers motive was even worse.  My advice is to stay away from this and watch a better film of the same genre like What Lies Beneath. Overall I'd give The Bone Collector 4.9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"this movie is a stinker","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film is very by the numbers, sappy, with 2 dimentinal acting, wimpy people, with the typical stupied higher up managers.  Everyone else in this movie is either to stupied to solve this case involving the bone collector.  Except Denzel and I think its the country star Judd.  What happens is the crime lab and a room of detectives should be fired for gross incompetents and Denzels can grab historical information and answer for clues as if he's psychic, and I think ashly judd ( I could be wrong) can go into a room with no training and find clues as if she is robo cop.  The ending is so predictable you can guess how this one comes out.  "},{"Title":"Just awful...","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Good god, this movie is terrible beyond belief. I really, REALLY like movies about hyper-intelligent serial killers, but this... The Bone Collector is one of those movies that don't feature a single person with anything resembling a brain. These guys are SO stupid, you want to jump into your TV set to give them a good smack for being such INCREDIBLE idiots. Well, maybe if the movie was exciting and entertaining and kept me guessing about the killer's identity, I could overlook the fact that the characters are dumber than your average smurf, but IT'S IMPOSSIBLE NOT TO GUESS THE KILLER'S IDENTITY DURING THE FIRST 20 MINUTES !!! Really. You start watching this mess and somewhere around minute 15 or so you think to yourself Huh, I think it's ... and it really is who you think it is ! The film makers didn't even try to give the audience some other subjects... ah, forget it. Bloody awful movie, just skip it... and if you happen to meet Phillip Noyce on the street, please, kick his lazy butt for being responsible for this headache-inducing awful mess and not having made a good movie since Dead Calm. "}{"Title":"The Bone Collector","Date":"13 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" From director Phillip Noyce (Rabbit-Proof Fence, The Quiet American) this is an okay thriller film with some good moments and acting. Basically there is an accident in a train tunnel, and Amelia Donaghy (Angelina Jolie) is the one who found and photographed the scene of the crime, and it seems paralysed forensics expert Lincoln Rhyme (Denzel Washington) is the only man who may be able to crack the case. Even though he can only move his head and one finger, and has help from his loving carer/nurse Thelma (Queen Latifah), he is still perfectly capable of accessing most information and evidence on his computer. As he is confronted with more clues from a serial killer, he is drawn away from his thought of assisted suicide, it re-invokes his interest in life. He needs Amelia to go around crime scenes, i.e. be his eyes, ears and legs, but her squeamish nature is slowing them down, best seen in the scene where she refuses to cut a woman's hands off. Towards the end, Amelia finds a book, The Bone Collector that seems to have reference to the crimes the killer has committed, and Richard Thompson (Alien Resurrection's Leland Orser) is the man who comes out of the shadow to reveal himself as the killer. Also starring Michael Rooker as Captain Howard Cheney, Mike McGlone as Detective Kenny Solomon, Luis Guzmán as Eddie Ortiz, John Benjamin Hickey as Dr. Barry Lehman and Ed O'Neill as Detective Paulie Sellitto. There are some small disturbing moments with the crime scenes, and the acting is quite gripping, but I personally don't think I'd see it more than once. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Take Away The Gimmicks And ....","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" .... What have you got ? Not muchRemember those cop shows from the late 60s/early 70s . They seemed to be having a contest with who can come up with the biggest gimmick . CANNON had a big fat guy as the hero while COLUMBO had the gimmick of a wee scruffy guy in a raincoat . Perhaps the best gimmick was IRONSIDE which featured a cop who did nothing except sit in a wheelchair . Well THE BONE COLLECTOR goes one better , we have a hero detective who stays in bed all day . How`s that for an action thriller ? A hero detective who does nothing except lie in bedThat`s the gimmick but other things like making a newbie cop a woman and having inventive deaths aren`t gimmicks - They`re cliches , and I must say if it wasn`t for the unintentional laughs of watching people tortured to death the gore would have been off putting not to mention unoriginal since we`ve seen the same only done better in SEVEN . There is a truly skin crawling moment involving the bad guy`s hand but apart from that I`ve seen this type of story far too often which means I won`t be putting THE BONE COLLECTOR in my DVD collection   "},{"Title":"Material unworthy of actors in run-of-the-mill serial killer flick","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The most surprising thing about The Bone Collector is not the identity of the titular serial killer (the answer to that question is as ridiculous as they come) but rather the appearance of Denzel Washington as the paralyzed hero.  That an actor as good as he would take on dime-store pulp that barely registers as third-rate Silence of the Lambs leads one to believe that despite the challenge of playing a quadriplegic, a substantial paycheck might have had a hand in the decision-making process.  It couldn't have been the material, which is littered with every illogical, implausible, impossible and unforgivable suspense-thriller cliche that has ever offended at the multiplex.  Angelina Jolie, who looks like anything but a beat cop (as if anticipating our skepticism, the movie breathlessly explains that she was a child model before she answered the call of law enforcement), acts well enough to assuage our substantial doubts.  But her verisimilitude is too little, too late as the ordinary plot chugs along its predictable path until depositing the wearied audience at the foot of a howlingly awful conclusion.     "},{"Title":"For masochists only","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Another dark, moody Hollywood serial killer thriller just in time for fall! In the tradition of such films as SEVEN and SILENCE OF THE LAMBS comes this utterly uninspired, needlessly sadistic, fare.  Denzel is bedridden through the entire film and Angelina Jolie is woefully miscast.  Poorly written, cardboard thin stock characters just add to the we've seen this all before deja vu experience this film offers.  While director Phillip Noyce has a few camera tricks up his sleeve (mostly used in the service of jolting the audience rather than creating true suspense), the film manages to be uninvolving and uninteresting despite the large amounts of requisite nastiness.  "}]