[{"Title":"one of those guilty pleasures...","Date":"3 March 2005","Score":"50 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Honestly, I think this is an awful movie... but I can't help but love it! It has a cheesy plot, unrealistic characters, a bit of magic that adds to the unbelievability and about everything else that a bad movie has. And yet, this is one of my favorite movies to watch when I'm in the mood to watch something light and fun. I'm almost embarrassed to say I love it! I don't know what it is about this movie that makes it so enjoyable to me. The basic plot... Sarah Michelle Gellar is a rather unsuccessful chef who wants to become better and save her family's restaurant. After buying a crab at a local market her luck begins to change. Suddenly she is able to cook amazing food that is sort of hypnotic and magical. She's offered a job as head chef at a posh new restaurant by a gorgeous guy who (wouldn't you know it) she ends up falling in love with. Give it a try. Maybe you'll love it too. I think it's the whole food idea that gets me.... "},{"Title":"A modern take on the 1930's style of screwball comedy","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"28 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a charming film, very well acted and with great production values. But, like the screwball comedies of the thirties, and the musicals of Fred Astaire, it isn't for everyone. Of course, a romantic comedy which is based on the magical ability of a crab to inspire Gellar to feats of culinary greatness is a premise which might be hard for some to swallow. But I think its worth the effort, and it's no dafter than many successful comedy of earlier days. For those who follow such things there are three great references to the films of Fred Astaire. First is when Flannery is choosing the floor design for his new restaurant. The wavy black and white design is straight out of Yolanda and the Thief (1946 MGM) where, in a number called Coffee Time, Fred Astaire and Lucille Bremer dance on a huge floor of exactly this design. As if to hammer it home Flannery's boss reacts by saying  it looks like something out of an MGM musical. Reference number two is to The Belle of New York (1952 MGM) where Fred Astaire and Vera-Ellen kiss and float up to the ceiling. This is directly quoted in a kitchen scene where, under the influence of the crab, Gellar and Flannery kiss and float to the ceiling. These references are interesting because both films have fantasy/magical themes and both are somewhat looked down on in Astaire's oeuvre. The third reference is to Shall We Dance (1937 RKO)where in the Gershwin number of the same name Fred Astaire is confronted with a long line of Ginger Rodgers masked look-alikes. In Simply Irresistable Gellar appears reflected in a long line of mirrors with Flannery temporarily confused as to where she is, with both of them standing in a set that seems right out of Van Nest Polglase's Art Deco creations for RKO. Here the reference seems to be to the magician's art of illusion. Anyhow, after all that, you should have a feel for whether this film is for you.  "},{"Title":"Light and funny","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"29 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a light, cutesy chick-flick sort of movie. There's lots of humor and silliness. This movie fortunately never tries to take itself too seriously, because it would fail. The watcher who tries to take this movie too seriously won't enjoy it. Go into it with the idea that it's a silly movie meant to be laughed at and enjoyed, and you won't go wrong. Sarah Michelle Gellar is really good for the role of Amanda Shelton - she's very expressive and she does the dry humor really well, but she also gets the emotional roller-coaster that the characters are on and she does it smashingly well. Sean Patrick Flanery is excellent as the guy who really can't figure out what the heck is going on but he can't pull himself away from it anyway; and Larry Gilliard, Jr. as the support man to Gellar's Shelton is simply funny. This movie is definitely worth watching at least once.  "},{"Title":"a charming romantic comedy that could have been better","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a very sweet little movie. The magic business in it is there to give it a little edge, and I think that they wisely don't explain it, but the movie works best when they underplay it. It's at its best  around the shopping for plates sequence when the characters discuss how often men think about sex. It's handled with a light touch that is just right. That is the tone that I would have liked to see the movie maintain, and which they hit now and again during the course of it, but also missed from time to time.It's not a sure thing (it's no Moonstruck, for example), but if you like romantic comedy it's worth a look. I'd give it a 7/10 (slightly less than 3 stars, but close). "},{"Title":"cute and honest","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  When I read about it in my TV guide, my first thought was 'boring'. But since there was nothing interesting, I decided to watch it. And no regrets taken.  The story is very sweet, filled with lots of love and humorous situations. Since I like movies where some sort of food plays an important part (I just love Woman On Top!) then I loved this one too. Sarah Michelle Gellar and Sean Patrick Flannery both do an excellent job. They make a great on-screen couple together and you can even see the chemistry between.All together, I liked this movie. Funny, sweet and definetely romantic, spiced with bits of mystery and fiction, it was a good watch )9/10. Pretty ) "},{"Title":"Very heart-warming and romantic movie","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  In my opinion, SIMPLY IRRESISTIBLE is a very heart-warming and romantic movie. If you ask me, Amanda (Sarah Michelle Gellar) and Tom (Sean Patrick Flanery) made the perfect match. Also, even though I thought that Chris (Amanda Peet) was a beautiful woman, she was a little bit snobby. All in all, the costumes were well-designed, the casting was great, and, the directing by Mark Tarlov was fabulous! Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say, Sarah Michelle Gellar and Sean Patrick Flanery have scored big time! Now in conclusion, if you are a fan of Sarah Michelle Gellar or Sean Patrick Flanery, and, you haven't seen this very heart-warming and romantic movie, I highly recommend it. You're in for a good time, so, when you see SIMPLY IRRESISTIBLE, prepare to be dazzled.  "},{"Title":"simply irresistible...","Date":"30 April 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" was just that for me...simply irresistible! i couldn't help myself...i am a sucker for romance combined with magic...mix in the overlay of the sublime, and add a dash of the ethereal and you have the ingredients for a sumptuous recipe. the cast was excellent, the settings of the southern cross and the tom restaurant/creation were colorful and mystical. everyone waiting with baited breath in anticipation of amandas awakening and inspiration (to meet or supersede her dearly departed mother's expectations)to explode into full blossom...magic that runs in the female lineage of the family at least. it was time to for tom to stop stalling and sabotaging a relationship destined to be divine. amanda was determined to follow her hearts desire with or without tom, but as we all know the dynamics of a divine couple (as in soulmates), loving in harmony, can have an exponential impact on the changes necessary to restore the love and the light to the universe! it was evident to me this was a love that truly was meant to transcend time! "},{"Title":"the best dressed cook in New York","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"15 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  It's interesting to see Sarah Michelle Gellar play a character in a low-key fashion. I recently rented the campy (and hilarious) Cruel Intentions to see her give a performance so unbelievably over-the-top I couldn't stop laughing. Also, the less said about her role in I KNow What You Did Last Summer the better. Though impeccably shot sequences in and around New York give the film a glowing lusture, the script and the characters don't live up to the glow and seem to blend in with the scenery. It's supernatural themes seem to get left behind when there's a moment of pesky plot to spoil the visual pleasure, and I'm not convinced that anyone on screen wanted to be there at all. Also, why does a young woman on the verge of bankruptcy dress so well and have such impeccably styled hair? And why would she wear designer outfits whilst making sauces? It's odd. It seemed to be a Vogue photo essay in search of a Meg Ryan-esque romance.  "},{"Title":"I can't believe the ratings collected on this movie!","Date":"11 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is Sarah Michelle Gellar's best movie! Unpretentious, genuine young lady battling the reality of small business and about to see her whole world go down the kitchen drain when she is saved by wonder.And that is what this story is about wonder.. and food.For me the details are everything. The plot is simple and that is probably what disturbs a number of the reviewers.. but they admit it themselves.. and they can't put their finger on it. Here we finally have a story where everything suddenly goes right. And wouldn't you like that to happen to you at least once! The movie has name players but not A-listers. The story features a great deal to do with savouring the taste of food, and who would go to see a movie based on food? Yet.. there are few pictures I enjoy more than this one. I am not a SMG fan, but in this motion picture Sarah is absolutely perfectly cast. It is her 13 Going On 30 role! "},{"Title":"A Guilty Pleasure","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film represents nothing truly exceptional.  It has no exceptional acting, messages, faces (maybe Sarah M Gellar, but looks aren't everything), or lines.  I didn't spend $7.50 on it to see it in the theater, nor will spend $3.00 at the rental store to see this.  But why is it that when I see it on TV (I got cable) 9 out of 10 times I stop to watch it?  Maybe because this movie speaks to the little romantic in all of us.  We know or will learn that relationships don't make Emeril dishes appear at will or having odd gases spew from deserts but it's still a cute flick with two of the romance and a happy ending. "}{"Title":"something lacking","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I love teeny bopper movies such as She's all that, cheesy 80 movies and so forth but this didn't live up to my expectations.  For me, the movie didn't flow and didn't really draw me in.  The pants that Sara Michelle Geller and her co-chef wore were hilarious but the movie lacked development in certain areas and began to remind me of a bad Like Water for Chocholate remake without the depth.    "},{"Title":"Strictly For Hardcore Gellar Fans","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Of course I only watched this movie because it stars Sarah Michelle Gellar. And on that note, WOW did I get what I bargained for, she looked more beautiful then ever. Just stunning.Now, let's talk about the movie it self.I'm thinking that it just might have been the worst movie I EVER saw. It was just terrible. The writing (dialogue) was absolutely rediculous. The story way bogus and actually just plain stupid.PLOT (and please do not consider this a spoiler because this is not some kind of thriller)Gellar is a cook, and a very bad one too. Then one day she obtains a magical crab (yes people, really), who just sits on a shelve in the kitchen and then suddenly she's becomes this amazing cook, and everything the makes is flavoured with her emotions. OK then blablabla all sorts of weird stuff happens, of course there is this guy who she falls in love with. But when they kiss they both start to fly, which of course freaks the guy out and he decides she's a witch and he doesn't want to see her anymore. Then suddenly he decides it doesn't really matter, because she's hot anyway (which she most definitely is) and all ends well.Normally I would have puked all the way through a movie like this (would have watched it all the way through though because I find that one is NEVER, yes NEVER able to judge a movie if it is not watched from the begin credits to the end credits) but I was so hypnotised but Sarah that I actually made it through, alive and in a way satisfied.Conclusion Beware! Do NOT, I say NOT watch this if you are not a huge huge fan of Gellar, this movie is so crappy you probably couldn't even imagine, and it's not even bad in a funny way like for instance Beverly Hills Ninja (haha, that movie cracked me up..sorry). If you are au contraire, enjoy, I know I did.Rating In terms of Gellar, I give this flick a 10/10 As an objective movie critic I'd say 1/10  "},{"Title":"Great movie for those light and whimsical in heart.","Date":"9 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Simply Irresistible is one of my absolutely favorite movies. Typically I like your guy movies ... you know, explosions and blood, but this movie hits on my softer nerves. It's such an amazing movie for those that believe in love, and the craziness of the whole deal. Those those like a practical film, keep on looking! but here you have a light and greatly acted film. The people who suggest that this film is not worth your time, well clearly they didn't understand the film. It's all about following your heart, and excepting the fact that love can oft times bring unexpected changes in one's life and great consequences. A great soundtrack and engaging story just add to my love for this film as well.  "},{"Title":"Cheesy, silly, & corny...but kinda cute","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film has not gotten great reviews, and much of what people have to say about it is indeed true.  However, despite everything, I thought the movie was a cute romantic story.  Certainly, it had its flaws.  But I thought the acting was good, Sarah Michelle Gellar was adorable, and the story was just nice and wasn't filled with sexual innuendos like most films these days. This isn't a film that I'm going to buy (I rented it), and it's not going to go on my list of all-time favorite movies, but I just thought it was a nice, silly, cute story.  There may not have been much depth to it, but sometimes that's OK. "},{"Title":"How did this mess even get made?","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The plot is as followsSMG has a failing restaurant. This weird looking guy shows up at the start of the movie and leaves her with a crab to help her out. (He doesn't appear again.)The crab has the power to make her food simply irresistible hence the title.To give you an example of how bad it is, her token male confidante tells her that when guys adjust their belts they are thinking of sex.The next few scenes show guys adjusting their belts.Then she meets her dream man and he doesn't wear a belt. She even asks him about the theory.Then it shows a shot of him adjusting his suspenders.Amanda Peet has a few scenes but thankfully (for her career) she exits soon after. When she was sent the script she should of used it to kill bugs.This is the type of movie that everyone who sees it, leaves the theatre as an aspiring screenwriter. "},{"Title":"Had potential....","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I loved the idea behind this movie, the actors are brilliant and the premise quite intriguing - in fact watching the trailer I enjoyed the music(I love the song Crush and it fit so well) and the hook used to create interest, it was really great and it worked. Maybe that's the problem but from what I can remember the movie itself didn't follow through with what it promised. Well, they didn't use Jennifer Paige's song for a start... As far as I can recall the story itself had no layers, there was little depth and I couldn't really find a beginning, middle and end.. it felt incomplete or just lacking in some way.I knew at the time of watching this exactly what I thought let it down but unfortunately in order to remember I'd have to watch it again and I haven't wanted to. As soon as I do though I'll re-post )  "},{"Title":"Simply unwatchable","Date":"25 February 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  In this romantic comedy (if you could call it that) Sarah Michelle Gellar, star of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, stars as a cook who gets magical powers and uses them to cook very nice food.  It sounds like a cute idea but the film does not work on any level. The acting was awful.  Gellar, although not one of my favourite actresses, normally seems to possess a basic level of acting ability in Buffy but it is not apparent here.  Sean Patrick Flanery is also very tedious in this film. They are supposedly in love but the two leads show no chemistry and in fact seem generally bored throughout the film.  Not that I can entirely blame them given that the dialogue means that it would be extremely difficult for them to seem at all like believable human beings. The story was just absurd and the special effects (particularly the infamous crab) were just painfully bad.  The director does not seem to have made any effort at all. I wasn't expecting a masterpiece but I was hoping to be entertained in some way by this film but it's truly bad.  I lost hope about 20 minutes before the ending and left which is quite unusual for me as I like to finish what I start.  However, this is a film which justifies walking out. Definitely one of the worst films I've seen in years.1/10 - Give this one a miss "},{"Title":"Bland But Entertaining","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I was surprised how much I enjoyed Simply Irresistible.I went because I like the leads from TV shows and I like magic realism . I didn't mind that it rips off Like Water for Chocolate but I did mind how cheaply it was done with really lousy cinematography and poor lighting.The cute script had the teens in the audience laughing out loud so it's too bad there was no directorial imagination. Bring on the fantasy scenes, please.It also badly needed a choreographer, but it had nice music here and there. Not the best romantic movie of the year.(Originally written 2/13/1999) "},{"Title":"Lowered my brain cell count","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Simply Irresistible was, by far, the worst movie I've ever seen. I never comment on movies, but I felt that this one was worth a stern warning to other movie goers.  The dialogue was worse than a junior high drama class. The story didn't follow either logical or fantastical comprehension, I'm not sure if they even had one, or if they made it up as they went along. It made no sense, nor tried to explain any of the retardedness that was going on. It literally hurt my brain to watch it, but I forced myself because I spent 8 bucks on it, and the storyline just got worse and worse.  Avoid this movie at all cost.  Be warned!!!  "},{"Title":"Wholly incompatible!","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"14 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  While a thousand monkeys on a thousand typewriters might never write a play like Shakespeare, any ten of them could have cranked out the lines for this one.  It is at best a romantic comedy for the Barbie and Ken doll set, with a script so trite and corny as to be unintentionally amusing.  Gellar is suitably appealing in her role as Amanda, a likeable and intelligent young woman, but it is she who becomes bewitched by a character with no more depth than a paper cutout, having to his credit only lots of money and conventional good looks.  Then the plot revolves around her obsession with catching him, when it is painfully obvious that he isn't worth running after.The title implies that it is she who is irresistible, except that she is always chasing after him.  In other words, if she is so irresistible, why would she need magic to catch such a dolt?  Her character is a hundred times more interesting than his, bothering to be concerned about others and such, while he is too in love with himself to care about anyone else.  The deepest thought he can contemplate is the perfect paper plane!  If there is a prince to this farce of a fairy tale, it might come closer to her buddy the cook, who is at least a fairly good friend.  But this is a shallow and embarrassing story, tediously boring, with no better message but that money and glamour are more worth having than imagination and character. "}{"Title":"Haven't seen this movie in years but it was harmless","Date":"29 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Sarah Michelle Gellar stars in this sappy cringeworthy romantic comedy about a amateur chef who comes across a mysterious crab who has magical powers that turns Gellar's charcther into a brilliant chef. But problems arise however when she falls in love with a guy who works at a department store. So when he tastes her food and likes it she has to wonder can all this got to do with the mysterious magical crab?Bottom line this film is definitely a guilty pleasure for a lot of romantic comedy fans. Its silly,its cringeworthy,its got the same formula as every romantic comedy. I may try and track this film down and watch it again. "},{"Title":"a lesser Lifetime-like movie","Date":"26 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Amanda Shelton (Sarah Michelle Gellar) inherits her late mother's restaurant but not her skills. The rent is raised and they are about to close. A mystery man sells her a magical crab. Tom Bartlett (Sean Patrick Flanery) runs a high-end department store and he's adding a new expensive restaurant. He and his unstable girlfriend Chris (Amanda Peet) are going to check out a high class chef when the mystery man drives his cab and drop them off in front of Amanda's restaurant. Amanda's food starts effecting her patrons in unusual ways.This is more on the level of a lesser Lifetime movie. Flanery doesn't have enough charisma which limits the romantic chemistry. Despite having some great supporting actors, the material is nowhere good enough. Also, I'm uncertain about how the magic works on the food and its effects on the people. I don't understand Tom and Chris acting up after eating her food. The comedy doesn't really work. There is a possible food-porn movie but it's not filmed well. The elements of better movies are here but none of it really works. "},{"Title":"Seriously Underrated Film","Date":"12 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I don't understand the reviews of this film. I loved it and found it a funny and cute movie about love, food and pinch of magic. Anyone looking for deeper meaning wouldn't be impressed but if you just take the humor and the cute interactions of the characters for what they are you will find a movie worth watching again and again. I've seen it around 10 times myself. I even went to the trouble of finding it on DVD which wasn't easy. However it was totally worth it so I would be able to watch the movie anytime I want. The movie is about a girl who is down on her luck and finds a bit of magic to help get her back on her feet. Give it a chance and it may surprise you. "},{"Title":"not bad at all","Date":"14 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I expected less of this movie,really,I did!!Actually,I wonted to see if Sara know how to act because Buffy is one thing and movies another.So,I started to watch movie with so little expectation that you would be surprised.And I liked the movie!It was sweet.And Sara always have good lucking mans for partners.It started like every other romantic comedy girl and boy meet,they falling in love etc.But,here comes the magic part-she was bad cook and she becomes fantastic cook with help of magic crab!And it start to be something different movie then usually.I must say that Sara surprised me like a actress.She was convincing like the girl who cook bad without magic.She had a lot of magic and demons and vampires and staff in Buffy.But this is different kind of staff and she handled it raider well.So,I liked this film. "},{"Title":"In my DVD collection of things I would watch over and over..","Date":"15 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I'm a sucker for romantic comedies. And I'm a bigger fan of Sarah Michelle Gellar/Prinze so maybe I'm a little biased when it comes to this movie.Okay, so there are some pretty big flaws. But compared to most chick flick romantic comedies released these past couple years, Simply Irresistible is just simply much more enjoyable. The plot is simple, (wow, I need to use a thesaurus) but somehow it brings out the more romantic part in me. We've got these two beautiful actors, a magic crab, and voilà! They fall in love. Not all movies have to be complex and deep in order to be enjoyable and this movie proves just that. Light, fun, fairytale romance. What girl wouldn't say awwwweh to that? "},{"Title":"A fantasy romance with magical pastries and paper airplanes","Date":"13 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This movie turned out to be better than I expected it would be. It comprises two plot ideas borrowed from other stories one is from an old Twilight Zone episode where a man named Fate steps in to assist a downtrodden man; the second is Like Water from Chocolate, where the very emotions of the cook preparing the food are ingrained as a secret ingredient of a heavenly tasting delicacy.Sarah Michelle Gellar is a mediocre cook, and the restaurant she inherited from her mother is suffering the consequences. One day a mysterious man sells her some crabs, one of which has some amazing properties. The crab causes her to meet an eligible bachelor, but that's only the beginning. Suddenly her cooking is top quality, the restaurant flourishes, and her magical pastries are in demand.There are some clever bits, but some events are predictable for this kind of story. The guy Gellar likes is already seeing some girl and she's a jerk, while he's a Don Juan guy who needs to grow up. Some other characters start off paper thin, but most of them do grow as the story moves on. It seemed kind of weird how everybody accepted the magical element of the food without any reservation, but overall the the fantasy elements of this movie are served up pretty well. There are minor flaws in execution, but this is overall a good romantic story, great for a date flick. "},{"Title":"I love this movie so much","Date":"14 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I really loved this movie so it really surprised me to see so many people who had a problem with it. It is just the cutest chick flick with great humor. I think the acting was done so well and the sets did well for the movie. Sarah Michelle Gellar did great in the movie as the struggling chief and Sean Patrick Flannery who plays the guy who just cant figure out whats going on.I hate that this movie is so underrated and I still don't understand why, its my favorite romantic comedy.The Chick flick element is great so all girls and some men should love the great acting and the range of emotions that all the characters go through as the emotions are the key and main element of the movie.9/10 "},{"Title":"An open letter to the cast, writers, crew, director and caterers....","Date":"31 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Dear Folks, Thank You for the movie. It is so well-destructed that it holds no pretensions from the very beginning. The soundtrack alone was marvelous. The costumes beautiful. Even the food was pretty. My daughter introduced me to this film. She watches it at least once a month, usually on the same evening as Happily Ever After. I liked the crab. I liked the department store. The sex comment was a bit much, but it did remind me a little of the Jack Lemmon or Doris Day movies of the sixties. Anyway, thanks for the movie. It did what it was supposed to do, and then stopped.Write if you find work, your affectionate correspondent, Charley Weaver "},{"Title":"Puling petulance is not criticism","Date":"3 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Cipher-J's shallow screed entitled Wholly Incompatible! strives for eloquence but manages only petulance. It is, I suppose, to be expected in this day and age, when the ability to read is no longer necessary to graduate from high school, that a viewer could watch this film and somehow miss the obvious that, in the end, the boy could not resist the girl, despite his Darrenesque reservations. (That's an allusion to Bewitched, Cipher-J.) Characterizing someone or something as irresistible implies struggle; it implies that someone tried to resist, and couldn't. Shazam! That's exactly what we see! Is that ironic, or what? Cipher-J, thy nick is well-chosen.I liked this movie. I liked the characters. I thought it was sweet. It made me feel good. Sarah Michelle Gellar is hot. No, it didn't heighten my political consciousness. It didn't make me want to write a 2,000-word essay on Sartre and his influence on modern cinema. It merely made me happy. Isn't that what it's supposed to do? "},{"Title":"quite possibly worst movie ever","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I feel bad giving this movie one star as I don't think it really deserved a star. From the start I was hesitant when I saw that Sarah Michelle Gellar was in the movie as I think she's pretty shocking full stop. Then when romance arouse corny lines started flying out from everywhere. The characters were unbelievable, lame and somewhat frustrating to watch. I really can't see how people could find this romantic. What was with the magic? Who was the target audience of this film? I thought maybe children and then they went for an older approach bringing sex talk in. I am really not a fussy person when it comes to movies but geesh this one really takes the cake. It is now obvious as to why it started at 1150pm on a Sunday night. I'll end on a positive note. The main male actor is sexy. "}{"Title":"Light and Sweet","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I don't think anyone could claim that Simply Irresistible is an intellectual masterpiece. However, it is a charming little romance, with plenty of eye candy and a little bit of magic.The plot itself is pretty standard, and the film doesn't dwell much on explanation, which is probably just as well, since it would only suffer by making the audience think too much. It's better not to ask whether the crab is magical, or why Sarah Michelle Gellar cooks in strappy tank tops. Instead, the film asks you to just go along for the ride and watch its two leads (an adorable Gellar and a quirky Sean Patrick Flanery) find each other and fall in love in a fantasy New York.While this film doesn't have much in the way of substance, its cotton candy fluff will appeal to the closet romantic in its audience. "},{"Title":"By the grace of a bug-eyed mechanical lobster a horrible cook turns into an irresistible super chef.","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" FYI -There is a wee spoiler in this text.Here is another food movie to make you cringe like you never cringed before. The producers in this caramelized eye sore serve you a Pâté de Poor Acting on a soggy bed of Flimsy Plot. The music score gets more syrupy by the minute and by the time the movie finally ends the notes are oozing down the screen. Worth enjoying were scenes of various actors getting mouthgasms and rolling their eyes with every bite of Sarah Michelle Gellar's dishes. Unfortunately, by the third time you have witnessed this act of convulsive eating it has all but lost its charm. So if you can't resist killing time then see Simply Irresistible, but if you have a choice then move on to greener spinach. Better yet, if you are in the mood for a good food film, then see Chocolat directed by Lasse Hallstöm. Bon Appetit! "},{"Title":"Bad Directing Bad Writing but Great Acting","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This movie had a terrible plot, bad camera work and horrible production design. BUT having said that, the main actor (Sarah Michelle Gellar). Did a spectacular job of being able to pull off a remarkable performance in the worst case scenario of movie making. She was able to sustain her reputation in the entertainment industry and did not let this movie become an undoing of her professional career merely just an experience which she has learned from. The Director and Producers were seriously wrong for thinking they could pull of a movie with such a little attention and compassion for it. If they took the time to edit the script re shoot a few scenes especially the final dinner scene with the fog (i mean that was cheap), and worked on the sets, this movie could have been great. But as it is, the only thing that was good about this film was the performance of the main actor Sarah Michelle Gellar, and if she wasn't in it, this movie could be named worst movie ever in 1999. "},{"Title":"huh..","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Have you ever wondered what happened to those actors who made one of the most renowned films a while back but seem to have disappeared from the face of the earth? And then all of a sudden they make a comeback and next thing you know they are in every movie you watch. The same happened to me with Sean Patrick Flannery. I did love his character in Boondock Saints and I said to my self 'huh, what happened to those guys?' and next thing I know I see him in a movie such as this. Now what can I say about this particular movie? Simply nothing. The trailer made it look like a kooky love story with a witch so you can imagine a lot of hilarious situations. However, i was dead wrong; the movie from the very start lost its attraction and the whole of it seemed to focus on nothing but pains and hardship a normal relation may go through (assuming you have ever had relations with a witch before). The magic element is all in the food and it plays a very rare part in the entire movie. What was the point of the movie? it was not funny and it was slow. Way too slow for my taste. It would be however a good romance flick so don't even think about sitting this movie with your buddies and drink beers. Its mushy mushy time and get your handkerchief ready for a sad movie (very sad indeed). "},{"Title":"A touch of sweetness in the air, which tickles the soul","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" OK, maybe the movie was a ten in moments and others was more over all an 8.5 for me. The story is about a young aspiring chief, Gellar. Her mother, aunt, and her are all the family she has, and have been living at and owning the restaurant called the SOuthern Cross. Amanda(gellar) gets wind the land lord has raised the rent, and now unless her and her AUnt come up with the money, then they are out (mother is died at this point). So Amanda preparing for the worst, puts on her best face, and decides to go find her mothers recipe book, but comes up with a pair of earrings, that make her have the confidence to cook. The story follows, that she gets accused of being a witch because magical things start to happen around her and her new fling and later boyfriend. Mixin side characters that seem desperate to be laid, a sound stage that seems like an old MGM musical, and a few fairytale elements, and u got a mixture of pure popcorn fun, and favolidity ((bad speller). Fun factor- 10 Overall-8.5 "},{"Title":"Here's what happens with a fine cast and a bad director...","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The first time I saw this movie, I was puzzled - how could a movie go so wrong so fast. After watching carefully, there's a single answer Mark Tarlov.There were some fine performances in this movie. Sarah Michelle Gellar was everything the audience could hope for. Amanda Peet was just perfect in her role. Patricia Richardson was marvelous. In fact, most of the actors turned in far better performances than the script deserved. And the script itself was fine, perhaps a little weak, but perfectly adequate. Until her husband butchered it.While Mr. Tarlov has a long (if not distinguished) history as a producer, this was his first outing as a director. And he botched it.There may be very slight spoilers in the next paragraph.There's hardly a technical area of this movie that doesn't suffer. The lighting was bad enough that it was noticeable. Actors lines were covered by sound effects, in some cases damaging the continuity of the movie. (Tarlov should publicly apologize to Amanda Peet, and to his wife, for what he did to Peet's lines in the restaurant scene.) And special effects were so heavy-handed that they took the viewer right out of the movie. The floating sequence was among the worst ever filmed, and as for the fog, the EPA should have cited him for air pollution. More fog, more fog, how will they know something magical is happening if we don't have more fog? Sheesh, the bottom of the restaurant disappears. Between the effects, the stupefying camera work, and editing that appears to have been done by a Veg-e-matic, we've got a very, very bad movie technically.But, as noted, the actors are indeed very good, given what they have to work with. The food was beautiful, Tarlov couldn't mar that. And somehow, someone had excellent taste in selecting music for the film. So, it's worth a watch if you're in the mood to be charmed by SMG, or amused by Clarkson and Peet. Or if you want a documentary on how to make a really, really bad movie - technically. "},{"Title":"wonderful","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This movie was as the title put it Simply Irresistible. I love this movie. It has two of my favorite things in it Food, and Sarah Michelle Geller. She was wonderful in Buffy the Vampire Slayer and in Cruel Intentions. That was a good movie as well. I also loved the character she played. The crab was funny as well. The look on the characters face when he ate her desert was absolutely marvelous and quite hilarious. Also how her characters emotions went haywire when her and the other character got into an argument. In the movie Amanda, grew as a person.She also let her guard down for a man she loved. Quite wonderful to see it in a movie. "},{"Title":"Simply Disinteresting","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The makers of this film apparently thought that all it takes to make a good movie is an idea stolen from a good book (Like Water For Chocolate) and a couple of hot actors (Flanery and Gellar). This movie is a testament to how wrong they were. The dialogue is dry and boring, the plot is weak at best, and even the stars who are both good actors manage to have no chemistry whatsoever. I can't imagine that the people working on this film cared whether or not these two main characters ever got together. The worst element in the film, though, was easily the music. Either taken from a copyright-free CD or out of an after-school special, it is some of the cheesiest crap ever composed. In the very few points in the film where the viewer might possibly forget what a bad movie they're watching and actually get involved, the music chimes in, subtle as a bulldozer, and any emotion the viewer may have been feeling becomes an eye roll. "},{"Title":"Sweet Chick Flick","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This movie was more of a fantasy than it was a romantic comedy. I liked the cute story line, but did not like the levitation scene as I felt that went a bit far in making this movie realistic enough to seem like it could happen. The actors were all cast well for their roles and executed their roles well, including the crab that managed to make it all happen. The food presentations were so beautiful it made you hungry. If you enjoy romantic comedies, you'll enjoy this one. Romantic comedies are my favorite, and this one goes on the list of better ones, enough so I bought the DVD after seeing it on television. For me, that's pretty good. "},{"Title":"Girl meets boy, they fall in love, you know the rest!","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Good movie! I'm not much for a chick-flick but I watched this movie with my wife. I thought there were some really funny parts to it that made me laugh. Sarah Michelle Gellar plays a girl that works at a restaurant that isn't doing good financially. She meets this guy who I think is supposed to be her guardian angel. I'm not sure if embody else is supposed to see him or not. He introduces her to this guy played by Sean Patrick Flannery. The two don't really feel anything towards each other until later on. Flannery plays a department store manager who seems to have it all. The two of them do get together and they make a great couple. Everyone sees that and are happy for them. I would definitely recommend this movie for anyone looking for a good romantic movie! "}{"Title":"Low key but hard to resist","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Amanda (Sarah Michelle Gellar) runs a small restaurant in NYC, an inheritance from her mother.  The eatery has been attracting fewer customers, lately, so it may have to close.  Shopping for a day's menus, Amanda has a chance encounter with a magical, mysterious gentleman who advises her to buy a bucket of fresh crabs.  She does.  As she is leaving the market, she also runs into Tom (Sean Patrick Flannery).  He is about to open a new restaurant with a famous French chef.  The sparks fly and a relationship between Amanda and Tom is born.  Returning to her restaurant, one of the crabs from Amanda's bucket perches on a shelf and casts a magic spell.  From that day on, Amanda begins to create sumptuous meals that attract a growing crowd to her modest establishment.  But what of Tom?  Will the two restaurants compete for attention even as Tom and Amanda may be falling in love?This sweet little movie has a low-key charm that grows on the viewer. The two leads are so young and attractive that their appearances make up for their less than stellar acting abilities.  The fairy tale elements add to the overall success of the film, with the pet crab an absolute delight.  Although the plot may be predictable, the inevitable resolution is satisfying to the soft-at-heart.  Yes, this movie will be more endearing to the feminine gender, by far.  Therefore, gals everywhere should plan a ladies get together, complete with popcorn and goobers, for a screening of Simply Irresistible.  One can hear the potential sighs now. "},{"Title":"A magical romantic comedy with great personal chemistry!","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, that can I say.This is a great magical romantic comedy with great personal chemistry! The always lovely Sarah Michelle Gellar cant fail doing a romantic comedy. Cos she's got it all!This movie plays with a lot of fantasy magic in the theme of love.If you like romantic comedies than this is a must! "},{"Title":"Sweet","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Well I know this movie isn't great or anything, but I've already watched it a few times and it's just a real 'feel-good-movie' for me. It's sweet and if I'm not in a very critical mood I can actually think of the script as being original and funny. But at some points all the romantic weird magic stuff gets a bit too much.. Bút, still a sweet movie. "},{"Title":"An up beat modern fairytale comedy romance, that'll leave you hungry for both food and more!","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Sarah Michelle Gellar fans will not be disappointed at this quirky romance comedy, great for the whole family, down and out bad chef played by Sarah becomes incredibly better overnight and lures custumors and also tasty bloke with her magical cooking skills.  sound track is also excellent with catchy tunes, raced down the shops to get the CD. Also stars as the opposite male love interest your, Mr Young Indiana Jones himself, Sean Patrick Flanery, we'll have to call Sarah S.M.G and Patrick as S.P.F ! Fans of the action side of S.M.G should not bother watching this movie along with none fans of any of her work. "},{"Title":"a whole lotta crab","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  i do like SMG a lot, i think Buffy is a good show partly because gellar is so perfectly cast for the part. But she does make some pretty bad career decisions. Okay, she looks great, she plays well, but what a stupid, terrible movie this turned out to be. First of all, crabs are not cute (not even when they dance, that's just creepy) After half an hour of watching i was still wondering when the movie would finally begin. There's no chemistry between the two actors (why does she like this dude anyway)The plot, there is no plot, the movie begins and ends, and it's very hard to keep interested in what's happening in between. Although it could have been a nice movie, if somebody would have taken the trouble of writing one, it just doesn't work. I do wish to see more of Sarah michelle Gellar, but could it please be in a good movie, for a change. "},{"Title":"Not Bad, but boring","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't know what other people have said about the movie, and personally I don't care. While it wasn't the greatest romantic comedy in the world, there were it's funny and sad parts, but pretty much bland all around. Sort of like Like Water For Chocolate for the sitcom set.Sarah Michelle Gellar is nice, but it seems like the movie was written for her as Buffy, without the whole vampire thing. A self aware, semi-self confident girl, Amanda is nice, and apparently she has magical abilities when it comes to food. Good for her, and though it may or may not get her the man she wants, really, after a while you stop caring.Eventually the movie feels too long even though its only a 100 minutes. Nothing happens throughout, and then well, if you want to watch it, feel free, and you'll probably know the ending anyway. "},{"Title":"sarah michelle gellar! Cmon!","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Warning SPOILERS ahead (if such a basic movie has it)ok, so the movie isnt that good! i know it, you know it, we all do. it has a predictable plot (oh my.. everything works out perfectly, thank you magic crab!) and this movie could really use a sideline story because the main one doesnt hold the movie by itself. but cmon give it a break! i mean.. only by seeing the cover you can guess this is another stupid plotless comedy-romance. the fact is that it stars sarah michelle gellar, this brings a whole new light to this movie and it is its ace. face it.. these types of movies survive only on the actors in it and the chemestry between them.. its a pity Sean Patrick Flanery doesnt hold his end of the deal. In summary, this movie is really bad, if you consider it as a normal movie, but its quite good in the comedy-romance genre. and the fact it has such a beautiful creature in it( sarah michelle gellar! not the crab!) this movie has a slight advantage over others.. $$$ out of $$$$$ "},{"Title":"Ebert liked it....","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  What is so bad about this film?  Yes, it's corny and silly.  Two words magic crab.  That kind of makes fun of itself.  Other than that, this was a cute romantic comedy not filled with any graphic sexual content or sexual innuendos like most such movies (I don't necessarily have a problem with that, but it's refreshing to see something different).  If you want to see a bad Sarah Michelle Geller movie, see Harvard Man. (Did that movie even HAVE a plotline?).  This movie was cute, silly, fun, and romantic.  A great date movie, definitely.  I rented this movie and watched it twice before returning it.  I have NEVER done that before.  Usually I forget to watch the movies I rent and then also end up returning them long have they're due. This is a film I would seriously consider adding to my DVD collection. I'm glad at least Roger Ebert saw the good in it. "},{"Title":"Well worth the time, greatly underrated!!","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I bought this movie sorely on the strength of the two main leads.  Not a classic by any means, but some nice performances especially Gellar who is definately not Buffy in this movie and a good hokey plot.Ii's a great little flick and well worth a couple of hours of anyone's time. It went straight to video in the UK with no fanfare at all, which is a little strange considering Gellar's fame.It's only a movie and when it's harmless as this, why not give it a go.  No swearing, no explicit sex, no violence, to be honest it's quite romantic.  I have watched it a couple of times and did tell a couple of friends to see it and they enjoyed it.   "},{"Title":"fun in that non-thought provoking way","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a movie that you can sit down and relax.  If on tv you can just start watching it at any point and enjoy it.  Reading the other reviews I think this movie states that love is the real magic.  This couple meets because of a crab that turns her into an excellent chef, or because she might have a reason to really try.  How many people watch movies because of reality?  If so there would not be a very big selection of movies out there.I walk away with a good feeling and a smile on my face.  I get the same feeling from this movie that I do with Four Weddings and a Funeral and Notting Hill.I have been wanting to see this movie again and even and have been looking to by it on DVD, but unfortunately it is not available.  I can't find it out on video to buy either.   "}{"Title":"guilty pleasure","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  fun, silly movie for a weekend day. i really enjoy serious, intelligent, engaging movies - none of which this one was, but i still love it. i love the crab and my husband (who hates hollywood movies) always knows what i mean when i say 'the crab movie' - he even smiles when i say it - definitely a guilty pleasure. "},{"Title":"Magical Movie","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The movies story line was very cute and the special effects (though limited) are pretty cool.  The movie had good performances by all the actors.  The movie however leaves you with questions concerning the plot.  Who was Gene O' Riliy?  What was the source of the magic?  What is the crab's role in the film?  These questions to me were left unanswered and hopefully will be answered if they ever make a sequal.  "},{"Title":"What Were They Thinking?","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A winning performance by Sarah Michelle Gellar saves this film from being an utter disaster, and perhaps opens the door for her to take another shot at the romantic comedy genre in the future.  But I do have to question her judgment in accepting this role -- any movie which depends on a magic lobster as its key plot device should send up more than a few red flags.  To call it contrived would be perhaps too great a compliment...how about just dumb?  "},{"Title":"done in by sheer predictability","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Gellar is a struggling chef trying to keep her mother's failing restaurant open when the insane antics of a magical crab turn her into a sensation. Meanwhile sparks begin to fly with businessman Flannery. The characters are likable and the strange story is pleasant enough, but it's so predictable that you wonder if they even had to write a script. The magical mumbo jumbo is only a mild diversion. 2/4 "},{"Title":"Extremely enjoyable!","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  An extremely enjoyable romance that calls to mind the romantic comedies of the 1950's. Gellar and Flannery have a good chemistry together and really shine in this story. The supporting cast was also very good and complement the story well. This is a great film to watch with your significant other while cuddling. "},{"Title":"I love the CRAB!","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The ultimate highlight of this movie was seeing the crab. He pinches people yet it's charming in it's own way. Even if he is not real, and a bit cheesy, you gotta love 'im! Sure, Tom was very good looking in his little buissness suits and Amanda was a cutie in her flower dress but the crab stole the show. You just can't help laugh when the little guy does his dance and wiggles his fake eyes you. You just can't resist smiling at him in his tux at the end of the movie! "},{"Title":"What is this?","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"   I watch this movie in the cinema and was terrible mistake!Thi is the worste movie that I ever seen.It's so boring and idiot that I couldn't stand.Firs I thought that was going to be a cool romantic comedy, but the film starts to show people fliyng , a lobster singing and jumping with a hat.It's a completely waste of time!Please don't watche! "},{"Title":"Cute!","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Does every movie have to be a Titanic to be entertaining?  I don't think so. This movie is cute.  It's adorable.  There's magic, and you don't know how or why.  You can't tell if it's really happening to them or just in their minds because they're in love.  Sometimes it's good to see something that's a little magical and a lot about the positive side of love.  I agree that this would be a good movie for kids, to teach them that love doesn't have to be cruel and abusive...it can be magical and have a happy ending.  If you liked Cinderella, you'll like this one too! "},{"Title":"Movie for hopeless romantics","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  If anybody is a hopeless romantic like me then you will love this movie. A great love story with plenty of laughs.  Even though the first time I saw it I was a little bit stand-offish but I love it now.  I can see all the great scenes and lines that are delivered.  Sarah Gellar is a great actress who didn't get the good credit she deserved for this movie.  I hope people will realize what a great movie this actually is. "},{"Title":"Easily Irresistible","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Unfortunately this is not what I consider a good movie.I don't quite see the purpose of the movie.  The plot was thin, predictable and right from the outset was unrealistic.  A magic Crab (not sure what the crab was supposed to be).  The usual happy ending occurs and in  between is 1.5 hrs of silly storyine and shallow characters.Avoid it as its not worth the effort "}{"Title":"Faulty Advertising","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is anything but irresistible (hence the faulty advertising).  Ms. Gellar is just fine and so is the token cute guy, but this movie works soooooo hard at being cute that it just hurts.  That plus the fact that the 'magical' segments could have been better done by kids putting on a third-grade play.  If you really want to watch Ms. Gellar, turn on BUFFY on tv, or rent one of the SCREAM movies. "},{"Title":"Amazing, surprising and very very romantic! a clean 10 on my scale","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of the best romantic movies I have EVER seen. It is very special and some might claim that it is pathetic and makes you do nothing but laugh cause it is so rotten. I disagree! This is NOT just a movie with Flanery to make the girls scream and the boys jealous. This movie is trying to picture a special feeling - love, and the movie does not only succeed, it exceeds what I thought was possible - showing us all what love really is. This movie lets you see the magic that love can be sometimes, it SHOWS you that feeling which you have sometimes but just can't explain.  If you like romantic movies like City of Angels, Sleepless in Seattle or French Kiss - THIS is the one you want to see - TONIGHT! "},{"Title":"Cute movie","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  While I thought this movie was pointless fun, I'm somewhat concerned that I'm apparently in a minority of reviewers here who liked it,  including someone who had the audacity to call American Beauty, one of the finest films of the last 25 years, trash.  Maybe the double vodka martini I had right before watching the film is what made the difference. ) "},{"Title":"Shame!","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Awful, frankly, and everyone involved ought to be ashamed of themselves. I'm all for a bit of romantic escapism now and again but the overall incoherence and incompetence of this movie meant that neither romance nor fantasy was able to flourish. Sean Patrick Flanery is a reasonable actor but his role is thankless in the extreme; the audience is never allowed to work out whether they're supposed to like him or not. Sarah Michelle Gellar is a decent TV actress and moderately appealing in this, notwithstanding the banalities emerging from her mouth. Perhaps this new James Toback project will finally show us if she's up to scratch or not. Patricia Clarkson was also sparky and looks like she could make an impact in future. Apart from that, performances woeful. On the plus side, at least that meant they matched the script and direction.It is a constant wonder to me that a film like this can be greenlit by studios. I wonder what the original script looked like? If it was any good, it must take some kind of talent to ruin it so spectacularly. In many ways, it's great that this wasn't a hit. It might make people try harder and think smarter. Gellar's made some bad movie choices before, but really, this makes Cruel Intentions look like GoodFellas. Don't rent it even for a laugh. It made me yell in disbelief more than once. Ninety minutes you'll never get back. "},{"Title":"Quite irresistible!","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A rather enjoyable film staring the familiar star of Buffy the Vampire Slayer.  In this era of trash like American Beauty it is refreshing to find a romantic movie like Simply Irresistible.  Don't go looking for a deep message in this flick, just a nice enjoyable film.  Easily recommended for all ages. "},{"Title":"Yum!","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I loved this movie.  Sarah Michelle Gellar is a wonderful actress, and she shines well in her part as a magical chef.  This movie made me want to run to the kitchen and make something wonderful to feed the hearts of those I love. "},{"Title":"simple as in thick, but not irresistible","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Simply the worst film I had the misfortune to see in years. Don't touch it. You will be so, so sorry if you do. Buffy the vampire slayer plays Buffy the feeble clueless chef, minus the kick-boxing, and a host of other lame actors do a poor job at holding the pathetic script together. I write this only to save you the expense of hiring the video and the agony of sitting through it. Badly conceived, badly written, badly directed, badly acted. What more can I say? Trash. "},{"Title":"Cute","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The script was great.  I liked interaction between Tom and his assistant Lois.  It seems every movie nowadays endorses sex without consequences, and I thought this was one of them.  But then that depends on what you believe in.  Overall, I liked the film...one of those cute-sy date movies. "},{"Title":"Simply Resistible","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I try to remain objective when I write these things, which is always hard as I only tend to post my comments when a movie evokes extreme emotions. And this did.The most grueling 90 or so minutes I've experienced in a while. Not because this movie provoked any kind of rational thought, but because it didn't. I'm not a film boff. I like to sit in front of a screen and be entertained. This picture doesn't even nearly qualify and quite honestly creates a league all of its own - a non-player.Where was the presence, where was the plot and where was the point? "},{"Title":"simply resistable","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was able to take all of the finer elements of love story, combine them with a weak plot, forgetable characters and mediocre acting and cook up a movie that would be better missed.  If you enjoy a little magic and a little comedy and a little romance, see Ghost or Always or Starman or Michael or Harold and Maude.  Miss this one. "}{"Title":"Resist it!","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  First I have to preface my review by saying that I love romantic comedies, chick flicks, whatever you want to call them. Most of my 100+ videos fall into that category. And I'll watch just about anything.But back to the film at hand. BORING! This is one of those films where I thought, Who greenlighted this project? My husband, who thinks Sarah Michelle Gellar is a hottie, said Who knew she could look that dumpy? I told him to remember Cameron Diaz in 'Being John Malkovich'.Rarely have I seen a leading man with less magnetism than Sean Patrick Flanery.Much of the film seemed reminiscent of other things I've seen the 'emotional food' theme was MUCH better done in 'Like Water For Chocolate', the woman chef being disrespected by the kitchen crew is SO Monica from 'Friends.' Even the department store setting reminded me of 'Mannequin.' And the whole idea of 'magic' was much more fun to watch in 'Practical Magic' (even though it had 'Fat-Elvis' Aidan Quinn in it.)The only person on the entire cast or crew that made the film at all interesting to watch was the food stylist. Now THAT was great work.Movie 2/10. Food 8/10. "},{"Title":"What the heck was that?","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  One boring Friday evening, I made the mistake of watching this on HBO. It was the longest hour and a half of my life. I kept watching though, hoping something would happen, or expecting the characters to develop- negatory on both counts. Some goofy romance develops for no reason between two people that would never otherwise talk to each other in conversations so asinine it made my head hurt. Then peaches spew smoke and the two start floating and dancing in a ballroom...hhmmm. I've never considered Sarah much of an actress and this just confirms it. Don't even bother with this one...and someone please pass me some aspirin.   "},{"Title":"Simply the worst movie I've seen in a long time.","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  this movie was horrible, almost unwatchable - certainly qualifies as very difficult to sit through for the full length of the picture. I'm not a Gellar fan to begin with but what was she thinking when she did this stinker. "},{"Title":"It's true, when they say, The Way To A Man's Heart Is Through His Stomach!","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought that this film was a lot of fun, and so did a lot of other people I spoke with.  I just wish that someone would have thought to make a story like this a few years ago.  I've seen it several times; and each time, I do feel better and better. So I'm sure that you will too.  And if by chance, you do happen to prepare something in the kitchen, it could really be as they say, SIMPLY IRRESISTABLE!!! "},{"Title":"sarah michelle gellar is wonderful","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Simply Irresistible is such a thoughtful, engaging love story that one soon forgets that the ending will be as predictable as Sarah Michelle Gellar stealing the show with her radiant smile and the twinkle in her eye.  The story introduces us to a would-be chef whose destiny seems to be the downward spiral of a family-run business that is quickly succumbing to the realities of modern-day food service and the end of the small, intimate operation.  Gellar's character, Amanda Shelton, even in the face of seemingly insurmountable circumstances, keeps her hopes and sights high particularly when the stars cross and she meets her beau-to-be, Sean Patrick Flannery.  Gellar's character is a image of Audrey Hepburn, both in her mannerisms and the way in which she navigates New York City.  The scene in which Gellar's character exits the cab on Fifth Avenue at Tiffany's cried out for Henry Mancini's Moon River to be cued.  As the love story progresses, Flannery's character comes to believe that Gellar is witch-like in her effect on him.  A vanilla fog emanates from the small kitchen in Gellar's restaurant as she prepares dessert for her beau and as they subsequently kiss, they float to the ceiling.  Finally, Flannery comes to realize that the effect that Gellar's character has on him is intoxicating; she represents all that is good and true and her cooking punctuates the sensuality of food.  The imagery is wonderful, the scenery engaging and the music score fantastic.  This simple yet beautiful love story will endure the test of time. "},{"Title":"Some striking similarities to -Like Water for Chocolate-","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  If you've read or seen the romantic drama -Like Water for Chocolate-, you'll immediately see the tie between food and emotion which play a large part of both plots.  Having had no exposure to the plot before viewing, I became curious whether the writers were trying to create a more modern version of the Mexican story.I felt it was a pretty good flick - not one that challenged me in any way, but an enjoyable way to spend an hour and a half.  It has a little bit of magic, and a lot of chuckles- without being -too- trite. "},{"Title":"flawed but cute","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I love a good romantic comedy, I still like 'em when they are bad. This one is somewhere in the middle. It was Girl meets Boy, which is a good old formula in my opinion, it had funny supporting characters (Tom's colleague and boss, for example), it had a decent soundtrack... My overall impression was that they changed things as they went along and that that is why things did not quite hold together... My main objection The crab. Why didn't they lose it? Couldn't love simply have worked the magic? Or was this gadget thrown in to avoid comparison to Like Water for Chocolate? Another (minor) objection Sarah Michelle Gellar's outfits. Nobody works in a kitchen like that. The only time she looked half-way convincing was when she was wearing a chef's jacket at the end. Nevertheless,I did like it a lot. Don't watch it if you don't like romantic comedies. Personally, I would have thought that the film would have been better if it hadn't had to be so clean. Both characters showed some aptitude for playing up on the sexual tension in my opinion, but ... well, both actors' fan base is young, I suppose. "},{"Title":"Unfortunately......","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Really, I love Sarah, really I do, but she totally took a wrong turn here. Sean Patrick Flannery sucks, and the couples look so.......wrong together.I tried to enjoy this film as much as possible, but it is too silly, too stupid and too lame to like. I hope to see Sarah keep on doing good like she was before, she shouldn't of done this role, even though she looks sexy in it. Don't see this if you want to be disappointed.My rating  4/10. (sorry). "},{"Title":"Sorry but this didn't get to me!","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  As a fan of Buffy and (good)romantic comedies I thought I'd rent this on video. While the story was romantic the leads just didn't gel at all and the pace of the film was far too slow. Miss Geller I'm sure has a great future in movies as well as TV but that future does not start here.  "},{"Title":"Were not talking an epic here--this was a nice, fun movie and doesn't deserve a lot of the criticism expressed here.","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I am appalled that some if you nit pickers are so jaded that you cannot see the charm in this amusing tale. Sure this is not a huge epic, but since when does each movie have to be a spectacular? It was a nice story, tastefully (pun intended) done. Hollywood needs more nice, clean movies like this, devoid of sex and blood. So it didn't break box office records; who cares, it still made money. That makes it a successful film.  So lighten up, ye cynics.One thing that I liked about the film, which several other commetators criticized, is that they DID NOT explain the magic. The characters were aware of it's presence but unable to explain it either. This thing just happened to her and she took advantage of it, not knowing how permanent the gift was and afraid of losing it.One thing nobody seems to have mentioned is that Gellar's concoctions imparted the EMOTIONS she was feeling when she cooked them. Hence, when she is tearful, the diners are tearful. (Something that the pizza and beer crowd miss is that world-class cuisine can indeed be an emotional experience.)I would have liked to see a bit more closure.  What happens next? Does the gift continue? What role does the crab play? Who was that masked man..err, the guy at the beginning. He could have had some bit at the end that tidied up these loose story elements.Above all, I want to say that this movie made me incredibly HUNGRY! "}{"Title":"A beautiful little love-story!","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Simply Irresistible is a really nice little film about love and a little bit of magic. The main plot is very simple, but this is by no means a plain film. Although it may not be the best movie ever made, it's a wonderful love-story, the kind of movie to watch on a rainy Sunday afternoon. I really fell in love with this beautiful movie and I'm sure you will too! "},{"Title":"A Nice Piece of Fluff","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  An enjoyable New York Twist on Like Water For Chocolate.  I enjoy a movie like this that makes no illusions about what it is a pleasurable film about falling in love, and and what that indescribable experience can feel like.  Nice performances throughout (though I'd like to single out Betty Buckley as the Aunt and the guy who plays the undercutting line chef).  A good date film or to enjoy with one's spouse. "},{"Title":"Bewitching Romance","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Beautiful resturaunt owner Amanda Shelton is falling in love head over heals for handsome, hard-driving executive Tom Bartlett. Unfortunately, Tom is too busy to realize that she's truly the girl of his dreams...until Amanda puts him under her tantilizing spell! There are good performances by Sarah Michelle Gellar, Amanda Peet, Betty Buckly, Christopher Durang and a cameo appearance by Lily Semel! "},{"Title":"absolutely irresistible","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  When I was around 15 years old, I used to read romance novels. But now, 5 years later, I cannot stand them. However, something that made these books readable still remained in me. I love this movie. Though it has a major flaw, I still enjoyed it.The bad stuff is Amanda's magical powers. Actually not Amanda's, but the crab's. They are never believable. While Tom is freaked out when he notices these powers, Amanda is not surprised. This is not the way of the human. If we do not understand something, we try our best to understand. Amanda does not understand the unusual events around her food, but she makes no effort in understanding them. But this is the only thing that does not work in this movie. The rest is pure joy. Sarah Michelle Gellar proves that she can do better than her vampire slayer series and makes a very good approach to her character. Her relationship with Tom works perfectly, except for the magic part. However the big surprise is Sean Patrick Flanery. He shows dexterity and good reflexes in acting. Usually when an actor looks good (like Sean does) and he is a bad actor, the director always uses shots of gratuitous partial or not so partial nudity. There is none in Simply Irresistible, which means he is a good actor. I recommend this movie entirely. But only see it if you like romances, but not magic. If you want to see see both, rent Practical Magic which succeeds in both except making a satisfying ending. I give Simply Irresistible a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Cute romance -- 7.5 out of 10","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Old-fashioned, heartwarming romantic comedy worth your time if you like the genre.  Sarah Michelle Gellar and Sean Patrick Flanery are very engaging.I have no idea why this movie and Ever After received PG-13 ratings.  Should have been PG.  Nice movie for teens and pre-teens to see as well. "},{"Title":"Oh please people it is not that bad","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Although this was not as good as Cruel Intentions, it was still watchable. I have seen a lot worse movies than this. But it was a good thing I caught it on HBO one night and didn't have to pay for it. Sarah Michelle is beautiful as ever, although her character in this one isn't as good as Kathryn in Cruel. "},{"Title":"A Magical Gem","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a wonderfully cute romantic comedy.  Full of good humor, good food and very touching moments.  A nice surprise with a soundtrack that suits the picture very nicely.  It's beautiful and funny with surprising performances and quality direction.  The Magick is subtle and simply irresistible. "},{"Title":"Completely awful, even for Sarah Michelle Gellar fans","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is totally AWFUL! You'll notice early on in the movie, the dialogue is totally dead, the clipping is poor, the story even worse.Even fans of Sarah Michelle Gellar will have a hard time getting through this one. Kids around ages 10-12 could probably find it OK though, but I wouldn't recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"Reasons not to see this movie...","Date":"24 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I highly recommend...any movie but this one.  Okay, so it wasn't THAT bad, but it was very disappointing.  I expected an under-rated romantic comedy, but what I got was a poorly-made, very poorly-written mess.  Sarah Michelle Gellar was not atrocious, but getting there...and Sean Patrick Flanery gave a mediocre performance.  The only reason to see this movie, and the only reason I did, was to see Sean Patrick act like a goofball.  THAT part's really funny--everything else simply doesn't make sense.  I'm glad that I only paid a dollar to rent it instead of six to see it in the theater. "},{"Title":"Wouldn't have seen it if SMG hadn't been in it","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm a huge fan of Sarah Michelle Gellar since I think she's a very talented actress and I love Buffy. However, I really didn't like this movie. It was way too corny and stupid at parts for me. There were a few cute moments that I enjoyed, but a lot of it just didn't work. What was up with that crab? It was such a weird part of the story. Sean Patrick Flanery and Gellar really didn't have any chemistry either. Sarah is always good in her movies, but this movie just didn't work. "}{"Title":"Pretty Good!","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I really liked this movie.  Although my fiance thought it was a waste of time.  I think that women will like it.  It had nice romance and was a really cute movie and I would tell anyone to go see it.  Girls, make your boyfriend or fiance watch even if they don't want to and maybe he will become just a tad bit more romantic. "},{"Title":"A delightful romantic fantasy","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  One of the most undeserved flops in recent memory, Simply Irresistible has an attitude almost completely at odds with today's more cynical, realistic movies.  These days we seem to reject naive movies like this.  It's our loss.I may be an old cornball (at 28, jeez!) for loving this picture for what it is--a modern-day fairy tale.  It has a naive vision of love, magic and food that could easily have come across as shallow, like so many Disney movies. But because it has such complete conviction in its story, it works wonderfully.  It is positively infectious.I think the central story is about Amanda (played beautifully by Sarah Michelle Gellar) and Tom falling in love.  It's that stage where powerful new feelings are taking hold, and you simply can't stop thinking about that person.  This story is blended beautifully with the element of magic.Simply Irresistible works wonderfully as a fantasy.  It convinces us that magic is possible if only we have the courage to let it happen.  So give this movie a chance.  It will inspire you if you let it. "},{"Title":"Not that bad","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Not sure why so many people dislike this movie so strongly. To me it was a fun, romantic story. It was not particularly special, and was a little unusual in some respects, but overall I enjoyed it. I found Sarah Michelle Gellar's character quite appealing, and I'm sure that helped me enjoy the movie a lot. Kind of reminds me of old Disney movies you'd watch as a family, a little cheesy but fun. "},{"Title":"Tries to be cute and fresh, but basically silly and forgettable","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  To its credit, this film does not take itself at all seriously. It's basically silly and very forgettable fun. Pre-teen girls would probably love it. I get the feeling that someone had a bit of a brainstorm (braindrizzle?) that somehow survived utterly unchecked until release. There is very little real chemistry between the two leads, although I'm not sure if the film warrants this kind of analysis. "},{"Title":"A real treasure","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a wonderful, magical film, filled with smart dialogue, nuanced acting and stunning sets.  I particularly enjoyed the magical realism.  I found it intensely moving.  Also a great food movie.  Too bad some of the viewers were too immature to understand the suspension of disbelief required for a movie like this.  I guess they can go watch Star Wars... "},{"Title":"Simply marvelous!","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  What a delight!  A wonderful mixture of magical realism and romance that will delight viewers of all ages.  Also a great food movie.  The acting is understated and sincere, the sets are beautiful, the dialogue is engaging and realistic.  Only a true curmudgeon could dislike this gem! "},{"Title":"A reluctant thumbs down...","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I wanted to like this movie, and I tried hard, but in the end, it just couldn't win me over.  I really enjoy Sarah Michelle Geller, and although she was, as usual, winning, both the plot and the characterization let her down.  I'm not opposed to a magical-fantastic element, particularly in a romance, but in this movie it was just silly.  The central relationship between Sarah and her co-star was utterly uncompelling--there was no sense of why these two people were attracted to each other, and no real coherency to the development of the relationship.  The movie had good intentions, but it just didn't deliver, alas.... "},{"Title":"A cute movie was a good message Love Can Help us Achieve our Goals","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie would have been great if it had a better director. It was directed very amatuerly from a good script, with good actors. Everything looked pretty fake in it, but overall it had a good theme. A nice movie to watch with a girlfriend/boyfriend "},{"Title":"Sappy but not that bad!","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I know, the film lacked a realistic plot, but it wasn't so bad. Usually a movie without a good storyline isn't good to watch, but I'll make an exception with this film.  Sarah Michelle Gellar & Sean Patrick Flanery had great chemistry on the screen, which made the movie enjoyable regardless of the horrible storyline.  Perhaps there were some totally idiotic ideas such as the crab for example, which acted as Amanda's guardian angel.  All in all, Gellar & Flanery were adorable as a couple & should be regarded as stellar rising stars. "},{"Title":"Gellar fans only","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  If you find Sarah Michelle Gellar irresistible, you'll be able to sit through this. She gives her usual superb performance. Besides her though, is a pitiful, pathetic, and overall bad film. It's worst moments have a crab carried along by strings, which are plainly obvious. There are also a few insanely stupid parts which may have you chucking popcorn at the screen. Sarah Michelle Gellar didn't enjoy this much after she saw it either, so she still gets to keep every ounce of respect. ( As this beautiful, and talented actress should.) "}{"Title":"Weird Stuff!","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I am not sure what to believe after seeing this movie, the crab or the strange movie itself.  Reality check for me.... maybe I've been into too many movies with believable/semi-realistic plots, rather than those with people making fog and defying gravity.Nice film overall.   "},{"Title":"SIMPLY BAD","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  SIMPLY IRRESISTIBLE (2/5/99) BUFFY's Sarah Michelle Gellar (who makes a cameo in SHE'S ALL THAT) is a failing Tribecca chef whose dead mother's earrings and a magical crab give the taste of her food the power to elevate customers' gustatory experiences to Proustian levels of ecstasy, both attracting and frightening a control freak department store exec Sean Patrick Flanery (POWDER).  Mid-70s ABC MOVIE OF THE WEEK score by Gil Goldstein.  This is a sweet movie done poorly, and one gets lost in a vanilla fog of indifference before long. Co-starring the always-tortured-looking Dylan Baker. (HAPPINESS). "},{"Title":"Love it or leave it.","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie requires commitment on the part of the viewer.  For the first 10 minutes I felt uncomfortable with the relaxed pacing and the weightlessness of the storytelling.  But once Tom (Sean Patrick Flanery) and his girlfriend started eating Amanda's (Sarah Michelle Gellar) first magic meal, I was hooked.   I fell in love with the two leads (not to mention Dylan Baker as Tom's boss and Patricia Clarkson as his secretary) and the food in this film reminded me of Eat Drink Man Woman, Like Water For Chocolate, and The Age of Innocence.  This is not a film to be analyzed but merely savoured.  After I left the theatre I attempted to dissect the film into acts and climaxes but Who the hell cares?  It was fun and that is all that matters to me.  I left the theatre feeling light as air and I think you will too if you tuck away the problems in your own life for just a while and allow yourself to be lifted out of your seat.  "},{"Title":"I really enjoyed it","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I liked everything about this movie.  It made me feel good as I left the theatre.  Mr. Flanery and Ms. Gellar had good chemistry.  "},{"Title":"A wholesome, simple little ditty about love.","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Sarah Michelle Gellar begins her movie career with a nice little movie about the magic of falling in love. I saw this movie on Valentine's Day, so I think it seemed better than it really was. The basic premise is fairly flimsy, but you like the characters and everyone in the movie dresses well and acts pretty human. Don't go to this movie hungry because food plays a large part in the romantic equation. All in all, not an entirely unpleasant way to spend a couple of hours.   "},{"Title":"An abysmal waste of time","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  You'll spend the first twenty minutes of the movie laughing at the absolute wretchedness of it, and the rest desperately praying for the earth to swallow the movie theater whole.The actors act like they wish they were anywhere but in the movie, the sets are designed like something from a video game, and the editing is so poor that each scene looks like it was filmed by an entirely different cast and crew than every other scene.  Even the magic crab knows this movie is awful.Avoid it.  Spend the time watching Shakespeare in Love instead.  "},{"Title":"Very Positive","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I originally went to see this film because of the beautiful Sarah Michelle Gellar, expecting the movie to suck. But since I like her so much I had to see it anyway. Well, I was really glad to say that I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. It was humorous and kept a good storyline. The entire audience loved it. They were all laughing and commenting on how good it was throughout the movie which was really great to hear. SMG played a brilliant role as Amanda, the owner of a failing restaurant, showing that her acting abilities stem further than just the dark, teenage actress from Buffy, IKWYDLS, and Scream 2. Sean Patrick Flannery stars opposite Gellar and plays his part really well, as does the rest of the cast in this film.Other minor characters such as Amandas other cook(the soup chef, his name escapes me) gave the movie lots of humour when he was on screen with funny comments and stories. This is a very great movie and despite its poor openings it should be viewed by all. Very entertaining. I recommend it for all to see. "},{"Title":"A light-hearted twist on the classic love story","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was a quirky, light-hearted view of the basic love story, boy meets girl, boy falls in love with girl, they live happily ever after.  The best part about this movie is how this plot is treated.  The viewer never actually finds out if it is magic or just a genuine talent that causes Amanda to be able to woo her diners.  It's also interesting how one can read many interpretations into the movie.  Plus, the dialogue is witty and intelligent with just enough romance to make women love it and for men to not groan too loudly.  I don't want to spoil the story but it is definitely a movie to see for Valentine's Day or any day that you may want a pick-me-up.  Go see this movie. "},{"Title":"resist!","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The previews made this look horrible, but Sarah Michelle Gellar is always known for being one of the busiest actresses out there.  I figured that she wouldn't spend her valuable time on a bad movie, so I went.  At points, the movie was so bad that I resorted to slitting my wrists with a thumbnail! Everyone that I know who saw it walked out after thirty minutes, and to be honest, they missed a decent ending, but the awful dialogue and cheesy special effects (You could see the strings pulling the magic crab out of the basket!) made watching this movie a chore.  My only saving thought was that Cruel Intentions comes out soon...  not soon enough... "},{"Title":"It was a fairy tale romance with humor.","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  It was a fun movie that was meant to entertain.  I have already seen twice and it was better the second time around. Sarah Michelle Gellar wears her heart on her sleeve.  Her every emotion is felt with one look. Sean Patrick Flanery did a good job as obsessed with being in control of everything in his life, and most importantly, his emotions. Which of course, spins out of control after meeting Gellar.  If your looking to just have fun, and be entertained, then this a must see!    "}{"Title":"Amanda(Sarah Michelle Gellar) after buying a magical crab finds herself falling in love with a man, Tom(Sean Patrick Flanery) with whom she has nothing in common.","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  While I am currently scanning my ticket for Simply Irresistible, I decided to add my own review.  The movie opens up with Amanda (Gellar) on the market getting food.  Now we all have to remember the image from TEEN PEOPLE image a while ago (you can see it in the image gallery) where Gellar is trying to pick up a crab.  Well in the movie that crab is a magical crab.  I really don't want to give away any more of the movie.  Now I heard the movie didn't get too good reviews.  Well, I am hear to say,  The movie was GOOD!  It was not really what I expected it to be but very magical.  It gives Sarah Michelle Gellar a good rap for romance and might open up some new roles for her. (I know her other upcoming movie 'Cruel Intentions' won't.  Some thing will need to though).  If you have seen the adds forthis film on TV or either you saw a little of the scene where Sarah says to Sean Patrick about how Sarah's friend tells her that Men think about sex 238 times a day.  When Sarah confonts Sean about that it makes for a very cute scence.  And Sarah's hair in the film, very hot. Sarah is appealing as the self-doubting Amanda; Flanery, who used to portray the young Indiana Jones, sometimes resembles the young Laurence Harvey without the unwaveringly confident ophidian charm, and the food looks luscious. I give the movie a 7 and a half out of 10.Go see the movie!  "},{"Title":"Nice Fluff","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  No solid food here (if you will forgive the pun) but instead a bit of fluff-- a cotton candy movie, if you will.  Everything is designed to tilt the viewer toward sympathy for Amanda and her side of town rather than the decidedly uptown upscale world she bumps into.  You could read a lot into the movie's food theme, and you could poke at the plot, but it is not looking for picture of the year.  In the purest definition, Simply Irresistible is entertainment.It is a feel good movie done well, a safe date movie, and, like the above mentioned cotton candy, a fluffy treat.   HWS "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I've seen in years, maybe ever.","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This has to be one of the worst movies I've seen in years, an absolute disaster. Right after the opening credits were through I knew it was going to be bad. Is this the kind of crap that Hollywood likes to put out today? There was nothing original here, nothing funny, and nothing entertaining. Emotional food, hmm, anyone remember Mystic Pizza? Give me a break, avoid this one at all costs... "},{"Title":"A great 50's movie in the 90's","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This was one of the cutest movies I've ever seen. It carries a 50's Cary Grant-ish outline, but everyone can relate to it. Definitely see it!  "},{"Title":"Simply Irresistible is simply irresistible","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  For the first time in ages, I really enjoyed a movie. There was something about this movie that lured me in, and drew me back for more.The script was amazing, and I found this extremely original in this world of remakes and adaptions. Just the thought of when you put your emotions into something you do, it turns out the way you feel is rather inspiring, and gives an interesting, yet appropriate message.Sarah Michelle Gellar just blew me away with her performance as Amanda Shelton, the woman whose cooking is terrible until she falls for a wealthy restaurateur. Gellar, as always, gave her all and it showed. This movie also showed that Ms. Gellar is a real actress who can do any type of movie proposed to her.Sean Patrick Flanery is new to me, but he's actually a really good actor. He was very believable as Tom, the clean-cut and wealthy businessman who's opening a restaurant in a large department store. I enjoyed his sarcasm and nervousness while around Amanda---who wouldn't be nervous when around Sarah Michelle Gellar?Betty Buckley was a surprise, but a pleasant one. She actually cracked me up in her role as Stella, who I saw as a sort of surrogate mother to Amanda.Patricia Clarckson as Lois was truly a highlight. Her fast one-liners, while most may find them annoying, was comforting to me. Ms. Clarkson is a great comedic actress, and I hope to see more of her in the near future.In all, I found that this movie was the first in years that stood for true love, and I think that it wasn't just one of those teen romances where everyone wants to get in someone's pants, but the story of kindred spirits, and the two together create something beautiful. **** "},{"Title":"Sarah Michelle Gellar's best performance yet!","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is slow for the first five minutes, and after that it transforms into an excellent romance/comedy/drama.  It is a must for Sarah Michelle Gellar fans, as she truly shines in her role.  This is such a step up from her character in I Know What You Did Last Summer.  Sarah fans and romance/comedy fans will definetely enjoy this one, and I can't wait for it to be released on DVD! "},{"Title":"Simply Irresistible really is simply irresistible!","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The title to this movie is so fitting. The entire movie is really and truly Simply Irresistible. I loved it! From the very beginning, SMG is fantastic. To be honest, I went to see it because of her. I'm a huge fan of Ms. Gellars. I thought it would be a good way to spend a boring Saturday afternoon, watching her on the big screen. I went and surprised myself by discovering how WONDERFUL this movie is! The acting is superb, the story is great, and it's funny too! I recommend it to anyone! I plan on seeing it again,very soon!   "},{"Title":"Harmless Fun","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  An amusing, light-hearted departure from Sarah Michelle Gellar's usual work. As a fan, I thought it was nice to see her have a chance to play an adult for once; better still, not a single character is brutally murdered in the entire film.  Reminiscent of the classic poor working girl snags rich man films of days past. "},{"Title":"Not good, Sarah is only good thing","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie dragged, was unoriginal, and was a huge let down for me. The only good thing about the movie was Sarah Michelle Gellar, and she is the reason why anyone that sees it does. I was dissapointed because so far Sarah has chosen all the best roles. This is a real bad movie, it copies off of every POOR GIRL FALLS FOR RICH BOY AND MAGIC MAKES THEM FALL IN LOVE movie that has ever come out Cinderella, Mary Poppins. I hope Cruel Intentions is much better.  "},{"Title":"ABSOLUTELY FABULOUS!!","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, tonight I saw Simply Irresistible, and I can only think of one word WOW! It was very light and fresh, the beginning started out a little cheesy, but by the end you were totally amazed. I definitely recommend it for someone who is out to enjoy themselves! "}{"Title":"Don't waste your money...","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Horrible, terrible movie.  I saw more than half the theater leave during the movie.  The only reason I stuck around was that I didn't want to feel like I wasted the 7 dollars I spent to get in the theater.  The acting was not terrible, the writing was.  If you need proof, ask about the crab in the tuxedo.  I mean come on people.  They had a perfectly good premise, pretty good actors, and completely wasted both.  In my not so humble opinion don't waste your money. "},{"Title":"Not quite the recipe for romance","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I had high hopes for Simply Irresistible from its sweet little commercial, but the truth is I was a little disappointed, because this movie is not quite the recipe for love. This comedy is sweet and quirky, kind of like a 90's fairytale. There is a crazy girlfriend throwing dishes, vanilla fog filling a whole restaurant, people going crazily erotic over pastry, and of course the main characters floating from a simple kiss. These all may seem really cute on paper, but very few of these visual displays really hold any weight.  However this movie really is more for children, like in the 11-15 category than for adults that might be obviously attracted to it.  It's so flighty and silly as it jumps from romantic hi-jinks to deep serious tones. Off-kilter dialogues and lack of real plot plagues this movie. What I liked most and what ultimately saves this movie from being so terrible is the presence of Gellar and Flanery. As a couple they are so attractive and they shine so perfectly together amongst the blinding fog of romance. My favorite scene in the movie, which is actually in most of the commercials anyway, is where the two of them are dancing in a black and white zigzag floor, surrounded by a big band, fog and mirrors. It's the kind of romantic escapade most little girls and woman alike dream about. "},{"Title":"This movie really was Simply Irresistible!","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I went into the theater really psyched to see a good Sarah Michelle Gellar movie that wasn't in the horror genre, and when I left I got back in line and bought a ticket to see it again. I loved this film for reasons that are beyond me, and as an active movie-goer it's rare that ever happens.Sarah Michelle Gellar, as always, delivered an award-worthy performance in her role as Amanda, the restauranteur whose feelings go into her food. She was perfectly cast and I can only hope her performance in March's Cruel Intentions lives up to this one.Sean Patrick Flanery was a new face to me, being that I had never seen any of his other films. He was a really good Tom, though and was well cast opposite Ms. Gellar, and hopefully he'll follow this film up with something equally exciting.Betty Buckley was a pleasant surprise, being that she's been immortalized as Grizabella from Andrew Lloyd Webber's Cats. Her presence brought a certain flare to the movie that probably no one else could have delivered.The plot was a good one, too. I found it extraordinarily original in this world of Hollywood that everything now-a-days is either a remake or taken fromn a book, except ones like these where someone took the time to think up an original story that would hold the audience's interest.In short this was a great movie with an excellent cast and I would recommend it to anyone, it's also a great date movie. "},{"Title":"good movie for kids","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Saw this movie today with my daughter, thought it was very good. Kids and Buffy fans will like it and adults will also enjoy it.Cute story with a far amount of jokes for the viewers. Geller and Flannery were nice together and New York looks great. No bad words and shows good friendships between people who work together. "},{"Title":"Magical......","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is truly a great movie. It has everything, comedy,drama and romance. Anyone who's interested in finding true love should see this movie as soon as possible. As promised in the title it's truly Simply Irresistible. "},{"Title":"Oops","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Deadly, by the numbers romance film.  The cute characters are repugnant (a wacky crab?  I don't think so) The actors are obviously embarrassed and/or baffled and you can set your watch by the plot developments. "},{"Title":"incredible","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is the most incredible movie. I can't quite describe it without spoiling it. I didn't expect to like or even love this movie, but it has come to being one of my favorites for its magical quality of showing how scared people are to actually feel what they only dream of.The basic story is of a girl trying to save her mother's business. She has some help from an unlikely source herself. There is of course a love story involved, but mostly it is about Amanda finding out who she is and admitting to herself that she is talented. Sarah Michelle Gellar is great in this movie! This character is completely different from that of Buffy or that of in Cruel Intentions. This movies is also full of some funny lines, like, Amanda. You must make all the women love me and all the men give me their wallets. Because, how many people would want that with magical powers? It's all in good fun and this flick can't be taken seriously. Hope you enjoy. "},{"Title":"Simply irresistible! (mind the pun)","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" i adore this movie. it's got everything that makes me feel like it was a good choice.sure it's cheesy and silly, but that's the reason you watch. it's a cute little movie that's great to rent for the weekend (like i did) the cooking even inspired me to do some of my own. i might have nearly burnt the house down and reminded myself of why i never cook but i was in such a happy mood that it didn't matter.if you love sweet little romantic comedies then Simply Irresistible is definitely a movie you need to see. it might not be in the same class as some others but it's so lovely you can't help but like it.see it, if you don't like it then no big deal but if you do like it...you'll love it. "},{"Title":"Worst food movie ever","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is simply one of the worst movies ever made, and certainly the worst food related movie ever made.The performances were wooden, the plot contrived, and there was absolutely no chemistry between the leads.I am sure the great Patricia Clarkson, the only shining aspect of the film, is embarrassed.This is a blot on her otherwise outstanding performance record.There was nothing believable about the film.Sarah Michelle Gellar looks like she cannot even boil water, let alone command a kitchen.The best line of the film, when it is discovered that Gellar's food is magical, is by her sous chef. He says, Make all the women fall in love with me and make the men give me their wallets. This film wants to be an urban Like Water for Chocolate, but fails so miserably that it will make chefs weep with futility. "},{"Title":"This is a very nice little movie","Date":"1 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I woke up one beautiful sunny Sunday mid morning and while I was snug and cozy under the covers and still a little sleepy I turned on the TV and watched this movie and loved it. One of my favorite scenes is when the patrons at the new restaurant were all crying tears of culinary joy and the poet stood up and started a poem by saying this food is the perfect poem I never wrote...... unfortunately this is all I heard of that poem and I've been dying to hear the rest of it ever since. I've search the web for a transcript of the movie to no avail so if any one out there knows what the poet said please please please let me know, I would greatly appreciate it. Thank you "}{"Title":"there is one reason to watch this flick","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" and her name is Patricia Clarkson. i found myself watching this on cable a second time purely for her limited role. this was the first time i noticed her and her ability to take whatever you give her and make it gold. everyone else in this film, including the script, is pretty much terrible. although i wouldn't mind magical food that made me feel so horny. but the scene in the kitchen with the mist? what is that? and the attempts to make Sarah Michelle Gellar look sexy/dumpy are bizarre. she is Buffy, let her be hot. but back to Patricia. if you can't bare to watch all of this just for your glimpses of her, try 'Pieces of April.' she is fantastic in it and plays one of the starring roles, as she deserves to! "},{"Title":"Basement Tapes (and not the good ones)","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" We found this movie in the basement of our house at college and figured it must be bad. Boy, were we right! A movie completely devoid of plot, character development and writing. At times we thought that this was so poorly written that it was a script for a porno and kept waiting for such action to break out, but those movies generally are better written and with better ideologue. Worse than Battlefield Earth, which we didn't think was possible. However, our favorite part was not the magical crab (who we nicknamed Willie Mortimer) but the scene-stealing Chef Valeron whose knife-throwing and memorable line Au Revoir, Dickhead! cut the awkward romantic tension. By comparison, the channel here that shows PSA's was stimulating. This movie was hilarious in it's appalling awfulness. We've left it down in the basement to taint the minds of the next people who watch it. "},{"Title":"A likable silly romance movie","Date":"31 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Simply Irresistible brings to the screen the confrontation that many experience at some time in their lives. That time when they find the one person , that moves them from clinging to independence , to desiring the companionship of another completely unaware of what they're getting into.Some of the scenes are a bit imaginative , but playful and are really just symbolic of the feelings we have when first falling in love with someone very adored who lives in a completely different dimension. It plays on the disruptions in our thinking versus the feelings in our hearts to the roller coaster ride through pride and elation that starts many a good relationship. "},{"Title":"looked nice, was really bad.","Date":"29 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  When i read what this movie was all about i thought it might be nice. I didn't expect much, but what i got was horrible. The concept was nice. Amanda Shelton owns a restaurant and suddenly (magically) her food tastes incredibly good. Tom (forgot his last name) tastes her food and falls in love. Amanda's restaurant becomes a success. So far so good.Then the story gets awful. We get shots of all types of food, cooking and a moving (??) crab... Tom can't seem to stop eating (i wonder how many pounds he gained) and can't seem to make up his mind about the girl.I really wanted to watch this movie because of Sarah Michelle Gellar. I loved her in Buffy, the vampire slayer, but unfortunately she has yet to make her first decent movie. (Another bad movie she made is cruel intentions)All in all not much to look at. I didn't even reach the end of the movie..  "},{"Title":"Surprising","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  When I rented this movie, I did not have much expectations. Back then i discovered BTVS and wanted to see what else Sarah michelle gallar had made. this was the only one i could find at the video store. So i rented this and watched it, and it was ok... even fine but nothing world changing. SMG was cute and the movie had a nice feeling to it. Well... a month ago they showed it on a local channel, so why not watch it again. WOW!!! This is a great movie!!! It has absolutely no point other than being a movie of joy. Why the crab? Why the disappering man in a white suit at the market? Why should Amanda get a break like this? Why the mist? It really does not matter. It is not the point. The point is (I think) to make us, the audience, feel good. And for me it works. From the beginning it makes me smile, then laugh, then feel a little sad as things start to go bad, but as any good fearytale it leaves me feeling great at the end. and i no longer mind that there's no real point. It is simply the way it makes me feel. And I actually love it. Weather old age has made me stupid or insightfull. This little flick gets my highest score 10/10. "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  As the creator of SMGFan.com, it hurts me to say this is one of the worst films I've ever seen in my life.  It's about a MAGICAL CRAB!  Who the heck greenlighted this trash?  In the two months it was playing it made 4 million with a 6 million budget.  And it was playing at 1500 screens!  If that and the magical crab premise don't steer you away from this, God help you. "},{"Title":"A ROMANTIC story with humor and MAGIC","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" GOOD movie even though the ending is really simple. IF THEY DON'T LIKE IT THEN MUST BE NEVER FEEL THE MAGIC OF LOVE AND ROMANCE. I like the story because it iis not boring and because every girl needs a fairy-tale for their life. The story is really make sense, I mean let just see sometimes man always too scare to admit that they have fall in love and do commitment. Both actors Sara Michelle G. and Sean Patrick F. are acting naturally good here. And even after 2015 i can still remember the exact plot of this movie and each scenes picture romances happen in 21th century era. Song Once in a blue moon from Sydney Forest is a perfect choice for this film's ending.SOMETIMES LET OUR LIFE SEE MIRACLE AND BELIEVE SOMETHING DIFFERENT NOT JUST SEEING REALITY WHICH CAN MAKE US CRY OR SAD. WE NEED TO HAVE FUN BELIEVE IN MAGIC IN OUR LIFES, MIRACLE DO EXIST. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A really cool movie for all ages especially kids.Buffy fans will like it,it's different to the kind of movies and shows we're used to seeing her in like, Buffy the vampire slayer,cruel Intentions and i know what you did last summer.A Romantic comedy about magic bringing two people together and them falling in love. Recommended 7/10 "},{"Title":"Resist! Resist!","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't mind fantasy films. They hardly ever get made any more, and I know why because no one, including the makers of this film, knows HOW to make them! It's mind-boggling how bad this film is! The whole thing with a fantasy film, as far as getting the audience into it, is to TELL US THE RULES! Was the Amanda character really cooking up a storm all of a sudden, or did any of it have to do with the funny man in the funny suit and hat, Gene O'Reilly, and the magic crab? And while we're on the subject, WHY a magic crab?!? WHAT did it have to do with ANYTHING?!? WHY did no one even QUESTION the magic crab?!?! Was it supposed to be her late mother or something?! C'mon, SOMEBODY give us SOMETHING!!Oh, and I have to mention how this film is an insulting, uninspired, treacly rip-off of the main plot device of the film, Like Water for Chocolate. That film explored true beauty, pain, and passion. This film merely explores how Todd Oldham looks on Gellar -- and how an entire film can be an infomercial for Manhattan's Henri Bendel department store!I'm pretty sure Sarah Michelle Gellar made this movie both because it fit into her Buffy hiatus schedule and because it gave her a chance to be in New York over the summer. And it gave some very good New York-based actors -- including Buckley, Gilliard, and Clarkson, plus Durang -- a chance to add another film to their resumes. Well, good for her, good for them -- bad for us!! It's somewhat ironic that both Gellar and her current fiance' Freddie Prinze Jr. have made these romantic films set in New York and centered on cooking -- but I enjoyed Down to You much more than this quick flick! Ugh!!!! "},{"Title":"simply awful","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is simply awful. I don't even realize how and why it was greenlighted, it's a total mess. I don't even think that kids can appreciate this, although it's clear that they normally can enjoy this more than adults... although enjoying is not the right word to use in these circumstances.... So if you wanna waste an hour and a half of your life, then watch it. But a simple advice don't do it. It's one of the worst movies i have seen in ages. "}{"Title":"1/10 spare me","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie blows.  Few other words could so accurately descrbie this mess of a dirt-ball film.  Who thought of this ludicrous film, with cooking, magic lobsters,and more foolish nonsense.  This movie has no right to be seen, just like it had no right to be made.A terrible waste of time. "},{"Title":"If movie plots only serve to confuse you, this one is for you!","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I really hated this movie.  It's probably one of the worst if not the worst movie I've ever seen, and I sat through Revenge of the Nerds IV and Charlie's Angels.  I think the basis of this movie was to combine as many cliched Hollywood anecdotes together so that viewers wouldn't notice the lack of plot.  They had the comical black sidekick, the modern-day Cinderella story, and the all-important sexual theory.  I'm sure some hollywood big wig thought he was a genius when he put together this one. I really can't evaluate the actors' performances because they didn't really have that much to work with ,and that would be cruel.  Overall, this movie is pretty bad and not even in an entertaining way. "},{"Title":"Complete rubbish (or really good)","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I watched this film with my 11 year old daughter last night. She loved it, I thought it was hopeless. If you're going to introduce magic as a theme in any story, you HAVE to explain 'how' and 'why', or you introduce the character as being a witch or such like, and therefore the magic just is. The writer obviously went for the how and why option. The 'how' was that some bloke you never see again gives Sarah Gellar a magic crab. The writer neer went on to cover the 'why'. I have a wide variety of film 'likes', and romantic comedies are one of them. However I still feel the need to have the plot explained to me, through the telling of the story, in order that the film makes sense. It didn't happen with this film. It made no sense. "},{"Title":"One of the best love stories ever told!!!!","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  From the moment I saw the trailer of this film I knew that it was a movie that had to be watched!!!! The film was not really put on general release over here so I had to search for it. When I first saw it it swept me away, I loved every moment of it. For a film that was basically a cinema flop and just as bad when it went to video, I think it was treated really harshly by everyone....The cast were well chosen and I think it a brilliant performance by the two leads, Sarah Michelle Gellar and Sean Patrick Flanery. "},{"Title":"Gellar is charming; the movie, a mess.","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Sarah Michelle Gellar is absolutely charming in this film and gives far more than she gets from screenwriter, director and the rest of the cast.  The rest of the cast can't be blamed too much, though.  (Lawrence Gilliard, however, stands out as the sou chef and confidante to Gellar's character.) This story that should have been a magical romance similar to some classics of the genre from the 40's and early 50's is never given a chance by the writer(s?), director and even the editor.  Some well-known critics even gave it favorable reviews, presumably because they viewed it through the prism of Gellar's excellent efforts.  In fact, because of her performance, I think it is worthwhile and very enjoyable if you concentrate on that and just let the rest roll on by. "},{"Title":"Great movie if you're 13 years old...","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this w/ my sister, who was 13 at the time. She loved it and I didn't. It's not so much the characters or the dialogue but the poorly written script (with big, big holes in it) that couldn't bring everything together. Almost all of the performances are stellar, however. Sean Patrick Flanery and Sarah Michelle Gellar show that they could be great together. This movie could have been very satisfying but too bad it didn't turn out. "},{"Title":"Gives new meaning to the word 'lame'.","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  As a regular Buffy viewer, I was incredibly disappointed with SMG's performance in this. The basic story is a good concept, but nothing was done w/it, and poorer dialogue couldn't possibly exist. We are at first introduced to a wonderful magical man who makes sure Amanda gets a basket full of crabs (for her restaurant), in which resides a magical crab. This has to be the first time I've ever heard of a FairyCrabMother. But, as the movie winds laboriously on, we are never given any explanation whatsoever for the magical man OR crab OR really for Amanda's newfound 'powers'. Lois and Nolan are the only really interesting people in this film, and if you watch it and can tell me WHY they dug up Betty Buckley for this, then please let me know. Sarah's costumes made her look fat and frumpy (when we know she isn't), and you mean to tell me they actually PAID someone to do THAT to her hair?! There are holes in this story you could fly a FLEET of shuttles through, and there is most certainly NO magic. "},{"Title":"Really awful","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Okay, here is what is good about the film.  Sara Michelle Gellar is beautiful and ah.. Sara Michelle Gellar is beautiful.  That's about it. There are very few movies that actually make me want to walk out of the theater, and this was one of them.  I cannot understand what this film is about and I certainly don't understand why magic had to be involved in it.  Ask yourself this question, if you literally floated in mid air when you kissed a beautiful woman, would you still see her again?  Chances are probably not.  And that is just one of the problems in here.  The story was insipid, the writing was laughable and even the actors in here were pretty bad.  I like seeing Gellar in something other than Buffy, she was great in Cruel Intentions, but in here, she is a lost cause.  I can't understand what caused her to pick this role.  Perhaps it was because she had a break from the rigors of Buffy and she had three weeks to make the film.  So she took it.  Because really, if this film wasn't put together in less than a month, then I'd be surprised.  And it only cost 6 million to make, but that is about 5.75 million more than it should have.  If this was a low budget effort, then maybe it would have been better, but it is a major Hollywood production and it collapses under it's own ambition ( or lack thereof ). "},{"Title":"Good movie, even though reviews don't agree!","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Simply Irresistible is cute and charming, and even though the reviews panned it.. Sarah Michelle Gellar and Sean Patrick Flannery  make a great cinematic pair, and the plot is original and funny. Sarah's acting is great, she is truly talented and beautiful. Check it out for a fun time with a magical feeling.Hopefully, you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"The critics were wrong (surprise)","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Universally panned by critics, this is actually a warm, enjoyable little film. The storyline may be somewhat typical, but the packaging is sufficiently fresh to be appealing. If your girlfriend drags you to one date movie this year, make sure it's this one.   "}{"Title":"Sarah Michelle Gellar shines again!","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  While I must admit that the plot holes in this movie are large enough to hide a third-world country, I was glued to my seat because of the fact that Sarah Michelle Gellar is a simply irresistible actress.  Her facial expressions and body movements are so real and believable that the awkward plot and unexplained happenings are irrelevant.  Don't expect a great movie; instead, expect a great performance from Sarah Michelle Gellar.  "},{"Title":"Bites hard","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Do not be fooled by Sarah Michelle Geller's presence, oh Buffy fans;  this movie really, really sucks.  Poor writing, coupled with an utter lack of chemistry between the leads, combine for a painful viewing experience. Nothing bad, or even moderately interesting, happens, but who cares?  I mean, come on, the crab is wearing a top hat in the last scene!  Please.However, the movie does contain one, single good line  If I have to hear about this guy one more time, I'm going to cut off my ears and send them to him.  For this movie, that's as good as it gets. "},{"Title":"A waste of time for all.","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Mind you, such harsh words come from the biggest Buffy fan ever; I'd rather miss a bathing than an episode.  But Sarah, please, why did you agree to participate on a screenplay that would have been better used as loo paper?  Simply Irresistible is anything but - an unfunny, unromantic ball of dog mess.  The story, centering around two, young, hip New Yorkers falling in love from the help of a magical crab sounds like it was conceived when some Hollywood executive was juiced on 'ludes and constipated on the toilet.  The film can't even offer a single interesting moment, line of dialogue or original thought.  I found myself, three minutes into the film, wishing that Sarah's character, Amanda, would lose her noodle, get all hot and carnal, and just pull off her blouse and skirt - spending the rest of the film, nude, standing in a fountain, and singing showtunes to anyone walking by.  Not THAT'S what I call Simply Irresistible.   And when you think that nothing else could go wrong with this mistake, the producers had to gall to have Sarah's hair changed back to her original color, brown - it looks horrible.  Everyone knows that we want SMG beautiful and blonde...the way God artificially intended her. "},{"Title":"A Deliciously Magical Romantic Comedy","Date":"14 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Perhaps one of the my most watched movies, this Sarah Michelle Geller's romantic comedies is steeped in fun, entertaining, and magical culinary delight that even rivals such movies as YOU'VE GOT MAIL (1998) and in some ways pitches an even more memorable storyline and stronger ending. The plot is simple, yet in its simplicity, it allows the story to unfold in an easy, breezy, predicable way that can be savored and tasted with patient delight. The humor is genuinely from the situation and taken advantage of by the actors to the fullest. The movie does not require deep mental thought or analysis and thereby is this movie's brilliance for it allows the audience just to experience and feel instead of having to work at enjoying the movie. Just as one of Michelle's character's meal courses, this movie exudes its own rich broth and sweetness. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Kinda cute","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie has a light-hearted and fairly lousy script, but it still has a corny kind of charm that will probably appeal to young girls.  I doubt it's something these actors would put at the top of their resume, but it's kind of cute if you don't expect too much. "},{"Title":"Misleading Title","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is certainly resistable.  Trite and often boring, I napped for twenty minutes in the middle and didn't miss a thing.  Kids will like the whimsical images but adults will find it silly and uninteresting. The stars of this movie are the delectable dishes that Buffy magically whips up.  Don't bother unless you need to tempt your appetite.   "},{"Title":"A great movie for foodies -- and girls' night","Date":"1 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Note possible marginal spoilers here, but not many.Okay, let's just get this out of the way first if you're a guy who's not a foodie and hates dancing, romantic comedy and magical realism, you probably should go watch ESPN instead. Everyone else, listen up this one's underrated. Sure's it's a ball of fluff, but a very enjoyable one with no pretensions. The protagonists are sympathetic, and the side characters get some pretty funny lines at times. Every time this comes on the tube, I find myself watching it again, and I'm never sorry -- it hooks you. However, I do end up wanting vanilla orchids and those damned caramel eclairs every single time!!! That's the only unfortunate trade-off, especially for foodies. But it's worth the suffering (you can search for the eclair recipe later, folks).The first thing that tempted me to watch this film is that it features a few actors whose work I love, Patricia Clarkson being at the top of the list. I was prepared not to like Sarah Michelle Gellar in this, considering how many duds and screamers she's been in, but she was marvelously understated here, as was Sean Patrick Flannery, whom I generally like but who's been known to ham it up too much in other flicks. Not here he's bewildered through the first half of the film after he eats Amanda's food for the first time, which is totally understandable if you love food and quite charming, actually, considering what a heel he is when the film opens. He's such a GUY throughout, especially when he gets scared after their cooking scene together! Very accurate there. And still, food and love can conquer all if he gives them a chance (no, I won't tell you -- you'll have to watch). I do love the dance scenes, though.Clarkson and Dylan Baker make the most of what they're given, especially regarding the eclairs. Clever woman, that Lois! Gawd, I love Clarkson in rom-com. Those two are insanely funny together, especially in the elevator scene. And the dining room scenes during the big dinner are hysterical (literally, at one point). Everything resolves strangely enough by the end of the flick, which is what you'd expect with magical realism; and the mysterious crab and Shawn Colvin's cover of Every Little Thing She Does Is Magic is a nice touch. Perfect.Advice don't think too hard when you watch this, and have some caramel-covered eclairs or cream puffs on hand when you watch, and you won't be sorry. It's not Casablanca, but it's a lot of fun. "},{"Title":"Love , Food & Girlfriend","Date":"14 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" If you love food, you will love this movie. This movie is very simple and light hearted. This movie reminds me about the old proverb, a man's heart is through his stomach, which is definitely true.This movie does not have much reality into it, but I can definitely say that, I will definitely get attracted to a girl who is a brilliant cook.I recommend this movie to all people who are food lovers and guys whose girlfriends & wives are brilliant cook.I love good food !And I love this movie. "},{"Title":"Worse than the bus ride...","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this on a bus when they were testing out showing movies during the trip so I had no choice but to watch the whole thing. That's my excuse.This is the best (worst?) example of how Hollywood producers can completely screw up a great European movie (City of Angels is a close second). The original, Like Water for Chocolate is a beautiful fantasy where the emotions of the cook are transferred to her food and her guests in a magic realism type of way (i.e. magical things just happen as a natural part of life). In the American version, to market to the church lady in Arkansas, we can't have any of this magical realist witchcraft, so we have a guardian angel, in the form of a dog (Americans love dogs) so that we know the it's not pagan magic but Christian miracles. Also, because the intended audience will be too stupid to understand when something miraculous happens, we'll have a special sound go off, just like in King's Quest when the player does something right. And make it into a simple Harlequin romance too while we're at it...Fortunately, it seems that only people trapped on a bus watched this - but of course that's because Americans just don't *get* European films. "},{"Title":"Sadistically Resistible","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is by far the worst movie I have ever seen. I encourage everyone to watch it so they can waste 95 minutes of their lives as well. It's been 2 and 1/2 years since I watched it, but really bad movies are unforgettable. I kept waiting for something interesting to happen, but I kept waiting and waiting and suddenly there were the credits. I've see a lot of positive reviews, so maybe I will try to watch it again and see if I can view it in a different light, but darn there are so many other more interesting things I could be doing, like clipping my toenails or picking fuzz out of my navel. No, I believe that if ANYONE rated this movie over a 1, they didn't really watch it. Please watch the movie first before you comment on it people.WARNING! THIS MOVIE MAY CONTAIN REPULSIVE SUBJECT MATTER (such as a lack of plot and incohesive script).YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED. "}{"Title":"What can I tell you?","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" 174 comments for an absolutely idiotic waste of time, amazing... and I'm adding mine to waste even more time on this undefinable zero. Basis theme was robbed from Like Water for Chocolate, which was an infinitely superior film. Gellar, was Gellar, cutesie, cutesie... zip depth... film didn't require it. What can one expect from a magic crab film? Fun pun (Rated film at a 2, because of this pun, otherwise it would have been a 1))... introduced by having the crab go up his Flanery's leg with Geller's hand following close behind. Flanery was at best, window dressing. Story line was compilation of various 90s films including Lady in Red all of which were so much better than this waste of time and money.If you're absolutely depressed and have run through all the films at your local rental for the umpteenth time then I recommend you watch this. "},{"Title":"A bit of magic and some excellent acting makes this movie a hit!","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is by far one of the best romantic comedies I have ever seen. I had to go out and buy it.. it was just that good. Sarah Michelle Gellar gave an amazing performance, one of the best of her career in my opinion. Her amazing acting skills brought this movie up to a level that will make it memorable for years to come. It wasn't highly publicized so it didn't make such a splash at the box office but anyone that takes the time to watch it will find that it has been highly underrated. The attention to detail and especially that of food made the movie have seemingly addictive and more attractive qualities. The unique storyline gave the work more substance and made it absolutely unforgettable! "},{"Title":"Very heart-warming and romantic movie","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" In my opinion, SIMPLY IRRESISTIBLE is a very heart-warming and romantic movie. If you ask me, Amanda (Sarah Michelle Gellar) and Tom (Sean Patrick Flanery) made the perfect match. Also, even though I thought that Chris (Amanda Peet) was a beautiful woman, she was a little bit snobby. All in all, the costumes were well-designed, the casting was great, and the directing by Mark Tarlov was fabulous! Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say, Sarah Michelle Gellar and Sean Patrick Flanery have scored big time! Now, in conclusion, if you are a fan of Sarah Michelle Gellar or Sean Patrick Flanery, and you haven't seen this very heart-warming and romantic movie, I highly recommend it. You're in for a good time, so when you see SIMPLY IRRESISTIBLE, prepare to be dazzled. "},{"Title":"awful!","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I had to see for myself if this movie was bad as it seems, and I'm so glad I checked it out of the library instead of wasting my money to rent it. I don't know why Sarah Michelle Gellar didn't see how awful this script was. I feel bad for all the actors who had to go through long hours of this awful film.  "},{"Title":"Blah","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie could be described as feel-good, but I thought it was pretty lousy. The script is weak, the story confusing, and the acting isn't much better. Sarah Michelle Gellar is disappointing. This might be the worst movie she ever made. The men and sex jokes are humorous though. "},{"Title":"It's ok","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Of course the best thing about the movie was sarah michelle gellar, this movie had a bad script... well it seems like thing doesn't match in this movie it suddenly make changes, and it was all weird, just if you want to see SMG for more than an hour, 7/10  "},{"Title":"Simply Irresistible-not bad but not great!","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I think SIMPLY IRRESISTIBLE is a much underated film that deserved than what it got.The best thing about was Sarah Michelle Gellar because she was gorgeous and utterly watchable but the less said about Sean Patrick Flanney the better...I think he should stick to being Indiana Jones jnr.In short...not too bad. "},{"Title":"The crab is Cool!","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I can't believe that people don't find this movie charming. Yes it's cheesy, and right from the start you know the way it's going to end up, but so what! It's funny and romantic, and it's got a really cool crab in it as well. With magic cooking powers!I was waiting for the crab to be given some supposedly likeable celebrity voice like Bruce Willis or Michael J.Fox, but we were spared that, and just got to see it pinch people, cast cooking spells and even.....wear a top hat!The other actors, good as they are, especially Sarah Michelle Gellar, cannot compete with the best crustaceon ever seen in a movie.Watch it now! "},{"Title":"Sweet, terrific, astonishing and lovely movie","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I generally watch movies such as Saving Private Ryan, The Matrix, Starship Troopers, Joe's Apartment and classics such as Hitchcock's North By Northwest , and Bogart's Casablanca.However, there are movies that are just unforgettable such as Chongqing Senlin (1994) that you'll think of every time you hear the song California Dreaming, and Diva (1982). Both of these movies are subtitled but exceptional. Lili (1953) with a young Leslie Caron is an English language movie that just wants to make you say aww. What all these movies have in common is that every time I see them listed on cable I make sure to see them.Simply Irresistable is likewise one of those movies. I could watch this movie 100 times and equally enjoy it each time. It speaks of magic, love and sweetness. Sarah Michelle Gellar played her role perfectly. If you pass this movie by without seeing it, you're missing something very special.  "},{"Title":"I loved this movie and was surprised to hear it did not do well in theaters.","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Simply Irresistible was a great movie in my opinion.  This is because aside from the weird things that happen, the movie is very realistic.  I say this because Sarah Michelle Gellar wears the same outfit more then once in the movie and it is known that it is a different day then the last time they show her in it.  I mean who actually has a different outfit for everyday. I have many other reasons but I do not know how to put them in words so people other then myself can understand them.  I wish this movie had done better in the theaters because it was already out of theaters when I heard about it. "}{"Title":"Cute show","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't know how you people can hate this movie. I know it isn't no Oscar winner or anything like that, but it is a cute show you might pop into the VCR if you need some cheering up or something. Sarah Michelle Gellar shines in this wonderful movie for all ages.  "},{"Title":"The worst movie I have ever seen. Period.","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this film with three other people.  Between us we had a pretty wide range of likes and dislikes, so that it is the only reason I didn't walk out of the theatre in the middle of the movie (something I've NEVER done before).  Afterwards, I found out they only reason they didn't leave was because they thought I might have liked it!  I am a huge BUFFY fan, but this film is simply beyond bad. "},{"Title":"One movie where you can believe the bad reviews","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  When I read the reviews for this movie, I thought they couldn't have been serious. After all, the leading actress is Sarah Michelle Gellar, and she never appears in bad movies.  That is until she appeared in this.  The story line is way too far fetched and unbelievable. I only forced myself to watch all of it because I thought it might just get better. I was wrong. I just hope Sarah never makes the same mistake again. "},{"Title":"Better than I thought it would be.","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I rented the DVD at my local video store because I've exhausted most of their slowly growing collection.  I thought at least it has Buffy.The movie started off a little confusing and I didn't know what the point was (and I don't think they every really revealed the significance of the strange man and the magical crab).  It didn't seem to matter as the story unfolded and Sarah worked her magic.I found myself laughing out loud (alone at home) and enjoyed the happy (if predictable) plot.  The story was simple, the acting decent and it was all together a very enjoyable film, definitely not an oscar winner, but there's worse ways to spend a few hours.All in all I rated the movie a 6.-Mike... "},{"Title":"An Irresistible Love Story","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"       Simply Irresistible is a truly wonderful love story that appeals to all ages. It may not have done that well in the theater but, on video, it will prove to be a brilliant career move for Sarah Michelle Gellar.     The story revolves around two restaurants; one is the tiny family owned Southern Cross and the other is the uptown glamorous soon-to-be openned Jonathan's. Geller plays Amanda Shelton, the cook at the Southern Cross. Since her mother's death, the restaurant has been on the verge on bankruptcy, mostly because Amanda is a lousy cook. Jonathan's has recruited the best cook around and is perched atop New York's finest department store. Jonathan's is the brain-child of Tom Bartlett (Flanery) and he is determined to make it the most successful restaurant in the city.     While shopping for food at the local farmer's market, Amanda runs into a stranger who tries to sell her some crabs. Amanda doesn't even know where to begin with cooking crabs but the stranger pops up all over the place and finally she agrees to buy them. Meanwhile, one of the crabs has escaped and Amanda finds it biting Bartlett's foot. From here on in there are a number of chance meetings and Amanda's cooking magically becomes world class.     As with all love stories the plot is rather secondary to the chemistry between the two leads, and in this movie, the situation is absolutely explosive. Gellar proves, once again, that she can create a sense of longing and lust with anyone to whom she is paired. In this role she plays a self-conscious, intimidated, and vulnerable young woman so well that she effectively slays her Buffy stereotype and shows us just how much talent hides beneath the surface.     Simply Irresistible is a great date movie that men may actually enjoy (Sarah Michelle Gellar and not too sicky sweet). It should also appeal to all ages since it contains minimal violence and foul language. "},{"Title":"Romantic Fantasy Triumphant","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Simply Irresistible is, well, simply irresistible.  It is the story of Amanda Shelton (Sarah Michelle Gellar), a young New Yorker who has inherited her mother's restaurant.  Unfortunately she has not inherited her mother's gastronomic talent.   Business is down, rent is up, and the restaurant appears doomed.  Until, that is, she buys a basket of crabs for the restaurant one of these crabs is a Magical crab, and her cooking mysteriously improves.  This is convenient, because the debonair Tom Bartlett (Sean Patrick Flanery) happens by for lunch.  Tom runs a fashionable department store, which is about to open a gorgeous new restaurant, and...Yes, it's that kind of movie.  If you like Flying Down to Rio and other improbable thirties fantasies, you'll like Simply Irresistible.  In one scene, Amanda and Tom start dancing, and suddenly rise and float above a mist which appears and covers the dance floor.  It takes a certain audacity these days to have something like this in a movie, to ignore the realistic convention and let a movie take flight.  But Judith Roberts' witty and literate screenplay includes many such moments, capably realized by director Mark Tarlov.The gorgeous Art Deco interiors which grace the movie add to its magic. Robert Stevens' cinematography is unobtrusive and flattering, and is enhanced by Gil Goldstein's attractive score.At times the acting lacks the final touch, and the plot has one or two overly predictable moments, but the same can be said of many thirties classics.And Simply Irresistible is a minor but unmistakable classic. "},{"Title":"This movie is cute, and it's definitely worth renting...","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is a must see for and Sarah Michelle Gellar fans.  I loved it, because I could appreciate it for what it wasn't rather than what it was. It had an incredible concept behind it, but the final product didn't quite live up to that concept.  But the movie is cute, and has it's good points. "},{"Title":"Tough Bullocks, Sandra!","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is the type of romantic movie that Sandra Bullock seems to keep trying to be successfully make and fails everytime.  Newcomer Sarah Michelle Gellar just ate Sandra's lunch.  This movie was, yes light powderpuff stuff, but captivating and fun. I must admit I was ignorant of Gellar until Cruel Intentions, (her role in Scream 2 wasn't really in the same league), but now I'm a big fan.  Two totally different roles done well.  Sean Flanery was a good supporting. "},{"Title":"Simply Bad","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I do not wish to waste anymore of my time on this movie, but I feel compelled to warn people against this unbelievably bad movie. Some movies are so bad they are funny, this isn't one of them! This movie is so awful (the acting, the script, the direction, ect) that I honestly had the following thought while watching it, Ed Wood would have been an asset to this film. How this movie was even made amazes me. To think that somewhere in Hollywood, someone actually bought Hey, I have this story about a bad cook and a magical crab is more hoffiying than having a dream that The Blair Witch Project happened to you. "},{"Title":"Completely resistible","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I recently blasted Sarah Michelle Gellar in my Cruel Intentions review, because of how bad not only the movie was, but how bad she was in it....I must apologize....Cruel was a masterpiece compared to this overly-sappy, pathetic attempt at at romantic comedy.Basically the plot appears to be this.....a young restaurant owner (Gellar) ends up falling in love with a young businessman..and somehow seems to end up with magical powers that effect whoever eats her food.  However she feels, they feel.  This is the stupidest plot for a movie I have ever encountered.Gellar takes the bad acting from Intentions and turns it down a couple notches here.  She has a hard time acting, like she knows she made a major mistake here.....she cant even cry convincingly....I didn't pay all that much attention to the rest of the cast, nor did I care to..no one stuck out as any high point in the movie, and SMG hogged the lame spotlight.If you're under 10 or a HUGE Sarah fan, you'll wanna see this..if you want a quality romantic comedy with an engrossing plot and interesting characters...rent Pretty Woman "}{"Title":"Worst movie I have ever seen","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Can I just ask one question....what WAS the point of this movie? I accidentally got suckered into viewing this movie in the theaters with some friends...and the point of the movie was a toss up between love, magic, food, and a high amount of sexual energy. Unfortunately, the movie didn't even come to a conclusion on any of these plots...which brings me to my point. This movie has no plot. I couldn't even like this movie for the little things, like characters or acting...because nothing good came from either. Do yourself a favor and don't see this movie.  "},{"Title":"Simply cheesy","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Sarah Michelle Gellar and Sean Patrick Flannery had good chemistry and made quite a cute on-screen pair, but even they couldn't save this movie. Especially the scene where her cooking made everyone cry (read SOB!) at the party. The dialogue was pretty trite, too, and some scenes unintentionally funny. Hopefully there are better scripts out there for these two talented actors to find. "},{"Title":"Simply Awful!","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  First of all, Sarah Michelle Gellar did a good job in this movie. But even SMG's acting skills cannot save the horrible script and extremely lame premise. I mean, a magical crab, for godsake! (Which, by the way, looked about as real as the snake in Anaconda.) This is just horrible. Sarah Michelle Gellar may be irresistible, but her movie isn't. "},{"Title":"Simply Terrible","Date":"25 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The direction was bad.The script was bad.The actors tried. They failed to make up for it.There could've been a few things in the movie that could have been explored more, and they weren't, which leaves you feeling, what the hell is that about? *SPOILER* There was one running joke made that was funny. That's it. The friend character says when men put their hands in their pockets they're thinking about sex. When she's getting ready for a date and tries different outfits he does that and she says, Really? He looks down and takes his hands out. Ha ha ha, very funny. And she sees various men with their hands in their pockets and looks disgusted, etc. "},{"Title":"A cute little romantic comedy, even for a chick flick","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I rented 5 movies this week, and the first 2 I watched were horrible. *cough!* English Patient! *cough!* I am a fan of Sarah Michelle Gellar and Sean Patrick Flannery, so I was excited to see them in a movie together. I had to rent it, but I noticed a low rating on IMDb. Now, I have to ask, was it that terrible? No, not at all. Actually, I thought it was kind of cute. Nothing I'd watch again and again. But it was a nice little comedy that does deserve a watch. I would recommend this for a date indoors. It has comedy, romance, and magic.... literally. Both Sarah and Sean did a great job, and had very good chemistry on screen. So, you will not be disappointed. Just give it a chance.6/10 "},{"Title":"A small taste of Gellar's performance will have you, and the rest of the film, floating on air...","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Simply Irresistible Amanda Shelton (Sarah Michelle Gellar) is a young woman who runs her late mother's small New York restaurant, which teeters on the verge of closure, partly due to Amanda's lack of finesse in the kitchen. But when a magical crab comes into her possession, her culinary skills dramatically improve, impressing Tom Bartlett, a level-headed executive (Sean Patrick Flanery) at a successful department store who had entered Amanda's restaurant for lunch. As Amanda's business booms, the two grow closer&#133;but is their affection true love, or has the magic crab had something to say in the matter? With a film entitled 'Simply Irresistible', it's to be expected that every single facet of the production is carefully designed to please every single member of the audience (although the same could be said with most studio rom-coms these days). And who's to blame them? For 'Simply Irresistible', at times, lives up to its rather pompous title, mainly thanks to Mark Tarlov's charming direction, and the chemistry between the two leads. But by aiming high with their audience, the film creates some rather confusing holes with its plot, and inconsistencies with the characters. 'Irresistible' wants desperately to please, and, to its detriment, tries a little too hard to do so.The film is a product of the creative oven of Judith Roberts, a screenwriter who, like director Mark Tarlov, is making her feature debut with 'Irresistible'. Roberts and Tarlov are a clear fit for both each other's approaches and the rom-com genre.Even so, the screenplay is riddled with plot holes even outside of the fantasy element. For example, Amanda is supposedly struggling to make ends meet, but somehow continues to employ a waitress and a fellow chef. And, the aforementioned crab manages not to have itself thrown into a saucepan by a hapless chef at a dinner party that Amanda is catering. It was an opportunity that was sorely missed.The real magic within 'Irresistible' lies with stars Sarah Michelle Gellar and Sean Patrick Flanery, whose bright chemistry provides a crucial ingredient to make the film work. The two performers, especially Flanery aren't particularly noteworthy when sharing the screen with supporting players, but all Tarlov has to do is move them into the same room for the charms of 'Irresistible' to finally surface. Even when enveloped in swaths of vanilla fog (the film's working title), or reacting to Amanda Peet (playing Flanery's girlfriend) throwing dinner plates all over Amanda's restaurant (don't ask), Gellar and Flanery manage to make it work. Especially Gellar, who is a revelation here in her first romantic feature, completely shedding her tough-as-nails Buffy persona. A small taste of her performance will have you, and the rest of the film, floating on air.~ 6/10 ~ "},{"Title":"Simply Crabs You By The Balls","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" We were looking for something to watch tonight, imagine our excitement at the prospect of seeing a film about a MAGIC CRAB! Sadly the crab features little in this film and doesn't even talk. The film was boring and the characters were so bland. This is because all of the actors were not first choice.This is how the cast list was supposed to look(Instead of Sarah Michelle Gellar) - Jennifer Aniston (Instead of the bloke she gets off with in the smoke) - Matthew Perry (they had to find someone else with a massive forehead) (Guy who's stuck in The Friend Zone and isn't getting any) - The guy who played the genie in Sabrina the Teenage Witch? (The guy who's a bit like Tom Hanks) - Tom HanksI am writing this review frantically because this film was so unmemorable. Within the next few minutes I'll have totally forgotten I ever watched it. "},{"Title":"Half-cooked, bland and poorly conceived","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Amanda Shelton is a young woman in charge of her mother's restaurant but not managing to keep the custom and standards up.  Tom Bartlett is a wealthy businessman who has sunk $4million into a large restaurant in the area.  When Amanda is approached by a mysterious man selling crabs, she buys them and happens to meet Tom. When her cooking suddenly becomes irresistible the business takes off, as does her relationship with Tom.When a film has a magic crab as it's plot device, you can imagine that it needs something special to rise above the stigma that will surely accompany the plot summary, sadly this film has nothing but a magic crab to offer.  The whole concept behind the mysterious man etc is never really explained (or at least, not satisfactorily) and in fact is simply dropped once it has been used to kick off the idea of cooking and romance.  The presence of the crab is simply weird and doesn't work at all.In terms of the romance, it simply doesn't cut it for me.  At no point did I really feel anything between the two lead characters &#150; their romance and gradual love never seemed real and never got me on board.  The fact that the plot driver was so absurd simply took away whatever charm the romance would have had.  The comedy has gone absent as well and I never laughed once, of course &#150; I'm assuming here that I was meant to, maybe this wasn't meant to be funny.The cast try hard but they are hampered at every step by a plot and a film that doesn't want to think about why or how things happen &#150; it is clear that the writers had an idea of a woman who's cooking makes a man fall for her, they left it to the last minute to work out WHY this happens!  Gellar is an OK actress, I've never really been a big fan but can appreciate good work where I see it.  Here she is as bland and tasteless as her cooking is at the start of the movie and didn't inspire even the slightest interest in me.  Flanery is better but only because his character is more expressive (and has to be to show the effect of Amanda's food), but that's not to say that his character is anything more than a paper thin man to satisfy half of the romance.  The support cast is of some interest and has a few amusing bits and pieces, but again, no one is more than a cardboard character with bland lines and motivations.Overall I was very disappointed with this film.  I didn't expect much having read the plot summary, but I wasn't prepared for just how bland, silly and poorly developed it would be both as an idea and as a film.  Not howlingly awful &#150; but just about as average and stagnant a film as I've seen recently. "},{"Title":"Not My Kind Of Movie","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Amanda Shelton goes into a NYC street market and is greeted by a man who appears from nowhere . This left me thinking that I might be watching a cheesy romantic fantasy . As it turns out SIMPLY IRRESISTIBLE is a cheesy romantic fantasy with a little too much cheese for this viewers appetite . Perhaps I shouldn't be reviewing a movie that's not for the male market but I should warn any potential audience of just how lightweight and frivolous the movie is . For example it's never explained as to why this guardian angel character picks on Amanda , or why if the Shelton family have rented their restaurant for seventy years they never once thought about buying it . You do get the impression that because it's a romantic fantasy the producers haven't lavished too much care or attention to a potential audience and this is reflected in the whole feel of the movie which is silly and unrealisticLike I say this isn't my type of movie but BBC 1 broadcast another romantic comedy THE American PRESIDENT immediately before this and I found the Michael Douglas movie very amusing and entertaining simply because it had attention to detail and felt it belonged in a realistic universe something you can't say about the trite SIMPLY IRRESISTIBLE which is simply irritating "}]