[{"Title":"An Unforgettable Film","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"44 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I'm not a hero. Only people who are dead are heroes. - Dieter DenglerLittle Dieter Needs to Fly, a 1997 documentary by Werner Herzog of the life of Vietnam war-hero Dieter Dengler, begins with a quotation from the Book of Revelations And in those days shall men seek death, and shall not find it, and shall desire to die, and death shall flee from them. As the film starts, Dieter walks into a tattoo shop in San Francisco and looks at a painting of Death in a fiery, horse-drawn chariot. Death didn't want me, he says, referring to his survival after six months in a Viet Cong prison camp. Herzog documents Dengler's life from his childhood in Wildburg in the Black Forest region of Germany to his escape and rescue from Laos. Growing up in Germany during World War II, Dengler listened to the constant sound of Allied planes overhead and dreamed of becoming a pilot. As a child, Herzog says in voice-over, Dieter saw things that made no earthly sense at all. Germany had been transformed into a dreamscape of the surreal. Dieter came to the United States when he was only 18, joined the Navy and was trained to become a pilot. He moved to California and was sent to Vietnam in 1966. It all looked strange, Dieter says, like a distant barbaric dream. On his first mission as a pilot, Dieter was shot down and captured by the Pathet Lao, then later turned over to the Viet Cong. He remained a prisoner in Laos for six months.Told through archival footage, dream sequences, recreations in actual jungle locations, exotic music, and surreal imagery, the film is divided into four chapters, each representing a period from Dengler's life. Like a Greek tragedy, Herzog has named the sequences The Man, His Dream, Punishment, and Redemption. Little Dieter Needs to Fly is not a linear documentary, but a very personal and poetic film, similar in a way to Agnes Varda's documentary essay, The Gleaners and I. Having long been fascinated with the experience of men in jungles (Aguirre, the Wrath of God, Fitzcarraldo) and having himself grown up in Germany during the war, Herzog provides a voice-over commentary that is as much about himself as it is about Dieter Dengler.Dieter tells his gruesome tale in a strangely chatty, matter-of-fact manner without anger or bitterness, almost nonchalantly recounting mind-numbing details of his captivity and torture. He does not try to place the events in a historical or political context or to comment on the rights and wrongs of the war, but provides a strictly personal account of his survival against overwhelming odds. Footage of both bombed out German cities in World War II and bombs lighting up the dense foliage over the Vietnam jungle make the experience very vivid. Dvorak and Bach, Tibetan throat singing, and native African chants are brilliantly interspersed to add depth and beauty to the experience. A chant from Madagascar, Oay Lahy E, sung while Dieter walks through a sea of fighter planes, adds a final transcendent touch. Little Dieter Needs to Fly is an unforgettable film that moves beyond the limitations of the genre to become a moving testament to both the absurdity of war and the resilience of the human spirit. NOTE Be sure to watch past the end credits. There is a postscript on the DVD that truly completes the experience. "},{"Title":"extraordinary","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"28 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Drama","Review":" I consider this a breathtaking but deceptive film because it seems so simple and straightforward a Vietnam survivor tells his harrowing tale and some of the story is reenacted on location. Reviewers sometimes even claim that Herzog's presence in the film is minimal, but how wrong they are. We know that all documentaries are mediated to some extent and this one has Herzog's subtle hand all over it, most notably in the stunning music, the unbelievably expert selection of archival footage, and the management of cascading images. The evocative power of this film is astounding, starting with its title, the opening title card from the book of Revelation, and the initial voice-over. This is a movie that one can watch repeatedly with increasing wonder, not a simple commodity that is gulped down with one's favorite beverage on the way to the evening news. This is one of those movies that can resonate with you for a lifetime. "},{"Title":"Documentary at its best","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"24 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Drama","Review":" This film is excellent! Fear of watching documentary movies? Cancel your shrink and watch little Dieter's story. You won't believe how captivating this fine piece of film making is until you have experienced it. I'm eager to say that it even out goes almost any Vietnam war movie, including Apocalypse Now. It's a real story, it's a personal story, a story about the love for flying, the dream of being a pilot and the nightmare of being shot down above enemy's territory. All is shot in a return to... style - at location, Herzog asking the questions, Dieter answering them in a memorable German-English accent, and with fine remembrance pointing out what happened where about 25 years before. There is this part that I told friends over and over again bailed out from his US Navy plane, Dieter becomes a POW of the Vietcong. Blindfolded for the greater part of the days, he is being dragged through the Southeast Asian jungle for miles and miles - on bare feet. Tortured, insulted, disorientated, hungered and covered with infected wounds, they arrive in a small, friendly village to spend the night. The next morning, after walking for several hours, Dieter discovers someone stole his wedding ring from his finger. That is it. He can take no more. He starts to cry, as a result of complete exhaustion. The Vietcong men react surprised. Dieter manages to explain what happened. Immediately, the group returns to the village and starts searching for the person that stole the ring. They find the man, immediately chop of his finger and return the ring to Dieter. - The movie is full of these mind boggling and surprising situations. The immense cultural differences, the clash of East and West, the fear of the unknown (i.e. all that stands for America on the one hand, the Asian jungle and his secrets on the other) can be sensed the entire movie. Back problems? That's because you sat at the edge of your seat for two hours and didn't notice. "},{"Title":"Powerfully Moving Documentary","Date":"9 September 2004","Score":"20 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This documentary film from the great film-maker Werner Herzog, tells the story of Dieter Dengler, who grew up in Germany with a passion for flight. Emigrating to the US he joins the Army in order to become a pilot, during the Vietnam War.Dieter's incredible story is told in his own words. Most of the film involves Dieter in the various locations of his story, describing what happened to him. Dieter comes across as very likable and good-natured. With his eye for the telling detail and surreal moment, Herzog once again explores the mysteries of the world and human nature. This is a humorous, powerful and deeply moving work and is well worth catching.  "},{"Title":"A Complete Work","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Drama","Review":" I had the opportunity to see this last evening at a local film festival. Herzog introduced the film and did an hour long Q&A afterward.This is a brilliantly done documentary; Herzog explained afterward that he does not consider his films to be true documentary since facts sometimes camouflage the truth. Instead he scripts some scenes and ad-libs some to introduce a new element that may have been missed if he followed the original story outline.Little Dieter, unlike Timothy Treadwell, is a real person that you fall in love with; you cheer for him, you feel the anguish that he feels. You admire the sense of humor and joy for life that he exhibited here 30 years after he was taken into captivity by the Viet Cong. You are disappointed to hear afterward that Dieter passed on not too long ago.As in most Herzog films, the imagery is breathtakingly beautiful with a wonderful choice of background music. Especially a scene of battle taken from archives of the Viet Nam war but fitting the story line of Dieter.The core of the film has Dieter return to the hellish jungle where he was a POW and he re-enacts his journey with some locals. Harrowing for us to watch, I can't imagine what he felt as he was bound again.One of the better films to depict and discuss the nightmare of the Viet Nam war. It should serve as a lesson to us all. "},{"Title":"Simple recommendation SEE IT! Advanced SEE IT!","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Little Dieter Needs to Fly was my first film during the 1999 edition of the Göteborg Filmfestival. As I was extremely tired that evening, I was hesitant to see it, but the raving overall score of 9 here at IMDB made me go there.It was 80 minutes of pure life-force! Experiencing Dieter Denglers life through his own telling was enchanting.SEE IT! And if possible... see it at a cinema!  "},{"Title":"Impressive ! & Touching","Date":"10 November 2007","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Drama","Review":" Wow.this is a touching story! First i saw 'Rescue Dawn'.I didn't 'like' it. And now i have seen the person , Dieter Dengler , about whom this story is being told by Herzog.Very Impressing.Dieter is a driven human being who encountered the most opposite emotions in his live on this earth.what an extraordinary life this person has led. His tale about the capture by the Patet Lao/Vietcong and thus his suffering is horrifying but what's most impressive is his incredible will to survive.How could he find the strenght ? In a haunting way , Dieter is telling us in full flowing sentences about his terrible ordeal during his captivity... he is a great storyteller and Herzog does him the justice this brave man deserves.In my opinion.'Little Dieter needs to fly ' tells it all ! , leaving nothing to the imagination , thus making ' Rescue dawn ' a superfluous film. The horror doesn't get more real than in the words of Dieter Dengler himself.He totally succeeds in painting the picture. "},{"Title":"Fascinating, even if it doesn't completely gel in all respects","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The movie is mainly a monologue, with glimpses of Dieter's life nowadays, but built in its central section around the somewhat bizarre device of having him return to the jungle with a band of Vietnamese who partly reenact his experiences - he demonstrates torture techniques, the march through the jungle etc. Herzog is too much a filmmaker to be satisfied with mere memories it seems - he must also see although with full knowledge that this form of retrospective seeing will be inescapably somewhat bizarre. Dieter's past traumas and current stability (although he's still preoccupied by the idea of closed doors and is still hoarding vast unneeded emergency food supplies - the former seems a bit staged, but that's part of the intrigue) seem to chime with Herzog's own past glories and now relative reduced state, and the title with its obviously childish edge has an air of longing and acknowledgment of past fantasies and their fatal possibilities. But despite the true pain of the	monologue, Herzog doesn't dwell on adversity, but rather on the ultimate grandeur (for example, the final image of thousands of military planes parked in the desert) - in which context his movie seems to fall short of the true cosmic resonance of some of Errol Morris' work. But he coaxes Dieter's story expertly and has the classic strengths of a good story-teller, and the movie's quite fascinating even if it doesn't completely gel in all respects. "},{"Title":"Little Herzog Needs to Fly....Nice.","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Drama","Review":"  After I finished watching this intriguing documentary, I wondered; how much of Little Dieter was in Herzog, and vice versa? For Werner Herzog(and Dieter likewise) seemed capable of evoking a whole spectrum of human emotions in his works, however idiosyncratic they looked on the surface.In this story of an American immigrant from Germany, who piloted a plane in Nam, got shot down, interned, escaped and survived, we got to see how the man lived, before, during and after this arduous period of ordeal. All that insurmountable pain and uphill battles might not have fazed the man, but it certainly took its toll. Memories of these experiences continue to haunt his being. Case in point, due in part to enduring that period of torture and starvation, the man now stocked his cellar with lotsa food in case he's ever locked in.... Could the above have been a reason why Herzog chose to film this man? A man seemingly steeped in personality dysfunctions but was in fact merely a wounded man living his life, the only way he knew how? Could it be that Dieter's story also somehow mirrored Herzog's life and outlook? Damned if I am to know the answers to these universal mysteries...Much had been said about the questionable sanity of Werner Herzog. But during my intensive devouring of his films over this last week, I began to see a pattern unravelling. This man had many profound insights to share with us all about humanity. And they often transcended intellectual boundaries. Through those intangibly twisted tales he weaved, he conveyed his ideas to us all lucidly, impactfully. And he did them all without ever gauzing the profusion in his bleeding heart. This man was never afraid of showing his earnest emotions nor was he afraid of breaking cinematic conventions. If one cared enough to be touched by the man, he or she will do so without safety nets. I did. Nice. Yes, its no longer fashionable in these times of impenetrable cynicism to embrace a man like Werner Herzog. But I am fascinated by this psycho visionary nonetheless. And I will follow the man to the very pits of wherever he's heading. As long as its somewhere I'm willing to go, that is....heh. "},{"Title":"Dieter soars!   10/10","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Your jaw will drop to the floor about 3 minutes into the movie......and you won't pick it up again until the end.  Drips with irony......as only real life stories can.  A masterpiece.  A must see in theatre, on video.......any which way you can.  Seek it out.  If you have seen Crumb and liked it, see this too.  If you haven't, then see Crumb also.  Truth murders fiction. This is the only 10/10 rating I have ever given a movie. "}{"Title":"you almost can't believe a man like Dieter existed, but here he is, in brilliant Herzogian detail","Date":"25 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Drama","Review":" We see at the beginning of Little Dieter Needs to Fly Dieter Dengler, the subject of the film, an obsessive-compulsive. Or at least that's what he seems to be by way of constantly opening/closing doors and with his large stock-pile of food in the cellar. In a way director Werner Herzog sets up a central question, in a manner of speaking, to why Dieter is like this. Well, in fact, he's not necessarily obsessive-compulsive as he is just, well, prepared. And why shouldn't he be after the life he's lived? Aside from the juiciest, most dark and exhilarating and frightening and just downright haunting story of survival that's the core of the picture, the back-story to Dieter is fascinating too. Dieter's own childhood, for example, was already a slog from the start, being in post-war Germnay, poor in a family without much food or prospects, eating wallpaper for the blue in the walls. But enter in a passion, an un-yielding desire (which, of course, is part of Herzog's bread & butter and love of man in his films), which is flying, and for Dieter there was nothing else but to fulfill this. What it ends up leading to, after becoming an American citizen, is more than he could've bargained for.Dieter is one of Herzog's most compelling, quirky, and compassionately observed figures in his whole career, a man who's memory is scarred by brutal memories of his time being a Vietnam POW, though at the least it provides for some of the most compelling storytelling in any documentary of the last 20 years. Ironically, the storytelling comes through- unlike in The Wild Blue Yonder- mostly in lots and lots of exposition from Dieter on some of the most minute details of his time in the different prison camps (the torture tactics, the bugs, the brutal, wretched violence and threats like with the wedding ring tale), and leading into the most interesting and sad portions with his best friend Duane. They escaped the prisons together, but found that their journey to reach Cambodia would not be so easy. Now, through most of this, the talking does something that is enthralling, which is that as Dieter goes through his stories and occasionally does re-enactments (in fashion Herzog could only do, with Dieter already middle-aged being led in handcuffs et all through the jungle), one can picture all of this in the mind. It all becomes even more vivid to try and get these little details and the intensity of it all together into a form of reality. That Herzog keeps these portions simple, and knows when to hold Dieter back in his answers, makes him all the more a key figure of interest. He's not ever totally 'normal', but unlike a Timothy Treadwell, you wont think ever really about laughing at him either.So, along with his hero (whether of war or not is hard to say, as Dieter disputes that claim as saying the ones who died were the real heroes, typical but perhaps quite true), Herzog stylizes his film with a mix of old stock footage when detailing Dieter's early life (the period footage of WW2 scenes and post German rubble is always a captivating sight, and with Herzog gets up a notch in his timing and assemblage with music), and in capturing the footage of Vietnam in aerial viewings of jungles and fields. Herzog is also very wise at not injecting politics much at all into the proceedings, there's no 'I was used by the Americans' or whatever thrown into the mix. There's even a sense that Dieter doesn't hold too much of a grudge with everything that happened to him, that it's just what happens in time of war (and, of course, he WAS dropping bombs on people from his plane). Now, through much of these harrowing- and even in the smaller bits involving what went on in prisons, bathrooms and the scraps of food it's always harrowing- luckily Herzog keeps a level of humor in check as well. One of my very favorite scenes in the film, where Herzog breaks away for a moment from Dieter, is when he shows a 'trainee' film used for American soldiers meant to show what should happen in case they get abandoned in the jungle alone...with all of the gear that they could possibly have including a knife, a flare gun, and a very fast helicopter to come around (and this is put to hilariously dead-pan voice-over work).Yet even the moments where one laughs only brings to mind the moments of absurdity in a time of absolute crisis, and how one can't ever really imagine what it's like to be alone in a foreign territory surrounded by people who will do anything to keep said person as a form of collateral in war-time. Dieter, aside from knowing that flying and airplanes are the only way of life he would ever want to have (and Herzog ends the film on a wonderfully somber, elegiac note where he flies over a large field of airplanes), knows what it is to have to survive at all costs. But yet, as well, as in many of Herzog's protagonist driven films, there's the near unalterable spirit that will keep on enduring if one's strong enough, even through horrid moments (the fate of Dunae) and problems all the way up to the rescue by the helicopter (is he American, or a spy, they ask on the chopper). Dieter is such a man with a spirit, and he's given via Herzog a fantastic, tragic, creative, well-shot, albeit maybe too short, tribute to his life. And, of course, it pumps me up even more for the upcoming dramatization Rescue Dawn. "},{"Title":"Profound, moving, and masterfully told story!!!","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Drama","Review":" This film stands as one of the most amazing examples of compelling and artful film-making I've every seen. Herzog seems to capture the almost transcendent tragedy and beauty of Dieter's story, as well as his endearing personal character. By the end of the film, I was left wishing that I'd had the opportunity to meet Dieter before his passing.On a technical note, the cinematography is intimate and astoundingly beautiful. The narrative is intricately woven, with great awareness of the subject and his capacity for reliving and reenacting traumatic events. Few documentary directors have so strong an ability to so thoroughly invest the audience in the character. This film is a must see!!! "},{"Title":"Herzog is a masterful storyteller!","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Drama","Review":"  With documentary films, the question of realism always crops up.  How much of the film is real and how much is manipulated by the film maker?  In LITTLE DIETER NEEDS TO FLY, Herzog is far too absorbed in telling the story of a man telling his own story to even address the question of realism versus formalism.  From the beginning, Herzog's role as storyteller is obvious.  Luckily, he is a master storyteller.  LITTLE DIETER is the finest, most engaging documentary I have ever seen.  Dieter's story is enthralling, and Herzog's efforts at reenactment, putting Dieter through the paces of reliving his story on location while it is being filmed, are very effective. The story that Dieter tells is real, but Herzog is ever-present, wrenching absurdist commentary from the realism. This film is a must-see for any students of documentary film and/or of Werner Herzog.  "},{"Title":"Powerful and personal first-hand account of Dengler's experience as a POW in Laos, his escape, and how he lives with the ghosts and memories of the experience","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Drama","Review":"  What attracts a man to military service? What prepares a man to survive brutal torture as a prisoner of war? What desperation leads to the planning and execution of an escape into the jungles of southeast Asia? How does he cope with the ghosts and memories he returns home with? Herzog tries to answer these questions in his documentary of Dieter Dengler, German emigre and U.S. Navy pilot shot down over Laos in 1966, who was taken prisoner, tortured and starved, but ultimately escaped to be haunted by the experience for the rest of his life. A powerful and personal first-hand account of the man, his life and experience recounted through the seemless integration of interviews, archival footage and new footage. You will never forget this story--or this man. "},{"Title":"Another superbly poignant Herzog piece","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Drama","Review":" Although perhaps not as entertaining as some of Herzog's work, Little Dieter is another fine film by one of the world's greatest film artists. Departing from Herzog's usual themes, Little Dieter is a fascinating and uplifting character study about a brave man and his efforts to go on living after a life-alteringly traumatic experience. Dieter Dengler wanted to fly from a very young age, and the Viet Nam war gave him that opportunity, but instead of spending the war soaring in a cockpit, he spent most of it grounded as a POW. Dieter tells most of his story eloquently and passionately, with occasional help from Herzog. Herzog does very little voice over this time, but contributes a lot of subtly powerful soundscaping and visuals - which should be no surprise to those familiar with him.Dengler is a fascinating and extremely likable person. As human and as alive as they come, I found the story of his life and his incorrigibly upbeat personality to be inspiring. Thanks to Herzog for (re)introducing him to us.The scale of the film is not as sprawling, and the drama is not as fierce as many of the early films that made Herzog a force to be reckoned with. Nevertheless, I strongly recommend this to his fans and to those who enjoy documentaries. It's a very interesting and well executed film. "},{"Title":"Masterfully crafted Documentary, directed by Dieter Herzog or Werner Dengler??","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Drama","Review":" The questions and answers of the human spirit are all here in this masterfully crafted historical documentary. The shear beauty and horror of one mans walk through life, are revealed in totality. Dieter and Herzog are combined and connected through a mental maze that has been transformed into a single straight hallway which the walls have been plastered with images created by one mans characterization of himself by the vibrations of his own vocal chords. This film, for about 80 minutes, have discovered a new dimension of storytelling. What do I call this apparently new sense. Only God knows, after all, isn't a MIRACLE something that God does for us, but chooses to remain ANONYMOUS?This is a requirement to see. If you like to experience the lovely horror of war, this documentary will cleanse your soul to the marrow. "},{"Title":"What would you do if you were in a jungle prison?","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Warning Herzog is a filmaker, and as such tends to be a bit overly dramatic.  So obsessions about closing doors may or may not be a real part of the character's life, but a filmaker's dramatic embellishment - or so both agreed at the premiere in San Francisco.  But Herzog's usual fascination with character, dreams and perseverance are well suited by this story first published in Soldier of Fortune, and now a full length autobiographical book.  (The Soldier of Fortune comment brought loud boos from the politically correct SF audience, and both filmaker and main character had to ensure the audience who had just seen the film, that SOF's interest was misplaced - so warning, this is not Rambo, just survival.) "},{"Title":"a surreal documentary about a German American who needs food and flight","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Werner Herzog again explores the psyche of a man.  In Little Dieter..., we meet an effervescent, brilliant man who survived the war in Bavaria seeing starvation and strange sights, moved to the U.S. and fulfilled his dream of being a flier.  War, food, death, survival, hoarding, planes, heads coming off... how one American is born.  Herzog again sees madness as plane of existence and the surreal blends with the poignant as Herzog himself narratives this psychic travelogue of a German becoming an American who flies prop planes in a late 20th century war where the culmination of technology, pilgrimage and eating out of garbage cans with spoons is melded with constant optimism into a man redefined into American.  As always with Herzog we are faced with florid madness, brilliance and what is man in the face of his own excesses, societal and personal.  We laugh and cringe and are amazed at this man.  Where else for this man but America? "},{"Title":"Lovely Style","Date":"11 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Drama","Review":" I did not know what to expect when I decided to watch this documentary. I knew it was about an ex-Viet Nam POW in Laos who escaped, but I didn't know much else. In reality, I wasn't expecting too much. Oh what a surprise! The story of this man's life is very interesting in itself, but what sets this film apart from other biography-type docs is that Dieter himself tells most of the story himself. Dieter is very comfortable in front of the camera. His personality really shines. He tells his story about his life growing up in Germany during WWII and the hardships. We are there with him in that same small town as he describes his family, inspirations, and struggles. We follow him to America and his path to fulfilling his dream to be a pilot. Then later Dieter describes his story of capture, escape, and survival in the Laotian jungle. We are again with him in that very jungle as he describes and re-enacts his imprisonment and path to freedom with great detail. We see the same primitive huts, villagers, and forms of detainment he dealt with that really hasn't changed for 30 years. We see the thick jungle, mountain terrain, and rivers Dieter faced during his escape. It helps us to understand his emotions, pain, and plight. I enjoyed the man, the story, and the style. Job well done! "},{"Title":"A fascinating and quite harrowing piece","Date":"30 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Drama","Review":" Dieter Dengler always wanted to fly planes &#150; it was his childhood dream and an adult reality. This film spends time with him and traces his history from birth in Germany shortly before the war, his journey to America and specifically his time in Vietnam. Dengler returns to the jungle where his plane came down in 1966 and recalls his time as a prisoner of the Vietcong before his eventual escape.Although I have not always enjoyed every Herzog film I have seen but I have always found them interesting for one reason or another and thus I found myself watching this knowing nothing more than the fact that it was a Herzog film. Opening with the background to Dengler, the film soon moves into the recreation of his experiences in Vietnam and it is here that the background pays off. On one hand , the story is undeniably gripping and horrifying but of greater interest was the man himself and specifically how does he manage to deal with the things he has lived through? Herzog sits closely with Dengler and lets him talk, exposing his character as much as possible.Other reviewers have said that Herzog is hardly in the film but I agree with Terry Nienhius when he points out that Herzog is actually all over the film. He sits back and lets us focus on the subject but his work is all over the music and use of footage &#150; it is really well done and produces a reflective mood that compliments the story and character. A good film but not one that can easily watched while doing something else as it requires attention. It is powerful and harrowing but yet confusing it its character complexity. It doesn't have all the answers of course but it is fascinating as a study of Little Dieter. "}{"Title":"Trust Werner Herzog to take you new places","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Drama","Review":" Another Werner Herzog documentary. How he manages to find these TRUE stories, I do not know, but it must consume him. His film Aguirre, the Wrath of God was created from the diary of the Spanish Priest who accompanied Coronado's search for the City of Gold, Eldorado. His film The Mystery of Kaspar Hauser (also known as The Enigma of Kaspar Hauser or All for One, and God Against All) was created from a centuries-old file (1828) found in the city hall of small German village. Little Dieter Needs to Fly is the ASTOUNDING life story of a German boy who, during the deadly bombings of Germany in the last years of WWII, decided he wanted to fly aeroplanes, and to accomplish this he must move to America. Although thrown off the path for a few years (but learning skills he never expected to NEED), he eventually found himself flying in 1966 &#150; for America &#150; over Viet Nam. This is the story of a man who was shot down, deprived, beaten, tortured, and left for dead more than once, until he didn't know what was real and what was his imagination. At all. How he survived, what he remembers, and what life was like for him over the next 30 years is the stuff of breath-taking pain and awe. TRUST Herzog. See ALL his films. "},{"Title":"Werner Herzog doc","Date":"6 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Drama","Review":" Dieter Dengler was a child in Germany during WWII. His father died in the military. During an Allied air attack, he is in awe of the planes and determines that Little Dieter Needs to Fly. Post-war Germany suffered severe shortages. He immigrates to America as an 18 year old. He joins the Air Force but ends up in the kitchen and the motorpool. He leaves for college and then the Navy. He finally gets the chance to fly. In 1966, Dieter flies his single-engine, propeller attack plane Skyraider into Laos and gets shot down. He is captured. Eventually, the prisoners break out of their jungle prison.Documentary filmmaker Werner Herzog uses his unconventional style to bring Dieter's story to life. Herzog's voice is ever present. He even brings Dieter back to the jungle and recreates his journey. It's a fascinating story but I'm not sure Herzog's style works to bring out the intensity. It has an awkward surrealism but fascinating nevertheless. "},{"Title":"Werner Herzog shows how a determined person is able to fulfill his dreams of flying.","Date":"7 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Drama","Review":" Although German American pilot Dieter Dengler claims that he is not a hero, his triumphs over tough odds paint a different picture of a man who has vivid memories of his valiant escape during Vietnam war. Director Werner Herzog presents his film with a dual approach in which facts about Germany are also presented in order to depict a small segment of Dieter Dengler's past life. Accurate and detailed description of a war is something a viewer can cherish from this film. For this purpose, Werner Herzog accompanies Dieter Dengler to the places which were part of his harrowing ordeal. It is true that much has been written about American dream and its effects on American people. However, Werner Herzog is one of the few acclaimed directors who has shown the real success of an American dream in a film. What makes this film different as well as unique is its depiction of a foreigner making it big in life through his realization of an American dream. Lastly, love and passion which many people in the world feel for an American dream is something which can be influenced by this film. "},{"Title":"Glorious meditation on survival","Date":"17 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Drama","Review":" Little Dieter Needs to Fly ranks among the very best of Herzog's work, and though it spawned the large scale production of 'Rescue Dawn', the original stands on its own as a masterpiece of documentary filmmaking. A highly engrossing (and frankly, incredible) story, told from the eyes of Dieter Dengler, a man who enlisted in the army during the Vietnam war so he could fulfill his childhood fantasy of flying a plane. I won't get into the details of his story, but I will say that it is one of the single most gripping and moving accounts of survival I have ever heard, and it is made all the more powerful by Dieter's retelling and countenance. His attitude towards life is unfazed; he amazingly not only survived, but kept his wits about him, a childlike innocence and curiosity about the world still intact.This is one of the greatest documentaries ever made. "},{"Title":"Werner Herzog needs to narrate my life","Date":"7 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Drama","Review":" Little Dieter Needs to Fly tells the story of Dieter Dengler, an Air Force pilot who was shot down in Vietnam and miraculously survived in the jungle for quite some time. In other hands this narrative could become maudlin, melodramatic, and jingoistic, but fortunately we have Werner Herzog and his trademark thickly-accented narration to remind us that all in life is futile. We have the perverse, hopeless landscape of a film like Lessons of Darkness, but Dieter's story gives us at least a mild hope of escaping that world. At times the power of the story and Dengler's matter-of-fact recounting of it overpowers Herzog's heavy stylizing, and a times they work together. It's a quite interesting dynamic.Some of the filming choices don't quite work -- take, for instance, the decision to have Dengler re-enact some aspects of his captivity with confused-looking Vietnamese villagers -- whereas others are downright moving -- the Mongolian throat-music, or the final shot of the field full of airplanes, suggesting how the government weaponizes and exploits the childish desire to fly. There are also times where one could accuse the film of being a simple inspiring survival story, but I think for the most part it rises above that genre while simultaneously serving as the best example of it. "},{"Title":"Organic Resilience.","Date":"3 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Drama","Review":" This is an award-winning documentary that deserves its honors.Dieter Dengler was a boy in Germany when he watched Allied planes shoot up his little village. A fighter zipped past his window, missing it by only a few feet, and the enemy pilot in the open cockpit looked directly over his shoulder at little Dieter, to whom the face was alien, covered with a tight leather helmet and goggles. At that moment, Dieter tells us, he knew he needed to fly.Dieter is now a balding, middle-aged man, apparently living alone in a comfortable house on Mount Tamalpais, just north of San Francisco. He speaks rather quickly and with animation, although with little emotion. As he describes his experiences as a Naval aviator in Vietnam, his capture and imprisonment, and the horrors of his escape, his presentation is that of a tool and die maker explaining the wonderful intricacies of his new horizontal milling machine to an interested visitor.He emigrated to the United States as a teen, worked his way through college, and the Navy taught him to fly Douglas Skyraiders on bombing missions over North Vietnam and Laos. It was in Laos that he was shot down and kept prisoner. After shooting his way out, he made his way barefoot through the jungle, eating rats and so forth, across almost the entirety of Laos until he was down to about 85 pounds and was reduced from walking to crawling, before being accidentally spotted by the Air Force and rescued. No need to go on about the torture, starvation, and leeches.There are a few unusual things about this film. We've seen others like it, both real and fictional, but none, I think, that are quite so matter of fact about such extraordinary human experiences. Not once does Dieter break down or tear up, not even when describing how his escapee companion -- two men who slept under a blanket of mud at night with their arms around each other to keep warm -- has his head chopped off by a Laotian with a bush knife.Nor does Dieter attribute his nearly miraculous survival to anything that might come readily to another kind of mind. He doesn't brag about his own ability to endure, not even subtly. As far as we can tell, he has no religion and never prayed for strength. He dreamed often -- of his village in Germany, of food, of comfortable beds -- but he was never activated by notions of returning to his loved ones or his home.In newsreel footage we see Dieter as a handsome, smiling, affable young Lieutenant (jg) who seems to have an interesting story to tell reporters and debriefers. When the film producers take him back to Southeast Asia, he demonstrates the making of fire from nothing more than the hollow stalk of an old bamboo.It's the closest that the director, Werner Herzog, has come to making a movie that depends on the viewer's emotions for much of its impact. He himself does the occasional narration, and he speaks perfect English with sonorous British grace notes. Listening to him speak, for some reason, reminded me of someone playing a slow, sweet, centuries-old tune on an instrument like a French horn. Herzog isn't much of a moralist. The politics of the Vietnam war play no part in the movie. He seems drawn, though, to stories of people with exceptional, sometimes bizarre visions that lead to quests ending in failure. Here, for once, the quest succeeds.The final shot of the movie shows Dieter walking happily through what he calls a pilot's dream, a couple of mothballed jet fighters on some isolated desert field. The caption reads And Dieter Got What He Wanted, A Planet Covered With Airplanes. In a helicopter shot, the camera rises slowly from the ground and Dieter becomes a tiny figure lost among hundreds or maybe thousands of aircraft stored neatly, wing tip to wing tip, covering several square miles of ground. "},{"Title":"An absolute belter.","Date":"19 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Drama","Review":" During the second world war Dieter Dengler was a young boy living in Germany. He was inspired then to one day fly like the pilots he could see from his bedroom window. As an adult he left home and followed his dream, training in the U.S. air force. Soon after in 1966, Dieter was shot down over Laos flying his first ever mission. He was tortured and starved extensively by his captors as were other U.S. prisoners at the same camp. Miraculously, Dieter not only survived the starvation but he eventually escaped barefoot and was later rescued.This is Dieters story and Little Dieter needs to fly is the documentary. Here we see Dieter in conversation, in interview, at home and at play, but he is also taken back into the Laotian jungle to relive and reenact his capture. This really helps to illustrate not only his own war stories but also Herzog's own story about Dieter, as Dieter is deeply disturbed by the experience. These stories are told within the context of Dieters whole life and you really get to know him by the end. I think due to his improvising and adventurous nature each Herzog film is very much unique. The pacing, the edit and his relationship with his subject is always changing. By the films conclusion I must admit I was all choked up, it's an extraordinary story and a really fine film that will be watched for years to come. "},{"Title":"Herzog on top","Date":"14 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Drama","Review":" Little Dieter Needs To Fly is another in the remarkable body of Werner Herzog's filmic work that is without peer. Having recently rewatched it on DVD, nearly a decade after its initial US release in 1997, it has lost none of its power, and one can see its influence on documentaries as diverse as Herzog's own recent Grizzly Man and Errol Morris's Academy Award winning The Fog Of War. Like the former, it details, in its far too brief 74 minutes, the life of an interesting American. Like the latter it gives a peek at a side of war that few see. Yes, we see the violence and the heroism, but as The Fog Of War brought us into the mind of one of last century's foremost warmongers, this film allows us a peek at the life of a grunt who is captured by the enemy, tortured, and ultimately triumphs. Except, in no way, shape, nor form, is the film as simplistic nor upbeat as my brief description of it. Nor is Little Dieter Needs To Fly's titular subject, Dieter Dengler, and immigrant German who survived the depredations of the Nazis (we find out, as example, that in his hometown, Wildburg, in the Black Forest, his grandfather was the only man not to vote for Hitler, and suffered brutally for that stand) post-World War Two Germany, and his own imprisonment at the hands of the Vietcong, when his Air Force jet was shot down over Laos on February 1st, 1966&#133;. While the title of the film, and the idea of Dengler's passion for becoming a pilot, stirred by the impression Allied fighter planes made on him when they razed his town, as a child, make one believe that Dengler is the central subject of the film, this is not true. The subject is Dengler's survival, or, more precisely, his human will, all human will. The details of Dengler's romantic life are too Hollywood and staid an aspect to interest Herzog. Nor is the fact that he won a Purple Heart, Medal of Honor, the D.F.C., and the Navy Cross. That thing which pushed Dengler to survive so much, and remain such a relatively upbeat man (although there are glimpses of darker sides), is what is at the center of this film, and all of Herzog's canon. Dieter Dengler's 'distant barbaric dream' of his past is fully ripened Herzog Country, and the use of a Madagascan chant, Oay Lahy E, during many jungle scenes, among other excellent touches in the score, show Herzog is, perhaps along with only Martin Scorsese, the best manipulator of image and music in film. Long may he merge! "},{"Title":"Great Documentary","Date":"27 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Drama","Review":" Little Dieter Needs to Fly (1997) **** (out of 4) Powerful documentary from Werner Herzog about the escape of Dieter Dengler from a POW camp was the inspiration for Rescue Dawn. It's very interesting seeing a director make a film off of a documentary he made because you get to see the different ways that both genres can be done by the same mind. I would say this film is a lot more powerful and I say that because it's rather hypnotizing seeing Dieter tell his stories of torture and escape. Dieter goes back to some of the real locations to tell what happened to him and it's quite haunting hearing him say that it's a mystery how he survived all that he went through. Herzog brings his normal flair to the picture by not really doing anything except letting this man tell his story. The stories are at times shocking and at other times inspirational but the film ends with one of the most beautiful scenes from any Herzog film. "}]