[{"Title":"anti church, but not anti-god","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"71 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  i thought this movie was excellent. the take on what stigmata is, the 'miracle' of it, the historical and religious views of stigmata are brought together within the plot of the movie.it is definitely anti-church, or rather, anti-establishment and anti-church politics. but it is not anti-god. the movie points out what many people believe already, that you do not need a church building to believe in god.yet, it's not a religious movie. it's not really a horror movie. there are parts that are horrific, and it will make you think. don't watch this if you're in the mood for mindless entertainment. see it, and make your own judgements on what it's about. even if you don't agree with the premise, the acting and the storyline are well worth it. "},{"Title":"I very underestimated movie","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"66 out of 90 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is a proof (at least to me) that you should not always trust reviews and user comments. After reading comments on this movie I had a picture that it wouldn't be very good at all, but I was certainly corrected on that point. This is one of the best movies I've seen in a long time. The movie is quite heavy though, so I can understand that it doesn't appeal to everyone, but for anyone who likes a little depth and aren't influenced by what other people think I really recommend this movie. I rated it 9 out of 10, and it was certainly worth it. "},{"Title":"Better than you might think","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"41 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The stigmata is a Christian religious term that refers to the spontaneous appearance of wounds corresponding to the wounds on the Christ's body when he was crucified.  This religious experience is most typically associated with deeply religious people and, I believe, is not one that is widely taken seriously.  What makes this movie interesting is that it portrays the appearance of these wounds as a terrifying, extremely painful and ultimately humiliating experience.  There's nothing conventionally religious in the experience portrayed here -- in fact, the victim is an athiest.But, having bypassed the conventional, the movie is only partially successful in bringing the experience of the stigmata to the screen.  The movie is a victim itself of a conventional portrayal of the evil bureaucratic Vatican desk jockeys suppressing true religion.  And I have to admit that, as I was watching it, I found myself thinking, Hmm, that sounds like the Gospel of Thomas, -- a famous Gnostic Gospel.  Surprise.But, overall, I'd recommend it as a decent movie and a departure from the generic, bland portrayal of Christian religious experience a la the Hallmark channel or Touched by an Angel.  It is a movie that can make you think about the nature of religious experience and its impact on an ordinary life.  "},{"Title":"Well worth a look","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"29 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata was a very watchable interesting film which is engaging and thought provoking.  It's certainly not a perfect movie but in patches was excellent, and the mood of the film was just right.  It was suprisingly non-hollywood in many respects and very understated if you look beyond the gore of the mutilation and stigmata scenes.My only major gripe with the movie was the sometimes ludicrous way that characters close to Frankie (Patricia Arquette) seemed unwilling to take her seriously or believe her affliction despite the fact that they witnessed  amazing supernatural events first hand.  Her best mate who told her to chill out and relax because it was a Friday night, having seen this event earlier in the week, bordered on high farce. Surely all the doctors, clergy and news reporters in the world would have been at her bedside after seeing the train video camera of this event?Anyway, this aside, many other aspects of the film were first rate and I was pleased the DVD version had the alternate and, in my opinion, better ending (subtle though the difference is).  Comparisons with the Exorcist seem to cloud the opinions of many people in relation to this film, and my advice would be just to watch it and take it for what it is.  The concept is quite original and the examination of faith and the modern church is interesting. Certainly I wouldn't say the film was anti-religious, in fact in many respects it adds weight to religious belief as the concept introduces the stigmata phenomenom to the audience.Overall, very good, 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A clever blend of Christian mysticism and 20th Century narcissistic cynicism","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"38 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  STIGMATA  Well, this one is certain to be somewhat controversial with hardcore fundamentalist Christians and the equally dedicated Catholic, but I personally found the movie to be far from irreverent, and actually rather faithful in parts.  Though the film balances psychological terror and armchair Christian mythology, the movie manages to present a thought-provoking dramatic episode by clashing the faithful and the faithless, the true spirituality and hypocrisy, the sincere and the mundane.The film centers on the experiences of a young woman who is a self-professed athiest who manages to somehow be afflicted with The Stigmata, a paranormal experience wherein the victim or the gifted (dependant upon one's point of view) is afflicted/touched by God and with manifestations of the wounds Christ suffered at His Crucifixion.   These include the wounds through the wrists, the feet, the crown of thorns, the scourging of the back and finally the spear through the side.Into the mix is tossed a mildly agnostic Catholic priest/scientist assigned by Rome to investigate supposed miracles.  Also blended into the story is a sub plot full of political goings on inside the Vatican and the attraction between the priest and the young woman afflicted.  So not only does the movie examine The Stigmata, spirituality, Christian myth, and the Catholic tradition, but it explores the inner workings of the Church (to a very critical degree) and the meeting of man, woman and God.  It's also entertaining.The movie seems to be marketed as a modern-day The Exorcist.  I don't think the comparison is fair.  Though there does appear to be some sort of possession story happening, it somehow ends up being mostly the desperate actions of a benevolent spirit of a deceased priest trying to get attention and bring the Truth to light.  Obviously the more fundamental Christian believer familiar with the Christian mythos would find this plot element suspect, and dramatically it's only mildly fulfilling.  For this reason the mature and educated viewer might find the ending of the film anticlimactic and arguably sell out, but the casual viewer would probably find nothing questionable about the Hollywood ending.  Personally, I thought it tainted an otherwise splendidly atmospheric film.  The integration of Catholic mysticism with MTV-era music video filmography at times seems nearly as visually attractive as Madonna's Just Like a Prayer video, though not quite as sublime.I'll give the movie 3 stars, mostly solidified by strong dialogue and exceptional performances from both Patricia Arquette and Gabriel Byrne as the woman and the priest.  On it's own merits, the film manages to create a foundation from which the viewer is challenged to fill in the blanks re the spiritual goings-on, but it loses points where it attempts to find cheap thrills and reinvent the spiritual-psychological horror portrayed in The Exorcist by turning an interesting and engaging look at mystic spirituality's interaction with the 20th Century's narcissistic cynicism into something more akin to the later OMEN movies. "},{"Title":"Captivitating religious horror","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"22 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Frankie Paige (Patricia Arquette) is a hip 20-something New Yorker who faces a nasty wake-up call when she gets randomly attacked by an unseen force, puncturing her wrists. While the hospital calls it a suicide attempt, the Vatican thinks she may be showing signs of stigmata and sends a priest (Gabriel Byrne) to investigate.This is one of the more clever religious horror films that I've seen. Using a young atheist girl as the recipient of stigmata is an original and intriguing concept. The various violent scenes where the fabulously stylish Arquette is attacked are gory and horrific, but so gorgeously shot that you cannot take your eyes away. Unfortunately, there are too many boring scenes of babbling priests. There was a bit of controversy when this was released because it hypothesizes about some very horrific skeletons in the closet of the Catholic church. The DVD features the Director's alternate ending that is decidedly less Hollywoodized than the theatrical release, but leaves the story in a confused, contradictory space. Recommended for fans of religious and stylish horror. My Rating 7/10 "},{"Title":"Better than my first impression","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata is at the very least controversial.  I feel that it's really struggling to find a genre, so it's harsh to compare it to the Exorcist as many have.  This is a film based somewhat on truth, and somewhat on legend with a little Hollywood finesse to bring it all together.  It doesn't stay completely true to either a Christian audience or to mainstream Hollywood, but I think that's to it's credit.  I don't know many people who knowingly make this kind of cross-over in their normal rental choices, so in that way, it helps to reach the largest possible audience.  The way that the film afflicts it's heroine with the stigmata through the rosary is just typical screenwriting, and the romance aspects are predictable.  The film, based upon the discovery of the Gospel of Thomas, assumes that the discovery of that scroll had never been know to the public, and that personal vendettas within the Vatican had helped to suppress it.  In reality however, there have been numerous translations of that Gospel, although I rather doubt that the modern bible will be amended. (Due to it's debated authenticity.)  In short, the film is thought-provoking, yet not heavy-handed in it's message. It leaves you asking questions as to your own faith, and to the nature of the established church far after you've reached the final credits.  As an action-suspense-thriller I'd rank it about a 7 out of 10, but in terms of it's religious nature it succeeds greatly in the find-the-truth-for-yourself message that it conveys.  "},{"Title":"Do you appreciate movies that make you think? *SPOILERS*","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata is not a horror movie, but it is a religiously-centered suspense thriller that makes you think about your own faith.  If you don't, then this movie is not for you.  I loved this movie because I was able to sit through it and it made me think about my own walk with Christ.I think there are so many negative comments for this movie from Americans because it is easier for modern audiences to sit down and flame a movie for what THEY WANT IT TO BE rather than WHAT IT IS.This movie is about a lot of things; love popping up in the strangest places, the hierarchy of the Catholic Church, and finding the truth for yourself through your own hard work.On a personal note, I think Arquette (Frankie Paige) and Byrne (Father Andrew Keirnan) did a fine job bringing their characters to life, and Pryce (Housman) was truly convincing as the Cardinal who wants to keep everything secret.  Byrne was the true treasure of the piece- his Father Keirnan was very convincing as a questioning religious scientist.The confrontation scene at the end between the spirit of Father Alemeida and Keirnan was very poignant and intense.  Some people claim that the garden scene from the end is a let down (What did you expect, a mad tongue war in the garden of the church diocese?), but maybe you didn't see the statue of St. Francis and notice the parallelism to Frankie's clothing.  She was dressed a lot like St. Francis.  Something to remember is that St. Francis was a radical... like Frankie, an atheist who eventually comes to have faith (so says the spirit of Father Alemeida) in Christ and God.The DVD has an alternate ending that is especially touching.  I am glad that they didn't use it, though- it would have made me cry.This movie made me investigate more into Stigmata- you should too.  I'm not even Catholic, but I found a lot of insight into deeply spiritual people through my research. "},{"Title":"Story of faith","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Giving comment after a few days after I seen it, I must say that in this picture lays something that, in my opinion is one of the most biggest issues of modern, or should I say, of Christianity itself; what Jesus had had in mind when he talked about God in us? Do we really need mediator between Him and ourselves?-Very good crew and scenario had make this movie very interesting. Byrne is really good, though sometimes is rather 'inconvincible', but, as a priest-scientist, maybe he has right on some 'perplexities'. Patricia Arquette is one of my favorite actresses, and I love her in this movie, or any else.Director is unknown to me, I must confess it, but, from what I have seen in this movie, it has some interesting views on filming, and I would really like to see his other works, or future ones. Rade Serbedgia in this film look like his not interested. It's a loss.Film has some frightful scenes, but in major, it's very good movie which gives us some new perspective on Jesus words that the God is in us.People who has no idea, or been religious fanatics should avoid this film. This film, also, is not the most intelligent topic that has been ever recorded, but it has some good points.Try figure it out. It's not shallow. And, please, use your own head, and don't be molested by religious fanatics; they would first crucifix Christ just for the way he looks. "},{"Title":"Contrived but effective (SPOILER WARNING)","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  SPOILER WARNING  This comment contains specific references to plot elements that reveal the ending.  It is strongly recommended that you see the film before reading this review.&#145;Stigmata' uses as its premise the actual existence of the gospel of Thomas, a gospel taken from a scroll found in 1945, and condemned by the Catholic Church as heresy.  This gospel gives essentially the same message as the gospel in the film, that the kingdom of God is of this earth and it is not about heaven, churches or religion.  But clearly, the gospel in the film is not Thomas, despite the allusion at the end of the film.  Thomas was written in Greek not Aramaic, and has been dated by scholars to the second century, hardly contemporaneous with Jesus.  The film is a highly contrived fictional yarn that imaginatively invents a scroll of Jesus' words and then takes the religious mythos of stigmata and combines it with the mythos of possession (in ways not consistent with either) as a device to reveal the plot of the Church to keep the gospel a secret.  We are asked to believe that an atheist gets stigmata (no such event has ever been reported) as the result of possession by the spirit of a dead human whom she never knew (this is the purview of the devil; human spirits are not thought to possess living beings) because she touched his rosary beads (also touched by her mother, the boy who sold them to her and Father Kiernan without effect).  Ok, I guess that's what fantasy films are supposed to do, conjure improbable situations out of the imagination.  Still, it takes liberties that distort and misrepresent religious beliefs, which is always risky business.  While watching this film, I had to pretend I didn't know what I know.  Once over this hurdle, it was an fascinating, engaging and frightening story.There are other strange inconsistencies and unanswered questions though.  Father Alameida was a good and pious man.  Yet he possesses Frankie with an evil vengeance and attempts to use Frankie to sexually seduce Kiernan, beating him from pillar to post when he doesn't consent.  That's just not consistent with who Alameida was.  Also, why was Frankie strong enough to throw Kiernan around the room like a rag doll, but helpless to stop Cardinal Houseman from choking her?  And what was all the dripping water about?  If that was explained somewhere, I must have missed it.  Comparisons between this and &#145;The Exorcist' are misplaced.  They really had nothing in common other than the fact that the main character was possessed.  There is one scene during the rage following Frankie's seduction attempt of Kiernan that had obvious elements of comparison but that was about it.  This was not an exorcism and the devil was nowhere to be found.From a filmmaking standpoint, this film was terrific.  Rupert Wainwright does a marvelous job from start to finish with this film.  The photography was fantastic.  The use of the camera perspectives, scene set up and various techniques including slow motion, double exposures, rapid fire jump cuts and reverse slow motion were all fabulous (though sometimes used to excess) and added power and impact to create some very scary footage.  I've read complaints about the sound, but the sound on the DVD copy I had was great with excellent surround effects.  It was a bit loud at times but not so much that I had to ride shotgun on the volume control.This was a marvelous breakthrough performance for Patricia Arquette.  When she was in Frankie mode she was sometimes arrogant and self centered, and at others sweet, helpless and terrified.  When in possession mode she was powerful and frightening.  She handled all these states believably and with aplomb.Gabriel Byrne also gave a wonderful performance as Father Kiernan.  He achieved just the right balance between intellectual skepticism and self doubt with a genuine concern for Frankie.Overall, I really enjoyed this film.  Yes, the story was flawed, but not irretrievably.  As a supernatural thriller it was first rate.  I rated it an 8/10.  Not for the squeamish.  "}{"Title":"Let me tell you why it's good","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"17 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Perhaps for you it was boring, but for me it was great time. First of all, there aren't any plot holes, you're making things up. You can find any arguments and i'll throw them back at you, cause they just don't stand up. There was no 'priests hitmen squad', they came to take the girl and exorcise her, it's easy. So this is out. Next. They were priests, they couldn't have killed her in cold blood. That cardinal decided that it would be best for his church to 'sacrifice' her and live with it,when he saw she resisted . That's why he told the others to leave the room. The personal background of Byrne and his reasons to become a priest are irelevant, in real life people become priests for far more stupid reasons ( my grandfather was a priest , i'll make more money). The water dripping was very touching, i don't know why. I have the intuition of what it means, it can't be expressed by words. Anyway. The poor girl became stigmatised because she was pure, she didn't have doubts about her life more than any other person, and through the crucifix she became posessed by that 'very holy man'. That man was stigmatised, so his stigmatisation passed on to the pure 'messenger'. Purity - the water. The drips are the events. When it's a drip of water, the atmosphere is calm. The calm before the storm. In other scenes we see the blood dripping. Easy to understand what that means. And so on and so forth. Let me tell you, i saw a lot of blood at my life, it doesn't affect me. The first half an hour of 'Stigmata' beginning the scene in the bathroom, made me sick to my stomach. And i've seen some bloody movies . This wasn't for free. The atmosphere was lovely, i enjoyed the movie. Of course, if they've extended the length of the movie a little and inserted some interesting ideas that were omitted then we've might seen a hit. Too bad that the movie was made only for a section of the public. I'm not a very religious person ( i go to church ) but this movie was deep, and i loved it. I said. "},{"Title":"You missed the point","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"32 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I do admit this movie really questions catholic morals but thats not what its about... the film was about showing a diferent a view on catholosism and therefore shouldnt be viewed by catholics who aren't into that type of thing. Its odd but for some reason a book all about the universe and someone who knows all about the universe is written only by onlookers and bystanders. The people who made the movie are not saying that it did or didn't happen but it is possible that these onlookers might have made a mistake on how Jesus and God want us to be. All this movie does is try to make you think deeper about religion, and I love it for that. If your like me you would really like Dogma too ;) "},{"Title":"The messenger must be silenced.","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Let me start off by saying that I love the beginning of this movie. I love the opening scene to the cruci-fixion scenes. Patricia Arquette and Gabriel Byrne both do good acting jobs. The film is about a young girl with no faith in god who begins to recieve the wounds of the crucified Christ, the Stigmata.I must say that I was very disappointed in the ending. It was not the climax that I was hoping for. But I was still enthralled enough to keep watching until the film ended. If you are totally into the religious horror movies, like me, I suggest that you also see END OF DAYS, LOST SOULS, BLESS THE CHILD, and I'm sure there's some other movie like those out there. STIGMATA gets 4/5. "},{"Title":"Stink-Mata!","Date":"6 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Stigmata (1999) Dir Rupert Wainwright / Cast Patricia Arquette, Gabriel Byrne, Jonathon Pryce, Nia Long, Rade Serbedzija Stigmata means wounds of Christ inflicted upon certain Saints. I am not sure how possible this is although Christ's wounds represent the salvation of mankind. It is completely unnerving and jam packed with as much explicit gore that a film can present. Patricia Arquette plays a hairdresser inflicted with the wounds of Christ. She claims to be an atheist. Gabriel Byrne plays a Priest investigating the situation and he discovers strange writings, a statue that cries blood, and the ever popular demonic possession. The statue crying blood is easily explainable because anyone or anything involved in a film this lame ought to shed tears. We know exactly what is in store for Arquette and it isn't stomach cramps. Predictable and lame with stylish directing by Rupert Wainwright backed with a massive production. Arquette needs a Ghostbuster or a really good psychiatrist. It also wouldn't hurt if she had a better agent because this sort of crap isn't helping her career. Byrne needs to stand in line at the job center because the Priest thing isn't working out. Supporting roles by Jonathan Pryce and Nia Long are flat and hardly matter at any rate. Hardly logical since according to scripture Christ paid for the sins of mankind. It is a film drenched in blood and guts. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"A beautiful film, fatally flawed by the erroneous assertions of its story...","Date":"23 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Father Kiernan - a researcher of miracles on behalf of the Vatican &#x96; is in Brazil conducting an investigation into a bleeding statue in the church of a recently deceased priest named Father Alameida who lies in state in the church. A small boy steals the rosary of Father Alameida and runs to sell it to a woman in a market. This woman then sends the rosary to her daughter, Frankie Paige, living in the United States.Patricia Arquette plays Frankie, a free-spirited young woman who has no specific religious beliefs and is uninterested in spiritual matters. After she receives the rosary, her life begins to unravel as she is attacked by invisible forces, physically traumatizing her body. The punctures, cuts and lacerations on her body mimic the stigmata &#x96; the five wounds of Christ. Eventually Father Kiernan's boss, Cardinal Daniel Houseman asks Kiernan to look into what is happening to Frankie. His investigation unravels a dark mystery that involves the Vatican itself and three priests &#x96; one of whom is Father Alameida - who share a unique bond as translators of an ancient document.The movie is beautiful and haunting, but the plot and specific points of the story are greatly lacking. The suggested romance between father Kiernan and Frankie is quite unbelievable, as is the notion that the Catholic church would be frightened that their church might become extinct if the document in the film were to be made public. It is public, you can read it online at multitudes of sites, and you could do that when the movie was released in the theaters.The soundtrack music by Corgan and the song Identify (also penned by Corgan) is haunting and compliments the movie perfectly. There was a CD released with music from the movie which is quite good. The song Identify written by Corgan and sung by Imbruglia is gorgeous. There are moments when Imbruglia seems to enjoy the sound of her own voice so much, she is almost euphoric. Those moments tend to coincide with the most richly sonic cues of the song. Some songs are throwaway, but others are aptly included on the CD, such as Inertia Creeps by Massive Attack. If you only bought the CD for the song Identify, and the soundtrack cues by Corgan, it would be worth the price.For those who watch the film and wonder what all the hubbub is about, here it is in a nutshell... The Gospel of Thomas was found, along with many other rejected Christian writings in Nag Hammadi (Egypt) in 1945. Contrary to the fiction of the film, the writings found are nothing new, although finding them so well preserved and more importantly *complete* was quite amazing. The works were only available as fragments, as the Catholic Church basically outlawed them sometime in Middle Ages, and all copies were supposed to have been destroyed. However, BEFORE the Catholics ever burned them up, the early church fathers rejected the works because they contain heretical quotes attributed to Christ and other fatal inconsistencies. Contrary to what the film proposes, the Catholic church had no fear of the Thomas gospel ruining the church because it suggested that people didn't need churches of wood and stone to worship God. The early Christians met in caves and personal homes for many, many years before the first Christian church was ever built, and no one rejected the idea that a building was the Church of Christ more than the early Christian leaders. The problem centered solely upon the validity of the documents, period.Another fact that is contrary to what the film purports concerns the scholarly opinion of the Gospel of Thomas and other rejected writings. The Gospel of Thomas was NEVER accepted by the early Christians, neither were any of the other documents that were officially not canonized at The Chalcedon Council in 451 A.D. The heretical books that weren't canonized at The Chalcedon Council had LONG been rejected *unanimously* by the church fathers, over a long course of time. The rejection of the Thomas Gospel was unanimous and continual at every council (including Hippo 393 and Carthage 397). It is very important to note that during all this time, and all the councils that rejected the Gospel of Thomas, the Catholic Church &#x97; as it is known today &#x97; was not yet in existence. So, the Roman Catholic Church had absolutely *nothing* to do with the Gospel of Thomas being rejected as the words of Jesus, or being rejected as a book of the Bible. I mention this because at the end of the Stigmata movie, there is text which asserts that the Roman Catholic Church is alone in it's rejection of the Gospel of Thomas, while scholars the world over consider (it) the most accurate document of Jesus' words. That is BUNK. All you have to do is *read* the Gospel of Thomas to see why the book was rejected. The Gnostic influence is unmistakable; in point of fact it has become a cornerstone document for the Gnostic movement. For them it is a revelation, for evangelical Christians it is pantheistic propaganda tantamount to blasphemy.The movie and the soundtrack are fun and beautiful, but the assertion that the Roman Catholic Church is suppressing the Gospel of Thomas because it doesn't want people to reject the buildings of the Catholic Church is absurd. Watch the movie for the great performances of Byrne and Arquette, the great visuals and effects, but be assured that there is no conspiracy against the Gospel of Thomas, it was rejected long ago by those very qualified to make that decision, some of them had known or been friends with the actual disciples of Christ. Other false writings that came earlier than the Gospel of Thomas were actually rejected by some of the disciples themselves. It doesn't get any more qualified than that. "},{"Title":"The Kingdom of God is inside you","Date":"20 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** A bit confusing movie involving this secret Gospel that's purported to be the only words written by Jesus himself! It's this Gospel, if ever made public, that will shake the very foundations of the Catholic Church!Father Andrew Kierran, Gabriel Byrne, had investigated this weeping Madonna at the small Brazilian Catholic Church, in Belo Quinto, and was told by his superiors in the Vatican to drop the case even though he, a scientist by profession, thought that it was a genuine case of the paranormal or a miracle by church standers. It's later in the movie that Father Andrew is assigned to this case of Stigmata in of all places Pittsburgh Pa. involving this 23 year old hair dresser Frankie Paige, Patricia Arguette, who's not Catholic or even religious! What Father Andrew finds out is that the two cases, the one in Belo Quinto and that of Frankie's, are in fact related! Related by a string of rosary beads!The movie Stigmata slowly builds up to its shocking and fiery climax when Father Andrews begins to question the actions of his superior Cardinal Houseman, Jonathan Pryce, who first authorized the investigation of Frankie Paige. Houseman is using both Father Andrew and his fellow priests to squelch what Frankie's Stigmata really is all about. The mysterious rosary beads originally belonged to the excommunicated and late Father Alameida, Jack Donner, of the Belo Quinto Catholic Church! By Frankie getting possession of the beads, through a gift from her mother, she has become as much as a threat to the Cardinal and the church he represents as Father Alameida was!Despite a number of wild and gory scenes of Frankie's hands and legs bursting out into streams of blood signifying Jesus' suffering on the cross we, and Father Andrew, never really quite get what's going on in the movie! That's until the also, like Father Alameida, excommunicated Father Petrocelli, Rade Serbedzija, unexpectedly shows up at almost the very end of the film. With what seems like no kind of introduction, I only got his name from checking out the movie's credits, to just who he is all Father Petrocelli shows Father Andrews to convince him that his fantastic story is legit is a well worn out old photo of himself. The photo has Petrocelli as well as Father Alameida and Father Delmonico,Dick Latessa posing in it. It's with that photo that Father Petrocelli convinces Father Andrew that his boss Cardinal Houseman isn't exactly, without really explaining why, on the up and up.Now having all the evidence to put Houseman up before a court of inquiry at the Vatican in his attempt of squelching the Gospel of Jesus Father Andrew has to prevent him from going even a step farther! That's in stopping the Cardinal, in a phony exorcism, from silencing the one person who can expose him, Frankie Paige, by murdering her! "},{"Title":"Extremely messed up religous thriller","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  	'Stigmata' is unlike most of today's thrillers in that it never makes a point out of letting the audience understand the action. The entire film is like a two hour trailer, with extremely fast cuts and lots of action.	And that is what makes the movie a refreshing break. The entire thing is filmed in a tone not seen since the critically bashed 'The Seventh Sign', but it is far superior to 'Sign'.	Strengthened by a career best performance from Patricia Arquette, and  good efforts from both Gabriel Byrne and Jonathan Pryce, 'Stigmata' manages to keep the audience on the edge of their seats. Arquette, who has made a career out of being in movies, but never acting, actually makes us care for Frankie, a place where so many other actresses would have failed.	The dialogue is strong, and the direction is competent. 'Stigmata' is not nearly as good as 1999's other supernatural thrillers 'Stir of Echoes' or 'The Sixth Sense', but it is still well worth renting now that it has arrived on video. It has arguably the flashiest trailer in film history, and if you haven't seen it, go to http//www.apple.com/trailers/mgm/stigmata.html immediately. If you like the trailer, the movie is more of the same.8/10 "},{"Title":"This movie is so freakin' freaky!!!!","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie should be seen by everyone who needs some excitement! It's so scary to know that story-line is true and stuff like that does happen! Patricia Arquette is quite unique in her own way as it turns out in this film. See this movie. You'll leave with your heart pounding wanting to see it again, so see it You will not be disappointed! "},{"Title":"Weird. * out of ****","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata was one of the weirdest movies I have seen in some time. It is way too deep--in fact, too deep for words. The acting is good, at times, and a few moments in the film were scary.  But the story is so bizarre I couldn't tell you what it is about. ------------------2 "},{"Title":"Open minded?  SEE IT!!!","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Oh boy.  Every review I've read has pretty much slammed this film for a variety of things.  Well, I went to see it at 11 am on a saturday morning, and let me say this Yipes.  Had it been midnight, it couldn't have been any scarier.   This movie, which has been besmirched by the catholic church, is a great flick.  I loved it, and the people I was with loved it too.  Though, if you're a choir boy, you might not want to see it.  It took a very realistic possibility (the church trying to save itself, damn the truth), and made it a thriller with the most scary scenes, beautiful photography, and good acting.  I'd give this film no lower than a 7.  See it with an open mind. "}{"Title":"Entertainment at several levels","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This film clearly deserves more then the current 6/10 rating that it has received; nevertheless, one should expect such a low rating when individuals feel so threatened by the ideas behind this film. (as evident from the many outlier votes of 1 & 2) If you enjoyed The Da Vinci Code (book), then I truly believe you will enjoy this film. This film brings together three qualities a thought provoking nature with a truth behind it, actors/actresses that may not be the best but collectively all have some of there best performances, and a satisfactory delivery that allows it to be entertaining.My rating of 9/10 may seem high if you look at this movie from just one aspect but the fact that it entertains one from so many angles elevates its value. "},{"Title":"Nonsense","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I am a lot of things, mostly contradictions. I'm progressive and mostly liberal, yet I'm still very Catholic.  I like a good bible/religious thriller, but Stigmata doesn't deliver. I won't use the term anti-Catholic because it's overused and undefined, but if I was writing the dictionary entry for anti-Catholic it would reference this movie.The plot has potential.  A Vatican priest/scientist is sent out to investigate mysteries of the faith.  The originality in plot ends there. His supervisor is a one dimensional figure who is of course working counter current to what he seemingly should be.  The supervisor is doing whatever it takes to protect the Catholic church by preventing the lost Gospel of Jesus to come to light.The movie tries to scare us at times, but it's stereotypical fright.  So much promise this movie held, but so unwilling the scriptwriter and director were to fleshing out a real plot. "},{"Title":"One of the most underrated movies of all times","Date":"19 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" If it weren't for the usual language mix-ups ( I wish Italian would be real Italian and Brazilian Portuguese real Brazilian Portuguese) as well as a few minor inconsistencies, this movie would be a milestone in the history of religion movies. Incredibly well performed by Gabriel Byrne, as the Catholic priest torn between science and faith, and Patricia Arquette, as the atheist hairdresser who doesn't know what's happening to her and doesn't accept it. But one thing is made clear in the famous tag line in Italian Il messaggero non è importante (The messenger is not important), in fact the possession is triggered by the rosary stolen by a boy, bought by Frankie's mother who sent it to her. What is more, it's not a case of the usual evil possession, actually Frankie Paige is possessed by a holy man, considered a saint, excommunicated by the church in an attempt to prevent him from making the scroll believed to be St. Thomas Gospel in Aramaic (containing the actual words pronounced by Jesus Christ in the Last Supper ...the kingdom of God is inside you and all around you...) known to the general public. Words that could destroy the Church. The beautiful lines split a piece of wood and I'm there, lift a stone and you'll find me could not only undermine but really annihilate the entire Church. So the Church has to take defensive measures, and Cardinal Houseman is ready to commit murder to save his church, after begging for God's forgiveness.... That is the great message of this movie temples are not important, what's inside us is, and man can communicate with God everywhere. An important and serious movie where we can find even humor the scene of Father Kiernan walking down St.Peter's Square and the hustlers trying to entice him is delightful (by the way, their Roman accent and their slang expressions are the only real Italian in the movie!). All the elements perfectly balanced in a dramatic, violent, yet tender plot. "},{"Title":"Holy Battle Lite","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This film had some raw possibility Matrix-like MTV pacing and a plot about suppression of the true gospel by the bad old Vatican.It could have worked, even been good. but it fails on both levels. The filmmaking just isn't effective. It doesn't transport, even if you limit that to scaring. The stylishness is mimicry without a soul.But what's worse is the miss in the story. SPOILERWhat we have is a priest who discovers a lost gospel that in Jesus' words recommends against a Church. The priest is killed (?) and because some woman ends up with his rosary, that priest's soul comes back to express the gospel. How stigmata figures in this is unexplained, especially since their appearance supports organized religion.How droll. Especially when we DO have Essene scrolls that likely are closer to Jesus' teachings than Paul's sanctimony. How cool this would have been as a battle between Paul's ghost and say Peter's. What sides would spiritual forces choose? What traditions would come into play and how much magic exists in the faith of people regardless of what Jesus actually taught? This would be bigger than any old Vatican (which is dwarfed in holdings by the Mormons by the way).  "},{"Title":"A pretentious movie based on untruths","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I agree with the above critique of this pretentious piece of work, adding that I have had owned a copy of the 'Gospel of Thomas' for over 40 years. It has never been recognised as authentic by the Catholic Church, nor by any other church to my knowledge, not because it contains material that would undermine the authority of established Christianity (as suggested in this movie) but because it is a gnostic text, full of inexplicable, vague passages mixed with quotations from the synoptic gospels, and its claim to be by St Thomas Didymus is in doubt. The script of the movie adds to the confusion by taking lines from the 'gospel' out of context and misquoting passages of it. As usual Hollywood sacrifices the truth and quality for sensationalism.   "},{"Title":"A totally incoherent mess.","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Honestly, this is easily in the top 5 of the worst movies I have ever seen. Partly, because it takes itself so seriously, as opposed to regular light hearted trash, this movies wants you to be emotionally involved, to feel for the characters, and to care about the alleged conspiracy.  None of this ever even comes close to happening.****MILD SPOILERS******There are 3 main reasons why this movie is so terrible 1.)  Incoherent and totally non-sensical plot. 2.)  Annoying style-over-substance MTV camerawork. 3.)  Moronic characters and plot holes.Allow me to elaborate.1.)  Apparently, when this movies was being made, they couldn't decide whether to make a movie about church conspiracies, the stigmata, or possession.  So, guess what?  They combined them!  An aetheist gets possessed by a dead person, who then makes her exhibit the stigmata so as to expose a church conspiracy.  How a regular person is able to transcend death and possess another human being through his rosary is never explained, nor even talked about.  Now, instead of just saying what he wants to say, he gives her the Stigmata.  WHY?  Why not just spit it out?  Instead, we get treated to scenes of screaming things in harsh voices, carving cryptic messages on cars, and writing messages on walls.  Apparently this priest was also a violent guy, because the possessed young lady also wigs out on one o f the characters, while talking in that cliched, harsh, possessed voice that we all have heard countless times.  This also starts to tie into my second complaint, because whenever the young lady gets the stigmata, she also defies the laws of gravity by floating into the air, and tossing everything and everybody around her as if they were in an earthquake?  Why does this happen?  Who knows!?!  My guess is that the director thought it looked cool.2.)  This movies contains dozens of shots, in slow motion, of course, of birds showing up out of nowhere and flying off, and most annoyingly, of water dripping.  This woman's apartment is constantly dripping water! CONSTANTLY!  Logically, the place would probably fall apart with this many holes.  To sum up this complaint, towards the end, and for absolutely no reason, the camera cuts to shots of water dripping, in slow motion, in reverse!!  WHY!?!  I have no idea!  It has no relevance to anything, and once again, I'm betting it's because the director thought it looked cool.3.)  One of the main characters says he became a priest to explain away holes in science.  This doesn't make sense to me.  I would think that going to church would be enough, but no, he has to go through the entire rigamarole of becoming a priest.  I just don't buy it.  Secondly, there are lots of plot holes, a few of which I will elaborate on below.  For starters, when she first gets the stigmata, the scene ends with her laying unconscious, bleeding.  Next, she's in the hospital.  Who called the ambulance?  Another one is towards the end, when the previously mentioned scientific priest character is talking to the spirit who is possessing the girl.  He says, Take me as your messenger!  Not a word for word quote, but you get the idea.  His response?  You have no faith, only doubt!  So, because of this, he possesses an aetheist!  An aetheist has no faith, far less then any scientific priest!  And then, there's the fact that the object of this movie's conspiracy, this Lost Gospel (of St. Thomas, I believe) is available at local bookstores.  The characters are willing to kill to supress this document, but you could walk down to a bookstore and buy it. Maybe this is supposed to take place in an alternate history, where it isn't wide known, but the movie never tries to tell us this, or to even hint that this is an alternate happening of that document's uncovering.In closing, this movie is terrible to a spectacular degree.  It is my arch-nemesis, which I feel the need to insult every chance I get.  I loathe it. Final Grade  F "},{"Title":"Some very disturbing material, but the scenes don't fit together to form an actual story. **1/2 out of ****","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  STIGMATA (1999) **1/2Starring Patricia Arquette, Gabriel Byrne, Nia Long, Jonathan Pryce, and Thomas Kopache Director Rupert Wainwright   108 minutes   Rated R (for strong graphic violence, some language, thematic elements, and brief sexuality)By Blake French	Stigmata is a very strange film. It takes a real hit on Catholicism, and at times, religion in general. Obviously, Stigmata isn't a film for all audiences, people with strong religious beliefs, for instance, and is certainly not appropriate for younger viewers. The production has so many good qualities, it's a shame to ultimately conceive that the flaw that sunk the motion picture is not its story or characters, but the individual scenes themselves.  I can compare this film's failure to a jigsaw puzzle in which there are many interestingly shaped and colorful pieces, but, unfortunately, they do not fit together to create a final piece of work.	The filmmakers are hard at work here, including the production designers who, feature attractive, idealistic and convincing set designs and interesting prop use. The audience does buy the film as biblical territory. And with this to their credit, they should have gone way over the top with the touchy subject Stigmata deals with. Well, they do indeed take the plot the extra mile here, and quite graphically at times, may I add. But they go so far over the top at times, the filmmakers have nowhere to go after the scenes of aggressiveness. Those instances in the movie change tone rather rapidly. This is due to the very high peak of tension created. Therefore, the film has nowhere to go but downhill, giving us an overall production that has about a half dozen really scary moments that last about thirty seconds each, and the rest of the movie is just mediocre melodrama.	The film opens with an acclaimed and dedicated Priest/scientist named Andrew Kiernan investigating a bizarre occurrence in a Brazilian church where a religious statue bled from its eyes. After noticing a few unique things in this town, however, after he returns home to Cardinal Daniel Houseman, Kiernan pleads to be sent back to this area to investigate further, but his requests are suspiciously denied. 	The film then jumps to another story, where a young atheist woman named Frankie Paige lives an independent life in Pittsburgh where she is occupied as a hair stylist with her fellow coworkers, including close friend Donna.	Things drastically heat up for Frankie after she receives a rather significant gift from her mother who was shopping on vacation. This is an item from a salesperson off the streets whom himself stole from a dead Brazilian priest. Soon, Frankie begins to suffer violent, disturbing visions and appearing on her afterwards are wounds resembling the ones suffered by Christ, a symptom called  the stigmata. 	This is where the Priest comes in. After more and more stigmata attacks are inflicted on Frankie, Kiernan is sent to Pittsburgh where he investigates. It is when Frankie explains to Kiernan that she does not believe in God when he then denies the occurring stigmata attacks on her. You see, usually the stigmata happens to deeply religious Catholics, and Frankie is anything but. On the other hand, never before has each one of the five stigmatic wounds taken place on one individual person, and by the time this film is over, guess how many Frankie will have suffered. 	I liked the film's characters, as did I the performances. It is interesting for me to see such a shallow character as Frankie Paige be caught right in the middle of such a deep, spiritual situation. And who better to play the character than the always entertaining Patricia Arquette, who dazzled earlier this year in Goodbye, Lover, and now, with Stigmata, plays Paige with the right sarcasm material. 	This is not to say that Stigmata is perfect in its use of characters--as a madder of fact, the film is characteristically flawed. Take, for instance, Frankie's  best friend, Donna, who at first is present to serve as a companion for Frankie. Then, right in the middle of the movie, when the script no longer required her presence, she completely disappears without a trace. Why does this happen? Because the story gets too involved for the characters to have buddies, making the rest of the characters, although not completely, puppets of the plot. 	Stigmata contains the kind of plot that I liked to experience; a deep, involved and revealing storyline that focuses on touchy subjects. The characters are lost in their dialogue, but if the audience buys the premise, they allow themselves to be sucked in the events that transpire. The person who I saw this movie with found the plot too absorbing for her, and I have a feeling that this is how the majority of an audience will feel, therefore, although it is a close call for me,  I am not recommending the film. I do feel, however, that there is a group of individuals out there who, like I somewhat was able to do, will happen to enjoy this production for what it is worth. If the film fit together a bit more, I think there may have been much potential here. But in the end, Stigmata, gets lost in its controversial atmosphere and forgets that movies like this need explanation and a through-line, not brief grizzly scenes that repeat themselves over and over again.Brought to you by MGM Productions.   "},{"Title":"An Invasion of Meaning on a World of the Banal","Date":"5 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I almost overlooked this movie the first time around, simply because I found what I now realize was essential scene-setting for the plot too much; in that the so cool characters it first introduces us to and their so cool lives were such a successful personification of the soulless, shallow Hell that is the modern world that I wrote it off initially as propaganda for that philosophy. But I was only 17 at the time and lacked the patience that this movie was asking for. If anything it's to the credit of it's creators, both seen and unseen that the movie encompassed the impact so early on to stir a visceral reaction in it's viewer.Frankie's life is one of meaningless fun and the mere thought of anything meaningful to her and her peer-group is out of the question. Frankie clearly, from the outset is not as superficial as her friends; this we see as she takes seriously the prospect of being pregnant whilst her closest friend Donna simply implies that she should get an abortion, also that the casual nature of her relationship with Steven bothers her. As the reality of the Stigmata and all it's ramifications take over her life her friends and colleagues begin to distance themselves from her. I am pleased to say about this movie that as predictable as the involvement between Frankie and the Priest was it didn't degrade the story; Frankie, despite living a shallow existence is at root a kind and what you might say Christian person. She gives money to people begging, she doesn't jump to the choice of abortion as a reflex action because she understands that an abortion(termination) is the taking of a life, she resents being used for sex by her lover Steven, in short, subconsciously she is deeply desiring that her life should have meaning. Into this void, in timely fashion steps Father Andrew Kiernan; the interaction between Gabriel Byrne and Patricia Arquette really gives strength to the story for many reasons. One being the excellent chemistry between the two. He incites in her faith as she leads him into temptation. He is a stranger to her who displays genuine compassion when she is someone with many friends who all distance themselves from her as she begins to need them deeply. Underwriting this also is the fact that despite an age gap the prospect of a relationship between the two isn't a ridiculous thing to suggest, partly because the actors in question work well to convince us of it. Gabriel Byrne's character of Father Andrew Kiernan also helps us to see why he is so incongruous to the Priesthood in that he is too genuinely Christian to represent the Vatican. Practising real Christian values such as going out and associating with prostitutes without being judgmental or not feeling threatened by the possibility of the Vatican or organized church in general losing their monopoly on God.The Film's overall message of how Faith can exist in a world that seems determined to destroy it is a satisfying one. One might even say that the scenes of the extreme banal(a contradiction I realize) on which the film opens, but extremes, as terrible as they might be do nonetheless allow us to see if not what a thing is then at least what it is not and that Evil, if it is real(I think it is),would definitely harness Banality and Neutrality because at it's heart the Right decision isn't always an obvious one and that to do the Right thing we must take the chance of doing the Wrong thing and that the worst thing to do is acquiesce and fail to take part. "},{"Title":"Nothing Memorable","Date":"12 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Stigmata marks resembling the wounds of the crucified body of Christ, said to be supernaturally impressed on the bodies of certain persons, especially nuns, tertiaries, and monastics. The definition is a clear indication of the content of the movie. You have to be a fan of religious scary movies like The Exorcist and others to even begin to enjoy this movie. Of course, such movies can still be bad, but they stand no chance if you're put off by the religious slanted scary movie to begin with. I'm on the fence. Typically I'll shy away from such movies but every once in a while I'll give 'em a shot.Stigmata, invariably, goes into the religious realm as a random woman, Frankie Paige (Patricia Arquette), is afflicted with stigmata. Her affliction as well as some other occurrences are a mystery that a conflicted priest, Father Andrew Kiernan (Gabriel Byrne), is trying to solve.There were some intense moments and the movie was able to hold my attention. The performances were OK, nothing special. The movie, although decent, is nothing memorable. "},{"Title":"interesting mood but goes nowhere","Date":"1 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Father Andrew Kiernan (Gabriel Byrne) is in southern Brazil to investigate a bleeding Madonna statue. He wants to do more investigating but his superior rejects him. In America, Frankie Paige (Patricia Arquette) is a single alternative hairdresser attacked by an invisible force giving her the signs of stigmata. She gets attacked again on the subway which comes to the attention of Kiernan.I love the brooding rain-soaked Gothic atmosphere at first but the movie goes nowhere. It's not scary for one minute. It's a lot of religious hogwash. It starts off with interesting tension but slowly fades away. Her attacks are slow-motion, pounding and repetitive. After the third time, I lose interest and it slowly grinds to a halt. It becomes another possession horror without anything new or interesting. "}{"Title":"Quite Good","Date":"25 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I remember I watched this film a long time ago. And last night it was on television and I enjoyed it quite a lot. It is described as a horror but I would say it is a religious thriller in the rang of Da Vinci Code. I like historical tales, Biblical tales and horror movies and this one combines all three in one.I really liked the scenes which are made of religious images and old scripts... It makes the film more artistic which I like.The beginning of the movie is very promising and dramatical, but the ending could have been better. Though I do believe that the message of the film is great. I am not religious person but nevertheless I think it is an universal truth - whatever it means.The two leading roles are good. The secrets of Vatican are always intriguing...so... from me it is eight! "},{"Title":"Great speculation in the element of faith putting the church to the test.","Date":"28 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Although it may seem so, this is not only speculative effects and an effort to turn religion into a study of horrors. All the effects are unnecessary and actually disturbing the real argument, which is questioning the part of the church in messing up the true element of the Christian religion. Gabriel Byrne and Patricia Arquette, who both are used to these kind of roles, are both good in their parts and totally convincing, they don't have to overact at all since the artificial effects do it for them just to exaggerate the improbability and impossibility of the story, but things like these actually happen. There is no end to this story, these arguments can be debated interminably and will remain so as long as Christianity exists, and one of its greatest doubters and deepest thinkers in this issue was Teresa of Avila, who by coincidence is 500 years today. Many important facts are pointed out in the film, and of course there has to be an inquisitor on the case (Jonathan Pryce, perfect as usual). And the film does have a message of hope for the truth to ultimately prevail in spite of all. In conclusion, the film confesses to be based on the actual existence of the gospel of St. Thomas, discovered as late as in 1945, claimed by experts to be the closest to the truth, while the Vatican stigmatizes it as heresy. A very interesting film that will remain a foundation for the vital debate to remain sustained and go on interminably. "},{"Title":"not great but...","Date":"24 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" it is not one of ordinaries horrors but, in same measure, it represents expression of interesting good intentions. not credible at all but decent and interesting exercise to define the relation between every day life and religion. more than the script, it is seductive the acting. for the manner to discover the complexity of characters, for the art to be out by Hollywood recipes, for the science to not be exactly another part from The Exorcist imitations. a film about an accident, not real convincing for theologian but useful for rating. few good actors. and a kind of trip for discover the truth. not one of films in war against the Church. not scene for special effects. but a story who seems almost honest.that is all. "},{"Title":"loved it , Amazing and powerful well crafted movie","Date":"21 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Stigmata (1999)I thought I already seen movies once and could not remember anything from it before. So I gave this another got, I must of this movie confused with another movie, how could i forget about everything in this movie, it was awesome movie. I loved the movie started nice slow start with some strange happens and the movie flowed really well, Some of those scenes were really well made, and sometime it's really powerful scenes and scary at the same. The whole movie strange good feel, it creepy at times and scary at timesThe whole was a lot of fun to watch 8 out of 10 great movie "},{"Title":"Stigmata","Date":"11 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Patricia Arquette's decent performance as an atheist struck with stigmata helps a bit in this, to put it mildly, disastrous possession film with a scathing view of the Catholic Church. I'm not Catholic, but even I found this more than a bit hard to digest. Text, it seems, tells us that Christ didn't need a church to come in the middle of his relationship with us. Umm&#x85;this is kind of a belief for many of the Christian faith already. Many Christians feel there's no need for a middleman in order to have a spiritual relationship with Jesus. Anyway, Jonathan Pryce, who just doesn't have it in him to portray a character other than the stuffy, scheming, morally dubious villain, is a Cardinal willing to kill so that he can protect the church. Gabriel Byrne is a former scientist who become a priest and is sent to study Arquette's stigmata, mainly to see if he can objectively dispute her condition as just some physical malady. Arquette is a hairdresser in Pittsburgh who wants no part of the stigmata, simply wanting the marks (and all the pain and blood that comes with them, including visions) out of her life. This film is all about effects the slow motion of blood as it textures in water, a male voice speaking through Arquette's mouth as she tosses a bewildered Byrne all over her house (the house becomes a wreck and Byrne seems to take it all in stride each time she hurls him across her room), the levitation where Arquette is lifted in a crucifixion pose, and the final *groan, groan* exorcism attempt by Pryce on Arquette. The whole possession angle&#x97;that it could be a priest instead of the devil&#x97;seems rather obnoxious because if it is a man of the cloth taking control of Arquette why would he question Byrne's spirituality, make a pass at him, and throttle him to and fro all over an apartment? Why would such spiritual enlightenment occur as if it were pangs and throngs of absolute agony? Ultimately, Arquette speaks in a foreign tongue, pins odd symbols to her wall that reads of the Gospel That the Vatican Doesn't Appreciate, and bleeds a lot. So many scenes where she's bedridden with blood wiped away by Byrne at her bedside, that damned bowl of water right there to be photographed artistically. There's plenty of extravagant effects, cinematography, sound effects, and a loud score to try and pound away at our sensibilities. I return to Arquette I think she was good casting in a film that doesn't deserve her, really. Byrne gives his best serious face to all the possession shenanigans that test even the most sincere actor's poise. A considerable waste of Hollywood resources&#x85;this is a broken record complaint, isn't it? "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Movie with Absurd Pop Video Stylishness","Date":"9 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A priest from the Vatican, Father Andrew Kiernan (Gabriel Byrne) is sent to Sao Paulo, Brazil to investigate the appearance of the face of the Virgin Mary on the side of a building. While there he hears of a statue of the Virgin Mary bleeding tears in a small town outside of the city after the death of another priest. Meanwhile, a young woman in the United States of America, Frankie Paige (Patricia Arquette) begins to show signs of stigmata, the five wounds of Jesus Christ.For a movie that was just made in 1999, Stigmata is quite dated. The cinematography is good, but some sequences are shot in a pop video style which was all the rage back in the 90's and it gets very ridiculous at times. I'm not a Christian, but the movie is anti-church, but not anti-god. There's a galore of conspiracy by the church which isn't exactly news to anybody. There's a lot of symbolism here though. I loved the water droplets scene which was symbolic of a non-believer like Patricia Arquette's character getting baptized after she slowly started to admit there might be a higher entity (I think all so-called 'Gods' were probably aliens or advanced human beings). It encourages you to question and ponder about what you believe is the truth.The quote 'the Kingdom of God is inside you, and all around you, not in mansions of wood and stone. Split a piece of wood... and I am there, lift a stone... and you will find me' is somewhat similar to what the oldest religion (a very loose term to define it) in the world, Hinduism, which is rooted in Vedic tradition says - 'Aham Brahmasmi' - 'I am God' and thereby, everywhere, everything and everyone (trees, animals, humans, space among countless other things) has a God inside themselves and we just have to adhere to a moral code. I just find religions very intriguing. The main drawbacks of the movie are the music, the stylized shots and the very annoying Hollywood ending. Its an enjoyable movie with good performances by the actors though.7/10 "},{"Title":"Aims Too High","Date":"5 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" There's much going on in this Horror Movie, maybe too much. In its effort to make a scary, Mystic, Religio/Politico Film it becomes a bit muddled and ambiguous. The best parts being the Vatican cover-up of Ancient Documents Damming the Church and their efforts, and at all costs, to keep things hush-hush.It is, if anything, a stylish affair of the Soul, Beliefs and Dogma intertwined with Possession, of sorts, and something about Faith and lack thereof. This is quite a bit to handle and it is obvious that the Style overcomes the Substance as things unfold.The Movie is not without its energy and some of what comes through about Ancient Mysteries, Languages, and Saints is intriguing. But there is just too much going on here and things tend to get purged of their importance, or for that matter, their meaning.It is partly effective and has its Charm, is high on razzle-dazzle, and in the end becomes just too leaden and that keeps it from attaining its destination of predetermined lofty heights. "},{"Title":"Catholic-bashing biblical horror.","Date":"29 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Patricia Arquette plays Frankie Paige, a trendy, alternative young woman who lives on her own in a massive Pittsburgh loft apartment decorated with all manner of cool, designer furniture and ornaments. And she's a hairdresser in a beauty parlour/tattoo studio. If you can swallow that, then you should have no problem with the film's supernatural storyline, which sees Frankie displaying signs of the stigmata after becoming possessed by the spirit of a dead priest who is determined to reveal the secrets of a 5th gospel written by Jesus himself immediately before his crucifixion.Stigmata is a reasonably entertaining piece of religious horror nonsense thanks to fine performances from its excellent lead cast, which also includes Gabriel Byrne as miracle debunking priest Father Andrew Kiernan, and Jonathan Pryce as a Vatican Cardinal trying to protect the Catholic church at all costs. What prevents the film from being a more successful affair is the distracting style of director Rupert Wainwright, who conducts proceedings as if he was making a music video for MTV. Yes, the visuals are aesthetically impressive, with stunning lighting and some flashy editing, but they don't suit the material and prove very distracting.After much thrashing around by Arquette as she suffers the stigmata wounds amidst dripping water, flapping doves and shafts of blue light, and some weak Exorcist-style possession scenes, the film wraps things up nicely with the message that you don't need churches to worship God, for he is everywhere. Oh, and the notion that the Catholic church is a massively corrupt organisation heavily involved in all manner of conspiracies. Nothing new there then. "},{"Title":"The trailer was the only thing to let down this movie!","Date":"31 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" It has been years since I first watched this film, however, I never watched the trailer before hand. My dad suggested it to me shortly after its DVD release as I wouldn't have been old enough at the time.It was an incredible film that left me feeling tense, not scared at any points to recall, I really don't believe this film was meant to be a horror at all, so anyone reviewing it as Not scary enough doesn't really make sense to me... this film has a strong storyline with interesting characters, jumpy BOO scenes would ruin the atmosphere of the film.The alternative endings are interesting to watch too... I remember feeling teary at points in the film, it also felt rather psychological to me, which I love films like K-Pax and Mysterious Skin for as well. I think if you want more of an alternative Horror film, this is definitely a recommended one. But don't expect to feel scared...The only major fault I had was the trailer, which I watched recently when trying to explain to my boyfriend why this should be added to one of our Movie nights. MY GOD WAS IT A BAD TRAILER. No wonder people felt disappointed/mislead. The trailer to me implies it will be a jumpy film and tries to be far too much like the Exorcist, when honestly it is nothing like The Exorcist in my opinion.I was incredibly shocked to see this only has a 6 rating... I was expecting to see around the 7.5-8 mark for this... So please, don't judge it by the trailer. Or the reviews about it not being scary or not a lot happening, it's not meant to be that type of film.It also has a fantastic soundtrack! "},{"Title":"I call upon you to release this woman.....","Date":"18 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A priest from the Vatican is sent to Sao Paulo, Brazil to investigate the appearance of the face of the Virgin Mary on the side of a building.While there he hears of a statue of the Virgin Mary bleeding tears in a small town outside of the city.Meanwhile, a young woman in the U.S. begins to show signs of stigmata, the wounds of Christ.The priest from the Vatican links up with her and cares for her as she is increasingly afflicted by the stigmata.Her ranting and raving finally begins to make sense to the priest who starts to question what his religion has stood for for the last 1900 years.....Stigmata is not a scary film. In fact, it's quite difficult to put this movie into a genre. Unless there was a 'heavily edited, made to look like a music video type' movie, because this is what basically the film is, all style and no substance.But it's quite endearing thanks to the two leads.Arquette is Alabama from True Romance without the fun or adrenalin, and Byrne is basically the same character from End of days, but playing for a different team.And we spend the duration of the film watcing arquette get wounded and everyone thinking she is mad, apart from Byrne, who thinks she is revealing something that happened at the time of the Crucifixion.But Jonathon Pryce won't let him go deeper, because he's still fresh from bad guy duty in 'Tomorrow never dies'.It's a confusing film, but done with a lot of class, and a lot good camera work.If more had gone into the story than the effects, we would have had a winner, but we just have, a great pop promo without the song "}{"Title":"God gave rock n roll to you.","Date":"3 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Stigmata is directed by Rupert Wainwright and stars Patricia Arquette, Gabriel Byrne, Jonathan Price & Nia Long. It's written by Tom Lazarus & Rick Ramage, music by Billy Corgan and cinematography is from Jeffrey L. Kimball.Just what does Stigamata want to be? Does it want to scare us? Does it want to educate and open our eyes to religious possibilities? Maybe it is trying to just cast a scornful eye on the Vatican? The truth is that it's most likely trying to be those things and more, but it neither manages to shock or engage as a piece of artistic film. With its muddled plotting and pop video production it just comes across as an extended MTV video interlaced with some religious guff and gore. To be fair there's a good core story in there somewhere, the whole basis of stigmata (someone suffering the five wounds suffered by Christ at his Crucifixion) is very interesting, and frightening. While the thread of a Vatican conspiracy is certainly worthy of some interest. But sadly these motifs are lost as pop video helmer-cum-director Wainwright submerges them in a sea of visual overkill and force fed religious imagery.The visuals are fine technically, even if the director is using many of them just to show off it seems. While both Arquette (non believing hairdresser receiving the stigmata) and Byrne (uber cool catholic celibate investigative priest) give it a good go as their characters are unbelievably brought together emotionally. But this just ends up like The Exorcist on Acid, flashy without heart and noisy to the point of irritation. A religious rock video that forgot to accompany a story. At the box office the film made a decent profit, helped no end by a huge opening weekend when the public went in intrigued by the premise of this latest horror movie ( it was released halfway thru The Sixth Sense's successful run). It also never hurts to have some controversy to help entice the paying customer. The Vatican naturally scolded the film all told, be it the relationship between the two leads, the Vatican character's approach to the victim, or the Aramaic scroll thread denial, it was not a happy Vatican. While some of the thematic links between possession and stigmata raised a few clerical eyebrows too.In better hands behind the camera and with more restraint shown in the writing, this could have been a supernatural classic to herald the arrival of the new millennium.Sadly the poor reputation it has these days is very much well deserved. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Gripping, suspenseful, and beautiful direction !","Date":"12 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I'm a huge fan of spiritual films, such as The Omen, Exorcist, etc. And I think Stigmata should be mentioned in the same breath as those classic films before it. Although, I disagree that this is the Exorcist re-make. It is far more scientific, and intellectual.Stigmata was a bit of a What if movie. It even explains that the Stigmata wounds suffered by the woman could be iconic, or symbolic, yet she does physically suffer the wounds. For instance, Leprosy was known to be a disease caused by spiritual possession. As for the cuts and gashes, not sure I believe in those. However, I do believe that a person can lose blood if possessed by an unholy spirit, or perhaps the holy spirit as well. For example, one can become anemic and lose a pint of blood every few days, without cuts or gashes. Blood can just vanish inside the body.This movie makes you think a lot, especially about the 6th gospel and it's hard to figure out why Jesus didn't have a gospel in the Holy Bible. Its something that a devout Christian like me wonders about often. But like the priest in the movie says, the closer you get the God, the more pain The acting was great in this film by the entire cast, both supporting actors and main cast. The direction, the atmosphere, all very good. It is a horror film for sure, there were some creepy scenes in this film comparable to ones seen in the Exorcist. All in all, very inspiring story telling. Fiction, or non-fiction is up to the viewer, regardless, still very entertaining and thought provoking.8/10 , a must watch ! "},{"Title":"Rock out, I guess...","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A typical, atheist, New York woman is just going about her life, liking being me, when suddenly she starts having seizures... and after the fits wakes up to find wounds on her that match the wounds received by Christ. An investigative priest comes to figure out what's happening, and the two set out to discover what's happening, ultimately uncovering a big Vatican conspiracy.The movie has a lot going for it, especially with an untypical character receiving the stigmata and the great cast it has built up (Patricia Arquette and Jonathan Pryce especially). It also has Billy Corgan of the Smashing Pumpkins doing the score, but that apparent benefit is also one of the film's minor failings... A score should undertone and strengthen a film's drama, but this movie with its excessive (and repetitive) fast-paced editing, directorial fat, and overfocus on the music makes it seem much more like an hour and a half long music video.That's cool if you're wanting a music video. However, I don't imagine many people approach this film from this direction. I would have preferred more focus on the rest of the craft of the movie, but that's just me.It's also slightly predictable in that not-good-predictable way. There's one scene that seems kind of excessive but is foreshadowed earlier, though that doesn't mean it was necessary. Overall the film just got too caught up with being some visual/musicy slamfest to slow down and think about what it was trying to do.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"How is your faith these days?","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I'm not really keen on catholic movies, but I watched Stigmata and I have to admit, I really enjoyed it.It tells us the story of Frankie, a common American young woman who loves going out, hanging around with her boyfriend and having a good fun. She leads a normal life, and as she says, she loves it. And she doesn't believe in God but when she starts suffering from stigmata, her life changes totally and the question What if God really exists? becomes really important.Both Patricia Arquette and Gabriel Byrne have done a really good job. Byrne is very convincing as a priest who struggles between his faith and emotional attachment that he's developed with Frankie. And Arquette? Wow, you need to be REALLY dedicated to your job to do something like that. Many people say, that this movie, is pathetic and abusive for those who believe.And maybe it's true. But it is, as well, one of those films that once you've watched it, you want to see it again and again and it certainly gets you thinking...How is your faith these days? Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"god-holyspirit-humans, see the connection?","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  to me, this film was an attempt to modernize our understanding of the corruptions that can occur in religion. It was made to entertain us, and maybe even to remind us, that we need to go within ourselves, then ask the holy spirit to connect us to god, then maybe even receive some divine guidence for our lives.  A self reliant search would be more enriching than a fanatical religious leaders demands.  "},{"Title":"A good poke at organised religion","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film. I must say that I can't understand who would have made this film. You wouldn't make it to do well at the box office. It's not a horror film. It's not a who-done-it. It's a simple way to poke a stick at organised religion. The bottom line for me is it tells how its not a sin to believe in God and NOT go to church.The film tells the story in a sort of Exorcist vs Ghost style. The acting and script are fine. It's entertaining and worth a watch so long as you're not expecting Freddy vs Jason (?). I've bought the DVD so I can't give it a better rating than that. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Not a great movie, but good nonetheless. Patricia Arquette isn't a a great actress, and there is no way in hell she could pull off playing a 22 year old.  Also, the overtly trendy cinematography, while aesthetically pleasing, didn't really match the tone of the movie.  Other than that, it kept me entertained...and the story was relatively interesting.  But don't watch it if you have problems with suspending your disbelief or are offending by sacrilege.   "},{"Title":"Highly recommended, but maybe not for the faint hearted or devote Catholics!","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The story of a terrible affliction which suddenly begins to take over a young woman's life. An historic phenomena, the Stigmata. From the very beginning this film uses colourful artistic imagery combined with a historic religious storyline. Set in a modern context, it challenges the true meaning of religion. At times this film delves into real horror and has you on the edge of your seat. A well crafted film which is both highly enjoyable to watch, challenging and thought provoking.  "},{"Title":"Anti-church movie","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*Patricia Arquette bleeds and screams a lot.  See, she's possessed.  When you find out by who, (not a demon or the devil), you'll realize that this is not a horror movie but a wacky anti-Catholic Church movie.  It is far too serious for a supposed to be horror flick.   Or is it supposed to be?  It sure was sold that way.  It's very disappointing to have a possession movie and no horror.    So she starts breaking out with a case of the Stigmatas. Who knew you could catch it like a virus? Dr. Gabriel Byrne, (a priest), comes to check her out and gives her his diagnosis  Why you can't have the Stigmatas because you have no faith!!  But doc, it's Stigmata season!  There's a lot of it going around!  Byrne does what he can and runs into church politics and the viewer is bored.  Too uneven,(is it horror, is it drama, is it a slam on the Catholic Church, is it trying to make my head hurt with all this screaming and loud music?), to be enjoyable. "},{"Title":"I'll be buying this on DVD","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I thought this movie was awesome.  I would say that I'm spiritual, but I do not practice any particular religion/faith.  Perhaps this isn't the best made/produced film in history, but I found it to be an immensely thought-provoking movie.  There are already over 300 comments listed, so I'm not going to say anything about the acting, directing, cinemetography, music, story, etc.  I'll just say that for ME, this movie was riveting from beginning to end...and it left me thinking and wondering about many things; not many movies do that.  A movie that leaves one asking questions or makes one question what is around them is pretty uncommon -- at least for me -- and this feeling will probably stay with me for a long time.  The gorgeous Gabriel Byrne is a major plus as well. "}{"Title":"A sucky movie","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Man oh man do I hat these religious movies. And it's not because I'm an atheist, it's because they're just so predictable, so boring and so exactly the same. End of days anyone, not only were both these movies made in 1999, Gabryel Byrne stars in both of them. ????? And Fallen  isn't much better either. These movies are made on the same principle,dark mood. "},{"Title":"Who has the truth and what is the fiction?","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  There are many stories over the centuries of repression by the Vatican. So many in fact that you can't help but think that aspects of this story are factual. This film is not the Exorsist and neither is it an Evil Dead film. Its a thriller based around a religious conflict. I must have seen this film four times because of work and it always has an appeal.Something this film doesn't receive enough credit for is its photography and photgraphic direction. The scene when Patricia has her first stigmatic attack was amazing, the underwater pan along her body and the subsequent attack is breath taking.Very strong performances from all concerned and a well composed script. The comments about a weak ending are perhaps based on a slip in the direction. It maintains the plot until the end, but perhaps it ends a little abruptly.  "},{"Title":"Flawed, but spiritually significant","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The flaws I speak of are in the filming.  The director made a few errors, there are things that you will wonder about (such as the MTV type music), and some of the filming is choppy.  If you can put all of this aside...Then you'll find out that this movie is very spiritually significant. There are comments that this is a Catholic movie, or a possession movie.  They are incorrect.  This is a movie about the gospels - ALL of the gospels.  Do some follow up on your own about Thomas, and the Nag Hammadi scrolls.  These do exist - and their very existance shakes the foundation of not just the Catholic church, but of ALL organized religions.Gabriel Byrne is such an impressive actor, who is often in films of similar vein.  All in all, at least in our opinion, this is a film that should make you think - which means that most of the hoi polloi won't get it in the least. "},{"Title":"the gospel of Saint thomas is NOT JUST ANOTHER GOSPEL!!!","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  having watched this movie for the first time, and having once been raised a Catholic, I found it interesting to read the tone of some orf the other review writers.  One came across with the opinion that the st. Thomas gospel is just one more, and not much different from the four in the new testament. HELLO!!! The four existent gospels were part of a very mystically oriented, 'fundamentalist leaning faction of the early church which (as absolutists all thru history have tended to succeed in doing)came to hold sway, and become the gospel truth.  Now, as some of these writers have stated, the thomas gospel is just one more then why did the vatican find it necessary to declare it and the contents of the dead sea scrolls to be heresy.  Cant have it both ways guys.  No, the truth that got covenientlyLOST "},{"Title":"You know, it's not really supposed to be a scary movie...","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I remember back when the previews were on tv for this...That, It will scare the hell into you. tagline they kept using was totally off the mark.  This movie is actually a philosophical, religious film---that has a love story in it. It's actually the love story that's sweet, and touching in a gently quiet way---and the simplicity of it makes it all the more profound and important overall to the film.As for the religious aspect---(from Hollywood's perspective---which to true Catholics must've seemed cartoonish at times) it was effective and dramatic and the reason for all or most of the action in the film.And the philosophical aspects which were somewhat tied to religion---hey, they made you think.  Myself, having not been raised with any religion at all---some of it really made sense to me and my ideas of what God and Heaven are all about.It's not a perfect movie---and if you're looking, it's not hard to find the flaws---but for me, there was something very appealing about this movie---it's use of symbolism may be interpreted different ways---and was kind of interesting...and I think the cast overall, did a good job, and at some points---a great job.  There are reasons to rip on this movie and reasons to really like it---and everybody will either fall into one of the two categories after seeing it.  But there's absolutely no reason to be scared by this movie---it was marketed all wrong---it's not a thriller.  It's imbued with qualities of a horror film but that's the one thing it just isn't.P.S. if you can't stand MTV style editing you should probably steer clear altogether---me I don't mind it, in fact I rather like it as an interesting alternative to smooth, mainstream film editing.  "},{"Title":"This movie is about as Catholic as Col. Qaddafi","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The concept of this movie was good for a religious adventure story in the tradition of the 7th Seal and the Omen series, and for those who might not know much about Christian Theology or the Roman Catholic Church.  However, the emphasis on The Kingdom of God being in you...  as a subversive statement to all Christianity isn't revolutionary or antiChurch at all; it is actually found in the Holy Bible itself in the Gospel according to St. John!  In addition, the Gospel according to St. Thomas (which is cited in the movie) isn't a mysterious prophetic book from the crypt that threatens to destroy the Church.  It's an extra Scriptural book that never made it even into the apocrypha--and not because it echoes the Bible in saying The Kingdom of God is within you.  Otherwise, Patricia Arquette is pretty hot, Fr. Kiernan and her cut a striking pair, and Cardinal Houseman's character is that of the defender of the faith at all costs.  Stigmata is an interesting movie that is interesting in regard to hypothesizing about political dealings in the Church and minor aspects of Christian Theology but more grossly inaccurate and fictitious in regard to these things.       "},{"Title":"easy to watch despite many flaws","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I watched the film for the first time when it was released on video a couple of years ago and once again last week on DVD. I often enjoy Patricia Arquette's acting but this time something did not work out. It wasn't bad acting actually, the trouble is that her character is too shallow and not very well written (&#133;or maybe she was miscast). However, Gabriel Byrne and Jonathan Pryce gave rather good performances and they somehow managed to make up a little bit for it but it did not fully succeed for me overall. The  blood and gore scenes were for the most part quite tame, only few of them were really good and you're likely to enjoy them if you're into this sort of thing (they are far from being as good as in `the exorcist' anyway). As far as the score is concerned I rather enjoy this kind of pop-rock soundtrack but only for slasher teen flicks, here it does not blend at all and even sucked sometimes. I  guess a classical score would have suited better in some scenes. One last thing, I lived ten years in Brazil and although I do speak the language fluently I could not understand the dialogues in the beginning of the movie&#133; Why ? Because they chose Mexican actors to speak portuguese and it just does not work at all. In my opinion the film is somewhat overrated but still easy to watch despite its many flaws. 5/10 stars P.S.  Watch out for the goof scene when Patricia is in the bathtub, her wrists are already bleeding before the whole goddamn thing starts !  "},{"Title":"easy to watch despite many flaws","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I watched the film for the first time when it was released on video a couple of years ago and once again last week on DVD. I often enjoy Patricia Arquette's acting but this time something did not work out. It wasn't bad acting actually, the trouble is that her character is too shallow and not very well written (.or maybe she was miscast). However, Gabriel Byrne and Jonathan Pryce gave rather good performances and they somehow managed to make up a little bit for it but it did not fully succeed for me overall. The blood and gore scenes were for the most part quite tame, only few of them were really good and you're likely to enjoy them if you're into this sort of thing (they are far from being as good as in `the exorcist' anyway). As far as the score is concerned I rather enjoy this kind of pop-rock soundtrack but only for slasher teen flicks, here it does not blend at all and even sucked sometimes. I  guess a classical score would have suited better in some scenes. One last thing, I lived ten years in Brazil and although I do speak the language fluently I could not understand the dialogues in the beginning of the movie. Why ? Because they chose Mexican actors to speak portuguese and it just does not work at all. In my opinion the film is somewhat overrated but still easy to watch despite its many flaws. 5/10 stars "},{"Title":"The Scariest Movie I've Seen In A Long Time.","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"     When I rented this I was thinking I wouldn't care for it that much, but I was wrong. This movie was really scary. Okay, they did kind of make the movie feel like a copy of The Exorcist but it really wasn't that bad. Patricia Arquette is a very underrated actress who was great in her part as Frankie. Gabriel Byrne was also great as Father Kiernan, and Nia Long was also good as Frankie's best friend Donna. This movie was about Frankie who starts to develop mysterious wounds, like those of Christ, and then a priest is sent in, and concludes that Frankie has Stigmata. This movie wasn't as great as The Exorcist but was very entertaining and really scary. If you want to scare the heck out of you, watch this movie along with The Exorcist, and see how scared you get then. I give Stigmata a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The messenger must be silenced","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Whilst I am not Catholic, I am a Christian, and  to see what the Catholic faith is all about from the Hollywood perspective in a movie was quite an experience. A stigmata is someone who is believed to be inflicted with the injuries that Christ received when he was crucified on the cross.  Whether this is true or not I am not sure, but the movie Stigmata is one film that I know will stick in my mind for a long time to come.A lost soul has just received the wounds of Christ&#133;and a shocking message that will alter history. Frankie Paige is a bold free-spirit with no cares, no worries and absolutely no faith in God. All of that is about to change when suddenly she begins to suffer the stigmata &#150; living wounds of the crucified Christ. She soon comes to the attention of the Vatican's top investigator, Father Kiernan, and also a corrupt Church official, Cardinal Houseman, who discovers that Frankie is actually channeling an earth-shattering message that could destroy the Church. He is convinced that she &#150; must be silenced. Kiernan will now risk his life to save not only the Roman Catholic Church, but the destiny of mankind forever. This movie had a very impressive cast. Firstly, the main starring role of Frankie Paige was played by a rather unknown actor to me, that of the gorgeous Patricia Arquette. It was a role that required her to be two people, and she pulled it off. I love the quote she says, and it is the one quote I walk away from the film with, that of `Do you know what's scarier than not believing in God? Believing in him. I mean, really f__king believing in him is terrifying because if there is a God, he hates me'. Patricia was also good in the Adam Sandler comedy, Little Nicky.The other main stars include veteran actor Gabriel Byrnes, who played Father Andrew Kiernan. It was great to see a Catholic Priest standing up for something that he believed in, though it did go against what the church wanted. I have seen Byrnes in other films such as End Of days (and ironically he played Satan in that film) and Enemy of the State. Byrnes role was great and makes me fascinated to see more of him. The bad guy in this film was actor Jonathon Pryce, who was great as the corrupt priest, trying to undermine the whole case for Father Kiernan. I loved Pryce in his other bad guy role in the James Bond film, Tomorrow Never Dies. The last actor I want talk about is the beautiful Nia Long. She was great as the concerned girlfriend of Frankie. I liked her in the funny comedy Big Momma's House alongside comedian Martin Lawrence. There were many scenes in this movie that I will never forget. If a person really goes through the experience of the Stigmata, then what an experience it is. This movie portrayed it very well. A lot of praise has to go firstly to director, Rupert Wainwright, who I feel got everything right for this project, but he did have some help. His producer, Frank Mancuso Jr, also had a big say in what went on with this film. In addition the scenes where we the audience see Frankie go through the Stigmata experience were brilliantly brought to the screen by cinematographer Jeffery L. Kimbell. I enjoyed the scenes in the bath, train and in the nightclub especially. Also the many different camera angles with this movie made me have to take extreme care when it came to watching this film, or I might have missed out on an important event in the film. Furthermore, the script was well written, especially how the story focuses on Frankie and her circumstances and how she is a victim of the Stigmata.Religion is a very touchy subject at any place, anytime, anywhere in the world with this movie proving that to be so. This movie also reminds me of two other films which follow the same sort of religious ideals, that of End Of Days, which I enjoyed and The Exorcist, which I found extremely hard to take. Look whether you believe in the Stigmata or not, this is a film I believe anyone can enjoy and take something from. Watch it and make up your own mind. I liked it. Goodbye and God Bless You!Rating 4.5 Stars or 9/10    "}{"Title":"It had potential but mostly failed","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Rating 4 out of 10Usually when I say a movie is weird, it is more than likely that the way I say weird, the movie had some sort of disturbing formula tat sticks in my head and gets me to think about the credibility and what have you. After watching Stigmata I made the comment that was a weird movie. My reasons for saying that was not because it contained anything that I previously mentioned, but because this movie barely made any sense and was basically a flop. It was a shame too because there was so much potential for this one but it all flew out the window. To my knowledge, movies that had anything regarding the afflictions of stigmata are very scarce, so there was the potential to make an excellent film. But in my opinion, this film was put into the wrong hands and never turned out as good as it could and should have been.For starters, this film had some the absolute worst plot holes I have ever seen in any movie. The fact that a self-declared atheist has received stigmata is never explored or defined and that just adds a sense of confusion rather than mystery. At least some films that pull off that formula have some remote, indirect sense of an explanation but leaves the viewer to put together a puzzle of clues and whatnot and draw their own conclusion such as The Blair Witch Project so brilliantly did. But the fact that an atheist just all of a sudden receives stigmata (and becomes possessed) just because her mother gave her the rosary of a dead priest just doesn't cut it. Furthermore, the Catholic Church is horribly portrayed as a bunch of corrupt priests that attempt cover-ups or even murder to keep a secret.To add to the problem, there were some big problems in the casting. There are basically only three characters that have a major part in this. Nia Long who plays Frankie's best friend does a good job with her role but just suddenly disappears half-way through the film and never returns. The same holds true for Frankie's boyfriend where the only part he's in is having sex with Frankie in the opening montage. That leaves us with another problem now that I mention montage. In the opening scene, little snippets of biblical pictures are cut into the film and according to the director's commentary on the DVD are significant because those are the images that linger in the back of Frankie's head. This same situation holds true each time Frankie receives a stigmata wound. Supposedly whenever this happens, Frankie receives information in some supernatural manner as to what's happening to her. But the thing is, no one would understand the deep meaning to the plot unless the viewer listens to the director's commentary on the DVD, otherwise, such material is confusing and makes no sense. Also in the film as Frankie becomes more deeply possessed, there are little scenery clues that she is changing more and more. Like when she and Father Kiernan are in her apartment, you can see in the background that her bathroom wall is painted red when it was originally another color but Frankie never mentions that she actually painted the wall (that was another piece of info. from the DVD commentary). So unless anyone listens to this infamous commentary, moments like the one mentioned would most likely be regarded as continuity rather than a clue dropped along in the plot.The only reason I give Stigmata a 4 out of 10 was because it was visually fun to watch. It has an MTV-esquire atmosphere (with a great techno-ish soundtrack) and works quite well (it is usually used when Frankie is attacked) and adds a great creepiness factor. Also, (yes, another snippet from the commentary) the director brilliantly plays with colors on the screen to make something pop out which is very effective. For example, when Frankie is first taken to the hospital after the stigmata wounds on her wrists, the main colors in the ER are blue and green which makes Frankie's spurting blood flow stand out and that formula works quite well. Also, the performances by Patricia Arquette and Gabriel Byrne are exceptional. Unfortunately the previously mentioned problems stand up above the good things about this movie which leaves me to give Stigmata a 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Eerie, spooky and clever - Stigmata was well worth the time.","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  STIGMATA (1999) Rating 7/10While it's certainly no Exorcist, Stigmata is a successful film that engaged me enough to give it an above average rating. I watched this film with a bunch of friends and I don't think they enjoyed it very much. But I really liked this film. I think if you look closer into the movie, just try to enjoy it and see its message then I'm sure you will be able to appreciate the film a lot more. Stigmata is surprisingly very intelligent. It explains with excellent cleverness exactly what is happening to the main character. The film also searches into the depths of religions and pulls out things we never knew about and some great philosophies about God. The movie is also visually stunning. We get slow motion, blood and water drips splashing spookily, statues crying and brilliant makeup and special effects. When you see what is happening to Frankie as a retread of what happened to God while he was on the cross, you feel like you can actually hear the whip lashing, or feeling the nails going into your wrists. So, the movie is smart, intriguing, looks great and has an interesting moral. What more do you want? Perhaps the movie could've cut the romance story, which really peeved me off, and there were a couple of boring parts. The end sort of leaves on an unexciting note. However, the big picture is a movie that has a great meaning and terrified me with its scenes of intense violence. This movie is not for the faint-hearted and hard-out Christians, but I recommend Patricia Arquette fans, thriller and supernatural movie fans and people who enjoy good visuals and eerie settings to watch Stigmata.   "},{"Title":"Not a Half-Bad Picture Show","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Forgiving the fact that Stigmata is based on fraudulent texts, puts an ancient curse in a modern city, and baffles the viewer in a variety of other ways, it wasn't that bad.  I liked it.  It was clearly the worst biblical drama I'd ever seen, and it was loaded with continuity problems to boot; by the end, if you have not completely suspended your disbelief, you've got problems.  Patricia Arquette has sex appeal, and Gabriel Byrne has a real crisis of conscience; should he fall in love, or remain faithful?  He probably thinks to himself No, I'm a priest, I won't, Oh..maybe, when he sees down Arquette's all too obvious cleavage.  Oh well, the movie is a little ridiculous, but I'd like to see the titles again; those were coool!  Finally, a movie about the bible for my generation.  Thanks Rupert!  By the way, it's not all fun and games-be forewarned-there are some truly nasty scenes that will give you the jim-jams something awful. Rating 6/10 (What do you expect in a movie with Johnathan Pryce as an Archbishop-he's sort of an idiot) "},{"Title":"Great fun for the whole Church!","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I watched this movie with my fiancee after she begged me.  I expected to be offended.  I was pleasantly surprised.  I have to say that this film is the closest thing to a Christian movie (with the exception of Left Behind) to hit the theaters in a long time.  Prince of Egypt would be a close second, though it was more concerned with the Abrahamic traditions (including Judaism, Christianity, Islam, and others) than specifically Christianity.  Stigmata, however, made clever use of Christian concepts as well as popular folklore concerning the Roman Catholic Church, interwoven with excellent pop culture elements.  More than that, even with its non-traditional theologies and theorizing, it still portrayed Christianity with a more liberating spirit than I expected.  No, I did not agree with most of the ideas pervading the movie.  However, the ending of the movie is very powerful, an interesting commentary on modern Christianity.The quotes from the Gospel of Thomas, an early text not from the mainline Christian lineage (which has given us all our modern denominations) but from an Egyptian man named Didymus Judas Thomas (or Judas the Twin, as Didymus and Thomas are the Greek and Semitic words for twin, respectively) who belonged to a group outcast from the Church for their heretical beliefs, are among the most beautiful in the book and the least controversial.  The Gospel of Thomas is filled with statements which are enigmatic and often in opposition to the traditions of the New Testament as has been handed down to us, but these quotes are well-chosen and confrontational (See Thomas 77, Scholars Version).The entire film is centered around the character, Frankie Paige, who receives the Stigmata.  It is definitely a thrilling movie!  Do not, however, take it to be either devoid of value for religious faith or a statement of Christianity.  This is neither.  Clearly, the intent was to entertain people with a religious theme in mind.  This is not theologically neutral, but it is not for or against Christianity either.  I recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys thrillers.  And fellow Christians, don't be intimidated by the possibility for blasphemy.Peace! "},{"Title":"S is for Stigmata...","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  E is for Exorcist knock-off. M is for MTV editing overkill. A is for Madame Arquette who again is the best thing in whatever she appears in, though at times I thought she was a little flat...the Linda Blair role is kinda limiting anyway you slice it. T is for Book of Thomas which is hardly controversial, basically it's Christ as talking head, nothing terribly new it in, and scholars can't even agree on how old it is, who wrote it or why. Typical biblical scholarship fighting. It's okay but hardly 'John' or 'Matthew'. B is for Gabriel Byrne who winds up in both Armageddon flix-this and the Ah-nold one. The guy is a pro, I thought he was better than his material in either one. P is for Johnathon Pryce, I half expected him to be runover by an Infiniti. E is for exploitive 'cute blonde has hots for Priest' scene-How many times do we need to see Hollywood mock Catholics for this? C'mon guys, drop it already. It's not like the typical Celeb lifestyle is a better alternative. Paging Madonna... **1/2 is the rating I give it. A good time filler, eye candy, little tossed together at times.  "},{"Title":"great flick","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata was really good. The special effects were really cool. The plot was pretty good. I thought it was a lot better then the movie End of Days. The acting was pretty decent. I'll admit it wasn't no Exorcist but still pretty good. I recommend this move to anyone who likes a good horror movie.  "},{"Title":"Great visual, lesser story","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata is a fascinating film, maybe not for its story and theme, but for its spectacular visuals and stunning photography. What the movie lacks in depth and perspective is made up for in looks - an idea that traditionally doesn't work this well.I wouldn't go so far as to call this film controversial, it's merely provoking a little. The Vatican is depicted as a bunch of hypocrites who must suppress the Gospel of St. Thomas (or an equivalent made up for the film), a text said to contain the actual words of Jesus Christ himself, and that does exist but the church has refused to recognize its meaning. I doubt it would bring down the catholic church, even with the mock contents that Stigmata airs - so the plot is really thin in that department. The fact that the cardinal seems hell bent on destroying the girl, or at least exorcise her, is another detail that seems a bit thin if the spirit of Almeida traveled Pittsburgh by means of his rosary (!), wouldn't it be safe to consider that the spirit could possess someone else - or indeed something else - if compelled to leave Frankie's body?The film is at some parts cynical, boiling down to the revenge and ultimate redemption theme it's all about Almeida bringing cardinal Houseman down and getting the true words of Jesus Christ out into the open - and again, I fail to see why the church as an institution would fall. It seems as if the cardinal (or rather the script author) has got the institution of the church and the church buildings mixed up somehow - I mean, if, and I quote The kingdom of God is within you and all around you, doesn't that mean that places of worship are merely unnecessary in the process of communicating with God? Churches will still be necessary for those seeking comfort, aid and someone to speak to about religious and ethical matters. In fact, the statements of the Gospel that Frankie writes in Arameic on her wall are nothing new and not really so dramatic in its implications. They would not bring down the catholic church.Anyway, besides these rather serious plot holes, the film is spectacular and interesting to watch. The acting is excellent, I always enjoy Gabriel Byrne and Jonathan Pryce, and Patricia Arquette portrays very well the girl who is caught between anger and submission, faith and atheism, humility and her rough party life. A pretty good film, no more, no less. If one can accept the thin story. "},{"Title":"Stigmatized by big problems","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie has major, insurmountable problems1. The main character manages to `catch' the stigmata because her mother gives her a rosary.  Huh?  The stigmata is a virus? 2. She is supposed to be a messenger of Christ, but is slowly and painfully being killed.  How does this mesh with the the good God the movie seems to champion? 3. The movie states early on that only deeply religious people can have the stigmata.  And yet, the main character is an atheist.  Movies should play fair with their own rules. 4. As usual, agents of the Vatican are portrayed as conspirators and murderers.  The moment we see Jonathan Pryce we know the movie is moving in that direction. 5. Worse of all, the mystery document that the movie posits as threatening the existence of the church is nothing new.  It has been around for years, and has continually been discounted by reputable scholars as being a distortion of the true gospel by a splinter group known as `gnostics.'  Even if there were proof that it was a valid document, the words of Jesus quoted in it are enigmatic enough that they would hardly threaten the institutional church.Having said this, Director Rupert Wainwright has a strong visual style (although a little less rain would help), and Patricia Arquette and Gabriel Byrne give good performances.  "},{"Title":"Crucify This","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A pretty lame movie.  Other than some special effects and quick editing the movie plods along and we wait for The Exorcist spurt of blood or whatever to keep it going.  Too much rain/water effects/blood sogs the movie down. The casting is rather uninspired.  Haven't we seen it before? "},{"Title":"This movie was not shot in Pittsburgh!","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I was somewhat disappointed in this movie, but not because of the Catholic doctrine or philosophy. The characters made frequent reference to Pittsburgh, and indeed most of the story takes place here (my hometown). Needless to say my ears and eyes perked up. I scanned every scene for recognizable settings, buildings and skyline. Alas, not one setting was familiar to me and I had to accept the fact that the movie was not shot here, not even the second or third crew fillers. The scenes and settings that were used in the film were not at all place-specific, it could have been Anytown, USA. If that's the case why give the setting a recognizable city-name? Just call it something generic, like River City, or Oakville.    This may seem like a petty complaint but I was nevertheless disappointed in the film. On the other hand I always watching Gabriel Byrne work and he turns in another fine performance as the cynical scientist/priest. I think the ending would have meant more if he had found out that the girl (Patricia Arquette) actually had the dead priest's rosary in her possession. Maybe his faith would have been restored. But instead it becomes a showdown between the good priest (Byrne) and the bad priest (Jonathan Pryce) that I thought was kind of hokey. Of course, good triumphs over evil, the true believers are vindicated, yada yada yada.  "}{"Title":"Yet another way to attack the Catholic Church.","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I had flashbacks to The Exorcist as I watched this movie.  However, whilst The Exorcist sought to enhance one's faith, this movie seeks to break faith-as-an-institution down to its fundamentals.  It discusses the ever-so-popular view of the Catholic Church as a ruthless conglomerate only interested in power and treating people like pawns in the Vatican's personal chess game.  I found it to be entertaining, yet predictable. "},{"Title":"Quirky mysterious beginning Good. Plot dissipates Bad","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Early scenes draw one in A bleeding statue in a Brazilian church and a phenomenon investigator that turns out to be a priest (G. Byrne).  The strange power causing the statue to bleed is passed on by a trinket to an unsuspecting hairdresser in Pennsylvania (P. Arquette).Events occur which are, at first, gripping; mysterious painful wounds received by the hairdresser, plus visions, dripping water, flying birds, etc. Soon these techniques are gone through a number of times and get old.The plot is of interest from the priest's first encounter with the bleeding statue, through his dealings with church members with hidden agendas, and into his encounter with this troubled hairdresser.  But it is as if the writer quit 2/3 rds through the movie.  The power behind the manifestations - an unpublished testament by Christ - proved too difficult a tool to carry the story with. The film opts to become kind of an exorcism, and a bashing of religious authority, which is overly simplified. Needless to say the film unravels much before the end. So much more could have been done with the solid start. Early promises go unfulfilled. "},{"Title":"Not the awful movie everyone made it out to be!","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I read everyone's comments about this movie before renting it. I didn't agree with the comments about Sixth Sense and I didn't agree with these comments.The dripping water did annoy me because I couldn't figure out it's significance. But I was trying not to overanalyze it. I just wanted to enjoy it.It was fast paced. I like that in a movie. It didn't just drag a long.I know some people didn't like the graphic content but it kindof had to be graphic for the point to be made.I give it an 8. I would watch it again.  "},{"Title":"Noisy, violent and immensely irritating","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I really liked the premise of this film (that religion should dwell in the individual           instead of a church) but overall, this film is a mess. I had a headache by the           time it was over after endless scenes of dripping water, people running out           into traffic, car crashes and thundering doves flying over the place. The movie           is extremely noisy and violent and yet when the characters are speaking, you           can't hear them! Not recommended unless you enjoy seeing entire film sets           destroyed with LOTS of noise. "},{"Title":"Self-important, goofy fun! MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS!","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  My husband and I rented this movie Saturday night and thoroughly enjoyed it, although it wasn't scary at all and had a lot of inconsistencies (like the fact that the written Aramaic was in an ancient Hebrew script dating back about 1000 years before Jesus, the spoken Aramaic didn't sound anything like Aramaic, and Patricia Arquette is so obviously NOT 23 that I had to laugh). Some other stuff I was wondering about 1)Why did they make such a big deal about her being pregnant if she wasn't? Did she miscarry? 2)What's with all the dripping water? 3)Why did Father Alameida turn EVIL once he died and possessed Frankie??? 4)Did Frankie ever get the spear in the side? It looked like she had blood on her shirt in that scene where she ran into the street to save the baby, but maybe that was something else.  5)Where did her boyfriend go???...This movie was confusing, but I can't complain, because half the fun was trying to reconcile the inconsistencies.  Rent it for laffs, but don't expect real scares or good acting. "},{"Title":"a powerful film that kept my interest","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata is one of those films that would keep me up at nights with nightmares. Not only is it a powerful film, it is a terrifying thrill and an intense thinking movie. I am glad that the director brought this subject to the screen because I had no idea what a stigmata was before I saw this film. This was a learning experience I will not soon forget.I couldn't ask for better actors than Gabriel Byrne and Patricia Arquette to portray their respective roles as priest and stigmatic. I previously saw Byrne in End Of Days as Satan and I knew he was a very talented actor because he has presence.  You know when Byrne is on the screen because he is just that good. Arquette's natural beauty and raw talent is what attracted me to her in Stigmata. Her performance should of won her an oscar or emmy award because it was so unique. I don't think I would have liked it if another actress played Frankie Paige. The role just suited Arquette so well.This deserves the attention of anyone who likes movies because of the performances and plot depth. This is an all-around good movie. "},{"Title":"Visually stunning","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I have always been a fan of movies such as The omen or the Exorcist. Stigmata is a classic thriller about supernatural events that are related to religion and the subject really touches many people here in Italy. I found the movie very interesting in acting and directing, but the photography was stunning. The result reminded me of Seven but here is much more effective. To see all the film with desaturated colors, except for the red and the black tones is a wonderful and shocking experience. The ending and the climax are a little obvious, but I enjoyed it. Arquette, Bryne and the luciferine Pryce are wonderful. The sound is a little disturbing but it's probably due to the video -clip style of the movie.  "},{"Title":"Interesting concept, irritating pretensions","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The idea behind Stigmata (as presented in the previews and in the movie itself) was interesting.  What if organized religion had it all wrong and a message was sent on God's behalf through an atheist who suddenly began receiving the wounds of Christ?It was definitely worth watching once, but two things made me not interested in owning it any further.#1 The only character that has a chance at not being stereotypically flat is the main character of the investigative priest.  Even the woman receiving the stigmata never gets developed much beyond being a stereotypical non-believer.#2 NOT QUITE A SPOILER, but the movie claims at the end that part of its storyline is to be based partially on some true facts believed by scholars all over the world.  What they neglect to tell you is that such facts are NOT believed by the majority of scholars, but rather a minority.  It _really_ irritated me that they would use language that makes it sound otherwise and that this really made this movie a slam against the Roman Catholic church.I'm not Roman Catholic, but I don't like people who distort the facts and try to claim that they're giving you the whole story. "},{"Title":"Good idea, bad follow-through","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  While I'm not sorry I watched this, it was a little disappointing. The movie was based on an interesting idea, but it was handled in an amateur way. Anyone with more than a superficial understanding of the Bible would raise an eyebrow at the return of the priest's ghost, and the portrayal of the cardinals at the Vatican, too, seemed a bit less than fair and realistic. I'd like to see this remade for a less commercial audience. "},{"Title":"Somewhat of a Catholic belief and myth film","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Somewhat of a Catholic belief and myth film. An excellent performance by both Patricia Arquette and Gabriel Byrne. Plus I am rather fond of Jonathan Pryce. Being a Catholic, I was deeply involved in this movie. This helped more people learn of the Stigmata myths. The only possible down side to this picture might have been the extreme gore. Blood sometimes disgusts people and there sure was a lot of it. Other than that an excellent movie. "}{"Title":"It's a stretch....................","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I understand that this film is meant to thrill the viewer. It is not meant to be believable. However, the most unbelievable aspect of STIGMATA is the fact that we, the members of the audience are actually supposed to believe that Patricia Arquette is 23 years old. The age of her character had nothing to do with the story. Why couldn't the character be 30, 40, or older? Is Hollywood so afraid that the ticket buying masses don't want to see anyone older than 25 on the screen? If so, they should actually cast a 20- something instead of insulting our collective intelligence with Ms. Arquette's obviously 30-something face. And who says that only people in their 20's are foolish enough to wear glitter on their eyes, light ridiculous numbers of candles while bathing and wear ugly platform shoes? There are a lot of tattooed, pierced , hair styling 30-somethings out there. Why bother insulting the viewers with the 10 year age reduction lie? Furthermore, unless her character was an heiress, a dope dealer, or a lottery winner, there's no way possible she could afford the apartment we saw in the film. Between the age  and the digs, it's a bit of a stretch. I actually found her dilemma believable in comparison. "},{"Title":"Powerful and visual exploration of faith and the Mother Church","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Visually dark and atmospherically disturbing, I couldn't help but wonder, are there really people and places in the world like Frankie and the salon she worked in...?? but I guess that setting gave more contrast to her intensely religious experience... you just wouldn't expect it to happen when and where and to whom that it did. There is no way I would ever characterize that possession as being by a 'benevolent' spirit, tho we know his ultimate intentions were 'good' ones. One viewer here didn't care for the un-resolution of Frankie walking around in a sheet at the end, but my guess is that the bird coming to her and landing on her finger is supposed to show us how transformed her spirit was by her experience. As for the message the dead priest was trying to convey being 'overwhelmingly bland and trite', I would think that a true message from Jesus wouldn't have to be very complicated to be valid. People pick all this stuff to death, when it all *IS* really very simple. Interesting to see Ally McBeal's 'Nell' as one of the girls working in the salon. To this non-Christian, this was a powerful film... excellent performances by the two leads. The focus on them is so intense that you almost lose sight of there being anyone else in the movie. I think the possession scenes were quite horrific enough... I guess any supernatural take-over would be pretty spooky, albeit by priest or demon, but one might hope that the priest would be a little more concerned for the instrument he is using to deliver his message. Very thought-provoking, powerful and visual. Very worth the time it takes to watch. "},{"Title":"An uneven mix.","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  As I watched Stigmata, I was intrigued by the story, but underwhelmed by the execution.   Rupert Wainwright's background is in music videos, and it shows in this film.  The camera flys  around characters, there are sudden cuts that are jarring and various other tricks employed.   One would assume this is to emphasize the differences between Frankie Page and Father  Andrew.  The priest's life is one of order, and whenever he is onscreen, the movie reflects his  life.  Frankie's life is loud, garish and a bit out of control.   The two styles mix whenever Frankie  and Andrew converge.  Sometimes, the effect works, sometimes it doesn't.  As for the actors, I  always enjoy Gabriel Bryne and Patricia Arquette did a good job.  Jonathan Pryce seems to have  made a nice little niche for himself.  He plays a sinister priest with a hidden agenda, and he's  quite good at it.  The film builds to a climax that I found slightly absurd and reminiscent of The  Exorcist.  Stigmata goes for the same feel that The Exorcist had, but it ultimately falls a little  short of the mark.              "},{"Title":"A great spiritual movie","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I loved this movie for its plot and atmosphere.  The atmosphere is very similar to Seven and The Crow.  With slo-mo rain, dingy surroundings, and staticy elements.  The plot also has some originality to it.  Sure the Exorcist may have had some influence in this movie, but if thats all you see then you're missing the point.  The Stigma has seldom been used in movies, let alone to this magnitude.  I can also see how this can be controversial to Catholics as well.  I'm Catholic (albeit not a strong one) and found this movie completely fine, but my parents were a different story.  They were mad a few times at this movie.  One last thing...get the DVD!  It contains deleted scenes, which are actually good.  It also contains the alternate ending which they should have kept in. "},{"Title":"Fun movie to watch on a Sunday Morning but isn't up to Exorcist or Prophecy level in the religious fantasy genre.","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  PRO The style, editing and photography of this film are wonderful, the sound track is contemporary with an edge.  If you're a fan of the Religious Fantasy genre, this is a good film to rent, I'm glad I saw it.CON The two biggest weaknesses in this film were first and foremost the ending and 30% of Patricia Arquette's performance.   The ending felt diluted, like it was run through a PC filter at least once.  The film is starts off pretty edgy but by the end gets very formula, watered down and unsatisfying.  Note On the DVD you get the director's original ending and it's much more palatable than the theatrical one.  (also see spoiler section)DVD Deleted scenes - it's easy to see why these scenes didn't make the grade. Most of them were pretty much cheap filler and didn't add to the film.  Regardless, the whole deleted scene option on the DVD gives you a wonderful glimpse into the film editing process .  Rarely do the missing scenes improve the film but it's great to see them just the same.Patricia Arquette - This role fit her like a torn glove but for the most part her good scenes out weighed the bad.  ============================END SPOILER END SPOILER END SPOILER END SPOILER END SPOILER END SPOILER END SPOILER END SPOILER END SPOILER END SPOILER END SPOILER END SPOILER ============================ Though better than the theatrical happy ending,  the director's ending falls short of having any real edge to it.  In the original I kept wondering when the 5th Stigmata would appear and of course take Frankie's life.  In the director's version, when she does die, it would have been more convincing to have had Father Kiernan (Gabriel Byrne) be a bit more upset, specially after all he's done to save this girl's life.Next it would a have been far more powerful if the Vatican simply moved in to cover up the Stigmata and the Gospel of Jesus, much like the men in black did for alien sightings.   Instead you're left with a feeling that the Vatican's policy was mostly the views of one man (Cardinal Daniel Houseman) and that Father Kiernan  was now free to distribute the anti-church  word of Jesus to the masses. I would have rather seen an ending more along the lines of Usual Suspects meets Raiders of the Lost Arc where everybody dies and the scrolls are crated up and hidden away in a Vatican vault - something with a little more bite. "},{"Title":"An intense view of the corruption of the Catholic Church","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata takes a controversial flavor as it breaks the common bond between religion and the building called a church. This film amplifies the negative aspects of the Catholic Church, such as repression of knowledge and abuse of power, two things that however are present in the church. Anyway, the acting is intense and delicate. The visual effects are plentiful, extremely well done,  and thrilling. The ending is a relief and reassurance, even though the DVD includes an alternate ending which is not as relieving as it is haunting. This movie is  great  to watch, fast and eventful and  full of beautiful images and settings. "},{"Title":"A chilling, modern day EXORCIST","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Very scary movie.  Patricia Arquette is incredible!The violence was a bit too bloody.  I sort of felt that you needed to be a devout Catholic to feel the full effect of the show.  But the conspiratorial aspect of the RC church was virtual documentary.  The overall effect is very bold and frightening.  "},{"Title":"Excellent movie for any level of entertainment.","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  If you're interested in seeing a scary movie with intense special FX and graphic violence OR an intriguing religious based story with a few twists,,, this is the movie. At a top level there is plenty to keep you entertained, but getting deeper, there is a lot of thought provoking material here. It deals with many issues related to the great Catholic dynasty/attitude. The technique/strategy of the church to control the disclosure of God's miracles and revelations was certainly not unbelievable. Time should be spent on contemplating the relevance of details relating to the selection of an atheist for messenger, accompanied by the transference of spirit via rosary beads. I don't know what you expect from a movie but put away any preconcieved notions long enough to enjoy and experience this one. Although graphic, the scenes were necessary to show the vision that Paige was experiencing during the attacks. If anything, there should have been more intstead of less. But hey, why quibble over the little things.This is easily one of the best/original plots for a movie in quite a while. The only weakness was having to cut it down for normal presentation length. This lessened the potential impact of seeing more the effects that the events truly played on the three main characters. I WANT THE UNCUT VERSION ON DVD!!! "},{"Title":"Beautiful Cinematography","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The original idea seems fair enough to me, but the script is poor and rather predictable. The acting by Rosanna Arquette and Gabriel Byrne is at average and the soundtrack is ok. So why the hell did I rate this movie a 7 instead of a 5?... Because of its amazing beauty. The whole film is a sequence of very beautiful frames. The scene when Rosanna's character is hovering crucified upon an invisible cross is especially graceful. Remember, movies aren't only their scripts, we have books for that. (7/10). "},{"Title":"Clever thriller with great cast, but horrible gratuitous graphicness takes away from it.","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  With a cast headed up by three excellent actors, Patricia Arquette (Frankie Page), Gabriel Byrne (Fr. Andrew Kiernan) and Jonathan Pryce (Cardinal Daniel Houseman), it would be difficult to have made a bad movie. While it was rather horribly graphic at times in depiction of the nails being driven through hands and feet (done in short flashes, but nonetheless very disturbing imagery) - and I think it was gratuitous - it was nonetheless a good film. The plot is quite clever if a little bit predictable, and anyone not from the Vatican will probably find it enjoyable. The script is well written, and the acting is excellent. Worth seeing, but beware, there are highly unpleasant bits as mentioned above. I have marked it down in rating by 5 or 10% for the gratuitous violence. "}{"Title":"First of all....I really liked it.","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  First of all....I really liked it. While many of you may be turned off immediately by a film with a title like Stigmata, this is a great film. Stigmata is about persons with a deep religious faith who take on the outward signs of crusifixtion as Christ did. These people develop thorn cuts on their heads, bleed from the hands and feet, and wounds in their side. This is a film that brings elements of possible demonic possessions with the response of the Catholic Church. At times the audience may wince at the gore but also be entertained at how it is presented. As I sat watching this film, I wondered what I would do if I encountered a person floating in the air hanging on an imaginary cross....would calling 911 bring the relief or help I seek? I could just imagine a Milwaukee cop showing up and quickly leaving (but still having enough time to stop and give me a parking ticket first.) This film will cause you to wonder....do these things really happen? Do other religions other than Catholics have stigmatas, and how come they don't make movies with non-Catholic priests responding....here comes Jim or Tammy Faye to take care of a demon, now that might sell. The film is well done, it keeps your attention, it challenges you, and is well acted and filmed. Bottom line...if you are looking for a thriller that leaves you questioning a few components of your personal faith, then this film is for you. "},{"Title":"Keep looking for good movies!","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is a terror film which I like it very much. The script was very new for the thriller movies. The director uses the actors in a very strong way of doom. The actors was from their side very nice. The all movie was a good suggestion of this kind of films.Especially the time which the stigmata was making their appearance on the girl was the best. In my opinion The stigmata was something in the middle of Exorcist and The omen. The music was one of the best which I ever hear in a movie like this. Congratulations to all of you which you make happen something very unique. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I must say I'm disappointed with all the bad reviews this film has received! I really enjoyed this film, the pace, the colours, the camerawork, the atmosphere. Gabriel Byrne was (as always) brilliant, and Patricia Arquette showed that she can act!... Being an atheist, this at least made me think! (Is there something out there?). I'm looking forward to seeing Rupert Wainwright's next film, he's a director for the future! Brilliant Rupert!I quite enjoyed the music too! "},{"Title":"Convincingly unsatisfying 1/5","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  When Father Kiernan ( Byrne ) is sent to investigate alleged reports of unusual occurences is the U.S, he discovers mystical truths about a young woman named Frankie( Arquette ) who is apperceiving stigmata. The appealing look of the film seems intriguing at first, but proves rather boring. There is insufficiency of thrills to which audiences look forward upon. Yes, there are occasional intensive moments where special effects are extremely gore but the highlights of the film cannot parallel its flaws. There is also a problem with the acting. The characters give uninteresting deliverance that makes the dialogues seem incomprehensible. Plus the fact that there is an uneven pacing which acclimatizes establishment of the plot. Well, just to summarize, Stigmata was convincingly unsatisfying. It just was a film of intriguing surprise.   "},{"Title":"Entertaining!","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Well! I've read the viewer comments and the General Consensus on this Film is that it Stinks!!  I don't agree. I think it's an entertaining film and is visually spectacular. The director has taken a very ordinary story and made it interesting with his cinematography and slow motion shots. Patricia Arquette and Gabriel Byrne act well. Though I wouldn't say that this is one of my favorites, I think it's worth seeing atleast once for the excellent cinematography. "},{"Title":"Not Bad","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I found this film to be fairly entertaining but hardly earth shattering. Just before the final credits reference is made to the finding of The Gospel of Thomas. I am unsure why this particular apocryphal work is singled out because it has little bearing on the storyline of the film. Other extracts from the dead Sea scrolls have more relevance.Anyway pedantry aside. The film isn't too bad and I'm sure that the church will survive it!! "},{"Title":"The Exorcist meets Godfather III meets Blade Runner","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A loud and ineffectual trifle that looks and sounds like an MTV pop/rock video and has just about as much depth of characterization. We've barely met Patricia Arquette's character before she's bleeding all over (the 'stigmata' of the title) and causing the doctors severe headaches. Gabriel Byrne does his familiar earnest bit to try to flesh out a Vatican priest who comes to investigate and inevitably ends up sympathizing. But what happens subsequently (creeping stigmata syndrome and its repercusions) neither shocks nor moves us. This is, I think, down to the scant care taken in developing the characters (What is Gabriel Byrne's motivation? Why should we feel for Patricia?) and an overly brash, intrusive style which has all the state-of-the-art video technolgogy on its side but which left its heart in the cloakroom. "},{"Title":"Eye Opener","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  As a non-religious person myself, this movie did actually remind me that there may be things out there that may effect us even though we don't believe in them.I felt that the relationship that developed between the priest and the girl was the movies downfall. I felt that it just ruined the whole sense of the movie. "},{"Title":"good movie, but stereotypical ending.","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I think this movie is above mediocre, though the ending is too typical of Hollywood manipulation.  The overall atmospherical theme suits the plot. The clash of Gothic style and Gospel contrasts the two totally different way of life.  The growth of the relationship between the priest and the woman is somewhat ambiguous.  It's a good movie, but some essential details are lacking. "},{"Title":"Pretty stupid, not the least bit scary","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  First of all stigmata is not the same as being possessed by the devil, a la the exorcist. Stigmata happens as a result of religious beliefs etc, its not a disease which can be caught from rosary beads. The film even says this and seems to blatantly contradict itself.  Also, the entire film seems to be Frankie Paige walking down street, then starts bleeding, then there is some dialogue, and before we know it shes walking down the street again, and bleeding some more. Then in true Exorcist rip off style she talks in a mans voice, and has contact lenses put in to make her look evil. Even though the film has already said stigmata is supposed to be a heavenly thing. (And the cloaked woman who drops the baby, what the hell was that all about?!). This movie was too long and very silly, (the priest who wants to strangle Frankie, how stupid is that?). The director doesnt really seem to care what stigmata actually is, and sees it as an opportunity to make a horror movie out of, and it wasnt very scary, just unpleasent, and annoying(i.e, flashes of Jesus being crucified whilst Frankie is bleeding) The only thing I like about the film was the fact that Patricia Arquette and Gabriel Byrne are so cool.  "}{"Title":"Recommended ,  Very Impressive","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The is definitely high quality....  a clever twist on the Exorcist-type, possession story. Also an interesting look at the Catholic Church . A great cast,  with a notable performance by Gabriel Byrne.  Excellent use of today's special effects.  "},{"Title":"An average film with flashes of brilliance","Date":"23 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata was an average film with flashes of brilliance. Director Wainwright certainly seems unafraid of experimentation, adding some interesting visual touches to the film, however the same experimentation becomes obviously gratuitous in some parts. No fault can be placed in the acting, but they perform for a screenplay which moves at a pace too leisurely for the genre. While the special effects were also admirable, the film relies an early and cheap scares to get the viewer's attention, rather than an intelligent script. A film that had great potential.  "},{"Title":"Powerful images.(minor spoilers)","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The story of Stigmata is simple.  It's about a girl who starts having wounds like Jesus, I mean on her back, her legs, her arms and on her head.  She is a stigmata.  A kind of scientific priest is sent by the Vatican to see what is happening there.I have to say that I was expecting a lot about this movie.  When something like that is done and the subject is about religion, I was hoping something provocative, but it wasn't a lot.  Religious people do not have to be afraid, there is nothing offensive, but maybe for me or other people about the conclusion.First, the script is good and very interesting.  Supernatural forces are always fun.  This one, about stigmata is good.  I do not think the movie is a copy of The Exorcist, until  when the main character, well played by Patricia Arquette, starts to write on the wall and say El messenger no es importante.  But she was not a beautiful little perfect girl, so it was more interesting to know what will happen to her.  We see a kind of contrast between religious things and the opposite, in this case, Frankie Page (p.a).The most fantastic thing about the film is the images.  They are powerful and beautiful.  The movie itself isn't scary at all but it's very emotional. More specifically, when the main character gets her wounds, in the metro, it is terrible and I was totally shocked.  It was cruel and we were worrying about the character.  The images we see during this time are violent and extremely sad.The problem with the film is the end.  I am happy because of the end but I'm not happy because of something special.  They compare the main character to two sculptures.  If you have seen the movie you understand.  And this comparison doesn't apply to the character.  The final message of the film is bad.  It says that if you are atheist, something bad will happen to you, and the only way to overcome it, is to become religious.  I am an atheist and it's not good to say things like that in a  film.  Judge by yourself.  But I liked a lot the way they show The Vatican like a government who tries to keep things secret.  Finally, there was good interpretations and there is a little revelation that concern religion that is interesting but it's a deception for me.  I was expecting a lot more of the revelation.If you like interesting movies with beautiful images, go see it.  For those who are bothered by movies in which religion is shown like a truly real thing and necessary to live, go see SCREAM. "},{"Title":"Not so scary Stigmatic movie","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata was not as scary as a typical horror movie.  I remember hearing the preview for this movie say It will scare the hell into you.  Throughout the movie, there were no suspense/scary scenes.  We were wondering when the climax of the movie was about to happen.....it never did. "},{"Title":"Interesting, but there should have been more to it","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  While this movie has caught the ire of the Catholic Church, because of certain revelations within that the church goes to great lengths to cover up, on the outside it's a loosely written movie of a girl who exhibits the stigmatic phenomena.  It's a bit far reaching because the only reason Patricia Arquette's characters is exhibiting Stigmata is because she is in possession of rosary beads that were stolen from the coffin of a dead priest.   Gabriel Byrne co stars as a priest/scientist who investigates miracles for the church who happens upon her.   We find out that she's an atheist, and Byrne explains that only the most devout believers ever experience Stigmata.  The movie offers no believable reason for her experience and then makes a contrived attempt at romance between these two characters.  Not a family movie nor is it a very scary movie either  "},{"Title":"Worst is impossible!","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  That is one of the worst movies I saw in my life. The story is poor and without a good sense. Besides, that movie also shows the ignorance about Brazil. Brazil is is a country of immigrants like United States are, the language is Portuguese, and nobody is similar to Mexican people ( with all respect to the Mexicans ). "},{"Title":"Where do Good Premises Go When they Die? -- To Hell","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  One can't criticize a movie like this without running the risk of being written off as one of the two most hated and stereotyped groups in the world at the end of the 20th century  Roman Catholics or Protestant Fundamentalists.  However, Stigmata is both a success and a failure.Its success lies in making a mindless action flick.  It attempts to do the impossible  to use Christian mysticism and experience for a totally secular purpose.  It reminds one of The Rapture, which only proves that movie-makers are more literalist fundamentalists when they approach the one book that is totally incomprehensible to them  the Bible.Stigmata's failure is simply because it tosses terms around the movie's makers apparently didn't bother to research.  I can't go into detail much for fear of giving spoilers, but the theology of the characters who should know theology is wrong-headed, and many of the ideas floated simply aren't sound.Most of the terminology reminds one of early horror movies dealing with Egyptology, etc., where terms are simply lifted off the pages of history books without any reference to how they should properly be used.  It's odd, since many people would notice and nit-pick about an improper usage of an Egyptian religious term, although that religion's been dead for many, many centuries;  but Christian faith is alive and thriving and bringing in a knowledgable reference from the Church would help the enjoyment and accentuate the horror.But, if you don't care for accuracy (and won't base your stereotypes on what you see) you'll find typically good performance from the leads, and a lot of noise and action.  But as a disappointment, its alleged sacreligiousness is simple ignorance.  In cases like this a cynical person almost imagines the studios themselves arrange the protests just to sell more tickets. "},{"Title":"Split a wood and I am there","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The story of the Apostle Thomas doubting the crucified wounds on Christ's body has been turned into a phrase called doubting Thomas.  In today's world, we also doubt when confronted with sacred images that purport to cry or bleed.  But what of the people who do believe what we think as false religious icons.  Is the hunger to be saved, to be healed, to be exorcised that strong?  The film  Stigmata  tries to answer questions about personal faith but turns instead into a run of the mill horror story (not even suspenseful absent the bloodletting) that is ironically anti-religious.  It is a true rip-off film because once it convinces you that it really is a genuine article, it proceeds to turn against itself and leave you with no answers.  There are two important passages in the picture that make you think the film is going somewhere.  The priest/investigator Andrew Kiernan(played well by Gabriel Byrne) questions his subject, Frankie Paige (Patricia Arquette who may yet regret playing a bleeding Madonna), who has been reported by a fellow priest to be a stigmata, a divine figure who regularly bleeds from the site of Christ's wounds as proof of his strong devotion.  But Frankie is an atheist, a hairdresser who hangs out with the wrong crowd.  Andrew and the film takes this as a dead end when it could easily have been extended to show how even the most uncontrite can be redeemed.  The second scene involves a jovial chatter between Andrew and Frankie, when she isn't being bled mercilessly.  Frankie, the free swinger, wants to know how a man decides to be a priest and to continue becoming celibate.  Andrew answers that as a scientist, he perceived a &#145;big hole' that science could not answer for him.  As for his celibacy, he sees it as giving up one set of complications (married life) for another set of complications (doing the work of God).  What an opportunity to extend romantic love to spiritual love but alas, Frankie has another one of those bleeding spells.  By film's end, we finally put all the pieces together and find this film was anti-religious all along from the evil Vatican henchman, Cardinal Houseman, to the ill-fated Father Alameida who had another idea about how Roman Catholics should believe in God.  Starting out with a fine premise, the search for the existence of God, Stigmata betrayed us all by showing religion as a disguised villain, a wanton liar and cheat.  What a waste of time.  "},{"Title":"Interesting, yet flawed film...","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  At first, I was quite skeptical about seeing this film, which is why I finally went to see it.  The trailers were less than extraordinary, but I felt I would give it a shot.  `Stigmata' screams a 90s version on `The Exorcist,' but I was interested by most of it.  A pet peeve I had about the film was that it was shot like a MTV music video, especially in the opening credits, where it seemed out of place.  The premise was quite intriguing mysterious wounds called Stigmata affect an ordinary young woman. When a Catholic Priest comes to investigate the so-called miracle, he discovers someone...or something...and a message originating from the time of Jesus Christ may possess this woman.  The young woman, played by Patricia Arquette, is a sympathetic character for the audience.  I was never truly impressed by Patricia Arquette, even in this difficult role; in fact, the role I liked her best was in `True Romance.'  Putting myself in her position, I could imagine what a frightening experience she was going through.  The attacks were quite horrifying, like the subway train scene, they were well shot and edited.  There was a good performance by Gabriel Byrne as the priest sent to investigate the Stigmatic events.Granted, I am not a very spiritual person, so I am not sure whether the facts presented in the film are accurate.  I am basing my critique sorely on its entertainment level and its conviction.  There were ways of making this film more successful; for instance, a stronger actress could have been a bit more convincing and some camerawork could have been less flashy and more along the lines of `Seven.'  As far as I'm concerned, `Stigmata' isn't a bad movie, but not a great one either.  I was entertained by the film, but I couldn't help thinking there were better ways to improve it.  I would recommend this film based on the violent attacks on Patricia Arquette's character, for they are worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"This movie is so freakin' freaky!!!!","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie should be seen by everyone who needs some excitement! It's so scary to know that story-line is true and stuff like that does happen! Patricia Arquette is quite unique in her own way as it turns out in this film. See this movie. You'll leave with your heart pounding wanting to see it again, so see it You will not be disappointed! "}{"Title":"Part of a sub-genre","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I must start out by saying that my review will be greatly biased because I am a huge fan of this type of film.  Stigmata can be considered part of a sub-genre of Horror/Thrillers I would call Religious Mysticism.  Along with films like Seventh Sign, Last Temptation of Christ and The Prophecy, it's a genre that is neglected and not much explored.The trailers depicted this film as an Exorcist-type film which is very misleading.  Although there is a possession, it is not what you would expect.  It deals more with Christian faith, genuine faith, versus hypocrisy and Catholic Church corruption.  Before this film, I did not know what a 'Stigmata' was and the film does a very good job of explaining the concept without overdoing it.  Aside from that, the film is light on history and other supporting Christian mythos.  However, the average moviegoer may not care for that aspect of the film.I also look for the scare or creep factor.  My benchmark for this is The Exorcist.  The first half of the film had most of my hairs standing up.  That's very hard to do now-a-days since I have seen so many horror films and thrillers.  When the film finally reveals what is really happening it resolves itself pretty well but all the mystery and fear is gone.  In that sense it's anti-climatic.  Again, it does resolve itself very well.Finally, some of the cinematography disturbed me in a bad way.  It was a little too commercialized ala-John Woo/MTV and inappropriate for the subject matter.  Also, some of the audio was a little overwhelming.  I think you shouldn't rely on loud jolts to scare an audience.  However, the strength of the plot and the excellent acting by Arquette, Byrne and Pryce save the film.  Very entertaining.In general, I rank it an '8'. As a Religious Mysticism film; a '6'.  "},{"Title":"pretty sad attempt to be significant","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie took all of the possible mystique out of its subject. It was worthless and stupid. The only thing it did very well was make my ears hurt. All flash and no substance.  Rent the Exorcist instead. "},{"Title":"Exorcist Exercises","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The billing that this would scare the hell into is an exaggeration, but when was the last movie that really did? Late '70's maybe? Neither will the film test your critical acumen, but if you don't mind paying for a dressed up X-Files episode then this movie is for you.The storyline has potential with a pseudo artistic city girl (Patricia Arquette) who cuts hair out of a body piercing salon. She has a couple of gal pals, a casual boyfriend, and a large loft apartment with tons of candles. Through an odd coincidence she begins to experience the legendary wounds of Jesus Christ, despite her religious indifference. Enter a scientist/priest from the Vatican's investigative branch (Gabriel Byrne) who is sent around the world debunking apparent miracles and anything that might threaten the security of the Catholic Church. The mood starts out very good with high stakes religious faith and imagery, and the characters start out to be interesting with a backdrop of a conspiracy by the Catholic Church, possibly hiding the truth of the faith. But true to current Hollywood trends, the potentially rich plot is oversimplified and the characters are not developed enough for you to really care about them. Aside from a few scenes of supernatural excitement cribbed from the Exorcist, the movie wanders down a road of predictability made worse by a moist teenage feelings that begin to develop between the girl and the priest. Patricia Arquette, who has a way of lending a bizarre intelligence to her characters, does a great job in a role that does not even begin to utilize her ability. The film is reasonably entertaining if you keep your spirits high and lower your fright expectations.  I give the 3rd star just because of Arquette. "},{"Title":"Shame about the technical aspects","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Countless films have wonderful cinematography, special effects, sound, editing, etc., but appalling scripts. With Stigmata, it is actually the other way round. The story is intriguing, provocative, off-beat, faithful to many known facts about history, even intelligent in a limited way, but it is served by the ugliest, grainiest photography I have seen in any professional film, choppy editing, a hideously over-loud soundtrack and cheesy special effects.If the purpose of the technicians is to tell the story more effectively, this bunch fail abysmally. The basic story is so powerful and dramatically compelling that it does not need any heavy handed embellishment. If anything, subtle understatement should have been the guideline for all concerned. Instead we get the terrifying development of the stigmata underlined by confusing rapid-cut images and ear-shattering blasts of noise, with all the subtlety of a child writing in block capitals with luridly colored crayons. Utter silence and slow camera movements would have been infinitely more compelling.Any accusations of blasphemy are plainly ridiculous; the main offense of this movie is not against religion, it is against intelligent and competent film making. It is a pity that the exact nature of the way the ancient script undermines the Catholic Church is not spelled out - the statements that the Kingdom of God is within you and around you, and that the church is not made of wood and stone, are so vague and uncontroversial that it is unclear what the plotting Cardinal is trying to suppress. But at least the end credits give the curious the name of the Gospel of St Thomas if they want to investigate further. "},{"Title":"it's weird...even strange... but good","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata isn't a horror flick. Not a sci-fi, or drama. It seemed very religious, and I mean that. From the very beginning of the movie I thought wow, this is going to be great, but it gets worse towards the end. So save your money, and wait for this one on video ... or you'll be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Drip..drip..drip..drip..OK! ENOUGH DRIPPING WATER!!!","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie was very good. I loved the special effects! It was a good plot, but, in the movie they said stigmata is a great gift...you call that a gift?! It kept me awake and interested but the water dripping and the blood dripping was cool at first but really started to annoy me! i mean drip drip...5 minutes later oh look the camera is showing water dripping! There was no point to that. Like i said the special effects are what keeps this movie good. Go see it cause it really is a cool movie. i give it ***(3) out of ****(4) "},{"Title":"Visually pounds on senses.","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Young hairdresser's world goes one step toward the mental institution after her mother mails souvenirs from Brazil. One of them, a cross that belonged to a Father that knew far more than anyone about Jesus and the 'Modern Church.' Meanwhile, practical Father Kiernan is sent from Brazil to United States to investigate the hairdresser's stigmata ... something that, when happens, visually mind-numbs your senses to the point where shooting yourself would be a relief. Disturbing and dark at points. Nothing really bad about story-line yet the climax could have been far better. Hard to enjoy this movie because it tries to act like a thinking movie, than mutates to horror with your head spinning. From a slow scene of flirting to a sudden million shots (at once) of Jesus' and Frankie's feet being hammered is really not everyone's cup of tea. If you want a dark, moody film that's prone to relapses, this may be it. Make sure it's a rental though on a dark, thundering, rainy night with the lights off. "},{"Title":"disappointments and confusion","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie started out well, but very quickly got tangled in itself and drowned.  One mistake that comes to mind, that's so obvious I can't believe the writers let it go  Frankie Paige is an athiest.  She admits it, and in a bit of arrogance Gabriel Byrne's character closes the books.  Later, when he is surrounded by fire, (pardon the pun) Byrne asks the dead priest to allow him to be his messenger.  Father Alameida, through Frankie, tells Byrne that a messenger must have faith. Duh! Frankie doesn't have faith.  Maybe the writers are trying to show that she now believes in god, but it is just too confusing and hopeless.  There were other mistakes, like how Frankie got up and walked through the garden after she had holes driven all the way through both feet.  But you get the picture. It could've been good, and I was really looking forward to seeing it.  In the end, you don't know who to root for.  I read a book that this reminds me of.  If you have some spare time and would like something to debate over, read The Immortal by Ilow Roque.  So don't go see this movie. If you've already seen it,you have my condolences.    "},{"Title":"Save your money for a better movie....","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  In reading some of the comments on this movie, I see that many people were totally lost by this so-so-special-effects-not-so scary-movie.  It is a mere attempt in trying to show a woman possessed with the soul of a dead priest. To catch the attention of an investigative priest in Rome, the spirit allows the the woman to undergo the Stigmata.  For those who don't know what that is, it is having the wounds of Jesus appear on her.  Not bad, but this movie is just a weak attempt to put down the Catholic religion and its beliefs. The story tells of a lost gospel that will destroy the Catholic Church. However, the director cleverly hides the fact that no one knows what those writings say.  He puts them at the end credits and hopes that people will believe what is in the movie and condemn the Catholic Church.  He even has a scene knocking priests, by having a priest attempt to strangle the leading woman.  You went overboard on this.  First we have to watch priests, like in Thorn Birds, that fall from the religion.  Then we have to watch Angels give up the heavens to come sleep with Meg Ryan.  Please Hollywood, let's get some better writers out there.  Women want a great love story, but they have to make do with these.   Let the priests, rabbis, ministers and angels be. Quit knocking religions and give us some good stories.  In conclusion, give me a break, send this Stigmata back to where it belongs, in the trash. Save your beliefs to the Church or temple, not in this movie.  The quicker this movie exits the theaters the quicker we can get something good to see. Dump it. "},{"Title":"I had reservations, but I am very pleased I went to see this.","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  If you are not a spiritual person, you may not want to read this.I was very surprised by the movie.  Because of the misleading trailers that I had seen, I was unsure of the content.  However, I found the movie very challenging and touching.  I am a Roman Catholic and I now know why they are against this movie.  Unfortunately, the church has not realized that as with Nature, the Catholic Church has not evolved to address the new age of information and beliefs.  In my opinion, the movie has but one important message, Our God is all around us, we do not need buildings, or other people thinking for us.  The blood and the violence was strong, but then so was the passion of the crucifixion.  I was uplifted because the message is one I have been seeking since I was a child. Blind Faith in people or things perpetuates ignorance, instead, we should be seeking more and more what our Creator has in store for us.  We do not need interpreters.  WE JUST NEED TO LISTEN when we pray.Thank you for this movie. "}{"Title":"Quite a mixed bag,really...","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  That best describes the movie,I think.Factually,not an accurate film,too conspiracy theory-ish for me,but a decent film. Also,this may contain some mild spoilers,so you might want to just scroll past this..(hey,I just don't want to be blacklisted!) First,an assessment of the Factual content. I don't mind the theme of the movie itself,it is of course,artistic license and such.However,I do not like the bit of propaganda at the end,people might actually believe that stuff,since most are unaware that while many scholars might support it,many also reject it as a second century fraud.Most scholars actually fall into the second category.How is it,I ask,that a second century document(which the movie itself even admits!) written over a 100 years after the fact is closest to the words of Jesus? Also,the idea that the church is afraid of something is amusing,as the church has never hid the fact that there were other gospels,merely that they were later,unauthentic documents(a true catholic scholar would have never said the things that went on between Father Kiernan and his linguist friend).They're not afraid of the dead sea scrolls either,they've been a great help to scholars as they establish the accuracy of transmission of the old testament(and possibly the new,if you follow Father Jose O'Callahan's ideas).Although the conspiracy motif could be seen as artistic license, since it is vital to the storyline.Now on to the story itself.. Second,its very difficult to be original today,but I think Stigmata succeeds,mostly at least. The camera style was fairly fresh for a movie,and I like horror movies so I liked this,of course.Better than the Haunting,at least.My biggest complaint is not the story itself,just that so many people are taking it too seriously because they simply don't know any better. It is fiction,not fact.To sum it up,I find the film entertaining,but remember kids,its only a movie. "},{"Title":"Superb","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata indulges the viewers scepticism or faith, but ultimately comes to favor the side of faith. The movie deals in topics enigmatic and mystical, but what is as fascinating to me as the subject matter,is the average viewers vituperating criticism of it.I loved the film, and found it one of most moving films I've seen, but perhaps I view it quite differently than some, being acquainted with, and favorable towards christian faith and doctrine.  The heroine of the movie is a very liberal freespirited, tatooed and pierced twenty something atheist who ironically becomes subject to the effects of Stigmata, a miraculous supernatural duplication of the wounds of Christ.  She has no control over the events and is subject to all kinds of unpleasantness, and cannot rid herself of the afflictions without the help of a Catholic Priest.Perhaps this loss of control exhibited by the heroin is unnerving to the Gen X crowd who are constantly fed visions of freewheeling teens and twenty-somethings, doing whatever they please without consequence in advertising or in other media vehicles created to deliver advertising to Gen X audiences.  The audience views these images of course without vitriolic responses, because they favor this ridiculous pablum, unknowingly trading a grip on reality for these deceitful yet flattering messages and a look at a pair of jeans or lipstick or whatever else is being marketed to the Gen X demographic.This movie is effective because it asks a powerful question. Could there be miracles, and a God, and could his will have been communicated to us via the ancient texts cumulated in the Bible?  Could their be consequences to accompany the answer of the question?  And has the Catholic church ironically acted to stifle the message rather than freely share the message? If the question is understood and not a foregone conclusion in the viewers mind, then the film will certainly will make for exciting, entertaining and provocative viewing, at the very least.   "},{"Title":"Not accurate, or good, for that matter","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I would have to say that this was one of the worst movies I've seen ever.  Did they do any research for this movie at all?  It doesn't appear that they did with countless amounts of inaccurate information that I won't even begin to go into.  But even if you forget about that and just treat the film as a work of fiction, it is still very bad.  I would have to say that the actors try to make it work, but with a script like this and with constant annoying things flashing across the screen, it is impossible for them to save this movie.  The background of the movie looked fake, countless pieces of information were conveniantly left out, and the cinematography was horrible. 10 minutes into the movie, I thought I was watching a music video, with some kind of horrible blend of music going and blurred images.It's really makes me mad the way $32 million can be spent and such a bad movie comes out.  As moviegoers, we have to make a statement that we're not going to watch movies, unless the film makers put some effort into their picture, do research, and come up with the best possible picture that they can.  If we accept mediocraty, that's what we'll get.  And an original movie here and there wouldn't be bad, either.  And one last thing, please take this movie out of the horror section.  It's not a scary movie, it's a disgusting movie.  If you want to see a scary movie, see The Shining. "},{"Title":"Danger, Will Robinson","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The cinematography/camerawork was self-indulgent and annoying. Several artsy scenes needed heavy editing. I never really cared about the characters. But I kind of expected that.  What I'd hoped for was a reasonably well-researched tale about Jesus and Christian mythology.  I think the research that was done for this movie can be summed up in the line monks invented alcohol.If you have any knowledge about the Catholic church or Christian myth in general, this MIGHT be worth renting for a laugh.  But only if you watch it with a lot of beer (invented thousands of years before monks) and a couple of friends. "},{"Title":"a very cool movie","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I dont go church and I dont belive in God but I belive that there is something greater then me and that that force is somewhat effecting my life. But if there is God I think that he is all around us. And that is one of the reasons why I like this movie.I think that Patricia Arquette does an excellent job in playing a woman without belife. I also like how the picture is dark its like they did something with the film ,I think that they used the same technique as they did in a movie Payback.Go see this movie because its gonna change your thinking about God , even if you are beliver or not.    "},{"Title":"what?!?!","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I have already written a response to Stigmata, but reading over the reviews I am APPALLED that anyone could compare this to Se7en or any film by David Fincher.  This film doesn't even deserve to be compared to Alien3!  Use your heads, people. "},{"Title":"Frightening and Creepy","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I just saw this movie and thought it was a well-done horror flick. It portrayed the powers of Satan in a realistic (not humorous light). Patricia Arquette and Gabriel Byrne both did a fine job. It was pretty heavy on the gore but then again it had to be to get the point of the Stigmata across. I will say this, the director of the movie has a thing about dripping water and dripping blood. When you see the movie you will know what I mean. It's a good horror flick! "},{"Title":"if you have not yet seen stigmata, CONGRATULATIONS!","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata is a horror movie not even scary enough to be classified as a thriller.  It's a movie with wooden acting (You mean Paticia Arquette's an ACTRESS?!?), a major letdown of a ending, and virtually no conflict.  Everyone in the film but young Patricia regards the Stigmata as a blessing of the highest kind.  A thing to be thankful of.  I see no conflict here.  I see 95 minutes of nothing.  Which raises the question about the tagline It will scare the hell INTO you.  Neither Hell nor Satan are even mentioned in this movie, so all relations to the Exorcist are killed right there.  It's a shame too, cuz the Exorcist was so good!  Don't waste your money-Sixth Sense for a second time.   "},{"Title":"Favorable","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The terrible divine in a modern setting.Good movie to think about What-If, even if you're, like me, an atheist (albeit raised a Catholic). What If, it's all for real? Even for many people who attend church, the clergy are often seen as a group of relatively harmless people. What if they're dealing with Real Power, the true terrible raw power - for good or ill - of the Divine? What if what you choose to believe as your religion (or lack thereof) is irrelevant before that power?Gabriel Byrne does a great job of playing the priest, mainly because of what he *doesn't* do. He doesn't follow the usual movie role of the angst ridden priest, torn by doubt/lust/anger/inner demons etc. He's a rational, compassionate and dedicated man. He may question his faith or its practice but he doesn't reject it. Rather it's part of his search for deeper understanding. This was refreshing and helped a lot in making the movie worth watching.All in all, builds the suspense well and provokes more thought than the usual Exorcist style rip-off. "},{"Title":"Visually Stunning","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Incredibly filmed and visually stunning. Plenty of foreshadowing helps make this a very enjoyable film to watch. Patricia Arquette and Gabriel Byrne are both very good. A couple of minor holes that I assume ended up on the cutting room floor for one reason or another. Solid film. "}{"Title":"Confused, are we?","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  correct Be horrible lashed, cut, pierce and torture by the devilwrong Be horrible lashed, cut, pierce and torture by the holy spiritcorrect Have Stigmata as a gift from God by being a deep involved religious personwrong Catching Stigmata from a rosary of another personcatch my drift?Rated C-  for ridiculous plot, great acting, good special effects and wrong music  "},{"Title":"Man, this was bad!!!","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Bad movie, very, very bad! I don't understand why some people liked this one. It is a bad copy of The Exorcist, (which is one of my favorite movies) with techno-music.It starts very slooowly, and when it finally does, it gets even more boring than it was in the beginning. I wasn't scared a bit and I was expecting at least some shivers.Director Rupert Wainwright doesn't know how to make a movie, it seemed like I was watching The X-Files on T.V. Gabriel Byrne doesn't save this movie and Patricia Arquette, well, I am starting to doubt that she has some talent somewhere (Except...well, you know...).I am telling you, if the next James Bond doesn't make enough money, MGM is dead.                                                         "},{"Title":"Interesting, but not great.","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Marketed as a modern-day Exorcist, which it's not.  The Gospel of St. Thomas, as mentioned in the ending credits of the movie, actually exists and can be viewed at http//home.epix.net/~miser17/trans.htmlI always wondered if when the Church sends out an investigator if they're really investigating or debunking.  Almost takes the Holy out of the Church.  Obviously, this may not be the case, but from a fictional standpoint it made sense.An interesting film, but far from perfect. "},{"Title":"What a stupid movie!","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  What a stupid, stupid movie!  This movie was a complete waste of my time.  I didn't walk out, because I thought that perhaps SOMETHING would happen in the movie....but it never did.  The movie just got even worse.  What kind of a movie was this movie supposed to be anyway???  Was this supposed to be a scary movie???  This looked more like a music video.  It's just basically a showcase of Patricia Arquette in different poses.  That's all.  And where was the plot?  So she suffers from a case of stigmata....AND???  It looks like the writer(s) of this movie heard of the stigmata phenomenon and decided to write a story revolving around a case of stigmata.  But it all went horribly wrong!  A Generation X hairstylist/clubkid who suffers from stigmata???  C'mon!  If you haven't seen this movie, don't waste your time or your money.  I regret having done that. If you want to see a movie about both religion and an unexplained phenomenon, rent Agnes of God. "},{"Title":"a stupid idea to begin with","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I'm sorry if you think that I'm just one of those stupid, closed-minded individuals who are just no fun to be around because they can't find the humor in making fun of such silly things as death, torture, personal sacrifice of life and the like, but the thing looks to me to be another stupid Hollywood display of ignorance and appeal to passions. No I have not seen it. The trailer ruined it for me. I just want my life back! said from the lips of a demonicly possessed person does not appear to me to be of any intelligent value. The complete misuse of sacred beliefs and traditions, and the idea of sending an agnostic priest? Why would an organization that claims to be divinely inspired and has the proof by being the only organization in the world to stand up against any and every super power in the last 2000 years and win send an agnostic (must note agnostics are not Christian) priest to examine recent miraculous displays? An R rating for anything God is related to seems to me to be pretty low. There are some exceptions, but they are certainly few and far between. "},{"Title":"Disappointment","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  this film was a big disappointment. Byrne was good as the priest, but the rest of the cast was a joke. I love Nia Long, but she was wasted in this film. Stigmata would have been better with a story line that defined the common person, in contact with Jesus. The endless rain...was that necessary. Poor effort  "},{"Title":"Mostly for those who enjoy MTV treatments of profound topics...","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  (mild spoiler included in final sentence)..i saw STIGMATA over the weekend and now warn anyone who hasn't seen a 30 minute segment of MTV in this lifetime, to let this film go by, or else keep your eyes shut for the first 45 minutes of the film, for it will be that long before the film editors will let your eyes rest on an image for longer than 5 seconds, as the camera lens is in constant motion, overflowing with subliminal images....otherwise this 1 hour-42 minutes length, horror film is notable for beating out THE EXORCIST and THE SENTINEL at exposing the American Protestant audience to the internal workings of my Holy, Roman, Catholic and Apostolic Church, and as i am a Roman Catholic atheist, a proud survivor of 12 years of Roman Catholic parochial school education, i'm entitled to say whatever i want about my Holy Mother Church...for all the American Protestants (for whom these films are produced) who are fascinated with the pageantry of Catholic/Orthodox rituals, when dealing with the unholy machinations of Satan on Earth, i heartily endorse conversion to the One, True Faith, (open to all who are willing to endure the endless training sessions) so that they can enjoy the incense, the crucifixes, the statues, the music, the cathedrals, etc., up-close and personal, on a weekly basis (and daily visits are optional!) at their local neighborhood Roman Catholic Church.....all the staff, mostly clothed in stylish black (some appreciative prostitutes, in Rome, offer the priest investigator, portrayed by Gabriel Byrne, a standard Church discount), are highly disciplined, for they have been trained by a ruthlessly bureaucratic yet educationally-oriented political machine that has been honed, by two thousand years of European, religious dedication and devotion.....the American Protestant experience of a few, mere centuries, pales next to that of the true, cosmopolitan professionals in the religious sphere (such as the Jesuits, the Franciscans, and the Dominicans whose services are duly noted, by name, in STIGMATA).....mild spoiler...so i urge any American Protestant who is interested, to rush to see the new recruitment film, STIGMATA....for the basic facts are true (especially the lecture on previous stigmatists), though it may be a while before the Roman Catholic novice sees a Cardinal and a priest engage in a wrestling match, staged in the offices of their local Archdiocese....Alberich the Roman Catholic Atheist (who loves great, trashy, high-production- valued-horror-films with plenty of Latin)  "},{"Title":"slow at parts, but it still kept me watching","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie was actually pretty good.  It was kind of slow, and I think most of the people in the movies with me wanted just to see Patricia Arquette get possessed, well...they did, but they also got a pretty good story with it.Gabriel Byrne was good in it, and so was Arquette.  The movie was kind of slow at parts, but it still kept me watching and being interested.  The ending was pretty cool, and it had a good story to it also that I think a lot of people would be interested in.  I think I gave this film a 6 or 7.   "},{"Title":"Not a horror film.  Good special effects, but boring and slow plot.","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  If you are a horror movie fan, do not go to the theater to watch this movie thinking that its going to give you a good scare.  The trailer makes it look very scary, like a new version of The Exorcist.  Well, I warn you, it is nothing like that.  I was very disappointed, the movie had more like a suspense/drama/church/religion  plot.  It also has some scenes that can be deleted, they seem like filling, for they just don't make any sense.  Also, the ending is too predictable.  The only good thing about this movie are the special effects.  Like I said, if you watch this movie, do not expect it to be a horror movie, because that's what I thought and was very disappointed.  I even went to the 1240 A.M. show to enjoy the movie better and actually, I was falling asleep.  If you want a good horror/church/religion movie, I recommend The Unholy. "},{"Title":"Stigmata Gift or Curse?","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  'Stigmata' is an interesting movie about the fascinating ability to display and feel Christ's crucifixion wounds. Apparently this condition only occurs in the very pious. However in the film, Patricia Arquette's character Frankie inexplicably begins to experience the 'stigmata'. A hard partying atheist, Frankie is none too happy with her sudden 'gift'. The film is not really about the stigmata or demon possession as much as it's about the Catholic Church and organized religion in general. I enjoyed the film, however, it's not particularly deep. Basically it has one message (a good one, in my opinion) and it drives that home. "}{"Title":"Religious Thriller? Yep","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I went in expecting a horror movie. What I got was a hip, intense look at questions of faith and doubt, the origins of Christianity, and a little free info on Aramaic and other odd facts.This film challenged to examine what is the nature of the original radical, that LJC guy (Jesus).  Who was he? Did his followers drop the ball? As a skeptic/sometime believer, I found this film to kick ass as far as a movie experience and it left me stuff to think about as well...  "},{"Title":"A thought provoking film","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I wasn't sure what to expect when I sat down to view this film.  I've always enjoyed movies with a theological spin and this one didn't disappoint.  The acting was solid and the story works well.  I'm sure many fundamental Christians and Catholics will find the movie offensive.  They shouldn't, the final message is simple and beautiful.  If anything, this movie attacks everything that is wrong with modern religion without getting preachy in the process. It should be praised by the faithful, not condemned.The one drawback was the directing.  Energetic with many well shot and interesting closeups, it was unfortunately overdone in many parts.  The end result was the sense that I had just watched a two hour music video. In small doses the directors style would have been a strength, but when carried on throughout the film it simply becomes self indulgent. Because of this flaw, I can only give Stigmata a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A movie that needs a second viewing to take it all in","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I am not a completely religious person.  I believe in a God, perhaps not the one that is in the Bible, but I do believe in one.  I do not attend church, I lost my faith in them years ago when I found them to be just as hypocritical as my fellow man.  I have read the Bible twice and find it to be an interesting story but full of flaws.  But I do fear the God or the Deity that I believe in, so having said that I got a great deal out of the film.  Did I enjoy it?  Absolutely!  Does it challenge the very foundation that the church has stood on for 2000 years?  That is another absolute.  So if you are a weak minded Catholic or a person that thinks that religion is a subject that should not be questioned or doubted then perhaps you will expect me to say that a film like this is not something that you should attend.  But I don't feel that way at all.  I feel the exact opposite really.  To me this is a film that especially deeply religious people should see.  Because this film asks so many questions and it doesn't stop or appologize for doing so.  To me, organized religion is not what it is supposed to be, and Stigmata feels the same way and it has something important to say, and if you can go in with an open mind you may actually enjoy it and learn something in the process.Many people will probably tell you what this movie is about in great lengths so I'll skip the narrative part concerning the plot.  You all know that it is about a woman that seems to be getting the same wounds that Christ did while he was being crucified.  It is up to Father Andrew Kiernan to try and save her.  It is an interesting story and it is done beautifully.  This film gave me chills at least three times.  The strength of this film is first of all the actors, but what has to be mentioned first and foremost is the director and the editors.Robert Wainright is a relative newcomer to the business but he paces the film to perfection.  He keeps you guessing as to when the next sign of the Stigmata is going to strike and when he wants you to be afraid, he manipulates you with gripping authority.  But the editting is what really makes this movie as good and as tense as it is.  Michael Millar and Michael Duthie are both veterans of the business, and if you are a fan of Tombstone the way I am, then you may be a fan of Duthies.  Tombstone was fast and frenzied, especially in the O.K. Corral gunfight scene. Here he does a masterful job with this film, especially when Frankie is recieving her Stigmata like wounds.  When you see the disturbing images of nails and whips and crowns of thorns, you actually cringe and slump in your chair at the images and thoughts.  This editting is as good as JFK or Jaws. I think religion confuses everyone.  It has to.  It is ( as far as I know ) the only thing in this world that has no irrefutable proof to say that what it subscribes to is real, yet billions and billions of people swear by it. Whether it be Jesus Christ, Allah or Buddha, people want and need to believe in a higher power.  But Santa Clause and Greek myth are also just stories and they are simply things that we get pleasure out of but we know are not real.  So religion is all based on faith.  And if that is the case, then some people have to have questions.  And that includes me.  And perhaps that is why I enjoyed Stigmata so much.  It dares to ask questions that many don't ask or don't want the answers to.  But if you see this film, take the time to talk and think about if after.  And listen to what it has to say.  It raises some valid points about the church, Vatican and organized religion in general, and that is not me being anti-religious, that is just the truth.  Not only is Stigmata well made but it is scary, and perhaps that is all that some people want when they go to the show.  So you are in the right place if you want to carry on the tradition of Blair Witch and Sixth Sense.  There are some scary moments and there is a great deal of atmosphere in here.  So Stigmata has something for everyone.  But if you are like me and you openly have many questions about the Bible, perhaps The Koran, Adam and Eve, the church and any number of religious staples, then Stigmata is definetly a film that you should see, and perhaps more than once.  I want to see it again so I can pick up on all the tiny subtleties I missed before.  Sort of like Angel Heart, another film not liked by the critics but did a hell of a job of making you feel creepy.  This is a great film and it deserves to be seen. "},{"Title":"Pretty good religious horror movie","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The Catholic church is up in arms over this one (surprise surprise), but they're overreacting (nothing new there).  This is a movie about the spirit of an old priest who dies before his work is finished.  His spirit possesses the body of a young girl to carry out his work.  Unfortunately, he had stigmata himself (the wounds Christ got when nailed to the cross), and she has them inflicted on her).  Also the Catholic church gets wind of this and a kind priest sets out to help her, but finds there's a lot more than meets the eye.  The film is unpleasant (when we see her getting the stigmata(s)), and the rock music at the beginning is WAY TOO LOUD!  But the acting is excellent, the story is involving, the visual style is appropriate (everything looks dark and sinister), and the movie is intelligent.  This isn't your average teen horror film--this is aimed at adults.  So if you don't like blood...stay away; but if you like a good, scary adult horror film, see it! "},{"Title":"Well made, but pretentious tripe","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata is Hollywood predigested garb pretending to be a moving, complex intelletual/spiritual thriller. It's goals are admirable to criticize institutional religion, to make a religious movie that appeals to a younger generation, to enourage serious religious thought, and to package it in an entertaining, suspensful thriller. If that's the kind of movie you want to see, I recommend going out and renting The Rapture, The Last Temptation of Christ or Jesus of Montreal, because Stigmata accomplishes none of it's high intellectual goals.For one thing, a good spiritual movie should pose more questions then it does answers; that's what it means to encourage thought. Stigmata does not leave the audience with any questions at the end, it quite clearly states that the Catholic Church is an evil institution keeping Jesus a prisoner lest the truth of Christianity prove the Church corrupt. That is an important point which absolutely needed to be said - and was, by Martin Luther and John Huss and all sorts of people way back when the message was relevant. To paint a world in which the Catholic Church has autocratic control of all religious information - which Stigmata does - is insane. The Gospel of Thomas is availible in probably every library in the U.S. North of Alabama.And therein lies the real problem with the message of Stigmata. In turning the religious message into a movie, they had to demonize the Catholic Church (which they didn't deserve) and deify Gnostic Christianity (which also is undeserved). To do so, they not only create a horribly two dimentional villan, but they actually have to blatantly mislead and lie to the audience. The Gospel of Thomas is NOT the Gospel of Jesus, as the movie implies with the little blurb at the end. Furthermore, NO Gospel could have ever been written in Aramaic (the spoken language of the common people in Jesus' day) because Aramaic was not a written language. The written language of Israel was Hebrew; the language of the Gospels - including Thomas - was Greek.  It would be like trying to write a Gospel in Aboriginal Austrailian.As a movie whose purpose was entertainment, the movie was a success. It kept me guessing, the acting was good, and the cinematography was extremely suspensefull. As a movie attempting to express a religious message to my generation, it was inaccurate, dogmatic, and unnecessarily offensive to Catholics (although I'm not Catholic). I'd love to see film keep trying along these lines, but this movie was a failure.-Dan Gatti "},{"Title":"Please let's not compare Stigmata to The Exorcist (1973).","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata and The Exorcist (1973) both deal with possession of a person by, not to give anything away, something that talks. Stigmata uses washed out colour, rapid fire editing, piercing music score to jangle your senses. Today's video-gen will enjoy its style. The Exorcist on the other hand is all substance. It's #1 on almost every horror list, but is much more. You don't need a memory the size of a hard drive to remember back to '73 and the suspense in The Exorcist! The incredible way its subject of human possession and exorcism were handled with such professionalism. Even the subject of the Vatican in The Exorcist is treated in a more rational way, and not turned into a pot-boiler mystery as in Stigmata.  "},{"Title":"Poses an interesting question","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Don't go in thinking it's the next 'Exorcist' because it's more like a religious mystery movie.Patricia Arquette delivered a good performance (actually felt sorry for her character) and Gabriel Byrne was equally good. The movie moved at a good pace and don't be surprised if you find yourself on the web trying to learn a little more about the content of the mystery.The movie definitely took some risks with a particular religious institution and we'll know soon enough if it causes an uproar. Overall, it wasn't a horror but a good movie that poses an interesting question.   "},{"Title":"I had no preconceptions, and I LOVED this film!","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Unlike many who've seen Stigmata, I never saw the trailer, never read a review, never knew anything about the film.  My girlfriend picked it out--also knowing nothing about it--and we both enjoyed it. Apparently, there was some sort of latter-day EXORCIST hype surrounding this film.  The Exorcist is an all-time classic wonderfully directed, compellingly acted, intelligently written, with all of the intangibles (sound, sfx, etc) coming together. Stigmata is NOT an all-time classic.  But, judging by the stigmata on my arm (ie, tense-moment bruises from Darlene), and considering I didn't look at my watch once during the film, I'd say it was pretty good.I don't profess to know all of the Catholic hierarchy and theology discussed in the movie, but I'll say two things based on other reviews I've read here. First, unless you're a Doctor of Divinity student, I don't think you'll worry about any doctrinal flaws.  And second, I think the MTV-style direction of Rupert Wainwright ADDED to the effect of the film. My opinions, nothing more.  I've recommended Stigmata to my friends and certain family members (ie, my brother, yes; but not mom).  It's intense I'll say that. I'd give it a B+.  Great date film, too!   "},{"Title":"The trailers were great, so what the hell happened?","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata  Frankie Paige (Patricia Arquette) is a simple hairdresser who develops stigmata.  Her affliction draws the attention of the Vatican and Andrew Kiernan a priest/scientist is dispatched to investigate.  Will they discover why an atheist was chosen to develop the wounds of Christ?  Will they be able to stop the gift before it kills her?  Will the pretty hairdresser and the good-looking celibate priest get together?  Is it worth finding out the answer to any of these questions?Stigmata is the Exorcist with a twist - the devil didn't make her do it - this time it's a Catholic priest doing the possessing.  Based on the theater trailers I was really looking forward to this movie. Soon after I saw the first trailers on TV -poorly executed and lacking any pizzazz- I began to have misgivings.   Stigmata is poorly edited, has a scattergun plot (we never really find out why the possession takes place) and the screen is endlessly and needlessly drenched in blood (I guess I should be thankful that we're spared the pea soup treatment). I was especially annoyed that they re-edited the scariest scene in the movie when Kiernan tries to find out who he is dealing with and Frankie replies in Aramaic.  In the trailer, the voice was deep and foreboding and sent shivers down my spine, but they chose to use a different voice (monotone and detached) in the final cut which fell flat.Finally, if you are not a Catholic (or Christian for that matter), the subject matter and symbolism will be difficult to follow.  Stigmata will be going to video very soon.  Thank god.  "},{"Title":"Two great movies blended into one makes a bland mush.","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I liked this movie for the acting, the cinematography, the dialog, and the editing. Unfortunately the plot had either serious holes in it, or it just wasn't very good. I have a hard time deciding which with this movie.The plot involves a very compelling and interesting cover-up in the Vatican that provides a fascinating backdrop for what could be an equally interesting What if ancient miracles manifested themselves in modern America. The problem, it seems, is tying the two together. The explanations for the events given where either weak, or confusing. Why was an atheist afflicted with stigmata? What was the Vatican so desperate to cover up? Why was such a high level priest driven to such unchristian behavior? These questions are answered, but rather unconvincingly. I hope the plots introduced here are re-examined by a new film team, and given the deep examination they deserve. I would even like to see the same cast.  "}{"Title":"No academy awards material but.........","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I found this to be an enjoyable film. The tech. of the filming itself is quite good, however at times did get a bit overwhelming.. sort of reminded me of the beginning of se7en. except it continued throughout the film. The ending was sort of lame and could have been much more powerfully done, instead of ending with a bang it ended with an wimper. "},{"Title":"Cheesball story thinly disguised as a horror film","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Yikes!I'm frightened by how many positive comments there are about this film. -Is the general population so impressionable so that crap like this is deemed good.  In my opinion, save your $8.00 (you mileage may vary).  Here's why1) No character development.  A hair stylist and a priest.  Big whoop.  I watched them for almost 2 hours and that's about all I got from the film.  This duo could have been very interesting if I didn't have to listen to a bunch of crap dialog and psuedo-religious jargon.  It's sad when your secondary character, Father Andrew, is more intersting than your main character.2) Unneccessary characters.  Why were her friends in the film? -They served no purpose, especially the boyfriend at the beginning.  Why was he even in the film?  3) Trite story.  A woman is sent the rosary of a late Priest and contracts Stigmata.  Had there been an established central conflict, this might have been more interesting.  The only real question in the film was why is this happening?.  Big wup!  Futhurmore, the attempt to combine demonic possesion with divine possesion fails miserably. -The audience knows immediately that Frankie is not a threat in her possessed state.  No threat, no conflict.  No conflict, weak story.  Yawn!!!!4) Story flaws.  On the subway, a possessed (is that even the correct word) Frankie specifically asks for Andrew Kiernan indicating that he is the only one who can help.  If that's the case, why was he tested at the end of the film by a possessor who is obviously Father Pio?  Dumb!  Weak! I want my $8 back!! There are many more examples of this (i.e. Frankie never actually wore the rosary, but I guess because it was in her apartment, the Stigmata follows her around.) but I'd rather not bore you as much as this film bored me. . .On a good note. . . I thought the concept was very cool.   However, I thought the whole inner-workings of the Vatican was more interesting would have made for a better story.  In other words, the sub-story (Priests ex-commumicated for discovering the true words of Christ) was much more interesting than an annoying chick with bloody wrists. .. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully thought provoking","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie turned out not to be what I expected.  It was a lot less creepy,and not a cheap horror as it was portrayed.  A very clever and well written script brought to life by great acting and great effects.  You will leave this movie with a hundred thoughts swirling through your head!  Very profound and intriguing!  Left me wanting to know more.  Great tie in to reality too.   "},{"Title":"THIS MOVIE IS FANTASIC, 10 OUT OF 10. CRITICS HAVE NO IDEA AND ARE POINTLESS WASTE OF OUR $$$","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  oK, first off this movie is fantasic. I'm a strong believer in jesus and love him along with the rest of my family. I will admit this movie was just great, it was very real, and alot of these comments i see of other users that this movie will get banned, is just stupid. Maybe the people posting comments about how this movie should get banned need to rent the movie PRIEST made in 1994 which was actually alot woarse this what you might see in stigmata. It dealt with gay issues in the church and i think that people need to open up more to movies, again remember it's a  MOVIE, AND IT'S purp is to entertain us, and WOW, WOW JUST MAYBE WE MIGHT LEARN SOMETHING from a movie? like that maybe it's posable that tthere is corruption in the church? Anyway this movie gets a 10+ will written, excellent acting.. btw to the guy who made the comment about the bad camera angles and speicall effects you i can tell have no idea of what a movie is trying to do. Do you expect the camera to show you every little thing ?? don't you think that it's posabe that the peopl ewho mad this film wanted you THINK for a second what was going on, or what she was feeling, or whatever..  "},{"Title":"Saint Frankie","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The story of how saints become saints.  Stigmata  almost put my entire family to sleep.  It's pokey  and unscary.  The plot -- evil Vatican plotters  versus heroic priest -- is silly.  But there is  something mysteriously elemental about all that  blood, and all the pain being inflicted on beautiful  Patricia Arquette, that makes the movie eerily  haunting.  You know she is moving toward some  transcendent illumination.  The scenes of her at  the end, wrapped in her sculpted-looking white robes  and holding a dove in her hand, make it clear that  this self-styled atheist has become a modern day  Saint Francis (her character's name is Frankie).   The story of her journey to illumination is dragged  out and doesn't make a lot of sense, though.  Worth  seeing, but try and focus on the visual and spiritual  feel of the movie, not the plot. "},{"Title":"Anti-Catholic diatribe weakens, but doesn't destroy","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  When I went to purchase tickets for this movie, there was a protester outside with a placard that said boycott stigmata.  I am not Catholic, although I am Christian (reformist), and I found the movie to be quite good.  At the same time I could see why Catholics would not approve, although I think they are being too critical.  This movie only has one corrupt Catholic (although he is in a high position) and the theology is more made for MTV than actually incorrect.Basically I would say there are a few points where the anti-Catholic attitude became too key to the story, but overall the movie is quite good.  So if you are Catholic steer away, and everyone else, take the theology with a grain of salt, and you will walk away happy (if you can take the special effects).  "},{"Title":"disappointing, repetitive, and overdone","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Rupert Wainwright, a veteran of music video direction, brings the same frantic vision to the big screen.  The problem is that the film ends up much like a music video repetitive and overdone.  some of the camera work and visuals were beautiful, but well enough was never let alone anything good was repeated so often as to make it annoying.the storyline was disappointing.  it could have taken so many directions, yet the pay-off to the mystery was simply not there.  indeed, the final solution to the story does little to explain exactly why Arquette's character did all that she did, as it seems unlikely that violence would be a goal of the possessor.  the religious themes opened the door for a myriad of possibilities, yet it seems that they chose the least exciting.and Patricia Arquette as a 23-year old?  come on.all of this aside, the film was still enjoyable.  my major problem with it was that i had been waiting so long for the film and was so excited by the trailer that i was just plain disappointed.  if i had gone into the theatre with no expectations at all, i think i would've enjoyed myself much more. "},{"Title":"Being hit by a car is more enjoyable than this.","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A girl starts going nuts  because she's being attacked by an unseen force (sound familiar ?).Lame film just keeps on getting worse & worse.The Exorcist and this piece of junk have several differences The Exorcist has great acting,fine writing and scary chills.While on the other hand,this movie has bad acting,bad writing & stupid scenes.Where's Linda Blair when you need her ?Rating** (out of five)  "},{"Title":"Serious theme, beautifully shot, a little draggy","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  STIGMATA deals with the serious theme of how the religious establishment would react if non-canonical scripture suddenly legitimized itself by means of well-attested miracles. I am not aware that this has been covered before in the cinematic medium (although done nicely in various novels, most notably the recent _The Last Day_ by Glenn Kleier). In this movie, we are treated not only to a thought-provoking concept but also to a cinematographic masterpiece. The production design and camerawork are beautiful, each scene artistically laid out and carefully executed.The cast is competent, although no one stands out. The film also drags somewhat, and cutting 20 minutes would have improved it quite a bit.Although STIGMATA is rated R, I took my 14-year-old son, who enjoyed the movie, and it brought up serious questions that led to a productive family discussion afterwards. There is no really gory violence, minimal (nonexplicit) sex, no nudity, and no worse language than one finds in a PG-13 film. Therefore, more adventurous parents may wish to consider taking their serious-minded young teen children. "},{"Title":"Fantastic visuals, believable story, *NOT* offensive to intelligent Catholics","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stunning, striking, beautiful visuals throughout --- she walks down a street wearing vibrant colours, everyone else in dull greys -- she has a fit in a luscious florists -- the rubbish in an gothic alleyway swirls around in the shape of paper birds while steam pours out of pipes. The cutting is fast and stylish, reminiscent of Run Lola Run. The story is believable, consistent and compelling.As for those who think this attacks the Catholic church nonsense! The Tablet, the leading intellectual Catholic journal in the UK, is far more critical of the Vatican than this film -- and so are many modern priests. "}{"Title":"An amazing movie that leaves the audience thinking.","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I must say that this movie is one of the best I have seen in a long time.  It totally engrosses you in the film's plot, and is suprisingly uplifting rather than the depressing sort of feel the previews give the movie.  Rather than a horror film, this movie is more of a drama.  From start the finish, the slowest moments still keep you interested and wondering what is going to happen next.  It has been compared to The Exorcist, but other than priests being featured in the movie, they films are nothing alike.  The one thing that truly makes this movie unique is how it makes you think.  It seems in the brainless world of Hollywood today, movies are an escape from thinking.  It is not often that there is a movie that makes you examine your life and look at your beliefs.  This is not an anti-God movie at all, so if you are Catholic or any other religion, as long as you keep a slightly open mind, this is a movie you should really enjoy. "},{"Title":"BLOOD, SWEAT, AND MORE BLOOD","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The spirit of a Brazilian priest enters the body of 23-year old partying cosmetologist Patricia Arquette (Goodbye Lover), causing holes in her wrists and feet, lashes on her back, cuts on her head, and forcing her to scream loudly, hallucinate, bleed, write Phoenician on walls, and damage the apartment plumbing during Pittsburg's rainy season.  The Vatican's miracle detective, scientist, and priest Gabriel Byrne is called to investigate, but when he stumbles upon JesusÕ first-person text (presumably the lost Gospel of St. Thomas discovered in 1945) the Church authorities - led by Infiniti spokesman Jonathan Pryce - try to silence it.  Lots of zany camera gimmicry (including chronophotography!) by Rupert Wainwright, retro horror synth ostinati, Billy Corgan noises, and neo-Linda Blair levitation antics.  But remember, our hair stylist isn't ìpossessed' in the Hollywood occult sense, she is a messenger for this lost 'gospel', so there is no green barf, swearing, spitting, peeing, or head spinning; she is a stigmatic in the tradition of St. Francis of Assisi.                                          "},{"Title":"Critics got it all wrong...","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I saw Stigmata last night and I felt I must comment in its defense.  The critics have railed against this movie as being anti-Catholic.  In my opinion, this is not so.  In fact, this movie is about faith.  Not just the Catholic faith, but everyone's faith, and it stimulates the thinking viewer, as another reviewer pointed out, to reflect and discuss what our individual beliefs are. Even Father Andrew had to admit that he didn't know where his faith lay.  Cardinal Houseman knew exactly what he believed in, and what the ramifications of the stolen Gospel would be, if authentic.  That he was willing to kill to protect his faith was his own fault, not a fault of the church. I found this movie to be thought-provoking, interesting and entertaining, and as appropriate to millennium madness as the Seventh Sign would have been.  The cinematography was fabulous, at least for those like me who can appreciate varied styles, and  finally, I have never seen Gabriel Byrne so sexy as in this film.  Thanks for reading. "},{"Title":"Great special effects make this demonic trip great!","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  At first, I didn't think Stigmata would be very good, but after going, I realized that I was very wrong!  Not only did the film have awesome special effects, but the storyline was great too; which is something that is very hard to find in today's movies.  Another plus to Stigmata was it's music.  Billy Corgan did a great job with the alternative rock soundtrack.  The acting was also well done in the film.  Patricia Arquette did a fine job as the woman who has her life turned upside down.  Gabriel Bryne also gave a fine preformance, but the best one by far was Jonathan Pryce as the villan in this wicked tale of posession.  Overall, Stigmata was a success, it's only downfall was it's ending, which if you weren't Catholic, was hard to understand.  I give it an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Great Movie That Needs To Be Seen","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  First of all, it was not at all what I expected.  This was a truly enjoyable film that really makes you think.  I see now why the  Catholic Church was so outspoken about this film.   Secondly, both Gabriel Byrne and Patricia Arquette were wonderful in this movie.  I was quite impressed with Ms. Arquette and in a film fan's opinion, this role highlighted her acting abilities well.  She is a versatile actress.  I have enjoyed Mr. Byrne's work for a long time.  I just love to see him on film.   The imagery was also a very important aspect to the film.  Without spoiling this film for a new viewer I can only say this, if you are a person of faith, you should go see this film.  By the end of the movie, you will have a surprising project to research "},{"Title":"Thoughtful Horror","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The title I gave to this comment is a bit of a paradox,but that is the impression the movie leaves on me -- aparadoxical thought-provoking horror story.Based on some lines that actually exist in the Coptic  Gospel according to Thomas which was found at Nag Hammadiin Egypt in 1945, the movie combines elements of THE  EXORCIST, AGNES OF GOD, and ALL THE PRESIDENT'S MEN tocreate an interesting mystery that deals with the questionof whether institutional religion is what Jesus intended.To say the least, this premise is controversial, but atthe same time, it provides a compelling plot.Some of the symbolism in the movie is disturbing and someis just silly. An example of silly is the fact that itseems to be constantly raining in Pittsburgh, evidentlyindicating a washing away of falsehood.It is not as frightening as THE EXORCIST, but at the sametime, its horror is more subtle, and therefore it doescause one to think. Not too many films do that. "},{"Title":"Something we've been waiting for","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata is that film we have been waiting for since July--the film that is actually scary, instead of overhyped, terrorless and incompetent, as is the case with the bewilderingly successful The Sixth Sense.People are criticizing the film for being 'anti-Catholic,' but why? Such a belief is only indicated by a single plot point, which isn't even explored enough to come off as exploitation.While the story of the movie is somewhat (shall we say) disoriented, there is no need to be optimistic here. The film, through its eerie images and upsetting implications, delivers genuine thrills and chills. At a point where other supernatural thrillers are becoming inexplainably successful at the box office, here is something that attacks us psychologically, and forces us to listen. Accept it for what it is, and you'll love it. "},{"Title":"Awesome! Nothing like the Exorcist!","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I don't know why some people are comparing this to the Exorcist.  This movie is about evil preventing the messenger from delivering the message of Christ.  The reason this atheist woman was chosen was because she received the rosary of a priest who was also a stigmatic.  No more, as not to give anything away.  Just have an open mind and enjoy the movie, which it is, just a movie.  You won't burn in hell for enjoying it. "},{"Title":"Touching drama, not really a horror","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is far from Exorcist or others it has been compared to. Sure it's got its 'possession' factor but that's not what the movie is centered on. This is a story of two innocent souls, one who merely wants to live a normal life, the other to expose the truth. There is no demonic force, simply a soul who wants to tell the truth to the world when he didn't get the chance. A few buildings are smashed, bloody stigmatic wounds appear, goofy-coloured eye contacts and a levitated body are really the only 'horror' elements, not particularly frightening, but the focus of the film is on the relationship between Frankie and the priest, very gripping and emotional. In all, despite the horrific image set by the media, the movie is quite enjoyable and worth seeing.Historical note the film is based on the 1945 discovery of the Nag Hammadi manuscripts discovered in Jerusalem which were condemned by the Catholic church as heretical. A small note which the end text does not reveal is that nearly half the texts were burned to destroy their contents.This film may not be for everyone due to its questioning of structured faith, but it clearly demonstrates once again the products that Hollywood can make of organized religion.  "},{"Title":"Lame, adolescent, really an un-scary cartoon","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie was OK. It had its moments, but it also had some major story flaws that prevented it from ever becoming something that anyone would have taken seriously. Oddly, the acting was great. Even the technical aspects of the film were fine, too. What tanked Stigmata was the story logic and the vision. To be fair, aren't most of us willing to suspend some disbelief in the cause of entertainment? I am... but in this one there were so many internal contradictions it was hard to get involved. Further, the movie was significantly less out there than real life. That is, where some movies lose an audience because the story, or key plot points, are too fanciful, too outrageous to even be considered, Stigmata was built around a metaphysical set of events that was far too tame, to juvenile, too much like actual life to be amazing, scary, or even surprising. Stigmata comes across more like a Scooby-Do cartoon, where the villains are implausible, the good guys half-conceived and two-dimensional, and the plot is a repetitive and silly mess.No spoiler here, but let me just say that the director kept employing theatrics and dramatic build up for things that most of us are already familiar with. And the punchline, the dramatic conclusion? Is that the best he could do? That was so lame-- note that I am not saying it was false or wrong in any way, or right, either, for all of that-- but all that build-up for that tiny little revelation reminded me of a 'personal journal' written by a 17 year old. In that analogy, we know they feel it, we know it's new to them, etc. But puh-leeeze! Spare us the tedium of sitting through adolescent realizations about how the universe might seem. I gave it a 5. "}{"Title":"very disturbing and very good","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Excellent movie. Gives a great idea through good story and beautiful cinematography. Warning It is very disturbing (at least it was to me) and some people might be offended by the role of the RC church. Again, it's a great movie but still if you would like to enjoy a piece of art on the subject it is The Last Temptation Of Christ "},{"Title":"Stigmata leaves a lot to be desired.","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  To make it brief, Stigmata is worth the 7 bucks or so to go see. Interesting camera work, a few twists and turns in the story, and Patrica Arquette (nuff said). However the story does leave a lot to be desired, especially for thiose who really care to know what exactly is going on. Frankie (Arquette) has Stigmatic attacks (or Christ-like wounds), which should be a blessing, however she also experiences evil blackout periods. She writes the lost gospel of Christ in Armaic, a dead language, but when asked who she is (or inhabited by) she replies The message in not important in a rather evil voice. They try to perform an exorcism on her.....blah blah blah. My question is this. Why does she A) bleed like Christ and B) qoute Christ's lost gospel if she's inhabited by an EVIL spirit. And once more, if she's inhabited by a good spirit (which doesnt happen), why does she have these violent outbursts, and why perform an exorcism on her? I think the film will most likley get a thumbs down from most reviewers despite a great team of actors and cinematographers, in fault of screenwriters who have holes in their heads. "},{"Title":"Decent storyline but a victim of terrible directing.","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata had a very decent and solid plot but what killed the movie is that the directing was so horrible. It was like sitting down to watch a very long and loud music video. I think that the film would have been a lot better if a different director had done it. The symbolism in the film was overdone and some parts were pretty cheesy, but the acting in the film wasn't too bad. Gabriel Byrne did an excellent job and so did Johnathan Pryce. All in all I give about a D+. "},{"Title":"Im not religious either,","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I'm not religious either, but after seeing this you question who should believe and who shouldn't. What caught me was the last statement that in 1945 that a scripture was discovered but discarded by the Vatican. In a line said many times, what are you afraid of? The truth?! As for the movie, very well written and directed. The CGI graphics were not needed, especially with the room engulfed in flames. I didn't know what STIGMATA meant until now...It proves how much leaders of religion fear the truth/fact.  "},{"Title":"A flawed, but ultimately very entertaining film.","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata is one of those movies that, while watching it, I felt cheated, but as I left the theater, I realized how much I enjoyed the way the entire film came together. It's the story of a young girl, who is, by the way, a devout athiest, who is inexplicably afflicted with the wounds of Christ. It's a good premise, and it's well acted. Gabriel Byrne is in it, so how bad could it possibly be?My main problem with the movie is the heavy spoon with which the director smears on the symbolism. Shining rays of light, crosses, numerous references to communion. Now, I know that for a movie with high religious content, this sort of thing is important, but it doesn't have to be (pun intended) hammered into the wrists and feet of the viewer. Also, the Billy Corgan (sans the talent of his band) soundtrack could have been left out. The relentless Techno-Hard Rock drivel reduced the effect of some scenes.That said, I really did enjoy this movie. It was well put together, interesting to watch, and at points, very frightening. Not nearly as frightening as the Sixth Sense, mind you, but spooky in it's own charming way.In the end, I just have one question. A movie like this, which flies directly in the face of the Catholic church, flaps its wings a few times, and then proceeds to make dookie on the church's shoulder, is fine, yet Dogma produces a vast controversy?(Please excuse any comma splices, run-ons, and whatnot.. I never was that hot at grammar.) "},{"Title":"A stab at the Catholic church","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie was indeed very creepy. Arquette is convincing as a girl who has unwillingly become a messenger of Christ. Byrne is just as good as the priest with conflicting views. Stigmata is not just a movie, but should be a religious awakening of sorts for Catholics. With it's constant references to Jesus' gospel stating I am all around you...you do not need mansions and preachers to help serve me...I am inside you., Stigmata points out that the Catholic church may have been hiding Jesus' true wishes for the past 1900 years. As a movie, Stigmata is just another movie in the horror genre. As a message, Stigmata should be heard (and seen) loud and clear. "},{"Title":"Good film, but could have been more.","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata is a very hard movie to comment on. I won't even attempt to summarize it for you. It had so much potential to be more than just an okay film. My biggest complaint is the music. It didn't fit in with the film at all and in my opinion it detracted quite a bit from the mood. Other than that, the movie never quite captured me and pulled me in. Don't get me wrong, it's an entertaining film. It just didn't have what it takes for me to really get into it. I give it a 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"MTV Exorcist","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I was sorely disappointed with this movie. It could have been excellent, but instead the director decided to make a jumpy, attention-deficit disordered film that never stops moving long enough to let you think about how horrible this film really is. With Billy Corgan's throbbing Moby-esque music pounding in your ears, Patricia Arquette's typical wooden acting, horrible dialogue that even the amazing Gabriel Byrne could not save, this movie was destined to be bad. I do have to say I enjoyed the cinematography though, and the art direction. It was an interesting film to look at. But, sadly, thats about it. Its a sad state of affairs when movies have to copy excellent old movies, but spice them up to look like a hip, tatooed, and pierced music video. "},{"Title":"Not What I Expected","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I saw Stigmata, and I, for one, liked it a lot.  The promos for this movie are misleading and provide a somewhat false notion of the movie's plot.  It is not exactly a horror flick though it does have its moments.  I don't really know what to classify it as, but it was a good movie. "},{"Title":"WAY better than the exorcist!","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  i loved this movie,its one of my favorites! patricia arquette and gabriel bryne were brilliant! why is everyone comparing this to the exorcist? it was ALOT better and ALOT more interesting. so go see it right away! 10/10  "}{"Title":"I expected the Exorcist but got a movie that made me think","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I went tonite to see Stigmata for two reasons. One, it looked to be a lot like The Exorcist and I wanted to see how it would compare. And two, almost every catholic movie reviewer and almost every catholic group or organization in the country has claimed the movie to be a direct attack on the Roman Catholic Church. Well this movie wasn't anything like The Exorcist. As for the attack, yeah it was an attack on the institution of the Church, but it did not attack religion or faith in a higher power.Basically the setup of the film is that Patricia Arquette is recieving the Stigmata, which are marks resembling the wounds of Christ that he received from being crucified. Gabriel Byrne, works for the Vatican and is sent to investigate whether it's legit or not. The movie's climax occurs when Byrne finds out what's truly going on.Stigmata is not for everyone. Those who are Catholic and feel the need for an established Church (the Vatican) will probably be offended beyond belief. The movie carries a strong political message, basically an attack and accusation, that the Roman Catholic Church is a bureaucracy bent on having power at any costs. I think if one carefully looks at European history since Constantine's conversion in 325 A.D., and examines the political moves that the Church has taken, they, Catholic or not, would have trouble discrediting the accusation with any ease.Yes, the methods in which the film-makers attacked the Church were not too cool and it hurts the film. I can understand why people of the Catholic faith would be outraged at this movie and I don't blame them. I have to say straight out that if you think you might be one of these people, DON'T SEE THE MOVIE! But for everyone else, I gotta say this is a great movie and go out and see it. The movie in no way attacks religion as a whole or the existence of G-d. In fact the movie reinforces the existance of G-d and that faith and religion are very important. It just questions whether we need to go to and/or belong to a church, or a synagogue, or a mosque, or a temple, in order to be at one with G-d and in order to communicate with G-d. While this movie does attack the Church, I think the intended attack was to be upon all organized religion. I think that the people behind this film are saying that politics and religon should be separate from each other, and that we all have a link to G-d. Whether we go to house of prayer or not. The sad thing about this movie is that if the film dealt with a religion besides Christianity, there probably wouldn't be too much negative publicity. The conservative press of America would see it as a film and not as heresy.  "},{"Title":"Bled Dry","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  StigmataThe latest entry in Hollywood's mad dash for demonic thrillers will probably be the one remembered for the best script completely undermined by the director. Once again, another commercial and MTV hack steps up to the show and immediately proves the limits these knuckleheads share. While mostly in focus, STIGMATA is another example of why a director who pays attention to the story as well as the visuals is so rare in the current director climate.His name is Rupert Wainwright and this is his first movie. A gentle fable about a club hopping young woman(Patricia Arquette) who suddenly begins to share the same wounds Christ received when he died on the cross. When the Catholic church is brought in to investigate, a priest (Gabriel Byrne) begins to question his place in the religious organization and finds himself becoming attached to this confused, and almost bled dry, female.Like Michael Bay, Hype Williams, and any number of established MTV directors/feature hacks that have come before, Wainwright seems bent on destroying every ounce of narrative and structure that the screenplay, I'm positive, had. STIGMATA takes on some heady subjects, one of them being the fallacy of organized religion. Wainwright has a potential powder keg of issues to molest but all he can seem to accomplish is to fill every scene with enough lit candles to make Smokey The Bear break out into a cold sweat over, and the rampant use of edits - alone the downfall of modern film. His style is boring and repetitive, yet nothing he does can drown the interest I had in STIGMATA's story. With every visual thing pushing me away, the ideas that STIGMATA toys with are fascinating, and in the end, based in fact. It draws you in completely.Even Patricia Arquette cannot seem to dampen the film. After every bad performance she has given recently (HI-LO COUNTRY, GOODBYE LOVER) I find it hard not to dry-heave a bit when her name is attached to a movie. I don't like her, but Wrainwright takes all the focus off her poor acting with his overdirecting. In a way you could say it's her best performance in years. Byrne, on the other hand, commands the screen with his massive Irish-Catholic charm. His role as Satan in Schwarzenegger's upcoming END OF DAYS should be a hoot and a holler. Oddly, the film also plays as a minor BEFORE THEY WERE STARS special with Portia de Rossi (TV's ALLY MCBEAL) and Enrico Colantoni (JUST SHOOT ME) in tiny supporting roles - filmed way before they both hit the television jackpot.STIGMATA is not a film I would recommend. While I enjoyed the story and the performances, everything is wasted by a director who feels he has to show off instead of letting his movie breathe. Obvious (and I mean obvious!) last minute tampering by the studio doesn't helps things at all. Instead of one long story arc, we get THIRTEENTH WARRIOR style montages and clips of scenes and characters we never got to see or meet. It's a mess, but a damn intriguing one. --------------- 5/10 "},{"Title":"Not bad, but probably not for everyone.","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata is about a non religious woman who suddenly starts to develop wounds like the crucified Jesus.  As the priest/scientist who comes to investigate these wounds tells her, this only happens to deeply religious people.  So why does it happen to this woman?I have a hard time saying that I liked this movie, but I also have a hard time saying that I didn't like it.  This movie is full of religious references, and may be hard to understand for those who do not know about Catholicism.  Also, this movie may not be for those who are deeply religious and are offended by anything that question the church.About the best way I can describe this movie is, Interesting.  "},{"Title":"One of the best movies of the year","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata IS one of the best movies of the year, i've seen it twice and love it.  The movie is scary, and also touching.  I really loved everyone in this movie they did an outstanding job.  Now lots of religious people will say this movie is bad but it's not, i am a religious person and think its great. I do believe the vatican has things we don't know about and it is probably things showing how the church is being run wrong (much like in the movie) so thats why i also loved this movie its not scared to go against the vatican and say things are wrong, which is probably another reason why people are against this movie along with it being bold and shocking.  Weird how this movie is being knocked by people who LOVED and was SCARED by Blair Witch Project...now thats scary.  Also saw a preview of Supernova and it looks GREAT.  Stigmata is a 10+ "},{"Title":"The single most offensive film I have ever seen","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I am a firm believer in the freedom of speech, but I am nevertheless very frequently dismayed at those who would choose to abuse this very precious of American freedoms, such as those responsible for the film, Stigmata.  I could begin to criticize it's awful script, seemingly plotless until it's final moments - or it's unnessecarily MTVesque photgraphy and editing, playing like a really long and pointless music video rather than the narrative film that it is SUPPOSED to be...but more than that, I am forced to comment on it's strikingly offensive and ignorant attack on the Catholic church, the Catholic faith, and dare I say Catholics in general.  This film portrays the faith and the Church as nothing short of evil, and delivers the final blow with a series of title cards at the film's finale that attempt to prove to its audience that there was some major conspiracy in the late 1940's that would disprove the validity of the Catholic faith.  As a Christian historian, I can assure anyone that this film did not consult a single competent historian or theologian in an attempt to validate it's ludicrous and utterly ignorant claims against the church.  Not only is every fact a complete fallacy, but this picture is a deeply personal and offensive attack.  Just imagine the backlash from a film that so violently condemned Jew3 or Muslims!  There would be riots, but this attack is acceptable?  A terrible film, and I condemn all who were involved with it's production. "},{"Title":"An Intense and very entertaining drama. Not for the squeamish.","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Although overwrought with religious symbolism and a little heavy-handed, Stigmata is an intense drama and very entertaining. Patricia Arquette is terrific and a lot of fun to watch. The movie is beautifully shot and soaked with wonderful color. It also boasts a great soundtrack. Go see it! Not for the squeamish, however. "},{"Title":"The Girl from the Exorcist, Grows up!","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Ok, so it's not quite the exorcist, but still... Stigmata's like just about any other movie of it's genre.  However, it may turn out to be one of the better movies of the summer, with great special effects and a creepy storyline and setting.... (at least, compared to the over-hyped Blair Witch Project that lacked anything to scare anyone...'cept maybe the unfortunate person who has to see it twice...)  ... All and all, it was a good movie and I give it three and a half inverted crosses. "},{"Title":"Really good movie","Date":"22 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" At first I was discouraged by the many negative reviews but after listening to some of its music while browsing on youtube, I thought why not... After watching the movie, I was so intrigued that I went and searched and found out that stigmata occurrences actually do happen to many people. The actors are very convincing, the storyline is nicely done and leaves no questions for me in the ending like most movies of its genre, and the music is really good. So basically I decided I will never listen to any bad reviews, if I like the storyline I will watch it.. Anyways this is one of the few movies that actually moved me and could not guess its ending. "},{"Title":"Thought Provoking Film That Tests Your Faith","Date":"8 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata  (1999) is a thinking man's horror film. It not only makes you question the motives of the Catholic Church, but it also implores you to question your own faith and the true meaning of GOD. I was drawn to this film for many reasons. But it takes more than one viewing for you to fully realize its impact, not only on Catholics, but for anyone who believes in God.It features fine performances by Patricia Arquette ( before her success on  Medium  ) as the girl who becomes afflicted with the  stigmata  wounds, and Gabriel Byrne as the skeptical priest who tries to save her. The film is visually stunning and features an impressive cutting edge soundtrack.  Stigmata  is more than your average possession film. It delves into the  sinister  inner workings of the Catholic Church, and its obsession with power and corruption. I don't want to reveal any spoilers here, so I'll only say that if you are a Catholic or believe in God you must see this engrossing film, for it will open your eyes to the real truth about Jesus and his philosophy towards his followers&#x85;&#x85;  for I am under every rock and in every tree&#x85;.  "},{"Title":"An Intimate Fusion of Religious Occult Drama","Date":"9 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" THE EXORCIST (1973) grown up. STIGMATA takes the basic elements from this classic occult horror movie and turns it into a more of an adult, religious mystery fusing the ambiance of DARK WATER (2005), suggestions of CONSTANTINE (2005) and incorporating important concepts from the action thriller ANGELS AND DEMONS (2009). It could be that maybe it's the other way around. The musical selections accompanying this film is also uniquely both haunting and serene. Ultimately, the premise of this movie is more along Tom Hank's portrayal and puts the occult horror genre more on its head in this version based on a ancient scroll. Patricia Arquette and Gabriel Bryne get to perform in a more mature, less overly dramatic fashion that captures both the emotional pain and the spiritual beauty of the basis of religious ferment. There are strong suggestions of occult horror, but they never exceed or overwhelm the basic storyline elements and simple message of Jesus Christ. "}{"Title":"Woe is me oh Lord, why has thou forsaken us with this bad film","Date":"23 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The bath overflows with the pain of no fulfillment spilling across stained tiles, spattering it with the crimson of a time forgotten. The city lights blare through windows that reach into the heavens offering no cover from its tears.If you like this kind of pretentious crap conjuring up images that lack any meaning then this film is for you! The film itself does offer an interesting take on church politics (that's why I didn't give it a 1) which has definitely picked up steam as a sub-genre thanks to The Da Vinci Code, but it loses itself in a war of stylistic nonsense over substance. The cinematography is great, freeze any frame in the film and you'll have an amazing photo but if you cut out most of the emphasis on the rain, dripping ceiling, never ending array of lit candles, car lights cutting through the dark you'd have a much shorter, straight to the point film. I didn't hate all of this, as a matter of fact it did add to the story in a grimy, uncomfortable way (the heavy clothes she wears looks like a burden on her) however, the filmmakers rely so much on it that it becomes a sensory overload that's not worth the payoff. No spoilers about that payoff but when I figured it out midway I wasn't happy that I still had another hour of this to go. "},{"Title":"Engaging Religious-Themed Horror.","Date":"19 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Stigmata is about Frankie (Patricia Arquette), a hairdresser in her twenties who spend a lot of her time partying and doing the things most people her age do. She has no religious beliefs and doesn't believe in any sort of god... but she soon begins to question this when she begins to show signs of stigmata, which are manifestations of the wounds of Christ. A Catholic priest, Father Kiernan (Gabriel Byrne) is assigned from the Vatican to look into Frankie's wounds, and believes he has a legit case of the supernatural phenomena. But Frankie's episodes become more and more violent, and Father Kiernan begins to wonder if Frankie might be possessed by someone, or something, that is linked to the time of Christ.A rather frightening horror film that brings many questions of the Catholic church to the surface, Stigmata is a fairly good movie. Some may look at it and immediately think Exorcist rip-off (which is a bit understandable), but this film isn't merely that. While it revolves around religious themes, the entire stigmata phenomenon is a topic that hasn't been brought about in cinema, and it really is an interesting thing, whether you believe in it or not. These religious-themed horror movies often bring about a lot of controversy (many of it from radical Christians), but the thing is, this movie, like many others with similar themes, aren't necessarily attacking the church. They may be questioning things, but what's wrong with that? This film doesn't try and force you to believe one way or the other - it just tells the story of a woman with no religious belief who finds herself experiencing something that may be supernatural. Anyhow, the writing here is pretty solid and the idea is translated on-screen well. The storytelling becomes a tad bit choppy on a few occasions and there are a few plot holes that could have been easily taken care of, but aside from these few moments, the story flows pretty well. Since I often find supernatural horror movies much scarier than your run-of-the-mill slasher flicks (I believe it's just the mysticism and ominousness of it all), there were quite a few moments in this film that irked me quite a bit. Frankie's possession scenes and her episodes are done very well, and the dark imagery and use of color really add to the movie's overall creepiness. It's a dark movie, and the mood is perfect, because it really makes you feel uneasy. The filming style and technique is also unique and gives more texture to the movie. Patricia Arquette plays our atheistic lead very well, and conveys her character fittingly. Gabriel Byrne plays the helping priest very well too. The acting overall is very good, and I liked the characters. The movie ends on a more positive note, which was nice.Overall, Stigmata is an interesting movie that has a few problems here and there, but considering the remainder, it's most definitely worth a watch. If you enjoy religious-themed movies of this type, this is pretty good modern-day entry into that small category of movies. It provides some good shocks and an intriguing plot, with some good acting to boot. It's not as bad as some reviewers have made it out to be on here, either. 7/10. "},{"Title":"A For Originality, But...","Date":"25 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Hollywood is often criticized for churning out the same banal gobbedly gook time and time again. And while it can be the difference between mediocrity and excellence, originality is not always enough to carry a film.Case in point is STIGMATA. The title refers to the Christ-like wounds that have allegedly appeared on the bodies of a number of devout Christians for centuries. It's a miraculous yet frightening spectacle, and should be solid fare for a horror film.Unfortunately, STIGMATA suffers from a repetitive, overly conspiracial script. Director Rupert Wainwright sets an appropriately grim tone, but the film never seems sure where it wants to take its interesting concept. By the final 20 minutes, there's very little left in the tank as the actors seem as anxious to get it all over with as we do. The loud, distracting soundtrack further takes away from whatever promise STIGMATA held.That said, STIGMATA does have its moments. It starts out quite strong, and the gradual possession of star Patricia Arquette, as the less-than-holy Frankie Paige, may chill some viewers. And although he was nominated for a Razzie, Gabriel Byrne more than holds his own as the stoic Father Andrew Kiernan.STIGMATA is one of those films you'll walk away from wondering why it wasn't as good as it could have been. "},{"Title":"Spirituality versus organised religion","Date":"30 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The short version Stigmata's not horrific. If you've thought about this sort of thing before it's very interesting and well-observed. If you haven't, you will find it thought-provoking. If you're a fundamentalist, you may not like it.The long version Shot like a pop video, this tale of clashing belief systems and issues within a social group of twenty-somethings being mirrored within the established Catholic Church is obviously aimed at getting generations X, Why? and Zzzzz to think about beliefs rather than merely accepting or rejecting out of hand what they're told. The acting is actually pretty decent, as you'd expect from stars like Arquette and Byrne. The hagiographical (book of a saint's life) details are well-observed, as are the attitudes of both Kiernan's superiors and Frankie's friends. The play-off between religious and secular in interpretations of Frankie's condition, as well as in the scenes between Kiernan and Frankie, are well-balanced. My one issue would be that the facts and plot do tend to be suggested then spelled out, and some viewers may find this patronising. Other viewers may find it useful for playing a drinking game -)The soundtrack is also pretty good... Everyone should own some Afro-Celt Sound System.For people who like doing film parties, Stigmata would make a good double feature with more recent shocker The Exorcism of Emily Rose. "},{"Title":"Revelation of physical encounters, in the celestial realm","Date":"11 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" There were cuts, and bruises, on the girl's temple. Symbolic of Christ's persecutions at, and during His crucifixion. But we observe, as she goes thru the stigmata, she is actually in a trance symbolic of the terrestrial mind dying; by this we also know that Jesus (All the Word) is not given to any one temple, but an entity, of Jesus (God's Word), is imputed into each temple. Stripes, on Christ's back, was the attack, of terrestrial thoughts, words, and works, on the Word of God. Nails through the hands (wrists) was symbolic of man's attack against the works of God. Nails through the feet was symbolic of man's attack on the Word being carried through the world. The piercing of the body, in the side, was symbolic of man's attack on the whole body of Christ, even though the body is manifested in many temples, of the Gentile temples. Any attack, on any one member, of the body will effect the whole body. The physical death symbolizes, the body dying, for the sins of man. "},{"Title":"True in every respect","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata is an experience i won't forget as a spiritual dabbleri have always admired Jesus's sayings but not really grasped their true significanceBut the gospel of thomas is a list of 114 sayings containing his original messageCalled gnosis it teaches heaven on earth is possible now and we and god can be united right now. Why wait till death, its something we can experience every momentIts not coincidence this film came out.... as a lot of reviewers have noticed the gospel of thomas isn't suppressed by the church, you can buy it at any bookstore!Jesus was a teacherMartin  "},{"Title":"awesome and scary","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata is one of those films that would keep me up at nights with nightmares. It is powerful, terrifying, enjoyable and intense movie that should have wide appeal. I am glad that the director brought this subject to the screen because I had no idea what a stigmata prior to watching this film. This was a learning experience I will not soon forget.I couldn't ask for better actors than Gabriel Byrne and Patricia Arquette to portray their respective roles as priest and stigmatic. I previously saw Byrne in End Of Days as Satan and I knew he was a very talented actor because he has presence. You know when Byrne is on the screen because he is just that good. Arquette's natural beauty and raw talent is what attracted me to her in Stigmata. Her performance should of won her an Oscar or emmy award because it was so unique. I don't think I would have liked it if another actress played Frankie Paige. The role just suited Arquette so well.This deserves the attention of anyone who likes movies because of the performances and plot depth. This is an all-around good movie.  "},{"Title":"The distance between masterpiece and mediocre is measured in memories.","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" That which separates this film from mediocre cinemaStigmata is the story of a Miss Frankie Paige who is cast into the unlikely role, as a contemporary messiah, to experience the stigmata of the Christ by the deceased Almeida, who was working on translating the lost gospels of Jesus Christ, and cannot rest due to a need to purvey the message moi importante to the world.. the lost gospels of Jesus. A tour de force, Stigmata touches the eye, the ear, the mind, and the heart.Every interaction of the movie Stigmata is a treatise towards faith, and not in a dogmatic sense, quite the contrary, in a real, physically transcendence. All the way down to the beauty of Paige's warning... the gospel... and her perception of it due to how she is effected throughout this movie. The music is haunting and timeless, Billy Corgan at his best. The stigmata scenes are walked into with systematic eloquence, and not overdone, which is not a easy feat in the least. David Bowie's song, All the pretty things are going to hell opens the next chapter, each one representing the pain of transcending our vices, with or without our consent, and in that, lies the heroic realism of Stigmata.Yes, I see the alternate to that, I always do. The causal always has the dichotomy, as the coin has two sides, so does the tide wash out as well as in. We see a tour of force, in the relevance that lies within, we have the best friend who just wants to live carefree, Paige was once like that, doing no wrong in life, but doing no right either... she is forced upon a deeply introspective state, where she is thrust in to a spiritual emergency, and comes out the other side, truly alive, and enlightenment thru her suffering.Many will relate, and many will find the film corny, as did many with Vanilla Sky, and so many other movies that challenge our own ego conceived limitations.The character development is staggering, and one must applaud the actors and the direction for a film which draws you in by the sheer vulnerability, of each scene. Every detail is cared for like a doting parent. Right down to the rays of light that are the texture of the wall behind Paige as she hovers in the form of Christ.. one can go on about this film for quite some time, wax prophetic, poetic, whatever you like, the journey is your own, and I myself, was impressed. "},{"Title":"Fair entertainment, bad theology","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Ever since The Exorcist, we've seen this familiar theme an attractive young woman who hasn't been religious falls under the spell of some foreboding force, and a priest who can't decide whether he's dedicated to faith or science tries to help. It's been done well, but this film doesn't cut it on a number of grounds. The story is involving enough a young hairstylist (well cast with the beautiful Patricia Arquette) receives a dead priest's rosary that her mother picked up as a souvenir in Brazil. She then starts exhibiting unexplained wounds and 'seizures which become identified as stigmata, wounds of Christ in a few gifted faithful believers. Those hoping for an insightful look into the real stigmata, thought by many medical researchers to be psychophysiological phenomena when they aren't faked, will be disappointed. What we get is a familiar theme involving possession with all its effects as well as the uncovering of a plot by church officials to hide secret ancient writings that might challenge the authority of the church. Catholic dogma and Christian theology in general is massacred here the filmmaker pretentiously tries to justify it by a closing credits reference to The Gospel of Thomas, a second-century Gnostic writing similar to other alternative gospels known and rejected by orthodox Christianity since the beginning. The plot eerily anticipates The DaVinci Code, but there is no conspiracy here. If you're looking for a fictional film that seriously explores stigmata and related phenomena, don't waste your time. If you're a fan of the genre, the story has enough twists and intrigue that you may be mildly entertained. I probably should give this one a 4, but as a movie fan who tends to be generous with my ratings, I'm scoring it a 5. "},{"Title":"an awesome and scary movie","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata is one of those films that would keep me up at nights with nightmares. It is powerful, terrifying, enjoyable and intense movie that should have wide appeal. I am glad that the director brought this subject to the screen because I had no idea what a stigmata prior to watching this film. This was a learning experience I will not soon forget.I couldn't ask for better actors than Gabriel Byrne and Patricia Arquette to portray their respective roles as priest and stigmatic. I previously saw Byrne in End Of Days as Satan and I knew he was a very talented actor because he has presence. You know when Byrne is on the screen because he is just that good. Arquette's natural beauty and raw talent is what attracted me to her in Stigmata. Her performance should of won her an oscar or emmy award because it was so unique. I don't think I would have liked it if another actress played Frankie Paige. The role just suited Arquette so well.This deserves the attention of anyone who likes movies because of the performances and plot depth. This is an all-around good movie.  "}{"Title":"Chilling but not as effective as it could have been","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Religion, one of the oddest and most mysterious things you could ever read about, though usually most times it has a lot of the good that makes people smile. But like history while there is a lot of good, there is also a lot of bad. Stigmata is when a person experiences the wounds of Christ's crucifixion. Supposedly there is proof that this really does happen throughout the world. I'm not sure if that is true but I do know one thing, that's pretty scary. After The Exorcist, the darker side of faith was brought to a lot of people's attention. Possession, now stigmata, either way it's terrifying. Of course a film had to be made, wither it's a question of this amazing paranormal phenomenon or just made for a good scare, Stigmata is a film that tries to touch the darker side of religion. Frankie Paige lives in Pittsburgh, she is attacked while bathing and receives two deep wounds on her wrists, and as the wounds are treated at the hospital the doctors cannot find the cause beyond that they are puncture wounds and go all the way through the wrist. On the way home on the subway approaches a priest and asks if he is Andrew Kiernan. After the priest tells her he is Father Derning, the lights in the train begin to flash, and Frankie holds onto the bars lining the ceiling as she is whipped from behind by an unseen force, Father Derning watching in horror. While Frankie is hospitalized again, the priest sends security tapes showing the attack to the Vatican, and Andrew is sent to investigate. Andrew meets Frankie, who tells him she has been expecting him, and Andrew interviews her, believing her wounds may be stigmata. When she tells him she is an atheist, Andrew tells her that stigmatics are universally spiritual people, and that stigmata is when the deeply devoted are struck with the same five wounds that Jesus Christ received during the crucifixion and tries to figure out how to stop it.Stigmata over all is a pretty good film. The effects are very good and extremely chilling and you really feel the pain that Patricia Arquette is going through and it breaks your heart to see her suffer. To see a person who didn't believe in anything go through this incredible ordeal and see her faith turn due to something horrific must have been a struggle. The love story between her and the priest was OK but not exactly necessary. I wasn't a big fan of the church just trying to kill her, it seemed like they just didn't have an ending written so they just went with the flow. It's a good movie over all and definitely worth the look, it's just flawed. The style of the film was a little too MTV at times, if taken seriously this could be an excellent horror film. Religion, sometimes there are some things that we are just not meant to know about.7/10 "},{"Title":"I had a feeling from the first trailer I ever saw for Stigmata that the movie was going to be crappy. And for the most part it was. It managed to redeem itself somewhat with a good ending, but for the most p","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Patricia Arquette plays Frankie Paige, a woman who is a self-proclaimed athiest. One day, after receiving a package from her mother in Brazil, she starts to get the marks of the Stigmata. When a person gets the marks, they receive the same wounds that Jesus did on the cross, namely the 5 wounds of the hands, the feet, the head, the back and the side. But only the most religious people usually receive the marks, and Frankie is far from religious. Her marks are unexplainable. The Vatican has a department that goes out to explore and investigate people who report seeing signs from God. Father Andrew (Gabriel Byrne) is assigned to meet with Frankie. He too can not explain the Stigmata but knows that unless he can figure out why this is happening to her, she will die.Stigmata had the look of a futuristic sci-fi film. It was always raining, strange lighting, and lots of quick cuts. There were a lot of double exposure shots, voices and hallucinations and people screaming. It was too much. Frankie gets this haunted rosary and immediately stats getting the marks of the Stigmata. That's fine. But then the movie gets bogged down. There are too many starts and stops. Things start to happen, Frankie gets possessed by a strange spirit, and then out of nowhere it stops. This happens way too much. You start to feel like they're finally getting to the point, and then... nothing. It was only within the last 15 minutes that things started to pick up. Once the reasoning is explained and we see the true nature of the Vatican, things get interesting, leading to an explosive ending. But before that I kept thinking, just get to the damn point.With a movie like The Sixth Sense, I felt somewhat the same way. But with that surprise ending, I understood why it was made the way it was. With Stigmata, there was no need to keep building up suspense only to let you down. Things could have been explained as the movie went along, rather than waiting to the end to throw everything at you. And how that rosary ended up playing a part in the Stigmata happening to Frankie was never really talked about. I wish that they had cut down on the quick edits and actually told a story. I wish that they had decided that this story was able to carry the movie, and not felt the need to throw in a lot of effects that took away from the film. I think the story was a good one, especially, once again, when everything was finally explained. But in this day and age it seems that MTV-style editing and special effects carry the day.Overall I found Stigmata to be a tease. It would bring you to the edge and then all of a sudden stop. It was only the last 15 minutes or so that made it worthwhile at all. "},{"Title":"Well worked thriller","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The odd plot hole is forgiveable in this otherwise impressive tale of church corruption, possession and spirituality. The storyline holds the viewers interest well and this is helped by sound performances from the two leads, especially the consistently excellent Gabriel Byrne. Arquette is a self-confessed athiest who displays the stigmata and Byrne is a Vatican representative who is sent to investigate the phenomena. Arquette's condition is, in itself an interesting mirror of the central catch of the movie which centres on the assertion that religion is in the eye and mind of the beholder rather than in, congregation and organised doctrine. Similarly , as a non church-goer Arquette is deemed by church policy to be insufficiently devout to be afflicted by the stigmata although the implication is that, while she may not be religious, she is spiritual and a believer, maybe moreso than Houseman and his colleagues, traits that made her suitable as host for Almeida's spirit. For those who are expecting spinning heads, green bile and shlock horror then look elsewhere as this movie derives it chills more from the implied and the psychological rather than from visual assaults. Well worth the admission / rental price. "},{"Title":"At least Linda Blair was absent","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Sorta like The Exorcist, but quite a bit better. Lots of spooky effects without overdoing it like many of this type. I've seen news accounts very much like this which gave the film a more plausible, realistic touch although I never was a believer in all the bleeding statues and faces in holy clothing, etc. Was it demons or God working through the girl? Watch and guess for yourself.  "},{"Title":"A film for people who like candles and no surprises","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A film about a priest who lost faith, corruption in the Vatican and a girl with some holes in her hands in the middle of all that. It's very predictible, you're not gonna be surprised by this film. The music score is from Billy Corgan (Smashing Pumpinks). It's probable the best part of the film. I wonder, who put all these candle's on???? "},{"Title":"Could have been so much better","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A movie that just tried too hard to be another Exorcist or Omen and to be honest there is no movie could match those two.The first half was entertaining but the movie just went downhill in the second half.Add a terrible ending plus the wasted talent of Gabriel Byrne to boot and you have a movie that could have been so much more. A pretty good performance by Patricia Arquette helps a little but doesn't add enough. ** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Lands In Murky Waters","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  	An ambitious project that falls short because it tries too hard to be more than it is, `Stigmata,' directed by Rupert Wainwright proffers itself on one hand as a scholarly endeavor, while on the other it gives way to blatant sensationalism.  Writers Tom Lazarus and Rick Ramage use the pretext of examining the suppression of the Gospel of Thomas to weave an unlikely story of a young woman, Frankie Paige (Patricia Arquette), an atheist living in Pittsburgh, who is afflicted with the stigmata.  Ultimately, the Vatican sends in Father Andrew Kiernan (Gabriel Byrne) to investigate.  Kiernan is not only a priest, but a scientist; his job is to travel the world and document alleged miracles or supernatural occurrences with overtones that may have some bearing on the Universal Church.  It's an interesting premise, somewhat engrossing up to a point, and something of a mystery; enough, in fact, that the writers should have quit while they were somewhat ahead.  Instead they attempted to add more intrigue to the mystery by introducing subjective ruminations concerning corrupt political machinations of the Church into the story, specifically in the guise of one Cardinal Daniel Houseman (Jonathan Pryce), who seems bent on keeping the `truth' about the `real' teachings of Jesus hidden away.  And why?  To protect the Church.  It asserts that the Church is more interested in icons and wealth than it is about evangelizing the Word of The Living God, and it's just not so. 	The disturbing thing about it is that it's told in such a way as to have the audience believe that there is some basis in truth to it all, including a brief epilogue that attempts to give it the credibility of documentation.  All it does, however, is take a somewhat entertaining piece of fiction down to the level of tabloid exploitation that casts a pall over the entire project.  Which is a shame, because taken at face value and purely as entertainment, this is a decent movie, with notable performances, especially by Arquette and Byrne.  Pryce unfortunately doesn't come off quite as well, but it has nothing to do with his ability as an actor; it's more a case of the messenger taking one for the team.  There was really little he could do with his character, as it was written to be a means to an end, inundated with cliche and totally lacking in credibility.  It's a shame that an actor of Pryce's stature should have been shackled with such a role, though presumably he was not forced to do it; to which one can only say that even good actors occasionally make bad choices. 	Besides Lazarus and Ramage, director Wainwright is culpable as well, for attempting to sell a story of unsound (and unfounded) theological postulations to an unsuspecting audience (but then again, that's his job).  But it lands him in some pretty murky waters; better he should have stayed within the waters of Spielberg and `Jaws,' rather than make a shallow imitation of `The Exorcist' minus the integrity of that film.  In the final analysis, `Stigmata' is a movie about faith and truth that is inherently dishonest, which makes it nothing less than contradictory at it's core.  Performance wise and visually, it has it's moments; unfortunately, all of the positive aspects of the film are denigrated by the message.  And that's a shame.  Wainwright and his writers blind-sided themselves simply by trying to be too clever.  Hopefully in future endeavors they will have more respect for their audience.  I rate this one 3/10.             "},{"Title":"Could be a lot better","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata is visually a fine film. But otherwise... It didn´t really impress me in any other way. Acting is okay, effects are okay... I actually got tired of watching it near the end. It´s not a bad movie, it´s just lame. By the way, End Of Days is quite similar to this and it´s actually better.I give this 5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"OK","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata is an OK horror movie, with some cool visuals, good soundtrack, intriguing premise, and a good cast. But after a while, it becomes less interesting and it begins to resemble The Exorcist a bit too much. The scenes where Frankie experiences the stigmata were well done, but most of the questions are answered halfway through the movie and then the cliches begin to kick in. Still, if you're in the mood for a religious/conspiracy horror movie, give this one a try. 6.5/10. "},{"Title":"Should have been a Calvin Klein ad  ultra-hip, but over in a few minutes.","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I'm tired of montage scenes where provocatively rain-drenched twentysomethings in heavy mascara make love to a techno soundtrack while dissolving in and out of a parchment canvas of ancient writing and Raphaelean paintings.  This doesn't mean anyone else has to be tired of it, but I am.The opening credits worried me ... gritty and loud, somewhat out of place (I hoped!), like those in Arlington Road; how many more Se7en-like credits do we need?  But this nouveau Angst continues in all scenes set in the US. Other locales are beautifully shot, but they're too infrequent.  I sighed whenever returning from the Vatican City to the heroine's rave scene deco apartment . inflatable neon nylon armchair, 30 candles clustered around the bathtub, sumptuous wrought-iron bed--all on a hairdresser's paycheck!--bulbous plastic finger rings, friends with purple hair in stocking caps.  I had to remind myself this wasn't an MTV production. While right at home in the quasi-comicbook environment of The Crow, the ambiance only gets in the way here.Rent, instead, The Third Miracle. "}{"Title":"Not very good movie and very bad horror movie.","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie has a good idea but this is all what I like on STIGMATA. Music and Patricia Arquette are another plus in movie but rathej I see her in movies like True Romance or in Flirting with the disaster. The worst thing on STIGMATA is plot which is -even thought good idea about conspiracy- boring. From the point where  Frankie attacked by first Stigmata we only waiting for another because we know that it will by five together.I also don´t understand why is Frankie so evil and horrible when she is possessed becausee she is not possessed by the evil spirit. The movie have a good and nice form /like videoclip/ but I think  not good for that type of movie. It might be better in darkmovie form. And the movie is not very scary. "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is what we in the trade call a 'steaming load of ****'.If there's one thing I hate, it's style over substance. This is why I did not go see Mission Impossible 2, and why I do not watch music videos anymore. Because they're nonsense. And making movies where it's just an excuse to sell CDs of the soundtrack, or a big extended music video that makes your eyes ache and your brain spin, is not entertainment.Some people just don't get it, and I pity them. "},{"Title":"Pointless Rubbish","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Problems with Stigmata- Total lack of tension Special effects are all second rate, but worse have no relevance Plot hardly hangs together. The only true moment of horror is when the Priest and the girl fall in love (taken from a deoderent advert?) The great secret once revealed is rather banal. Lots of clutter that makes no sense, pigeons, water dripping Yuk Yuk Yuk "},{"Title":"Truly a good surprise ! The best commercial movie in years.","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Now, this one realy surprised me.For the first time in many years, i heard people leaving the movie theater, actually discussing the theme, plot and other implications of the screenplay, instead of commenting on the special effects, explosions and action scenes. And this was even more peculiar, because STIGMATA at first glance doesn´t look nothing more than just another big budget, hollywood, special effects, video clip, cool-style, extravaganza.And STIGMATA is all that, but this must be the first time in many years, where an extremely commercial movie, is supported not just by how many special effects it has, but actualy by a particulary excelent script, filled of real historical references about the theme it portraits, little bits of information on real cases of stigmata, and uses all that to serve a simple but excelent story, which in the end leaves us thinking and discussing about very interesting questions, like, - What is the need for a church as a human institution ? Was the church based on the will of a God or on the desire of Man ?  Why important gospels are not recognized by the Church ? And plenty of other interesting questions. In fact this movie raises so many important questions, that i´m surprised that it wasn´t condemned by the Church upon its release.Maybe the Church has learned its lesson with the LAST TEMPTATION OF CHRIST, when it ended up promoting Scorcese´s movie by condeming it, a few years ago. Or maybe the commercial nature of STIGMATA, pointed more to another END OF DAYS in wich Arnold Shwarzneger fighted the devil with machine guns and grenades. Could it be that everyone on the Church though that STIGMATA would be another innocent kids movie like that ? At least i did.I went to see this movie, completely convinced i was going just to have a nice time at the theater, eating my popcorns, watching a bad MTV rip-off of the EXORCIST and forget all about it later on. The first half of the movie seemed to point in that direction, but then things started to get more interesting, and by the end of it , i was REALY enjoying STIGMATA. Aparentely many people around me have had the same reaction as i did, because everybody was posing interesting questions. Suddenly it seemed that this wasn´t a special effects movie anymore. At least nobody seemed to care. Everybody was enjoying the story rather than everything else. It has been many years since i´ve experienced such an atmosphere while watching a movie in a theater, and that realy surprised me.While in MATRIX for example, wich has the same visual style, most people were commenting, how cool the movie was, (even if many of them were totaly confused about story) in STIGMATA people were more interested in the plot, than in the next special effect. I´m sure if we removed all those cool looks, MTV style, and action scenes, most people would  have left MATRIX after the first half complaining about it. The same persons who now think it´s the most cool thing in the universe. Well in STIGMATA, i can bet that if all that MTV style were removed, everybody would still stayed in the room, because the story realy raised pertinent questions ,and  i´m sure everybody wanted to know how everything was going to end. To me this makes STIGMATA a very good movie.And i don´t consider it as another EXORCIST rip-off, as this movie was attacked. It´s just another good movie about possesion, and with a better plot than the Exorcist as far as i´m concerned. The Exorcist, didn´t made me think. STIGMATA may be the 90´s equivalent to an EXORCIST, but it´s definetely NOT a rip-off.I like the visual style, the photography is very atmospheric and with original touches, the plot is great, the action is impressive, nice special effects, (altough the computer flames are crap (as ususal) ), it´s very well directed, it´s not just another hollywood blockbuster for braindeads, it has excelent characters, excelent performances by the actors, particulary the leads and overall it poses questions to a general audience that i think everybody should pay more atention to.Oh, and i´m sure the church, might not like this movie very much, which is always a good sign that a movie is a good one. -)If you can, buy the DVD because it´s exelent, and the director´s commentary is filled of great details about the making of the movie. It also has a very interesting alternate ending, and if you´re on region 2, you get a pretty interesting extra documentary about the real stigmatized people.Overall, STIGMATA is probably the best commercial hollywood movie in years. A good surprise. "},{"Title":"under-rated  -  superb imagery, if not original","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Before I start - i liked the film, it was good (excuse my lack of vocabulary but it describes the film well, i could hardly say it was nice, well-executed/great would be lying), i may give a seemingly scathing review but it is not representative of my feelings, it's just the way it came out. Go watch it.Expecting another mindless exorcist style horror flick that should be interesting to watch, if only because the critics panned it, i was pleasantly surprised to find an entertaining, quasi-intelligent spiritual romp.  I must point out that it was as much fun to watch for the blatant allusions to other films of a similar nature, the director is a thief and is hardly apt at his craft.  Don't get me wrong, i enjoyed it although it was naff at some points, eg. her dehydrated demonic face.  What's wrong, fix the drips Pat - I'm sure they annoyed you too.  The acting I felt was reasonably good, apart from Jonathan Pryce, an actor who is worthy of Sunset Beach ( you know that bloody awful yet addictive soap). It has a carrying plot that was churned out by the very machine that creates every other predictable plot - i must insist it was entertaining.  Brave but stupid way of attacking the hypocrisy of the Church. To use the conventional system of rating I give three stars out of five. "},{"Title":"Touching","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  You know that feeling we've got when we see a lot of people preaching lots of rules and we see this same people doing the opposite. We just think everything is wrong and the only way is live by ourselves. Not everything is wrong and we can't live by ourselves, but the church must change or people will start to think they are self-sufficient. The movie is about the dogmas of Catholic church and people's faith in general.A priest goes to Brazil to check if miracles is really happening after the death of another priest who was expelled of Vatican. He discovered they are real, but is obliged to stay silent. Meanwhile Frankie Page receives a string of beads from her mother who was visiting this beautiful country at the same time the priest died. Turns out it was the priest string of beads and he was suffering of the Stigmata, then it starts to happen Frankie. This is just the begging of a great, entertaining, touching movie.I've read some negative critics about this movie, saying that it wastes a great plot with video-clip sequences, referring to the visual effects, but I thought they were great and didn't prejudice the seriousness of the story.Moreover, Gabriel Byrne is good as always and Patricia Arquette is wonderful, she shows all her talent playing this girl.Watch this movie, think about it and use in your life the things you learn with it. Forget the rules and use what we learn with Jesus and then John Lennon immortalized in his song `All we need is love'. "},{"Title":"excellent...","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is a great movie that has some challenging ideas, especially if you are religious (christian/catholic) and I suspect that is why it's rating is 6.2 or whatever because some have given it a bad rating without seeing it.If you like well-done suspense with a philosophical edge, check it out. "},{"Title":"Really, really dumb","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The beginning of the movie seemed promising, until we get to Frankie. We then realize she is supposedly living in Pittsburgh. My husband just looked at each other and laughed, as we are both from the Pgh area and none of this looked remotely familiar. Big turn off when the film takes place place in a city in which it was obviously not filmed. (Furthermore, I doubt seriously that 99.9% of the hairdressers in Pgh could afford an apartment in Shadyside like hers, let alone someone who works in a dumpy body piercing shop) The movie itself got more and more ludicrous, the stigmata scenes were really over the top (blood shooting out all over the place, but gee, it missed the main artery!). I laughed outright at the subway scene. As somone else mentioned, why was she being possessed? Why was she worried about being pregnant? I hardly cared enough to find out the answers. Please, avoid this one like the plague. "},{"Title":"An awesome movie that Provokes thoughts.....","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  An awesome movie that Provokes thoughts, much like the Prophecy and the Sixth Sense, one of the best movies I've seen in a while. Great acting and good SE, all in all it gets an 8.5 from my scale of ten....more movies like this will definitely bring Horror back to the top in the Movie industry "},{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I can't recommend this movie strongly enough!  It was thoroughly interesting and suspenseful, while maintaining a more cerebral theme than 95% of movies in the genre.  Given the quality of this movie I am surprised that I haven't heard more about it.  I would suggest that Stigmata may be the most underrated film of 1999. "}{"Title":"A Waste of Time","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Have you every seen a movie where the best part was the trailer?  Well, this is one of them.  I found myself tempted to hit the fast-forward button to get over some of the tediously boring scenes.I went into this film expecting to see a story of a girl possessed by the Holy Spirit and doing all sorts of super-natural things for good.  Kind of a reversed Exorcist.Instead I found an inexperienced directory (Rupert Wainwright) and an even more inexperienced writer (Tom Lazarus) trying to put together a film which, when finished, looked and felt so much like The Exorcist it was ridiculous.  Instead of Jason Miller as Father Damien Karras in The Exorcist we have Gabriel Byrne as Father Andrew Kiernan.  In fact, they even resembled each other.  Patricia Arquette as Frankie Paige in Stigmata was the substitute for Linda Blair as Regan MacNeil.  This includes the rolling of the eyes, the speaking in demonic voices, super-human strength, levitation, etc.  I was waiting for the pea soup scene but might have missed it when I went to the kitchen.This film could have been so much more than this.  I guess I was just a little disappointed. "},{"Title":"Enough dishonesty!","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I've had enough of dishonest trailers, giving either the wrong impression of the film, or containing scenes that weren't in the film.This was one of the former, giving you the perception that Patricia Arquette was possessed by the devil, when she wasn't at all!  It annoys the heck out of me.Frankie Paige (Arquette) is a hairdresser who suffers stigmatic wounds, in what is a very well done horror/thriller film.  There are some good performances from Gabriel Byrne and the ever brilliant baddie Jonathan Pryce, in what was also an insight into the internal workings of the Vatican.It wasn't really scary, much as a friend of mine says she was terrified by it, but in my case it was spoiled by the complete lack of sound for the first three minutes.  Thankfully I got my money back, so will invest in another film!Worth seeing, well made. "},{"Title":"Exorcist 4 Possessed by the soul of MTV","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Warning This review contains spoilers.Stanley Kubrick once said that all you need to make good movie are six non-submersible units. In a nutshell, six scenes that stick in the mind long after the closing credits have rolled and can stand up to the most severe criticism.Stigmata, the latest pre-millennial thriller - released in the UK in the third week of the 21st century - has trouble in achieving one NSU. The reasons for this seem to be down to a number of factors.British director Rupert Wainwright, the man behind laugh-free comedy Blank Cheque and The Sadness of Sex, seems to be suffering a few personal demons of his own.They may be talking in corporate tongues which say We want to appeal to the video generation but at the same time keeping the older set happy with a conventional religious-based mystery.So what we have is the camera staying still for very little time, irrelevant close ups of dictaphones being placed on the table, ashtrays and the like, none of which furthers the drama and after a while, becomes downright irritating. But that's small beer compared to the other over-the-top references to birds, dripping water, bleeding statues and the wounds of Christ which are inflicted on Philadelphia hairdresser Patricia Arquette.When Pat starts bleeding from the eyes you get an obvious flash of the statue we have seen through the rest of the movie experiencing the same thing.Apparently, the editor thinks he's dealing with an audience so stupid they're not going to understand what happened a few minutes earlier.Subtlety doesn't seem to be a word in our film-makers' dictionary.There's also very little suspense here - one of the cheapest commodities to attain in a movie and easily one of the most effective in such a thriller. Instead we have some over the top scenes where people don't just fall over. They take huge amounts of household items with them Lights, crockery that sort of thing. Anything that makes a loud noise and looks catastrophic.As with Gabriel Byrne who played the devil in Peter Hyams' decidedly average End of Days (1999), Pat Arquette seems to be flavour of the month at the moment playing the equally troubled New Yorker in Martin Scorsese's far superior Bringing Out The Dead (1999).She's a likeable enough actress of limited range and works well with charming co-star Byrne. However, both actors are limited by Tom Lazarus' script.There's clearly been a fair amount of research done into stigmatics, all of which grounds the movie in its much-needed reality.The drama opens in Brazil where priest and scientist Gabriel Byrne investigates a bleeding statue in a church where an old preist has been laid to rest. A crucifix from the deceased has been stolen by a young boy and sold to a tourist - our heroine's mother.As we can tell by the opening titles, Arquette is not the sort of character to live her life according to good Christian values. She loves casual sex and a good time while downing a few beers on a Friday night. Let's face it, given the chance, who doesn't? She is an atheist which causes something of a problem for priest Byrne when he is sent to investigate as stigmatics are usually deeply religious.Blood soon starts pouring from the puncture marks in her wrists and after an incident on a underground train, it becomes apparent that more than just hospital treatment is needed to tend to her wounds.Having being whipped across the back by an invisible assailant, her plight is witnessed by both a priest and a handy security camera, the footage of which ends up at the Vatican where shifty head honcho Jonathan Pryce is keen to investigate.Pryce, as he proved with Tomorrow Never Dies, is just far to nice to play a villain, so it seems a shame that casting agents keep using him as such.Back to the plot and Byrne becomes personally involved with the photogenic snipper. He's more than a little intrigued when she starts speaking in tongues, levitating and carving ancient text onto the bonnets of cars with a broken bottle.And so it goes. The Vatican get wind of a yawnsome plot involving an alternate version of the Bible and Pryce arrives in Philadelphia to kill Arquette.Can Byrne get there in time?Will this end in time for you to make it down the pub for last orders?At the end of the day, it's just raking over the same territory as The Exorcist Innocent heroine is possessed by ancient forces; medical science is hopeless in finding  a cure; the church steps in; demon is exorcised; cue happy ending.If you can stand that irritating editing and the gaping plot holes then Stigmata is not bad entertainment however there are many nagging things which stick in the mind such asHow can a hairdresser afford such an opulent apartment? Did her mum pay for it? Did she win the lottery?Why doesn't the kid who stole the crucifix in the first place become possessed by the soul of the dead priest or does the dead preiest's spirit have a think for phillies from Philly?And what happens to Jonathan Pryce's character after he's caught trying to strangle our posessed heroine?You're not going to wake up in the middle of the night pondering such questions but it would have been nice to see such little irritants explained. That and a little more tension would have made this a worthwhile experience instead of just eye candy with some good actors going through the motions.  "},{"Title":"Not very scared","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Though not expecting much, I still found myself disappointed by Stigmata. For a Horror/thriller, there was a complete lack of suspension, due to the fact that all dramatic methods were either ancient, predictable, or repeated ad nauseum. On top of that there were more plot-holes than in a Swiss cheese. The good/evil relationships did not make sense. It was not that they were very tricky, deep, or complicated. They were just not thought out. On top of that, this movie can be quite offensive to any Catholic.Redeeming features were the acceptable performances by Byrne and Arquette. The usually brilliant Pryce was a waste, though. "},{"Title":"outstanding","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I liked this movie a lot because of the performances from Patricia Arquette and Gabriel Byrne(End of Days SATAN remember also an awesome performance) well and this topic about the church and religious things that really happened with san Francisco de Asis (Stigmata) and other saints; in this case Frankie is suffering stigmata without being a saint and also touch the problem with the gospel of jesus the one and only that jesus told to his disciples with his own words, and well the rest you have to see it but if you are a movie fan you will like this movie and if you have DVD we can get it February 29, thank you for reading this an goodbye. "},{"Title":"I luv movies!!! Especially intense, awesome, and horror/frightening  movies!","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata.... I went and saw it twice at the theater in 13 days... what does that tell you about what I think about it? I absolutely, totally, loved this movie! It's even better then Titanic. I have only gone to the theater to see one other movie twice, that was Titanic. I love the characters, the actors, storyline, and location of the film. This film is the best movie of the century according to me. I love Patricia and Gabriel, and the thought alone of this actually happening to me or someone just sends a chill down my spine. If you want to go see an awesome movie.... SEE STIGMATA!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"STUNNING","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Without a doubt, the most stunning looking film of 1999. This film is gorgeous, the red's are so rich, the blacks so black, and the whites take on an ethereal glow. This film had BETTER get a Cinematography Oscar nomination. I really enjoyed it, it's a controversial plot, but if you have an open mind, you're in for some deep filmmaking. Tense, frightening, but ultimately revealing, MANY people (like Roger Ebert) are missing the point of this film. Let me just say it is NOT about demonic possession, but of a priest using the stigmata to get his message heard.Four stars.  A first-class psychological thriller/drama. "},{"Title":"STUNNING","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Without a doubt, the most stunning looking film of 1999. This film is gorgeous, the red's are so rich, the blacks so black, and the whites take on an ethereal glow. This film had BETTER get a Cinematography Oscar nomination. I really enjoyed it, it's a controversial plot, but if you have an open mind, you're in for some deep filmmaking. Tense, frightening, but ultimately revealing, MANY people (like Roger Ebert) are missing the point of this film. Let me just say it is NOT about demonic possession, but of a priest using the stigmata to get his message heard. Four stars.  A first-class psychological thriller/drama. "},{"Title":"One Angry Catholic Film by Angry Ex-Catholics?","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Gabriel Byrne as a priest? How could I not see this movie? I'd pay eight-fifty just to watch Gabriel Byrne watch another movie, so anything in which he actually gets to deliver halfway decent dialogue must be worth my money.So I and one of my fellow ex-catholic friends decided to take in an evening of anti-Catholicism because we knew we'd get all the jokes. Turns out this film is actually a thought-provoking little riff on The Word of God, which is interesting since you'd think the Catholic church would have stopped this film from ever seeing the light of day. But hey, it's the new millennium, so who believes what they see these days anyway?Patricia Arquette and Gabriel Byrne actually work well together in Stigmata, a pairing I never would have bet money on but which pleasantly surprised me. Unfortunately the art direction, which was pretty and MTV-cinematic all around, definitely could have used a bit of realism. As an ex-Pittsburgh resident, I would have suggested that someone on this crew of a film allegedly set in Pittsburgh actually VISIT THE CITY to improve upon the realistic atmosphere, which was pretty unreal. It rains a lot in the Steel City, but it doesn't rain THAT MUCH. And or the record, where is the beauty parlor that these girls work at? If there was such a place in Pittsburgh I'd be more than happy to fork over a cool twenty just to get a haircut from the blonde with the nose ring.All in all, a compelling look at Catholicism in specific and religion in general, made all the more palatable by the ever-watchable Gabriel Byrne. Long live intelligent theological commentary delivered by attractive agnostics! "},{"Title":"JESUS CHRIST !!!! This one's great","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Hey !! What's going on with you guys? This is one hell of a popcorn movie, but it also deals with Christian beliefs and stuff. Stigmata is mainly a beautifully done movie. The photography is kinda great, it's remarkable. The actors do great jobs on playing their characters really well. Stigamata has a great soundtrack which does a lot for the images, it's just like a painting; the beautiful images, and the great music courtesy of Billy Corgan and Mike Garson (buy the soundtrack, it's great). The attacks that Frankie gets for being a Stigmata are really impressive, God, they really are freaky, but they're never gory or even dumb. It has a lot of things that may look taken from THE EXORCIST, but they're used in a very nineties way.NOW this is important, i didn't think that the way that the Movie deals with the guys at The Vatican, is that they're evil monsters trying to take over the world, but they know the responsibility that they are taking by being the surpeme representants of Christianity, and they do what has to be done to keep things like they are. You never get to see J. Pryce laughing at how evil he is, but you see his concern for the matter. We ought to understand that religion is probably the most important of all powers, it's not imposed, but self-accepted, and it can become fanatism, so that's something to worry about. I also think that the MAIN GOSPEL -you'll know what i mean when you see the movie- was a beautiful one, it clearly describes what i have always felt towards religion in my own personal world. So if you're planning to see a movie that really grabs you and makes you think about yourself, and entertains you for a while Man this is THAT movie. Go see it instead of all the crap that's out there. This is one of the best pocorn flicks of this year. And it has Patricia Arquette on it. See you at the movies -if you ever come to México, ha,ha,ha- MAKE YOURSELF A FAVOR, GO TO SEE STIGMATA "}{"Title":"Truly Awful","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I didn't have high hopes for this movie, but even the generally-reliable Gabriel Byrne and Jonathan Pryce are sub-par.  The so-called heretical content was so nonsensical and inaccurate that I can't imagine anyone finding it offensive.  Laughable, yes.  Offensive, only to one's intelligence.  From the soundtrack (which, after all, is the most important aspect of a movie like this) to the art direction this is a failure on every level.  It's not even bad enough to be funny.  Avoid at all costs. "},{"Title":"Possession of your own soul.","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I have read quite a number of critic reviews of the movie Stigmata and frankly I am disappointed.  In the reviews, not the movie!  This movie was incredible in many ways and unfortunately lost on a world that remains for the most part unconscious.  This movie is not the exorcist...not even close!  Yes, Frankie, the main character is possessed but it is not a demon possession.  I am certain that many will dismiss this movie as a waste of time and money but only those who are incapable of expanding their own personal believes past what the church teaches them to believe.  I had never heard of the subject covered in this movie but even without prior knowledge I can clearly understand what the director as well as the writer was trying to transcend!  Possession of your own soul doesn't have to come through the staunch believes of the Catholic or Christian church.  You don't have to go to a particular place to find God, God is within us all!  This movie is something that will rock the faith of many a Christian.  Split a board and I am there, lift a stone and you shall find me!  Stigmata only brings us closer to believing what most of us have heard within for many years, but chose to ignore because of our upbringing.  Quite frankly I am surprised that this movie hasn't created more of a stir within the church!  Amazing, a movie that actually might make people think about where you can really find faith and where the devil might really live!  I am sure this movie will be dismissed by many with only small points about the movie as grounds for this dismissal.  That is OK, many of you may not be ready to question your spirituality with such intensity!  This movie is a must see if you believe that we are all created in the image and likeness of God and that we all possess great gifts!  Some unexplainable!  Good luck with your journey to consciousness!  Thank-you for making such a true work of art! "},{"Title":"Beautifully shot, thought provoking film","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I loved this film, both for it's interesting film quality and it's thought provoking script. I believe it had an important message for us all to ponder created by excellent acting and beautiful film imagery. The mystery of the Dead Sea Scrolls has been a subject avoided by the Church since their discovery in 1945. I appreciate controversial filmmaking. "},{"Title":"No Story in the Onebigmusicvideo...","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  At times visually exciting, it's just not enough to save this 90 minute+ music video.  Mostly one big yawn of a movie, it's neither scary, nor intriguing.  Unlike THE EXORCIST of 26 years ago, which featured an amazing ensemble cast, and was masterfully helmed by William Friedkin, a true actors' director, this lame attempt to generate a suspenseful yarn fails in the most basic, yet most serious ways. There is the flimsiest of storylines, and the connection between any of the actors is completely missing.  The director, while making sure every scene was lit properly, and that the correct lenses were being used, forgot that there are two things that must exist to make a film exciting; one is a great script, and the second is great acting.  Sadly, this movie had neither; and no amount of rain or smoke or blood could hide the fact that Patricia Arquette was terribly miscast, or that the talent of Jonathan Pryce and Gabriel Byrne were mostly wasted. I laughed outloud when Gabriel Byrne's character talked of being a scientist in the quest to fill the holes that existed in the history of humankind.  He should have started with the script.Soundtrack by Billy Corgan is intrusive, busy and annoying, hitting the viewer over the head like an MTV hammer, and only serves to underscore each music video-style vignette instead of enhancing the drama (or lack thereof).Director Rupert Wainright would do well to stick to commercials and music videos.  This would have made a great three and a half minute movie. Unfortunate for me, I sat through the whole thing, and found myself wishing that I'd rather have nails pounded through my hands and feet.Prospects for the success of STIGMATA are dim.  Good opening weekend, but word of mouth will kill this poor attempt at a religious thriller and send it to Cinema Heaven (or Hell) where it belongs.Two bloody, impaled thumbs down. "},{"Title":"Stigmata was a pleasing and thought provoking shock film","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata was a pleasing and thought provoking shock film, but it also had peaceful, beautiful moments.  I do not understand how people could compare this movie to The Exorcist.  I suspect that the directors did not have that in mind when they made this film.  I left the theater in deep thought about what I had just witnessed, and saw plenty of people in the theater lobby in tears.  As a fan of horror, I enjoyed the blood and violence (and there was plenty of both!).I have noticed that some religious people took offense to this movie, even though it was meant more as a horror film than as a religious one.  If you're going to see it, keep that in mind.The style and flair in the movie, the wonderful acting, and the nice plot make this a must-see.  I give it a 10!!! "},{"Title":"Excellent supernatural/religious thriller. Not to be missed...","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Ever since I first heard about this film I've been looking forward to it. The title alone was enough to get me interested. So I looked up the film on IMDb. Patricia Arquette and Gabriel Byrne starring? Awesome, but who's Rupert Wainwright? Anyway, I walked into the theater expecting a great film and that's exactly what I got.The story begins with Byrne investigating a crying statue. You see, he's a priest who's job is to find supposed miracles and disprove them. He encounters a bit of a problem here this one's real. It occurs in a small Catholic church, who's leader has just died. One of the villager's steals the dead priest's rosary and sells it to the mother of Arquette, who just happens to be nearby. She then mails it home to her daughter. We then enter the life of Arquette, a self proclaimed athiest. That fact doesn't seem to make a big difference, though, because she's soon being rushed to a hospital with holes through her wrists.Before I begin here, I'd like to state that, as a Christian, I found this film to be very believable and affecting. I'd also like to state that I found it in no way offensive. A plot to conceal a document that would weaken the Catholic church is not only plausible, but likely. After all, the church is the cornerstone of their faith(as stated in the film). If a document was found that would damage that, do you think they'd want it released? Not a very incouraging thought, is it? Now on to the film.Stigmata has a good story, a great cast, and some truely excellent visuals. The only problem I had with it was the lack of restraint in the editing department. The excess of style is also a flaw. Many of the tricks Wainwright uses can be very effective in creating an involving film, but he overuses all of them. Dialogue from a prior scene being used as narraration is just one example.Now, if you're interested in supernatural phenomena and/or are a religious person, this is deffinately a film you should see. On the other hand, if you're just looking for some good, scary entertainment you could do far, far worse. Enjoy it while it lasts, though, because once the entertainment factor diminishes you'll find yourself thinking about what you've just experienced. "},{"Title":"This movie could put the fear of god into any good atheist.","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is one of those films that will have most any human being thinking long and hard for hours after viewing it.  Whether you are a religious person or not it will make you wonder just a little bit about life.  I recommend that everyone go see this film it is great.  "},{"Title":"A Relentless Harrowing Nightmare!","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"       Not since Oliver Stone's Natural Born Killers, have I seen such an intense and brilliantly choreographed film.  Stigmata is the latest and perhaps most daring of the new breed horror films.       Stigmata tells the story of Frankie Paige, a beautician who has been possesed by an unknown entity, after receiving a rosary from her mother.  Through this possession, Frankie experiences Stigmata; the exact wounds of Christ when he was crucified.  The stranger thing is that in all previous cases of Stigmata, the victims were all deeply religious, but it turns out that Ms. Paige is an atheist.  Thats where a priest, played by G. Bryne comes in.     Although Stigmata isn't a great film, it is moving, engaging and extremely brutal.  It is also a film for people who like to think.  There is so much going on in terms of plot development that it is easy to miss a key point.  I personally would like to see Stigmata again to clear up some things that I missed.     Stigmata vs Exocist.  First let me say that I liked Exocist, but I am not a fan.  The Exorcist was a simple tale about a child possessed by the devil and a priests desperate attempt to save her.  Stigmata is about the second coming of Christ and is much more thought-provoking.  And for those of us who are religious, there is a message in the end.     Audience.  If you love to see monsters ripping people to shreds or psychos with hockey masks mutilating teenagers, then maybe Stigmata isn't for you.  But if you are mature enough to appreciate psychological horror films with great plot development, then give it a watch.      Filmed on a budget of 35 million, all of which was dedicated to excellent special effects, I predict that it will finish with 80 million at the national box office, with a large percentage from viewers 30 and up.3 out of 5 stars.      "},{"Title":"A scary, intelligent, and surprisingly thought provoking movie","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A scary, intelligent, and surprisingly thought provoking movie.Before you get the wrong impression  Stigmata is NOT a modern-day Exorcist.  While the Exorcist relied on the shocking horror of demons and the wonderfully ghastly images of a little girl turned hell-spawn, Stigmata takes it down a notch, but replaces that sense of horror with wonderfully written suspense.When I began to see the previews for this movie, I knew there was a very good chance that the movie would, out of lack of a better term, ROCK.  Only two things could have spoiled this movie  A closed mind...and if the actors were not convincing.  Luckily, neither happened.  Mark Adair-Rios, the priest and co-lead of this movie was simply astounding.  He played a character that was both ridged and objective, but also very human.  I think a lot of people will like how he portrays a priest with such touchable humanity.   On to Patricia Arquette  Spectacular.  Again, a very human, believable character, yet one haunted with, not only terrifying events and emotions, but also the unknown forces that plague her.  About the only character I had a problem with was the Token-Bad-Guy-Priest, played by Jonathan Pryce.  An excellent actor, but the character has been over-done in too many other movies.  This is nothing that will distract from the film, however, and I won't be surprised if this movie grabs some Oscars.  As for the closed mind and faith?  That's up to the individual.  Hard-core believers of the church should be warned this may be a little hard for you to take.  Try it out, just remember...it's only a movie....????On to the visual.  VERY nice atmosphere.  Rain, urban decay, and Rave meets pomp, religion and Hell.  Reminds me of a few brighter episodes of the X-Files...only with a style all it's own.  More on the rain  wonderful use of water as a prop, not just a background mood device.  Symbolism is everywhere in this movie, and not so obvious that you groan every time a dove flies by.  Very nice.  On to the audio.  Billy Corgan is a GOD of music.  The soundtrack for this movie is spectacular, and blends seamlessly into the visual aspects.  Not only that, but it actually ADDS to the movie instead of just sitting in the background.    The artist-songs are also very well picked and placed.  I can't recall such a cool sound since, maybe, Crimson Tide.If you like this genre of movie, I suggest checking out The Prophecy and it's sequel.  I give this movie a full 10/10 because in my mind, it was one of the best movies of the season.  It's been quite an amazing summer for scary movies, and Stigmata easily holds it's own.  "},{"Title":"forget the critics","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I've read Roger Ebert's write up on this movie, and i don't think it deserved the low rating that he gave it.  This is one of the best movies that I've seen this year.  It's interesting and it keeps you watching.  So if you're thinking about seeing this movie, but are worried about the reviews that it's been given, forget about what you've read on it...ummm everything except for this. "}{"Title":"A great movie that exceeded my expectations!","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I went into this movie with high expectations, even though I knew very little about the plot and story line. I came out very satisfied, it was everything a good movie should be and more. First off the imagery was excellent, I have not seen anything that visually stunning in a very long time. Many of the scenes just seemed to leap out at you. Secondly the story line was great, it was well written and the movie flowed quite well. As far as being compared to the Exorcist, that is quite a unfair and hasty comparison. The only thing  the two had in common is the possession, even then, they are not similar.  Over all!! I say this movie deserves a 10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Excellent visual qualities and subtle deep storyline","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The colors and visual texture of the movie are stunning. Go see the movie in a theatre (and sit in the front half of the theatre). Patricia Arquette works well as a person that is having unexplained things happening to her body. I did not find the movie scary nor anti-religious. In fact, it poses some very fundamental questions about Christianity and the nature of organized religion. Ignore the obvious political-religious superficial elements of the movie and ponder (enjoy) the deeper themes involved. I highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Full of howlers...","Date":"14 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Modern-day hairdresser Patricia Arquette wonders what in God's name is happening to her, and with pretty good reason after receiving a crucifix which was stolen from the deathbed of a revered priest, Arquette has begun to exhibit the wounds Jesus Christ suffered at the time of his crucifixion! Gory, squeamish thriller filled with religious propaganda, general hysteria and absurdities, and a finale that plays like the flip-side of The Exorcist. The cast (including Gabriel Bryne, Jonathan Pryce and Portia de Rossi) is pretty good under circumstances (they manage to keep a straight face), however they're performing in material designed to appeal to audiences of the lowest ranking intelligence. The awful screenplay is by Tom Lazarus and Rick Ramage from Lazarus' original story...may they both do some serious penance. * from **** "},{"Title":"Bad bad bad bad bad","Date":"31 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Oh great .. another Evil Catholic Church movie. I am not Catholic, but can't they come up with a better plot than this? And if you are going to do an Evil Catholic Church movie, perhaps, just maybe you could have someone on your writing staff who has a clue what goes on in the Catholic Church? I have studied Aramaic and the writing was NOT Aramaic or even close. There was more Thebian script (a ceremonial magic script) than Aramaic, which has no vowels, and therefore no one knows what it sounded like when spoken! There is one small group in the Middle East who does speak a modern derivation, but it is even more different than the Aramaic of Paul's time than Old English would be to us today (Chaucer is Middle English and many of us had to suffer through trying to read it in school).The Eucharist always involve the Host, and the drinking of the wine (blood) is generally optional, yet here they showed people taking the wine without the Host. I know they were trying to make a point, but to anyone with a clue they shot themselves in the foot.The acting was terrible, the writing was awful (maybe it was not the acting ... perhaps they did the best with what they were given) and the plot is tired. The sets were nice, but that isn't enough to hold my attention.I cannot believe people think this is a classic ... I would prefer the original Omen if I am going to see an Evil Church movie. This was better than The Convent, at least, the parts without Adrienne Barbeau, but only because they had a budget and didn't try to have special effects. "},{"Title":"Too Much MTV Influence","Date":"2 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The problem with STIGMATA can be summed up in the first five minutes of the movie where a group of priests stand over an open coffin . Subtitles appear as they talk in foreign tongues . The atmosphere is dark and solemn . Then for no real reason blood runs down the screen ala the James Bond opening sequence then we`re treated to a pop video courtesy of Chumbawamba . It`s not actually an official pop video as it`s the opening credit titles but that`s how it plays out as a young man and woman stagger up some stairs to a bedroom where prayers won`t be getting said  ( Though no doubt the young woman will be on her knees ! ) so you`ve got two scenes that are at odds with one another and the feel of the movie continues along these lines . The scenes set in America are very MTV with some really silly close up shots while the scenes set in the Vatican are very darkly lit and moody . This is probably done by the director on purpose but this doesn`t mean the scenes are any the less jarring . As for the story and screenplay itself I don`t think I`m all that qualified to criticise it in much detail . I didn`t like it much but I have never liked these  possesed by evil  type movies and I`m on record as having laughed all the way through THE EXORCIST which is what this movie resembled by the end . I will give the screenplay some credit by making the protagonist an atheist thereby saving us from heavy discussions on faith Oh and I just looked up director Rupert Wainwright`s resume who started off by directing - Wait for it - pop videos . Goodness me there`s no way I would have believed that unless I`d seen it in black and white , and talking of black and white Wainwright has directed Michael Jackson videos ! I`m trying to think of a witty line to finish off this review but I don`t think I`ll bother     "},{"Title":"It is one of my all-time favourite films.","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata is one of my all-time favourite films. I love it. I'm not religious, but this film gets you to think about life in a deeper way. No other film about such issues touched me in the same way. The acting was absolutely brilliant, the plot superb and it keeps you interested the whole way through. If you like flashy, fast-paced films do not watch this film, because you will not appreciate the magnificence of it. The blood is not overdone, and although it could be considered controversial, all it is doing is showing a side of religion rarely seen. Some of the reviews I have read about it are not flattering, but they just do not understand it. Still, make up your own mind. Go watch it.  "},{"Title":"Total...","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" ...crap! Don't waste your time on this one. I only watched it for Jonathan Pryce. What was he doing in this movie?! I mean, the guy can act his pants off! The story is preposterous and full of holes so big that you could drive a Mac truck through them. Easily the worst horror movie that I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Garbage","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Seems like the guy who directed this movie grew up thinking that music videos were really small pieces of high cinematic art--and that to make a movie, that's all you really need do.  Gabriel Byrne, really a talented actor, wanders and mumbles his way through his scenes, seems like he's just waiting to get to the bar for a cold one and is impatient to have the whole thing done with.  Which is what any sane viewer can sympathize with.  Patricia Arquette is now to the point where she's making enough money that she might want to make a small investment in acting lessons.  But it's hard to fault her since the writers figure all they have to do is pick up some moldy quotes from a discredited piece of scripture sprinkle them liberally among some other stuff they dug up from underneath a chicken coop and call it deep.  The whole thing seems like it was put together by some folks playing hooky on a friday afternoon from their Junior High--I'm surprised it wasn't done on low grade video tape.  The movie has been called a ripoff of the Exorcist, but using them in the same sentence is a blasphemy all its own.  More like a poor ripoff of Beyond The Door which at least was a funny Exorcist ripoff from the seventies.  In fact, now that I think of it, this has a lot in common with The Exorcist II The Heretic, now THAT was a bad movie--may Stigmata find it's way into the same landfill where they belong.   "},{"Title":"Is this a film or a rock video","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Take an abridged version of the gospels, a script aimed at a supposed uninformed public, a Nine Inch Nails Video and you have Stigmata.  I had heard the rumour, but after repeatedly walking past the DVD and catching glimpses of the funky poster, I could wait no more.  And I wish I had. This film is about as thrilling and thought provoking as any feature starring Ernest. The audience is treated like they are the uneducated leptons that are the dough within Hollywood's oh so creative hands and that the only way to keep their attention on a potentially serious and interesting subject is to film the subject matter like a John Woo action flick or a Pepsi rock'n'roll advertisement. But I believe the most annoying part of the film are the constant close-up and slow motion sequences of eggs frying, drinks pouring, glass smashing, and pigeons flying.  In fact I think these sequences take up about half the feature length. The rumour is true;  even Jesus would not use his day of rest to watch Stigmata. One and a half stars "},{"Title":"Y2K spawns another religious flick","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Seems like the year 2000 just spawned another movie with religious overtones, or in this case, religious plot. The general premise of the movie might not be original, but it does have its special effects and stunning visual imagery. It also poses some questions for the religious community, in this case, the Christians (Roman Catholics in this movie), and perhaps the Jews as well. It sets you thinking that it might just be as the ending suggests. It also examines some of the inner workings of the Church and Man - the politics that go on behind the walls of the Vatican (pretty sinister - really puts the Church in general in bad light), and the emotions of a man who is sworn to a life of celibacy as he starts getting emotionally attached to the girl he is investigating. "}{"Title":"Tried too hard and fell flat","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A reasonably good plot, but the writing didn't hold up.  They could have done a lot better with this.  The ending simply degenerated into another one of the trite The Church is secretive and mysterious and lies and hides the truth to protect itself storylines.  I'm not Catholic, but frankly, I'm tired of Hollywood's Catholic-bashing.  This movie could and should have been a lot better than it was. "},{"Title":"So far the best movie i've seen for a long time.","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  When I heard the reviews and saw the trailer for this movie i thought it would be really bad.  I rented it the other day and now it is one of my favorite movies.  It is really hard to explain the feeling it gives me when i watch it.  The whole movie summed up the whole basis of my religion. The kingdom of god is inside you and me, not buildings of wood and stone.  It is a more than a movie, but the truth.  To be a Christian doesn't mean that you have to go to Church and thump a bible, but live your life honestly and realize that we are doing more harm than good. We need to have more love and understanding for what is good. "},{"Title":"VERY GOOD MOVIE","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I love this movie. it will really make you stop and think about your life. Although the movie itself was not entirely true most everything about Stigmata (the phenomenom) was. Although I am not a very religious person, I do believe in God and Jesus. I can say the movie has changed the way I think about religion. Especially after I found out this stuff really does happen. "},{"Title":"Storyline and characters lost in a fog of mysticism","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie isn't sure what it's about.  It starts out being about Frankie Paige, a hairstylist who is suddenly afflicted with the marks of the stigmata (wounds of Christ) even though she's an atheist.  It ends up being about the Lost Gospel of Jesus.  Poor Frankie's problems start after she gets a rosary in the mail from her mom.  The rosary was stolen from a dead priest, so within the first ten minutes of the movie you know that the rosary and therefore the dead priest has something to do with her getting the stigmata.  This is called, giving the plot away, and if you have half a brain you could predict what happens in this movie from there.After this we see poor Frankie undergo all sorts of horrors as, one by one, she gains the wounds of Christ, and of course there's blood everywhere, and lots of whining about Why me.  Then comes Gabriel Byrne as a skeptical priest, and of course he's won over by her story and by her.  The movie did not deal well with the relationship between Father Andrew.  They fudged it by having a long dreamlike sequence where they sit and have coffee and talk while music plays and the camera cuts back and forth between them.  This is supposed to imply that they talked for hours and got to know and like each other, but in reality it simply implies that their conversation was too tremendously boring to bear, and immediately after that conversation she gets the nails through her feet anyway, to keep your interest. The rest of the movie is a hodgepodge of The Exorcist, The Omen, and excerpts/misreadings of the Gospel of Thomas (which, by the way, is a real book).  The special effects are decent, and both Arquette and Byrne do their best to bring humanity to an otherwise lifeless script.  Jonathan Pryce's villainous Cardinal is totally predictable and one of the most inept performances I have ever seen from him.  At the end of the movie, after they have spent so much time on Frankie and made us care about her, she just wanders off, wearing a bedsheet.  I swear, that's actually how they get rid of her character; she gets un-possessed, and she just wanders off looking at her wrists wondering where her wounds went.  This is heinously bad writing.  The movie spends a lot of time getting you to care about Frankie, and then she just...wanders...off?  Did she go back and become a hairdresser? Did she keep in touch with excommunicated Father Andrew and go out with him?  Did she become a homeless person? Did she drop down a manhole? ANYTHING would have been preferable to just having her wander off into the foggy mist outside the rectory.  It's just plain BAD WRITING.  It shows contempt for the audience and for the characters, and poor Patricia Arquette, who really puts a lot into this character and in the end gets nothing out of it.  This movie is basically a complete failure; it builds up and builds up, and then the payoff is not only miniscule, but extremely unsatisfactory.  It's not unresolved in an arty way, the movie is unresolved in a way that screams BAD SCRIPT!  In short this is a waste of time except for the special effects. If you're into watching Patricia Arquette thrash around and bleed a lot, and I hope you're not, you might want to watch this movie.  Otherwise, don't even bother.  "},{"Title":"I read a book so I'll make a film?","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata left me feeling so bored, while the effects are great, the movie is nothing. Who ever wrote this must have just learned what Stigmata meant, so they felt like making a movie based on what they learned. This movie is only for the dim who believe in god anyhow! And the characters are so dumb, I mean there is a scene where Patrica is sitting in a club with her friend - WHO SAW HER STIGMATAING - and her friend says,You're losing it! What did she think was going to happen? Oh, maybe I should tell you why she said that, she said you're losing it because Patrica said she might believe in god! Why is it that all movies make a nonbeliever out to be so dark and dumb? This was a poor film, and I'm sorry if anybody liked it. "},{"Title":"Pretentious melodramatic garbage","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I rented this on the word of a few friends who had enjoyed it. I won't listen to their advice again soon. How many times have I seen this sort of story before? The corruption of the church...wow! That's a concept! Possession...with your standard levitation scenes, glowing eyes, flaming curtains and the like. (As another reviewer stated, Gabriel Byrne does resemble the Father in Exorcist) Let's jump past all of that cliche nonsense and look at the serious underlying message of this movie, which seems to be that the Catholic (and probably every other) Church is so bent on controlling the flow of people's spirituality, that they'll stoop even as low as murder. No kidding. Read a history book. For serious social commentary, this movie rates right up there with a Jerry Springer Final Thought. It's ponderous, repetitive...and the Mtv video direction (everyone walks in slow motion) is particularly annoying. Throw in a typical tech-rock soundtrack by Billy Corgan and company, and there's not much left but a really long music video with decent acting. Avoid this movie. "},{"Title":"The spirit of a priest possesses a girl in New York leaving her open to demonic attack.","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This film took two hours of my life that I will never get back and gave me only boredom in return.  If you would like to see a music video about a good Catholic Priest possessing a woman (and deliberately causing her physical harm) to fight the evils within the Catholic church, then by God, this movie is for you. "},{"Title":"Stig-mantra?","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata Marks or sores corresponding to the wounds of Jesus Christ. Through the ages the most devout Christians have suffered what Christ suffered on the cross- but with no logical explanation.Gabriel Byrne plays Father Andrew Kiernan, a priest and devout member or the Vatican in Rome.  Father Kiernan also happens to have a degree in Organic Chemistry.  Because of his scientific background, he is assigned to investigate miracles that happen all over the world.Patricia Arquette is a beautician in New York City.  She lives her life day-to-day cutting hair, doing peoples nails,  going to grunge clubs at night, and she doesn't believe in God.  She's a happy member of the generation x society.  (Not that all gen x-ers are Atheists.)  She finds herself losing control of her body and things that happen to her.  To her disadvantage, it always happens when she is alone.  In typical Hollywood style it is always raining, there are always 50 candles burning, and she's always soaking in the tub with no soap or bubble bath (doesn't everyone).The message of the movie is meaningless.  Anyone who wants to see this because they loved The Sixth Sense should stay away.  In another universe-if this was shot by a small independent film studio- it might have a chance. You'll find yourself sitting in the theatre checking your watch because it takes forever for anything to really happen.  Wait for it on video.  "},{"Title":"The Absolute Worst","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Rupert Wainwright, the director of Stigmata, needs to learn that really dim lighting and non-stop rain does not equal cool.  Patricia Arquette, like all her acting siblings, is absolutely terrible....  This is one of the worst movies in years. "},{"Title":"Religious?","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Whether you are, or are not religious this movie will take you  for an emotional rollercoaster for it's duration. I myself come to find myself as being not religious and I came out of the movie with my stomach in knots. If you want to be spooked in a totally different way give this movie a try. "}{"Title":"It's not as good as I expected...it's better","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata is not at all what i expected. It isn't just another horror movie, in fact it didn't really seem like a horror movie at all. More like a religious mystery movie. Patricia Arquette and Gabriel Bryne give strong performances as the atheist hairdresser and the confused scientist/priest. However, this movie may be a little confusing to those who are not catholic or Christian. But that doesn't mean that you will be totally lost watching it either. The movie is fast paced and rather interesting and I gave it a 9.  "},{"Title":"Turgid & Boring","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Turgid & Boring could get a bad name with this really poorly made film. It's a good premise for a story but the inept director  goes for the now ubiquitous crutch of the talentless filmaker and that  is the over  use of the montage sequences'. He dosen't  know how to tell a story so lets do a montage. The film has superb actors but hat is the only saving grace.  "},{"Title":"Arquette's Stuck on Band-Aids 'Cause Jesus Is Stuck On Her","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I saw a trailer for this a while back and had a feeling it would be a great film.  After the huge dissapointment of The Astronaut's Wife, I was looking for a film that would scare while making you think at the same time.  Stigmata does that. A brilliantly done supernatural thriller that manages to shock us at the moments when we are most vulnerable.  Although it might not rake in tons of money, it's bound to ruffle a few feathers since the hero is a sexually active chain-smoking Arquette while the villain is the Vatican itself.  The reasoning behind this is not exploitive but actually loosely based on fact, even if the film itself is obviously a work of fiction.  This is a great scare for people who like their horror films original and free of teeny-boppers. Uses a very fast-paced MTV editing technique, so you should probably like the feel of films like Natural Born Killers or Seven before you see this. *** 1/2 (out of 4) "},{"Title":"Thought Provoking","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie was not what I expected, it was better!!  Both stars do an excellent job with story and dialog.  Billy's music adds to each scene.  The story here really provokes alot of thought about God, Jesus, and the church. The movie stayed very true to the actual history of Stigmata.  I give this film two thumbs way up...an around the world and back snap!!! Acting, story, music, and simply the look is worth the $7.50 it costs... "},{"Title":"Religion is supernatural","Date":"7 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" It is amazing to see the amount of time, energy, mental fuel that is in vain consumed to build and rebuild the plot theory that says the Catholic Church has hijacked Jesus Christ from a gospel of love to a gospel of domination and control. This film is one more stone along that road. It is an incredible story, meaning a story that cannot be believed, just as if when dealing with the Christian god there were no limits whatsoever as for the lack of any logic or reason. The haunting of a non believer by an Aramaic document that she has never seen, what's more understood, to the point of getting the victim of the reproduction in her flesh of Jesus' stigmata and her writing on a wall the full text of the document still in Aramaic is unbelievable. A human being can only be haunted by something that has had a concrete connection or contact with that person. It is not the beads of a dead priest from Brazil, stolen by some non identified local person, bought by the mother of the victim in the village, who at least visited the place where that dead priest used to preach, and received via mail by the victim from her mother, that can justify that haunting of that person. Then the contradictory discourse of a priest who is originally a scientist and who turns a believer in empathy more than reason for the girl justifies in his blindness the extreme defensive attitude of the hierarchy of the church that prefers killing the evidence to accepting the disturbing truth, if truth it is.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Paris 8 Saint Denis, University Paris 12 Créteil, CEGID "},{"Title":"Anti-Vatican movie","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is simply a clueless, stupid and false anti-Vatican movie. The Authors just try to show plots and hidden things in the Catholic Church when everything is clear and simple (at least for persons with a bit more culture and who read some books). If they would have read more books, they would have discovered the presence of apocryphal gospels. They have never been hidden by the Catholic Church and anyone can read them. For what concern the movie itself... there is no story, the acting is awful and completely based on stereotypes. The director is playing a lot with the cameras, moving them up and down, trying to be impressive. I had the feeling he simply didn't know what to do with them.There is plenty of better movies than this out there. Don't waste your time! "},{"Title":"A Really Good Movie","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Stigmata tells us the story of Frankie Paige (Patricia Arquette) an atheist, cursed with the wounds of Christ, while possessed by Almeida, a deeply religious man with a message. As Frankie's apparently psychotic episodes grow more intense, The Church send in Father Andrew Kiernan (Gabriel Burn) to investigate.The Church don't want the message to be told, and the possession is draining the very life from Frankie, only Father Kiernan can help her, by revealing the truth.I understand that elements of the film are factually inaccurate, but they detract very little from its powerful Ora of Horror and Conspiracy.Thoroughly enjoyable, and you don't have to be a religious person to enjoy the movie's quality.8/10 "},{"Title":"not a great movie...","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  i think reading the reviews of christians is the most amazing experience of this film. i came here to read reviews before i got into this film...and wound up be intrigued by religious reviews. they are more interested in reviewing the flaws of the science of their views...this is just fiction, why compare it to the religious beliefs?the one thing i did get out this movie was that it enforces my belief that christian (and more specifically catholics) have the creepiest religion. i don't see the other worlds major religions be know for macabe stories or evil, devil, bleeding christs, ect...and repressing life. it's been quite some time since my theology classes, when i used to thing this religion is so contrived yet focuses on dark side of life if you do not abide. reading these reviews reminded me how mindless sheep follow their religion at any cost. they cannot break out of the mold for one 2nd to review a movie objectivly.i never speak of religion...as it's hard to argue something that has no facts...but just review the damn movie.fact this movie is OK. those how have insight will get more out of it then those who are close minded. my best friend (die hard catholic) was offended, but he didn't have much a good answer why. his religion taught him to be offended...rsf "},{"Title":"I wasn't thrilled","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie was laughable with it's pathetic attempts to shock and scare. A series of stigmata seizures, which seem to be an excuse for the director to use all the stylish camera tricks he can think of, are strung together by a boring investigation story. Good for a laugh. Try Angel heart instead.  "},{"Title":"Tried... And failed  (*small spoilers*)","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This thing started off all right, it had some potential. After the first 20 minutes everything got worse, the blood started flowing and the characters were still as flat as a piece of paper. The director threw some hopelessly quasi-artsy shots in at this point, to keep the 'this was a good movie, wasn't it?' feeling going.The plot twisted into a very bad 'Exorcist' rip-off, and it all got blurry.It even ended with a crappy 'Based on a true story' thingy, combined with a 'solid movie feel' outro shot.. The endtitles were the most interesting thing of the whole movie, because my retinas were still reacting to the overkill of crappy yellow fire effects.I wouldn't advice this movie if you're not into religious stuff, or if you're not one of those 'wow, that's deep, my friends will find me utterly cool because I liked this movie' people.In case you somehow enjoyed this monster, go see the Exorcist (again)..  "}{"Title":"A long, bad music video","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata was the worst movie of the year in 1999.  The general look was that of a very poor music video.  Stigmata is all quasi-style, at the expense of an interesting plot, or good characters.  Even the music in the movie was sub-par.  Don't see this movie! "},{"Title":"This movie is disgusting trash!","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I saw Stigmata thinking it was going to be something scary, also knowing that it was going to be sacrilegious as all hell, and that it was denounced by the Catholic church.  I knew all of those things, and yet my curiosity still managed to get the better of me.  Even though the controversy surrounding Stigmata seemed to have gotten it more publicity, it didn't make the movie itself any better.  I sat through 2 hours of different extremes of sacrilege, violence, and wretched excess imagery.  I was really upset by it, not because it was sacrilegious, or so I've heard it said, but because it seemed like such a waste of perfectly good talent and money.   Director Rupert Wainwright may have made a departure with music videos, and the photographic techniques he uses are good, but this was a bad place to use it.  It was also extremely unpleasant seeing Stigmatisim used in such a blasphemous manner.  For those who have seen it, lets not forget the Cardinal who tries to choke the life out of Patricia Arquette.  I don't see a lot of people too happy with a depiction such as that.  Basically, this movie is a wretched 2-hour music video, with no plot or acting, but good looks.  I guess it was an experimental film, where they thought, Gee.  Wouldn't it be neat to take this guy's(Rupert Wainwright) talent for music videos and filter just enough religion and satanism to give it form?.  I can understand their plight, and they did try to make something.  But even if it wasn't a slam on Catholicism, it was still very violent and very unpleasant.  Horror films don't have to outgross people to be scary.  The world learned this from The Blair Witch Project.  I like being scared, and like gore, but to a certain degree.  By the way, that reminds me.  This is one of the world's biggest ripoffs of The Exorcist.  Everything in it was imitating it.  They've got the deep male voice, the bedside rites, the self-abuses, and the possessed chick floating above her bed.  It wasn't an homage to The Exorcist.  It was just a ripoff.  It's entertaining, I suppose.  But I advise you to stay away from it.  It's not even worth the ticket price!      "},{"Title":"Free thinker? Stigmata is still a stinker.","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  It seems to be in vogue when critiquing this film to state your religious beliefs before you begin. I'll refrain from that, because it doesn't matter whether you are atheist, agnostic, Catholic, Christian, or reformed orthodox Buddhist; Stigmata simply commits the unpardonable sin, not of heresy or blasphemy, but of being a film that is neither very engaging or entertaining.From this point on, words like style, content, storyline, and logic will be used very loosely. They are indeed slippery enough in this film.First, the style of the film seems almost catch-as-catch-can, an ad-hoc conglomeration of Madison Avenue's worse pitches to American youth, MTV's most transient of popular videos, and Freidkin's quick set-stops in The Exorcist. In short, it seems the film becomes little more than a slick, stylized slide-show of pop culture. Granted, as the film nears its end, this chop-block mish-mash is tempered a bit, but by that time three-fourths of the film has flashed mercurially before your eyes, and the final quarter is wasted.Second, the story line is, at best, a homage to The Exorcist. At worst, it is a spoof. No one can dispute the similiarities to the classic girl-meets-supernatural, girl-meets-priest, priest-meets-supernatural plot elements, from levitations to scarring to the priests' pleadings. But somewhere, Stigmata's story, which should by all rights be almost captivating, becomes a tale devoid of logic (the final confrontation scene had some members of the audience laughing, so obvious was the lack of consistency) and its content is nothing short of a testament from the film-makers that they are, indeed, cutting edge with their religious beliefs. Cutting edge they may be, but they should have believed much more in the story they were telling and treated it with at least as much respect as was shown in Freidkin's work.Third, suspension of belief does not equal suspense. Simply put, in Stigmata, there is none. Opportunities definently existed for a magnum of thrills and points of horror; we're given, instead, a shot-glass of bloody images that do nothing to push us to that Edge Where Something Is Going To Happen. Without that Edge, without that build-up, there is no suspense. Without suspense, Stigmata becomes a fairy-tale and fails to become a thriller as it so sorely wants to be.Having said all of that, Stigmata does have some bright points of light. The acting is always good, and at times superb. The visuals seamlessly blend the gritty and the ethereal, which makes for a pretty film. And there is at least one scene that is simply visually striking (the subway encounter).But after all is said and done, Stigmata's poor direction over most of the film, it's lack of any coherent or even slightly better than shallow storyline, and the absense of any suspense hurts this film far more than anything else in it that could raise it from its own mediocrity. A pity, given that the subject could be made into so much more in the right bloodied hands.Two out of five stars. "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I saw the movie earlier today and after 20 years of weekly (even daily) theater visits this is the first movie I have ever walked out on. First of all, I am Catholic. That pretty much explains one major reason I despised the movie. Obviously that is the most biased point but I feel I have to offer it up. Why exactly did the makers of this movie feel the need to falsely show corruption in the Church. Even if you are not Catholic (or perhaps anti-Catholic) and have seen the movie you can easily deduce that they were more interested in turning reverent religious individuals with no desire to suppress the truth and love of God into one giant conspiracy with corruption in every corner. YES, I do know it is just a movie. But it is one thing to create a purely fictional story, and quite another to do so by trashing something that a billion people on Earth hold sacred in their lives.  The reason I walked out however was nothing really to do with the anti-Catholic message. It was due to the violent and evil nature that they felt the need to show in the Stigmata. I am assuming this was simply just some poor attempt and giving the movie an Exorcist-like feel. If you were to look up any information about Stigmata occurences, Padre Pio's for example, you would find that they occur to highly religious individuals and come as a sign of the holy spirit entering a person, not in a manner which includes senseless violence and particularly demonic instances. What's the point of putting crucifixes in sex scenes, scourging on subways, and extremely upsetting nail hammering in bathtubs, if not to use as some sick ploy for shock value? Again, I know this is just a movie, and most movies are complete works of fiction. I am not a close-minded person at any length and I certainly do not want to come out like a televangelist. But I must say if you are a religious person I would really recommend that you pass this one up (hehe especially if you are Catholic ) ) I actually kind of would have sit through the whole thing if it wasn't for my sister with me here in college becoming ill at the sacreligious bombardment from this sorry excuse for a horror/suspense movie (and I don't think we were the only ones!) What morals and values would you compromise for a two-hour piece of entertainment?If you wanna discuss this post or the movie I would be happy to gpearson@ttacs.ttu.edu   "},{"Title":"Not terrifying, unless you are scared to think.","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata was not quite what I expected, it had great special effects, and a great storyline; but what I was expecting was a horror flick.  The film had shocking moments throughout the entire two hours, but more so than anything it made you think, Gee, what is my religion & my beliefs?.  This caused a two hour debate between myself and my friends that I saw the movie with.  I recommend Stigmata, but don't go see it if you are looking for horror of the gruesome bloody kind. "},{"Title":"Better than passion","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  It is weird how better movies make less money.  Films called cerebral are usually `independent films'. They rarely are massed released movies.This movie has been called brainy because of the thoroughness of the screenplay. THIS movie does dialect correctly. This movie was better researched.Every detail is important. Details from known stigmatics to the name Frankie Page.Many people note The film owes a large and obvious debt to The Exorcist (at one point, Frankie's bed scoots across the room and she levitates into a crucifix position). I missed the comparison the first time I saw the movie. After see the film 15 times, I now believe, It should not be compared to The Exorcist at ALL. "},{"Title":"Unspeakably horrible","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I count this as without question the worst film I've ever seen.  It is completely devoid of any value whatsoever.  The characters are poorly portrayed and even more poorly developed.  Well acted films allow you to suspend disbelief and accept the fantastic.  This didn't even come close.I wonder if the City of Pittsburgh approved allowing itself to be used as the supposed setting for this film (the portrayal of Pittsburgh in and of itself being just God-awful and clearly not filmed here, or anywhere off a soundstage).  If so, shame on Mayor Murphy.I don't believe anyone spent money to make this.  I certainly don't believe I spent a hard-earned $6.50 to see it. "},{"Title":"Slick looking but hilariously bad and insulting!","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  *Spoiler alert*Stigmata is my first DVD movie experience. I'm glad I rented it and didn't pay full theater price to see this schlock fest! Stigmata is entertaining, in a super dumb kind of way but when you start thinking about it, this movie is truly terrible! Pure trash. Good looking trash, though. The title is misleading. Frankie (Arquette) doesn't really experience a true stigmata phenomena but a possession, like The Exorcist, which, for no given reason, manifests itself first as over the top stigmatas. The stigmata moments are ludicrously violent and inexplicably powerful (almost derailing a subway train!?! Yeah, right!).Arquette is possessed by the spirit of a dead priest for the most unconvincing reason, a stolen rosery (that belonged to the priest) sent to her by her mother! The film is an insult to anyone with any intelligence, but it's really insulting to Catholics. Stigmatas are the manifestation of Christ's suffering on the cross via the body of the person who is a true believer in the faith. In the movie, Arquette is violently tossed and thrown in every direction like a rag doll, not because she's feeling Christ's pain or because she's a devout Catholic but because she's possessed by the spirit of the priest, who, for no given reason, is capable of creating and using stigmatas to catch Arquette's, the Priests' (and the audience's) attention, all for his life long purpose he wants to bring down the institution of the Catholic Church with newly discovered words presumably spoken/written by Christ, that are dangerous to the Vatican's existence. Uh? Is this supposed to be good, something to cheer for? Also, why didn't the dead priest try to expose the Church when he was alive? How can the spirit of a mortal priest create stigmatas, something only divine spirits can do? The whole film doesn't make any sense. One only has to listen to the Director's comments on the DVD to realize that they had no clue over what they were doing or had any respect for anything. Wainwright's comments have to be heard to be believed. It's so hilarious. The best thing about the DVD. He confuses the film's setting between Pittsburg and Boston. If the director can't get which ever city the story was taking place in, it's no wonder Stigmata is has dumb as it is.  "},{"Title":"...and to think that I'd never even heard of the stigmata before this movie came out","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" When Stigmata came out, the previews made it look like a solid horror flick, almost in the vein of A Nightmare on Elm Street. I was quite surprised when I learned that it had a religious theme. In case you've never heard of the stigmata, they're the wounds that Jesus apparently had when he got crucified.In the movie itself, Vatican representative Andrew Kiernan (Gabriel Byrne) gets sent to the United States, where punk Frankie Paige (Patricia Arquette) has been experiencing the stigmata. So what is this all supposed to mean? Well, it's a little hard to determine. The movie mostly appears to be looking at Catholic Church cover-ups - and this is before The Da Vinci Code - but the graphic scenes of Frankie getting the stigmata sort of overshadow that. And it seems that they were really trying to be as graphic as possible with those scenes.Another aspect is the fact that someone like Frankie is getting the stigmata. Supposedly, only Catholics can experience those marks, but Frankie is an atheist punk. Maybe that was an allusion to the spread of religion over the centuries, and how it crushed other belief systems.All in all, I thought that the movie was worth seeing. If it has any problems, it's that - as a previous viewer noted - some characters are underdeveloped. Other than that, it's an interesting look at religion. But be warned this movie is not for the squeamish. Also starring Jonathan Pryce, Nia Long, Rade Sherbedgia and Portia de Rossi. "},{"Title":"Stigmata is a bad movie","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I recently saw the movie Stigmata and it was VERY BAD.  It was not neither scary nor dramatic.  It was not even interesting.  My personal theory as to the main problem with the movie was that it took intelligent and advanced ideas about religion, theology, spirituality, and man's relationship with God and it treated these important ideas in a taudry and infantile manner.  The heavily repeated imagery and MTV style editing did not mix well with the subject matter.  Whats worse is that the movie is extremely boring.  Also it is disjointed and there is little in the way of narrative direction.  Watching Stigmata was a very bad experience and I have told all of my  friends what I am now telling you... DON'T WATCH STIGMATA!  If you want to go to the cinema this weekend I would recommend Stir of Echoes. "}{"Title":"I would rather be crucified than see this again.","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I don't even know where to start lambasting this dreadful, amateurish attempt at moviemaking.  The basic concept of a young atheist given the 'divine gift' of stigmata-- being physically punctured a la the Christ myth by 'unseen forces'-- is interesting at the core... so why does first-and-hopefully-last- time director Rupert Wainright feel it necessary to CONSTANTLY bring attention to himself via cinematic devices such as process shots, extreme close-ups, in-camera effects shots and a host of other film-school baggage?  This is supposed to be a feature film, not a tediously long demo reel which is how it plays.  Stigmata's catalog of visual tricks are just poor directing and nothing more.  Let me correct that-- they are something more painfully irritating and in the end useless and meaningless.As for the actors-- tormented hottie Patricia Arquette and myth debunker for the Vatican Gabriel Byrne-- there is no room for them to do anything in a particular shot for more than five seconds or so.  There is no effort at character development beyond daytime TV contrivances and 'on the nose' dialogue (a cheap writing device used to provide character information quickly by having them divulge it themselves, directly 'I feel like...' or 'I did that because...').  As a result, there is no one to care about and therefore nothing at stake.  So why bother?  The story doesn't even have any surprises-- I don't need to reveal the ending because the film does that for you.The visual storytelling is another thing entirely-- the surprises fly fast and furious, and all of them are unpleasant ones.  Quick cuts come at Michael Bay's 'Armageddon' speed-- but at least that film LOOKED good.  The 'isn't it dark', forcefully grainy, purposely staged atmosphere of 'Stigmata' evokes thoughts that perhaps the footage was collected from Marylin Manson's video cutting room trash bin.  Banal, uninteresting, and not at all scary.  Just sad.All of this comes at the cost of the film's underlying plot, which suffers in the extreme.  The film had perhaps a total of three moments worthy of watching, but not in the context of the two hours of MTV mishmash and blood letting that are jammed down your throat.  There may, at one time, have been a good idea buried under these layers of 'look at me' directing and post-production experiments, but it's long gone.As for the anti-Vatican press this film is flirting with, the Church would be wise to let it run it's course because this movie is just not worth it.Besides, too much attention might resurrect it from it's inevitable (and hopefully agonizing) death.  I certainly hope my advice has helped nail-gun the coffin lid securely shut. "},{"Title":"Terrible ripoff of The Exorcist!","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  When will Hollywood finally learn that special effects no longer scare? In this the summer where the legend of a witch scared audiences to the tune of $150 million, along comes another Hollywood dud...This movie TRIES to scare us the way The Exorcist truly did, 25 yrs ago...it fails miserably...I have to give the movie just 1 star because unoriginality needs a great story to merit more stars....With Stigmata we get a bad ripoff of a great horror movie, done with no style...and of course LOTS of great computer effects! (YAWN) "},{"Title":"People need to appreciate this movie more.","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata was one of the best films i've seen in a while. I cannot understand why some people claim it is  second rate horror movie. The movie is not meant to be horror. It is a story about a woman who experiences the sufferings of Christ, as a representative of a priest who discovered an ancient Gospel (which is in fact, a real gospel that has been denounced by the church as a heresy). It is true that, for people who go to movies to see explosions and knifings and curse words, this might not be a good movie. People who like to THINK at movies and perhaps even try to understand underlying or symbolic meanings should find this to be incredibly interesting. A 6.0? You have to be kidding me. "},{"Title":"Time for red wine","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" What could have been an excellent movie, unfortunately suffers from some poorly-used movie clichés (if anyone still goes from the image of blood to somebody pouring in red wine, I swear I'm gonna scream!) and - even worse - stupid mistakes. Imagine for instance that you're a priest and you have this woman with stigmata who doesn't believe in God, why don't you question there being a rosary in her house? (Or is this yet another movie cliché where the clue that might reveal all is only found when the story finds it appropriate to be discovered?)All this is quite pitiful because 'Stigmata' had a lot of possibilities and quality in it (and not to forget a very good Patricia Arquette). What could have been an 'Exorcist' of the next generation, now comes out as an okay movie. And that's a damn shame. "},{"Title":"Dis.....Gusting.","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I didn't really know what this movie was about when I went to the theater to see it (hype about the Satanism etc etc etc) as the trailers in the last movie I saw looked pretty interesting.Oh dear, Roman Catholic mythology? Not my idea of a good scare and honestly, I just felt like watching a really good, scary movie, not some loosely plotted religious farce that tries to score cheap thrills by having some chick getting bloody every few minutes!I'll try to keep away from the spoilers (!) but I found it very odd that an Atheist, who gets a string of rosary beads from a deceased priest, could suddenly end up with Christ's wounds (aren't stigmata supposed to be deeply religious??) I mean, she hangs out with losers, does loser stuff, behaves like a typical rebel et al, and here she is displaying the wounds of Jesus Christ?? Come on!Scenes of her crucified, head thrown back, screaming, blood everywhere, became rather tedious after seeing it a dozen times. It was neither frightening or scary, just repulsive. It did, however, become quite painful to watch - those flicking scenes were highly annoying...CONCLUSION If your a Catholic, defintly don't see this. If you're not, still don't see it. "},{"Title":"Tests your reaction to noise, but not fear","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Spoilers.First off, nothing really happened in this movie, other than a woman bleeding inexplicably. Second, it wasn't scary. Third, it had the worst soundtrack of any movie ever. Let me elaborate. The sound was edited by either Beavis or Butthead &#150; I'm not sure which, so let's just go with Beavis. The movie gradually gets more and more quiet and the people mumble and mutter, forcing you to turn up the volume (I watched this at home). Then Beavis blasts some really loud sounds with supposedly scary/shocking images, forcing you to quickly lower the volume again. This occurs many times until, mercifully, the movie ends. I can picture Beavis laughing vulgarly from behind the two-way mirror while watching the test group franticly reaching for the remote each time. If you have children and prefer to watch scary movies after they fall asleep, this one is a big mistake. But then it's a big mistake anyway. Here's a thought &#150; if you're going to make a horror movie, at least add a gratuitous beheading, a 19-year-old blond girl who screams at the top of her lungs just before she can take off her sweater, the shadow on the wall of someone being eaten alive just out of the camera range, a cat being thrown at the camera to scare the audience, some drifty weirdo with a maniacal laugh, or a monster who looks like a stage hand covered in aluminum foil (a la TV's Lost in Space). These people didn't even try to scare me. They just wanted to hurt my ears. "},{"Title":"Dug Its Own Grave","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie started well giving me hope, but then went downhill after the first half hour. The early potential became clouded with too many inconsistencies, as it struggled to cover its own tracks. By the end it was a laughable movie, with an ending I couldn't care less about. "},{"Title":"Movie about religious mysticism instead of faith in Jesus Christ","Date":"14 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Yesterday stumbled upon this movie, and seeing how it's related with faith in Jesus Christ, i decided to give it a try. Bad idea - instead of bringing the Gospel of Jesus Christ to people, it went for the easy route, providing flashy SFX, mixing secular humanism and religious mysticism, offering heretical theology, and possibly ripping you of your money and time for nothing of substance. A woman starts having stigmata, and the priest sent to investigate it somehow deduces it's a gift from God, though no such thing is ever mentioned in the Holy Bible, though it may have been present in later church history as some sort of religious show-off. Maybe this tries to show God as a sadist (a favorite argument of militant atheists), though it seems to me, the woman was possessed by an evil spirit, transferred to her, from a heretical priest. There are cases in New Testament, where evil spirits torture people, and Jesus expels them from their victims. Instead of exorcism, the priest-scientist, who confesses he hasn't prayed in a long while, gets a badly-acted/questionable romantic liking of the possessed woman, though she gets more and more signs of Hollywood possession - weird voice, creepy eyes, screaming wildly, then writes the supposedly most true Gospel of Jesus Christ. Who would believe that a creepy demon-possessed human, bent on violence, is telling the true Gospel of Christ? God is almighty and wouldn't need to wait two thousands years to write the true Gospel in a language, almost nobody can read. The only good idea in this movie is to rely on the Gospel of Jesus Christ, from the New Testament, instead of religious rites and buildings and to beware of new pharisees among the believers. In the end after a ridiculous murder attempt (by catholics, of course) and a quarrel for the true gospel or saving the church, fire SFX and bleeding statues, the priest-scientist suddenly remembers how to exorcise, though the evil spirit is shown to be the soul of a heretical priest, which is not biblical.In the end, the hidden true gospel is found, but its secret sayings are laughable and were clearly ripped off from existing Gospels and Old Testament scripture - God is in rocks and logs, but somehow not in churches saying, smells of new age and is useless; maybe it's a confused interpretation of Isaiah 661 and Acts 748; - God's kingdom is in you saying was already in Luke 1721;Also a conclusive text speaks about Nag Hammad library discovery with the Gospel of Thomas, which if compared (together with this movie) with the current four Gospels, will prove Nag Hammad's heresy.NOTE I've been speaking with some atheists once, trying to tell them about the Gospel. They categorically refused to listen, resorting to the usual fairy tales and contradictions arguments; but somehow they were all accepting that Nag Hammad religious writings were the true gospel, but refusing to reveal their methods of deducing the truth. For a true gospel method, read 1 John 222. This i hope will tell of the lack of Christian value of this movie and those pseudo-gospels.Thanks to God the Father and His Son Jesus Christ, for giving us the true Gospel as described in the New Testament; and pity for those people that hate Jesus Christ and his followers and desperately try to confuse and destroy them. May God bless and help these militant antichrists to leave their angry futile struggle and return to God and receive his love and forgiveness. "},{"Title":"Self-consciously stylish, controversial and oddly watchable","Date":"14 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Another Exorcist? No, this is actually watchable. (Exorcist 40 minutes - nothing happens and that nothing happens very boringly. Then girl urinates, vomits, is potty-mouthed, there's lot of medical examinations and it all ends with silly but unentertaing exorcism scene which comes dangerously close to parody commercial which I saw in TV years ago. And yes, book is even worse dreck - it is nothing but possessed Regan's bodily functions!) In Stigmata, script throws flowers, candles and Catholic imagery for good-looking (and yes, self-consciously stylish) effect with controversy-begging storyline - there's conspiracy theories involving Catholic Church, priest hero falling for possessed, stigmatized heroine etc. Catholic Church disliked it, so did critics, but I enjoyed the ride. "},{"Title":"When Doves Cry Blood","Date":"9 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Attractive atheist hairdresser Patricia Arquette (as Frances Frankie Paige) suffers from Stigmata - for the unenlightened, this means she gets nailed through her wrists, whipped on the subway, wears a thorny crown, and takes it in her side. Blessedly, none of this kills Ms. Arquette. She also talks dirty, levitates, and cries blood. Of course, this attracts the attention of the Catholic Church, especially Father Gabriel Byrne (as Andrew Kiernan), who falls predictably in love with Arquette.This is supposed to have something to do with a lost Biblical Gospel discovered near the caves of Dead Sea Scrolls, outside Jerusalem. Apparently, this elusive relic is the The Gospel According to St. Thomas which was found in 1945 and readily available by the time this film was made. According to the film, the Vatican refuses to recognize this Gospel, though it confirms the existence of Jesus Christ. All of this might make a good movie someday. The fire sure looked hot.*** Stigmata (9/10/99) Rupert Wainwright ~ Patricia Arquette, Gabriel Byrne, Jonathan Pryce, Nia Long "}{"Title":"Good idea, shame about the execution","Date":"6 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Religion and horror have gone well together in the movies. Films such as The Omen series, The Exorcist and The Wicker Man showed that religious themes were a fertile ground for horror films. Stigmata is yet another film in this cycle. It's basically about a girl who mysteriously develops the stigmata phenomena, i.e. she suddenly and without warning suffers the wounds that Christ did on the day of his crucifixion. A 'miracle investigator' priest is sent to have a look and to see if the phenomena has any basis in divine intervention.The ideas behind Stigmata are intriguing ones. They are a nice change from the usual possession themes seen in many of these types of movies. The ultra-violence that constituted Christ's last day is pretty shocking and a good source for a horror movie. However, the director really doesn't handle the material at all well. There is an annoying MTV-style of direction - hard pounding techno and rock, with fast editing. This was a common feature of late 90's movies but it doesn't serve the material well here at all. It has a music video feel at times, which cheapens some of the potentially effective scenes. Despite the poor execution, there still are some good scenes, such as when the stigmatic girl becomes possessed and starts talking in Aramaic. Another problem is a distinct lack of chemistry between the two leads. I like both Patricia Arquette and Gabriel Byrne but something was definitely not connecting with them in this film.Overall, this is a decent film and no more. It has a good central idea and effective moments, however, it does feel like something of a missed opportunity to produce something quite memorable. "},{"Title":"Very Good Movie.","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Three stellar actors make this religious mystery a fine film. Gabriel Byrne, Patricia Arquette and Johnathan Pryce weave a tale of conspiracy, possession and mystery revolving around the notion of stigmata, or the wounds of Christ upon his crucification appearing on other people.The story centers on Frankie Paige (Arquette), a modern girl with a party attitude in the big city. She has the everyday problems of all of us until one night upon taking a bath. From that eventful night, the stigmata gradually start appearing upon her body and she takes on the characteristics of another person. Gabriel Byrne is the priest sent by the Catholic church to investigate her traumatic experience and the real mystery begins to unfold. Johnathan Pryce plays the cardinal and Byrne's boss, and plays his role to a tee.A smart mystery with a supernatural spin. Highly recommended to anyone wanting something a little flavorful in their thrillers. "},{"Title":"Nothing to different.","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Strange & nasty supernatural occurrences happen to a young girl & a priest from the Vatican must stop whatever horrible thing is happening to this poor girl & solve the mystery as to why this is happening. I admit, I wasn't all that crazy about this movie, now don't get me wrong, it's pretty creepy at times & the special effects, acting & directing were all well done, it just failed to thrill, basically because STIGMATA is the same as pretty much all the supernatural horror films languishing out there, there's nothing here to really recommend & it's nothing any horror fan out there hasn't seen before. Still they may see it for curiosities sake, it's not a horrible film & like I said it's well acted & directed, but it just wasn't my cup of tea.**1/2 stars "},{"Title":"She was whipped repeatedly by an unseen force. I rather liked it!","Date":"15 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Stigmata starts in a small town somewhere in Brazil where half priest half scientist Father Andrew Kiernan (Gabriel Byrne) has been sent by the Vatican to investigate claims that a statue of Jesus in a Church has been crying tears of blood since Father Alameida (Jack Donner) died. As Kiernan investigates the phenomena a young boy takes Alameida's rosary beads from his open coffin & sells them to an American tourist. Cut to Pittsburgh where 23 year old fun loving girl Frankie Paige (Patricia Arquette) now has the beads in her possession after her Mother sent them to her as a present, however shortly after receiving them Frankie's world starts to fall apart as a series of terrifying events take over her life. First wounds mysteriously appear that go right through her wrists, she begins to see & hear things & while riding on the subway has a violent fit that leaves her with unexplained marks on her back. After witnessing the events on the train Father Durning (Thomas Kopache) thinks Frankie may be afflicted by the 'Stigmata' or the five wounds by which Jesus died by on the cross. He contacts the Vatican where the sinister Cardinal Daniel Houseman (Jonathan Pryce) assigns Father Kiernan to investigate which will lead him to uncover & battle corruption along with dark supernatural forces as he fights to save Frankie's life...Directed by Rupert Wainwright I actually thought Sitmata turned out to be much better then I had expected. The script by Tom Lazarus & Rick Ramage uses the traditional clichéd Christian & catholic themes like faith, the stigmata, miracles, bibles, Churches & priests as you would expect but Stigmata places these elements into a modern day inner city setting & has a young non religious female leading character. As a whole I thought the two distinct sets of themes & ideas worked well against each other to create something a bit different. The character's are pretty well fleshed out although once Frankie is possessed & Father Kiernan's investigation begins her character takes a back seat for the remainder of the film. I also have to mention the climax, what good horror film based on religious possession would not include an exorcism somewhere along the line? In the case of Stigmata it's a little low-key & don't expect any head twisting or green vomit spewing. One area where Stigmata stood out for me was it's visual style & class, director Wainwright uses plenty of close-ups, moody lighting, quick cuts, dissolves, fades & lots of MTV editing trickery. Stigmata has lots of atmosphere as well with loads of symbolic imagery like doves flying around everywhere, candles all over the place & for some reason loads of water. Almost every time Stigmata cuts to a outdoor scene it's pouring with rain & there are so many shots of dripping water it's very noticeable but as I said I really like Stigmata visually. There isn't much in the way of blood or gore, a few gory blood squirting wounds, a bit of self mutilation & a few flashbacks to Jesus being crucified. With a supposed budget of about $32,000,000 I have to say I'm not too sure where all that money went, Stigmata is a very well made film throughout with that Hollywood polish too it but $32 million to make a film with no major action or special effect sequences, no really big name actors, no exotic locations & it even needed to use footage from Money Train (1995) which I spotted straight away. The acting is very good & I felt for most of the character's. I personally think Stigmata is a decent film, don't expect a clone of The Exorcist (1973) or anything as gratuitous & you might enjoy it. A pleasant surprise & a film definitely worth at least one watch. "},{"Title":"Stigmato ketchup","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" What did I hope actually ? I'm not sure. Maybe just a funny priest action supernatural flick... Well so is that movie, but I didn't like it a lot. Gabriel Byrne (son of Al Pacino and Mel Gibson ? He looks like both of them anyways) is okay, and Patricia Arquette (Human Nature) is great. But the plot is not very good (Vatican is hiding secrets that would maybe make Lutherans right ? Not kidding ?), and worst, the movie making is quite bad, with a lot of stupid images (slow motion fading...) and a lot of bad habits from the worst music videos promos. The result is not disturbing, not enjoyable, not funny, not not-funny, not scary,... It's quite nothing. Worth watching if you live on a desert island with a DVD player and only the choice between watching stigmata and reading the boooring and lame Da Vinci code. "},{"Title":"Even Priests keep secrets? Gasp!","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Gabriel Byrne is back - and what a range this actor has! From playing the Devil in the same year's End of Days to portraying a priest here - a complete role reversal if ever there was. He confronts a modern-day woman (Arquette) who is apparently afflicted with a bleeding condition always associated with religious people - yet, she's an atheist. What's up? Not the story, which never goes beyond its skimpy premise, unless you count that old hoary hog about a centuries-old conspiracy in our non-secular order to keep some secret from the general public for its own good. Yes, those bishops will slay to keep their precious secrets. Save us from obsessed priests ...and vision-less filmmakers. "},{"Title":"Another pseudo-religious movie.","Date":"22 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The true Jesus Gospel ,in his own words ...but written,we're told, by incredulous Saint Thomas!What a nice idea!The problem lies in the fact that the bits of this gospel we are allowed to hear are so trite they will keep you awake all night.The Vatican plays the part of the villains,the diehards who do not want that the truth (and what a revelation!)to be told .Byrne is the handsome priest whom the hookers try to take upstairs ,and with whom the heroine will fall in lovea heroine (Arquette) whose playing consist of screaming,suffering,making obscene remarks (à la Linda Blair),and exchanging futilities with her friend while trying to seduce the holy man.  "},{"Title":"STIGMATA Good for both unfaithful and faithful","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Well, I'm a catholic. I'm really new to the whole catholic thing. I've been ignoring the teachings of the church until last year really. But I just saw this movie last night. At first I didn't know what to think about it. First I thought Heretical. Then I was intrigued by it. However, in the end, I decided, it was a very good movie. I did some research on the gospel that Christ wrote. But having read it, I was pretty bored with it. The gospel that Jesus wrote is essentially the other gospels combined into one. There is nothing new in it. Which is why it was left out of the bible. However, the entire movie is good for believers and nonbelievers alike. Well, if you don't believe in christ, then maybe you wouldn't like it. This movie kind of made me think back to when I read The Da Vinci Code because they talk about the gospel that Jesus wrote but they don't really go into much depth with it.  "},{"Title":"Suspension of disbelief required but very enjoyable","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  With a title like 'Stigmata' and a leading man by the name of 'Gabriel' the theme of this movie is more than obvious.Stigmata is a very religious and supernatural drama about a woman who inexplicably receives wounds akin to crucifiction by an unknown source.After Father Andrew Kiernan's endeavours in Italy where he's confronted by a statue of the Virgin Mary crying human blood after the recent death of the parish priest there, he is called to investigate the woman's case in more detail in New York. Initially skeptical due to her religion of atheism (No past stigmata suffers were atheist) events conspire to convince him the case is real and he finds himself in a battle to save her from certain death.This film was never made to be realistic - but it has impact. Gabriel Byrne is very effective as the scientifically-grounded priest (Kiernan) who's job is to disprove worldwide claims of miracles, and Patricia Arquette is reasonable as the troubled Paige who is the centre of the apparent possession. It is, however, the plot which drives Stigmata forward - the epic sense of good against apparent evil (The true nature of the possession is revealed later) works well and in places the movie is quite breathtaking.The change in Paige from simple girl to a person possessed and who can speak and write Arameic but who doesn't remember any of it is fairly well portrayed and it helps to make the relationship between her and the Father fairly convincing.Ultimately the outcome is fairly predictable, but the movie's direction and narrative are strong enough to entertain pretty well throughout.Of course, it does help if the viewer, if religious (Particularly in catholicism), is open minded...  "},{"Title":"Stinkmata!","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Truly Stigmata is one of the worst movies ever, I am not religious but this film is really insulting to my intelligence.Story and style-wise this takes its cue's from 'The Exorcist' and 'Don't Look Now' with some flashy visuals straight out of an early nineties Garbage video that I guess are supposed to unsettle the viewer, but really only point to the fact that this film is trying too hard to make up for its predictable plot and dialogue. At some points the film almost threatens to become interesting when it delves into some of the obscure history of Christian mysticism, but then reverts back to scenes of doves flappin' around Arquette in slo-mo.Anyway, avoid this like the plague, after I saw this I was p*ssed off for about a week. Go watch a good horror film like 'The Changeling' or 'Texas Chainsaw Massacre', two films with genuine atmospheric quality and great storytelling.0.5/10 "}{"Title":"Sh*tmata","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  OK. I won't lie to you. This movie sucks. The whole bizarre message of Jesus Christ sending messages through the b*tchy blond lead, played by Patricia Arquette, is dumb. This movie is made for people who are trying to create some new form of Christianity that wholeheartedly accepts drug use, promiscuous sex, adultery, lying, cheating, cursing, stealing, and so on. I did not enjoy this movie one bit. In fact, I only endured this psychologically torturing movie because I was able to watch it with 2 attractive young women. They enjoyed this pile of crap, but I was seriously disappointed. It deserves no right to be viewed. "},{"Title":"Better then expected.","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I got it on DVD from a friend and expected a very mediocre film. Instead I found that &#145;Stigmata' has a far more complex plot to what I though possible in a &#145;possessed' movie and, above all else, some really great cinematography. In fact, some shots are simply gorgeous.As much as I liked the movie I would not recommend it to anyone who isn't a fan of either Gabriel Byrne or Patricia Arquette, both perform well without overstating things. It is also worth a look for those of us who are into church-dogma stories. So, if you enjoyed Prophecy, you will probably love this movie otherwise, do not bother. As far as the DVD is concerned the deleted scenes are not too impressive while the alternative ending is definitely worth a look. As one of the most beautifully shot bits of the film it is for once truly alternative, that is, great for those of us who tend to disagree with the test audience. "},{"Title":"A very thrilling movie that leaves you breathless!","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is a very brilliant movie. It starts off at 200mph and just keeps accellerating. Unlike many other movies it has a unique theme and it makes you wonder why it has never been done before. There is only one thing preventing this movie from scoring 10 and that is the amount of blood! If the sight of blood makes you wanne scream or wommit this is NOT a film for you. Otherwise.... this is a must see! "},{"Title":"Wow!I was impressed...","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Wow! I never thought I'd see a movie from hollywood that would promote Gnosticism. Many movies have gnostic themes (especially ones based on novels or story by Phillip K. Dick), but this actually goes beyond that.This impressed me, because I'm a Gnostic.On the other hand, I'm sure if you're a Catholic, you'll hate this movie. But all I can say is, track down a copy of the Gospel of Thomas (from the Nag Hammadi Library), which this movie is about, and read it for yourself. "},{"Title":"Too much style, but Arquette was good","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  That this movie was directed by someone who's a graduate from the music video school of arts is evident from first to last frame. Every visual is carefully set up and there is a frequent use of slow-motion and fast editing. These visuals are all very impressive, and some are real eye-opener, but they tend to get tiresome after a while. The use of dripping water in slo-mo made me giggle the 20th time. And some acting is caught in all these style. Gabriel Byrne just walks around, looking confused and expressing two or three facial expressions. Jonathan Pryce fares just as bad with his one note portrayal. However, one exception to all this is Patricia Arquette! She is likeable and almost believable in her part. You really care for her and if she lives or dies which is more than can be said about the other characters (maybe except Nia Long, who is given far too little to do but does what she does well). And the movies ending is disappointing considering the elaborate build-up. "},{"Title":"Stigmata is great","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Let's face it, for some people religious movies will never work. Most of these people who say Stigmata is a crap movie I think they never gave it a chance.This movie has at least two things the actors - Byrne and Arquette and the final sequence in the garden. That sequence saved the movie for me and gave it a beautiful sense of transcendence based on the myth of St. Francis of Assisi.Overall I give it 8/10. "},{"Title":"I don´t know","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Nice idea, nice pictures, but the actual composition of the story could still need a bit of work-out. The first 3/4 of the film kick of like a nice intro, but one soon keeps missing the plot, which does not evolve as soon as at the end of the film. In the end this is a bit disappointing, because the story itself is not as bad as it seems. "},{"Title":"Listen to my words!","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I saw this flick in '99 on its release and I confess I had to agree with the general concensus.......good idea, laughable execution! I was so smug, had it all under control didn't I? Wannabe cool religious tale of empty faith unplugged - Patricia Arquette a victim of her own casting agency! bring on the next loser of a movie!  Never thought twice about it, even bought the flick in 2000 for $6 - yeah, sacriligious I realise, could have bought a Royale with Cheese! PLUS a hash-brown!Well, call it redemption brother...maybe a preview of the second coming but for absolutely no reason that I can think of, I found myself ALONE for once (they actually all went to bed early) with a plate-full of my very best fried eggs, bacon and chips, tomatoes on the side, at 11.30 tonight and to help me while away this rare moment of solitude I loaded up STIGMATA.  Must have been the cholesterol in the fries, but man, did I realise what a one-dimensional non-interpretive loser of a reviewer I surely was!  This film functions on its own wavelength. Lose THAT and you simply can't SEE it - simple......I certainly DIDN'T first time around.I have to agree, it DOES echo shades of Fincher if you look hard enough. This is a totally engrossing movie offering nothing in the way of religious resolution but EVERYTHING in the way of choice, acceptance and spiritual enlightenment, should one be so receptive.To quote Brad Dourif from EXORCIST III...Oh, was I raving? Do yourself a favor - give this a second viewing, especially with the benefit of years passed now! "},{"Title":"*1/2 out of 4.","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Pot smoking anti religious Patricia Arquette begins to bear the strange wounds that resemble those of Christ, stigmata. However, only deeply religious people can bear these marks. And soon Arquette goes through brief phases of being possessed. A priest (Gabriel Byrne) is sent in to investigate what is going on. Intelligent thought provoking premise is lost in music video like direction and lifeless performances. Rated R; Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Saturday afternoon popcorn flick.","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata is a Catholic, supernatural thriller set in Pittsburgh where Frankie, played by Patricia Arquette, starts channeling a dead priest with a message that could turn the Catholic church on its head. Stigmata is fun, metaphysical thriller with elements of The Exorcist and The Seventh Sign thrown in. Though throughout all of Frankie's inflictions of stigmata in the movie, I couldn't help but feel I was watching a never-ending music video. Excellent story, well acted, but the directing and editing left a lot to be desired. Saturday afternoon popcorn flick.  "}{"Title":"Dark, Gothic, gruesome but at the same time brilliant!","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata might have not been so well praised as expected, but was still worth the viewing pleasure. All performances are a praise, especially to leads Gabriel Byrne and Patricia Arquette.The movie did help bring a lot into question in terms of the religious controversy it caused to some about truth and dare?It almost seems convincing to a stage that you begin to examine the moral standards of the Christian belief, that many would find objective or blasphemy. . .  .? For example one scene that deals with the complexity of faith is the scene between Byrne and Rade Serbedzija's character Marion Petrocelli who provides a vital debate about the true Church of Jesus Christ. This scene alone invites deep insight for those curious enough to believe if such a thing is true and maybe to read into?I know this might sound tiresome but the movie reminded me of something that was a cross/between an Argento flick (notice the dark color bleaching removal of the film) and an MTV style music video. Mind you the film was not without it's rather visceral bloody scenes with Patricia Arquette receiving the five brutal and bloody stigamtic wounds to the wrists, feet, head and so forth. Jonathan Pryce delivers a really chilling performance as the Cardinal with dark secret he struggles to keep away.Brilliant film though for the performances, although the story maybe slightly slow by no means let that slow you down from watching this. "},{"Title":"One of the worst films I have ever seen","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  From the very beginning I felt that the film dragged along and did not hook the audience, despite the noises being made by the church about the film. It is not a must see film, but should be left to each individual to make up their minds what they think about it. "},{"Title":"well crafted, acted, directed, and visually pleasing","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  It helps to have a Catholic background and an open mind to view this film. A knowledge of saints and exorcism is also helpful.  The mysticism of the Catholic church such as stigmata and exorcism and saintleness is given a new spin in this modern drama.   "},{"Title":"Poor attempt at a controversial film.","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie may be compared best to a heavy metal music video; not enough material to entertain or interest a viewer for more than about five minutes. I gather that this film was supposed to be an out there or controversial challenge to today's religious ideals, but instead it turned out a holy mess. There were some genuinely interesting ideas started here, but they were poorly developed through an MTV metal type media; I'm all for dizzying sex and drug scenes when they make an impact, but in this film they served no purpose other than to give the film a (false) cover and p**s off the fundies. Then again, anything that pisses off the fundies can't be that bad. "},{"Title":"not really about the stigmata","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I decided to watch this movie because I am very intrigued by the stigmata.  Hearing that St. Francis of Assisi and St. Catherine of Sienna both were afflicted with it further piqued my interest.  However, I don't think this movie was about the stigmata.  It instead seemed to be a criticism of organized religion and religious tradition. 	In a way I could see the film's point.  Sure, God is not confined to building; He is present everywhere.  St. Francis recognized God's presence in nature very much.  Also Christianity is about love not rules or dogmatic opinions. 	That said, church buildings are necessary; they give people a place to come together.  Christianity was never meant to be a me-and-Christ-against-the-world thing.  Christianity is about loving God and loving people.  The Church is the Body of Christ on this earth and as Christians we cannot survive cut off from the body.  According to II Clement Christ is the head of the body from whence nourishment is received and no one can be nourished apart from the body. 	I was also very disappointed by the end of the movie.  To elevate a Gnostic gospel to a position of higher authority than the true gospels is to be ignorant to Church history.  It is also important to note that the Gospel of Thomas can be found in most public and academic libraries &#150; hardly violently suppressed by the Church as the film depicted.       "},{"Title":"Stigmata, eye candy with a purpose","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The film raises some lovely questions about cynics and saints and where belief meets them. I was drawn by the MTV/Matrix like music and flashy cinematography but stayed because I really got into the struggle... not perfect but a must see. "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  ***** caution ***** mild spoiler ahead *****Stigmata is a beautifully filmed, religiously a bit unique movie.  The last 10 minutes was very meaningful to me.  Then I realized that among the co-workers of Frankie (decently acted by Patricia Arquette), only person who was friendly and helpful to her was a black girl and other white people seemed to be afraid of her.  Interesting. "},{"Title":"Supernatural religious detective story","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  There are two central characters in the movie - Frankie Paige, an agnostic New York hairdresser with an empty life, and Father Kiernan who is a Vatican investigator into unusual weeping statues and the like.Add a twist of church politics into this plot and what emerges is a story that keeps the viewer attentive and inquisitive.  An intelligent plotline (this is no blood and gore horror flick), capably acted and supported by a minimum of special effects, cements this work together.It is refreshing to find a movie that touches on spiritual possession without having to assume that denizens of Hell are necessarily behind it all. "},{"Title":"Best Religious movie ever!","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  May contain spoilers...Well, movies with religious themes always seem to fascinate me, lately a lot of those movies have been made, good ones (the ninth gate, stigmata) and bad ones (end of days, bless the child). Stigmata is my favourite. Because there are no demons or weird cults. It's just about a young girl who suffers from Stigmata's, and fighting to get her life back. And the only one who understands is a Science-Priest. Somehow this movie reminds me of The Seventh Sign. Although that one clearly had a less-hollywood-ending which is good, Stigmata's power lies in its realism. I mean. Not that i believe in Stigmata's, but the movie MAKES you THINK it could happen to anyone. the Girl works in a barbershop, has a lousy boyfriend, goes to parties, and of course avoiding sundays in church, just like any of us young adults. And suddenly her life gets f***d up by these stigmata's. Excellent acting, the Chemistry between Arquette and Byrne is magical. And Corgan did a great job with the soundtrack. I hope he'll be doing more soundtracks now that the 'pumpkins have split up.Rating 10 out of 10!!!  "},{"Title":"Too many Exorcist-like scenes","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  1st watched 3/5/2000 - 4 out of 10(Dir-Rupert Wainwright) Interesting idea for movie with Patricia Arquette getting the wounds of Christ(Stigmata) despite her non-religious background.Too many Exorcist-like scenes take away from the seriousness that this subject could have explored.  "}{"Title":"Exorcist rip- off (may contain spoilers!!!)","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  First of all I don't think this is a bad movie. It's quite entertaining, but you can't miss the similarities with the all time classic The Exorcist.First of all the story opens in a third world country. Enter a priest who is set to help a young girl in the States who is possessed by an (evil) spirit). Besides this the floating above the bed, etc. In my humble opinion the makers intended to be the line 'How is your faith today, father?' (or something like that) to be the new 'The power of Christ compels you'.Gabriel Byrne is good as always as the priest/ scientist (only a short time after he played Satan in End of Days). Patricia Arquette isn't bad, but isn't great either. The film itself looks good. Maybe to much MTV- style editing, but the photography is terrific!Now we come at the flaws in the script (may contain SPOILERS!!!). What is it that Frankie suddenly falls in love with Kiernan? It didn't work (for me) and I'm surprised this part was still in the final cut. It makes the film and the characters unbelievable. Why did they suddenly come up with those Dead Sea scrolls (one of them written by Jesus)? They could have made a whole film out of this bit.Still a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"not a thriller - a look into one priest's search for truth","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I thought Stigmata might be a thriller - special effects and startles being the high points of the film. (I do enjoy thrillers...)I was surprised to find a more thoughtful story of one priest's search for the truth and for faith.The message here has to be God works in mysterious ways. "},{"Title":"What is Faith?","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I like movies that explore questions rather than give answers.  I also like movies that explore mysticism rather than simply 'horror' or 'drama'.  I REALLY like movies that question some of our typical concepts of faith, religion, God & etc, and abhore ones that simply perpetuate dogma.  This is why I gave it a '9'.  An excellent movie, even if you don't like the mystical or the spiritual because there's so much weird, cool stuff going on!  But all that weird cool stuff happens to be mystical... so its a great compromise between people who like mysticism and people who just like a cool movie with a bunch of unusual, original events that make up a part of the plot.  The movie, though utilizing a mystical concept that is very old, is completely original, and makes the mystical aspect of it far more believable than most Church doctrine does, though doesn't take the magical elements away from the events at all.  The movie is rapt with paradoxes so that, if you're inclined, you can analyze their spiritual meaning for hours, and has enough action and cool special effects that, even if you're not into analyzing spiritual paradoxes, you'll have a good time! "},{"Title":"maybe not for a true catholic","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  For me, the movie's graphical beauty, as long as the great soundtrack appealed, and the plot came in second.  I too, am an aethiest and therefore there are no conflicts in the religious sense.For a true catholic though, it may be different.  The whole plot centers around what Jesus's true meaning, or words were, and some may even be able to call the whole movie a heresy.  I dont mean that a catholic shouldn't watch this movie, just that one must see both points of views.  Perhaps the interpretations we believe in now are different or else, one should just watch it for the aesthetics.Otherwise, for aethiests like me who just want a good movie, and perhaps a little touch of religious feelings, its beautiful. "},{"Title":"better than i expected","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I rented this video without expecting too much from it. But i was wrong - Stigmata is definetely the best horror i've seen since Scream. Well it's not a classic horror, it's a bit different, but that's not important. The film is directed very well and Patricia Arquette and Gabriel Byrne are perfect for their roles. Stigmata was released almost in the same time with End of Days, it has almost the same religious theme, but it's a million times better than the Arnold movie. If you're looking for a thrilling movie with many interesting points then definetely see Stigmata. Vote 7.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The Catholic Church meets the X-files?.","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata is a thought provoking film about a young lady who Possessed by a force of some description. I say that because it is really quite hard to understand who she is possessed by , is it the Devil? Is it Jesus? Is it Henry the mild mannered Janitor?Oops sorry i digress.Even if you dont understand the storyline it is still an intersting film to watch. The acting is superb and the soundtrack is even better. The photography is excellent, especially when the girl experiences the Stigmata ( The nails being hammered into her body). I find film about religion annoying in general because i am totaly against organised religion but this film seems to be in agreement with me. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Pretty darned silly","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I picked up this movie under the mistaken impression that it would be a suspenseful, even scary, thriller.  It was no where near this.  In fact, it often came across as silly and confusing throughout most of the picture.The acting was okay (Byrne and Pryce particularly)and the story came together at the end but at that point I ceased caring.It seemed mostly to be religious hocus pocus without much to it.  It also was just ridiculous - a more subtle approach would have been more believable for lack of a better word.A bit disappointing - my vote is a five. "},{"Title":"Flawed theology, fun movie","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  If the makers of Stigmata aren't confused about their theology, their theology certainly can be confusing. Absent close attention, a movie-goer might be confused over whether a stigmatic is possessed by the devil or the Holy Spirit. Actually, according to the movie, it's closer to both/and than either/or The closer one gets to God, the more vulnerable one gets to evil. But the Exorcist-like episodes of un-Holy terror (only the pea soup and spinning head are missing) are more memorable than those of St. Francis-like gentleness, so Stigmata itself has been rather roundly crucified at the hands of those critics and movie-goers who tend toward the hysterically historical. Not fair.A stigmatic is defined as someone experiencing the stigmata, which is to say the bleeding wounds of Jesus Christ at his crucifixion. The wounds appear at both wrists and both ankles, penetrated by the spikes that held Jesus to the cross; the back, deeply slashed by a whip; the forehead and scalp, punctured by a crown of thorns; and the side, pierced by a spear. History, as related by the movie, has never known anyone to experience the stigmata at all five sites.But Pittsburgh hairstylist-in-training Frankie Paige (Patricia Arquette) is well on her way to being the first. And things aren't looking good for the young lady Her attacks are cumulative, ugly, and getting uglier. Frankie, in fact, is convinced she will die -- as Christ is believed to have died -- should things progress to the spear stage.On board for the ride is Father Andrew Kiernan (Gabriel Byrne), a scientist/priest sent to Pittsburgh by the Vatican to investigate the matter. At first he's thoroughly skeptical; Frankie is an atheist, and stigmatics historically have been among the most devout of believers. Seeing is believing, though, and hearing is, too Frankie has spells of speaking in Aramaic, the language of Jesus. The good Father becomes quite fond of Frankie and, while managing to resist both the considerable temptations of her flesh and the mysterious protestations of his boss, he assumes the role of protector and seeker of the truth behind the affliction.It should come as no surprise in the current atmosphere of cynicism that the Roman Catholic Church was assigned the black hat in this story. Father Andrew's boss, Cardinal Daniel Houseman (Jonathon Pryce), is especially diabolical. But the level of official Catholic outrage that attended the release of Stigmata seems to be an overreaction. This is not a great horror movie, but it's a good horror movie, and, on the goosebumps scale, it has more than a few moments of being a really spooky horror movie.Patricia Arquette is remarkable in the role of 23-year-old Frankie, and it's a tough role to play, physically and emotionally. Somehow Arquette manages to rise above the many available stereotypes and deliver a truly three-dimensional, even believable, character. True, Frankie is a party girl -- a club-going, hard-drinking, sex-loving, body-piercing wild thing. But in Arquette's hands, she's somebody's daughter, too -- sweet, ingenuous, witty, conscientious, and scared as bloody hell. We can't fault her for being born Gen-Y.Neither should we fault the filmmakers for putting story above theological accuracy. This is, after all, a horror movie, not a documentary. And, in the case of stigmata, being theologically accurate would have required little less in the willing-suspension-of-disbelief department. Tom Lazarus and Rick Ramage took a story by Lazarus (no kidding; that's his name) and delivered a screenplay with a new, off-beat twist to an old premise. Director Rupert Wainwright deserves considerable credit for simply letting Arquette do her thing, but he did more than that. Under his direction, Arquette's work is nicely supported by those around her, especially by Pryce, who helps set new standards for clerical sleaze. Despite a few cutaways that fail to deliver on whatever it is Wainwright wants them to deliver, his film is fast-paced, with special effects that are imaginative and scary without being overdone.Despite the inevitable comparisons, Stigmata is no Exorcist -- not even close -- but it doesn't have to be in order to be good for some scary fun. Those offended by stereotypical and broad-brush bashing of the Catholic Church probably shouldn't chance it. But those able to put aside theology texts and suspend disbelief for a couple of hours may find themselves pleasantly and creepily entertained.         "},{"Title":"Something weird!!!!","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I rented Stigmata not too long ago, and discovered that in the scene where the train is going crazy, and Patricia Arquette is being whipped, you sometimes see the outside of the train, only to discover that it is the train that Woody Harrelson stole in Money Train. I recognized this because of the pole sticking out of the window, that was put there to put the train in reverse so that it would´nt run the train ahead of it off the tracks! Has anyone else seen this? Other than that, the movie was a scary experience, good script and all that, but the movie could have been better. Ove........ "},{"Title":"Nearly great, but just falls short.","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is a film with a lot going for it that just about fails to really impress.Patricia Arquette is reasonable and is certainly a sympathetic heroine. Gabriel Byrne gives a good understated performance which fits the role perfectly.The direction, which I've seen described as MTV style camera work is okay, as it lets you know that we are in a very modern world here, providing a good contrast to the religious theme of the film.It borrows heavily from the exorcist in many important points (but there's not quite enough possessed-woman-with-funny-voice antics if you ask me), the 3rd world opening, the switch to modern day USA, and the possession scenes.There is however the extra dimension of the Vatican conspiracy and good old Jonathan Pryce being evil in a far more effective way than he is in the other film I've seen him in (Tomorrow Never Dies, in which he's terrible).This conspiracy angle, and the revelation of the 'Gospel according to Jesus' idea as a whole, is the basis for a brilliant film, unfortunately somewhere along the line someone decided it would be more interesting for the priest and the possessed woman to fall in love. This is concentrated on far too much and gets in the way of the interesting part, taking away from the drama of the film as a whole. "}{"Title":"Intriguing concept,disconcerting execution.","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsI expected the execution of Stigmata to be like it was adapted from a Dean Coontz novel.Instead,too much of it was in this not entirely inspiring modern day approach,involving fast camera visuals and loud,blatant rave music.It had a concept that would have probably worked out better as a novel,wherein perhaps the intriguing and rather disturbing subject matter could have been explored deeper into the reader's subconscious,and developed into greater detail.The real scary elements of the film all involve shock tactics and,in this case,special effects designed to shock and scare presumably.Patricia Arquette's,an actress we hav'nt seen a lot of in quite a while,charecter inspiredly started off as a not particularly likeable person,then developed into a more broader minded individual,and developed a pretty convincing relationship with Gabriel Byrne's priest.The direction,however sags,and the scenes involving Arquette talking like a man are an update of The Exorcist to the '90's.Stigmata is worth watching for it's good points,but it's let downs will also be noted if caught.***  "},{"Title":"Endless","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Well, to summarize the story Young Pittsburgian girl gets stigmata for unknown reason. That's it. No problem there. The whole thing is brought to you in a semi-horror type of setting. I.e. lot of flying around, strange winds inside and even a complete burnout without damage. Pretty spectacular, if you ask me.  However, unfortunately, the end of the movie is quite sudden and unexpected. That is, there's hardly an explanation for all what happened. That's a bit unsatisfactory.In other words, nice build up to a large climax that they forgot to tape. "},{"Title":"No, monks did NOT invent alcohol!!!","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Father Andrew (holding a beer) Did you know that monks invented alcohol?Frankie Everyone knows that!Actually, alcoholic beverages have been around hundreds and hundreds of years B.C.  The Egyptians? Try at least the Babylonians. It was most likely discovered when barley was left out in a vessel, got wet, then spontaneously mashed and fermented. Some believe the Babylonians used up to half their barley on beer. But now, thanks to this stupid movie, every high school and college kid who sees it is going to go around saying, Dude! Did you know monks invented alcohol? No really. I learned that in a movie.OK, what else about this film? Howzabout all style and very little substance? Some people commented it's like watching a music video. I agree.I also wondered how a hairdresser could afford that swell city apartment. Most hairdressers I know, at least the single ones, live in trailer parks or not much better.OK, maybe I'm getting a little too hyper-critical, but that beer thing really set me off. And by the way, some of the best beer in the world really is made my monks, particularly by those in Belgian monasteries. Try a Chimay some time. Brewed since 1664. Nothing quite like it. "},{"Title":"all right, Not bad to watch, good moral in the story....","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is hardly an horror movie, though some scenes are intense its not frieghtening.Its not the best of movies, but you can watch it. The story is is quite simple and not many twists....though the trailer is attractive....but does not really portray the film really.I especially liked the moral the story had in the end, and made me think in retrospect of how the whole world is....In the end I give it a 6.5 out of 10..... "},{"Title":"Stigmata? I hardly know 'er.","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I find it hard to believe that anyone would put this movie in the same context as the Exorcist. Where the Exorcist was subtle and creepy, Stigmata was blunt, clumsy, and way too formulaic.This is one of the most visually beautiful films I've seen in a while, but the imagery does not make up for the downward spiral of patronizing exposition that makes it unbearable. My interest in this movie was peaked when it was compared to The Exorcist, and my visit to the official web site increased that interest. The web site had many tales of actual stigmata throughout history. However, scene by scene, the movie is so obsessed by its quest for genuineness that it becomes comical at first, then outright hard to watch toward the end. I began getting suspicious when the priest charged with investigating potential miracles walks into the beauty parlor where our would-be heroine cuts hair and, evidently, flirts with priests.The plot A woman without faith in God begins receiving the wounds of Christ (the Stigmata) and is baffled and upset about the ordeal. A priest is sent straight from the Vatican to investigate the case. Is Frankie possessed by Satan, or a vessel for Jesus Christ?The only miracle in this film is that it finally ends. "},{"Title":"Surprised","Date":"4 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I saw this film in a sneak preview last night, and although I was secretly hoping to see Gladiator MI2 or Gone in 60 seconds, I was pleasantly surprised by Stigmata. Especially because the fake horror Scream 3 didn't manage to impress me recently. The film has plenty of scares and (thank God) laughs, the performances are decent and the direction was surprisingly well done ....................................8 "},{"Title":"Extremes in rating","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I'm always suprised on how different all people are and how for almost every movie you get both extremes. People who think it's the best movie and people who think it's the worst.Stigmata wouldn't be the worst movie I've ever seen, but it's up there.  First of all the sound. The producers spent more time on the soundtrack than the editing. It was so loud when the soundtrack was playing and no one was talking and then when Patrica was talking in her monotone voice, she could hardly be heard.I usually like Patrica and Gaberial, but they were both flat in this movie. Patrica had basically 3 emotions. Quiet, in great pain, or really angry she has stigmata. The first was the predominate one, the second involved screaming pain, the third involving raising her voice. It was loudness that distiguished the three and not emotion.Maybe I missed a lot of the deep meaning and subplots everyone was talking about, or maybe I was distracted by the terrible filming and MTV like style. When you watch a 3 minute video you need fast cuts and slow motion to convey a quick story, in a 2 hour feature film, it's nauseating.  I fail to see the meaning of her seeing that women across the steet and dropping a child. And no Pittsburg does not rain that often!!I think maybe a real story, with something to say could have been intended, but all the budget was spent on buying music and the equipment to do slow rain drop shots and renting that gorgous apartment that Ms. Arquett lived in that they ended up firing the guy with the story. "},{"Title":"I strongly suggest that you see this great film work.","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I recommend this film to everyone. Not only is it scary, but it has a great story line and great direction. Patricia Arquette's character development was outstanding. Gabriel Byrne's character development was also a 10. If this film does not win any awards, this film was then well overlooked.- Victoria, actress. "},{"Title":"See the DVD","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The theatrical release is OK, but a word to the wise see the DVD, which includes deleted scenes and an alternate ending.  It reveals more in the beginning, which helps to enlighten what follows.  The theatrical version leaves a few things up in the air, which can lead you to the wrong conclusions.  Also, the alternate ending is much more powerful and poignant.In reply to an earlier comment, the language of Jesus and his disciples WAS Aramaic, even though Hebrew was also used during that period. "},{"Title":"Very unusual","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I wasn't quite sure what to expect with this film.  I'd heard that it was like the exorcist, I didn't think that was a particularly accurate description.  Its hard to categorize a film like this, its sort of like a horror, has a few elements similar to a thriller- but its neither really.  I'm sure there are certain scenes in this film which would have caused an uproar from some sectors of the Catholic church- but that really is to be expected.  This film has a good feel to it, almost gothic like in some parts, combining what is ancient with what is relatively new. I found I had to concentrate so I wouldn't get lost with the sub plots in the film, that tie into the main plot at the films conclusion.  There was some good acting in this film, especially from Arquette and Byrne.  Some of the scenes involving the inflection of the Stigmata are quite graphic and fairly disturbing- with that in mind I would have to say this film is not for all tastes, but for some it will be worth while. "}{"Title":"Thought-provoking.","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Much more intelligent and thoughtful than most movies of this type. If you rent the movie and have the option of watching the director's cut, watch it first. The movie has a greater impact if you do. Gabriel Byrne and Patricia Arquette are terrific. It's refreshing to rent a movie that requires brain cells. "},{"Title":"The best Smashing Pumpkins video I've ever seen!","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata  the new fragrance by Calvin Klein.Yep, this movie was all about style.  The plot was pretty simple, but it sure looked good!  This isn't a particularly scary movie either.  You know what's going to happen through the whole thing about 10 minutes in.  On the up side, there is some nice, very real sounding dialogue.If you're watching this on DVD, watch the original ending.  It does a better job at closing the plotline. "},{"Title":"The end of the film left me feeling, so what now?","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The acting is great, the visual effects are fabulous.  But the story is uncertain of what it is trying to achieve.  The logic is twisted too.In summary, priest steals scroll that contains teachings of Jesus written in Jesus's own tongue, Aramaic - WRONG.  Jesus spoke Hebrew and all scrolls of that time where written in Hebrew.  He finds the teachings are contrary to the Church's teachings.  He dies and spirit comes back to manifest itself in an aethiest and causes stigmata in her.  Why? Seemingly to get the attention of the Vatican so the message can be seen by all.  Well, we don't know if that ever happens as the film ends much too soon.The also film shows the Vatican as ruthless politicians who will stop of nothing (including murder) to silence the messenger, but this plot line is secondary to what happens to the girl.Other problems - it rains too much in Pittsburg, we don't know why the scientist became a priest, we don't know what happened to the Vatican priest that committed attempted murder.This film would make a great first part of a trilogy. "},{"Title":"Much sound and fury, but insignificant","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Frankie (Patricia Arquette) works in a low-rent beauty salon. Somehow, she comes into possession of the rosary beads of a now-deceased priest who witnessed a statue suffering from stigmata - a condition in which the afflicted bleeds in the same locations as Christ did when he was crucified. It's not long before Frankie's suffering the same types of wounds, but unlike the statue, her wounds are real. What could be behind such strange activities? Is there skullduggery afoot?Gabriel Byrne plays a priest assigned by the Vatican to investigate claims of stigmata. Naturally, he's intrigued by Frankie's wounds and suspects they're real. Also naturally, he falls a little for Frankie. Hey, this is Hollywood, and this stuff happens! Don't ask me to explain why...This movie is big on special effects, big on loud music, big on pomp but small on circumstance. It's mostly style, with little substance. Makes you wonder what would have happened if the script had been adapted into an Indiana Jones movie - now THAT would have been intriguing! Byrne is his usual solid, stone-faced self, and Arquette is her usual one-note self as well. Don't look for deep meaning in this trifling. "},{"Title":"Truly disappointing piece of schlock...","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Well, I must admit that I am yet again disappointed by a film's utter lack of respect for the material that it is based on.  I don't care about historical accuracy in films, but if you are going to make a movie that indicts a religious institution as seriously as Stigmata attacks the Roman Catholic Church, then I think it only fair that you get the dogma and doctrine right.  I am a non-practicing Catholic (haven't been to church except for weddings in well over 10 years), and I have no problem with films that poke fun at the Church (I loved Dogma) or even films that seem to infer very bad things about the Church (I loved Godfather III), but if one is going to make a film that takes a relatively anti-Roman Catholic (the institution, not the people) position I think that they should understand what they are criticising.This film just makes stuff up and has no regard for how any of it works.  I don't mind if a film makes stuff up about Catholic practices (End of Days for example), but if the film is acting as an indictment of a religious institution then I think that they have a certain responsibility to understand what they are indicting.Well, to get off my soap-box, aside from the glaring innaccuracies and the kind unpleasant anti-Catholic inferences contained within this film, it just really wasn't very good.  I just kept thinking that this was about Jesus as Leatherface or something.  The film never makes any sense as a religious parable, as a political attack on Catholicism or even as entertainment.  I was especially disappointed with Gabriel Byrne's job, he seemed like he was phoning in his performance from a better movie.  Arquette was just Arquette;I don't really know what these people were thinking, but apparently they were not thinking much.  I would avoid this film at all costs, except maybe on video (there are some kind of cool special effects). "},{"Title":"Stigmata is not a horror movie.","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I just saw Stigmata tonight for the first time and greatly enjoyed it. I don't know why people compare it to the Exorcist. If you expect to see the Exorcist, you will not and simply because Stigmata is not a horror movie. It is neither a thriller nor an action. This is a very serious drama that raises some great questions and messages about religion.  "},{"Title":"unexciting Exorcist knockoff","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Devout Catholics may well cry blasphemy at Stigmata, a film that huffs and puffs and works itself into a hyperkinetic frenzy, yet fails to generate any real suspense or excitement.  Part of the reason is that the film relies far too heavily on plotting and imagery that echoes the infinitely more gripping and memorable The Exorcist.  Here, too, we have an innocent, religiously disinterested young girl who becomes the inexplicable victim of a strange spiritual upheaval - although, in this case, she is suffering the torments of stigmata rather than a straight demonic possession.  Also, as in The Exorcist, she is aided and abetted by a faith-wavering priest who is sent to investigate the phenomenon and who manages to reawaken his spirituality in the process.The film is most intriguing when it concentrates on the logistics the Catholic Church uses to investigate and generally debunk the many purported miracles and visions that occur with regularity the world over.  This aspect of the film, had it been moved to the foreground, might have made for a work of great interest.  Instead, we are subjected to a barrage of overblown sequences showing us in graphic detail the various stages of stigmata to which this young lady is subjected.  Patricia Arquette has a winning personality, but her character lacks the dimension necessary to rescue her from the bland stereotype of the innocent horror movie victim.  Gabriel Byrne's troubled priest likewise breaks no new ground as he treads the well-trod ground of countless such characters before him.The film is amazing in that it dares to take on the Catholic Church in such a blunt, no-holds-barred fashion, going so far as to accuse the Vatican of hiding the revelation of a new gospel, supposedly containing the actual words of Jesus written in his own hand.  This is pretty strong stuff, especially considering that most of the ecclesiastical authorities in this film are portrayed as shadowy, sinister figures bent on withholding the truth come hell, high water and even murder if necessary.  Unfortunately, when the message of Jesus is actually revealed, it is so overwhelmingly bland and trite that it makes much of the hullabaloo of the rest of the film seem even more pointless and excessive than it does throughout. Stigmata tries hard, but it just can't match the depth and grandeur of its potentially intriguing subject.  The prospect of a brand new gospel and the effect its discovery would have on the world and its religions deserves a more thoughtful treatment than it gets here. "},{"Title":"Kick a** movie.","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is kinda like The Devil's Advocate and The Seventh Sign thrown in a blender.  What do you get?  Now perhaps it does have a sense of predictabuility (sp?) in it, since it includes the Christian symbols of Jesus.  It also may be a retred storyline, but it has new twists and turns and that's what I like.  Kinda like movies about Vampires.  Or books about King Arthur.  They pretty much all kick arse.  Nobody could have done this movie except Gabriel Byrne.  He's one of two favourite actors at the moment (the other being Geoffery Rush).  I also love how they do the camera work in this movie.  Especially at the beginning.  I give this movie a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A typical ecclesiastical end-of-century paranoia","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is not what I expected at all. It is suppossed to be a thrilling story about the revelation of a new message from God and the reaction of the Church on Earth, but, in my opinion, it fails to thrill. The atmosphere created is lame and doesn't capture the spectator's full attention. The timing is wrong each one of the sequences last not long enough to give an accurate idea of what is happening. Maybe this is because they wanted to put too much in a short piece of film. Maybe if it was a longer movie, they could have developed it to its full potential. But, anyway, it has some other flaws. First of all, the mutual attraction between the priest and the girl is a clear commercial resource which wastes the nature of the story. At the end of the movie he says Stay with me when she's having her final attack, as if there were already a stable relation between the two of them. Besides, what happened with Frankie's original boyfriend?  No matter how far from her he might be, I bet in reality he would have paid her a visit in the hospital. And if he wasn't so close, what relevance did it have that they made love on the night before she received the rosary?  What did they show this sex scene for?   I think they showed it just for arousing the audience. The acting was disappointing. The main actors didn't reflect the normal reactions and emotions their characters would have. Frankie had a possession attack where she'd wrote an entire wall with a language she didn't know nor understand and when she woke up she was affected for a couple of minutes and then she went on with her normal life. If that really happened the girl would at least stayed motionless in a corner for a week or so. A rational, empirical priest who looks for explanations wouldn't go and calmly hold down a girl who is floating crucified in the air after she beat him speaking with a man's voice. He should, at least, have been shaky. But, well, that's a problem of the screenplay itself. And the plot is pathetic a foolish cardinal who tries to kill the girl choking her, his sidekick and two nuns!  Is that a plot or an assault?The rest speaks for itself. The movie isn't bad, but I think it's a spoiled good idea. "},{"Title":"Best Film of 99","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I found Stigmata to be the best film of 1999. I have always been fond of Patricia Arquette when I saw her in Nightmare on Elm Street 3 and True Romance. It was a new kind of role for her. Showing the darker side of religion. It is a must see for fans of her work or horror fans in general. "}{"Title":"What can I say, fantastic","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata is a fantastic movie, the plot is very original and full of adventure. I liked it very much and assure you that will like it too if you like horror films that have to do with religion. The very best thing about STIGMATA is that when you have seen it you feel like you are in a dilemma about your believes concerning your religion... "},{"Title":"Excellent story line with interesting camera work","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  STIGMATA I thought was very well written and directored. The camera work was shot very very well and gave the movie are real meaning and insight. The acting was very good by Patricia Arquette and Gabriel Bryne. They really shined together well. I enjoyed this movie a lot! VERY GOOD! "},{"Title":"thought provoking","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Looking at the vote history, i am either a female under 18, or a member of the IMDb staff (both are wrong.) I gave this film an 8. A lot of people compare this to the exorcist, but to do this is to miss the point. It has nothing to do with the devil, even though the trailers for the film lead you to think that. It is about the fight to get ones message to the people. I think the acting is very good. I loved it. Go and see it. It is visually very good. "},{"Title":"Bloody Terrible","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stigmata ranks as one of the poorest examples of religious horror I've ever seen. The Jesus' gospel angle is interesting but not well formulated. Patricia Arquette's acting is sub-par. I felt completely disconnected from her character. Actually, I ended up disliking her through most of the film. A better movie in this genre is The Exorcist or Agnes of God "},{"Title":"A bad copy of 'The Exorcist'","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  You know when they're stuck for ideas when they copy other movies. This is an insulting copy. Patricia Arquette is a wonderful actress but needs to choose better roles. Her role in A Nightmare on elm street 3  Dream Warriors beats this movie with flying colors.  Skip it. Save your money. "},{"Title":"A hateful film claiming to representing God.","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I pray to you Lord, that not one of the viewers of this film, allow it to preach to them your assumed words. To have been a Pro-Christian film, it surely did not feel like one. This film is evil and ungodly. I did not feel Christ love in this film, but rather I felt a deep rooted hate of Catholicism and spiritual responsibility. Dear Tom and Rick, you yourselves should read the words of Jesus Christ and honestly show it in your films. Any true Christian already knows that the temples we build for worship and congregation are not the `Church of God,' but the billions of followers around the globe make up Christ's `Church'. The `Church' that he is returning for.Tom Lazarus and Rick Ramage's Stigmata, should ONLY inspire viewers to seek the words of Christ entirely, not a few words. To all who have see this film please get a Bible and read Christ words for yourself.May God bless you and keep you, In Jesus Name, Amen. W.Quick Jr. "},{"Title":"Boring, pretentious, ignorant, and just plain bad","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I am a Catholic, although I am by no means dogmatic about it. I feel that  I am pretty open -minded when it comes to questioning the precepts and the official positions that the leaders of the Catholic Church state as law. In fact, I have felt that some events (such as the Reformation and Vatican II) that the more conservative elements of the church considered heresy were the best thing to happen to an institution that had  become sedate, rich, and fat. A little heresy is good for the soul. So when I heard about the new film Stigmata and the uproar it was causing among certain elements in the Church, I figured it was just more of the same reactionary loudmouth that tried to get Scorcese's Last Temptation of Christ without even seeing the movie. So I went to Stigmata expecting more ado about absolutely nothing.  I can now see that the morons had a point on this one. I found the movie to be a pretty ignorant stab at the Church. I wasn't offended, just amazed at the brainlessness of the whole thing. The story concerns Pittsburgh hairdresser Frankie Page (Patricia Arquette) and her perils after receiving a Rosary from a dead priest from Brazil.It seems Frankie is experiencing Stigmata a phenomenon in which a person suffers wounds similar to Christ's wounds when he was crucified. Catholic Theology believes that Stigmata is reserved only to holiest of people. So when the the Vatican gets wind of Frankie's troubles, they send a priest (Gabriel Byrne) to investigate.  So far, so good. But then the whole film completely collapses under it's own pretentiousness. Instead of a fairly entertaining Exorcist-style thriller, The filmakers  decided to make a feature-length anti-catholic diatribe. The blatantly false propaganda in this flick would warm the heart of every Kluxer and Orange Orderman in the world. It seems the nefarious Vatican had been supressing an Aramaic Gospel that supposedly would shake the idea of organized religion to it's very foundations, and an evil Cardinal (Johnathon Pryce, pretty much playing the same guy he played in Tomorrow Never Dies) will stop at nothing to keep this Gospel from the suppressed Catholic masses. Including killing Frankie Page, who was chosen to spread the word of this Gospel. This wouldn't be so bad if their theology wasn't so faulty. The Gospel in question is the apochryphal Gospel of St.Thomas which was found around the same time of the Dead Sea Scrolls in Nag Hammadi. Unfortunately for the filmakers, this Gospel was not the oldest written (Mark still holds that honor) nor was it written in Aramaic (it was written in Greek, like all the other Gospels) nor was it suppressed.It simply is a collection of Jesus's sayings, most of which were found in Mark. There is nothing shocking or revolutionary about it. The writer just assumed that the Nag Hammadi gospels were obscure enough to use Thomas to sound legitimate when he was spewing his propaganda. It's an insult to my intelligence to be jerked around like that. Some of us know better. The idiot producers damn well should have known better. In addition to the bad Theology and History, Stigmata is simply a bad movie. The director obviously went to the Micheal Bay film school. Glossy images, loud noises, and cuts so fast that they give you vertigo. It makes Armegeddon look like a model of linear storytelling. I got a headache just watching it. It is said that the holier a person is, the more he suffers on earth. Well, I must be a freaking saint by now because watching Stigmata was suffering the torments of the damned.  "},{"Title":"Was it just me, or was this extremely boring?","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Two days ago two of my friends were excited because we were going to see a scary movie like the exorcist. We psyched ourselves up for this event and we went to the theater. We sat down and the movie began, still streaming with anticipation, we sat and sat and sat as this really slow movie was unrolling before us. Half way through the movie one of my friends leaned over to me and said When is it going to get scary? I shrugged. Three quarters through the other friend leaned over and said This is very boring! What a waste of money! And you know what? I think he was right. I can't per say what was exactly wrong with Stigmata. The story in general was intriguing, the cast did a good job playing their parts, it was just....very boring. I mean I love a good Thinking Man's Movie just as much as the next person, but I mean there is a line between intelligence and boredom. I can't say this movie was a bomb like the Haunting was, cause it wasn't super hyped up only to disappoint. My final statement about this movie is go see it for yourself, you'll know what I mean.  "},{"Title":"They could have done better, but this stinks","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A poorly made attempt to discredit the Catholic church. I am not Catholic, but this movie stinks. It appears that no research was done prior to making this movie. The camera effects attempt to distract the viewer from the actual content. It is disjointed, poorly made and way too long. Most of the special effects are amateurish. I expected much more than this move delivers. Do not waste your time or money on this farce.  "},{"Title":"Just confusing!","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The movie was just confusing! Some part were not really necessary, other ressemble way to much like the exorcist, and there is not really anything to scare you in it (my girlfriend was sleeping on my shoulders)! The movie is always on the same level of intensity.My rating, a 4 on 10! "}{"Title":"I felt like i was the one getting crucified!!","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Where do I start with this one...there's so many bad things.... let's just start with saying this movie is just plain horrible!  I saw an employee screening at MGM and even the the employees were talking smack about the film.Everything this film showed me was lame.  The story (or lack there of) was ridiculous and went nowhere (who was the Antagonist).  The music was loud and obnoxious (i love Billy Corrigan-but not in this flick).  The cinematography was ugly (they used the same bleaching process Kaminski used in Saving Private Ryan- WHY??!!)  The special FX at the end reminded me of the kind last seen in SPAWN (Trey Parker and Matt Stone could have done better).Don't get me wrong, I wanted to love this film.  It dealt with a good story premise, and Gabriel Bryne does a good job.  But it goes nowhere.  The ending is so unoriginal, so drab, and so LAME!!The only thing going for this film is it will offend Christians everywhere.  So much that I'm sure they'll condemn the film makers, MGM, the actors, everyone.  This will no doubt lead to more business for the film, which is unfortunate.  If they keep their mouths shut, this film will die in the first weekend, but unlike one of the stars of the film, it will not rise in 3 days.  Not even video/dvd will resurrect this atrocious piece of sh_t! "},{"Title":"Very Dated for a 90s Movie, Ridicoulous Story","Date":"3 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Usually I don't do reviews of bad movies but when I originally saw Stigmata on DVD in the late 90s I actually thought it was pretty good. Now as I re-watch it over 10 years later I can definitely say, What the hell was I thinking? It feels dated, overly stylized and just plain bad all around.Taking place in the water logged city of Pittsburg, where it is constantly raining and dreary. Patricia Arquette plays Frankie Paige a hair stylist who becomes afflicted with the stigmata, or the wounds of Christ, after receiving a rosary from her mother as a gift. The rosary belonged to a recently deceased South American priest whose church recently had their statue of the Virgin Mary bleed. Frankie is an atheist and the stigmata usually only appears to extremely devout Catholics. The wounds of the stigmata cannot be transferred through physical items. Its also has nothing to with demonic possession, actually quite the opposite. We then meet Father Andrew Kiernan, a Vatican investigator of miracles. He is sent to meet with Frankie and we learn that she is 23 years old, yeah sure you are and I am Abraham Lincoln. They talk and she tries to seduce him, and he refuses for the most part. Later on she seems to be possessed by some evil spirit and writes all over her apartment walls. This is supposedly is a lost gospel of the Bible written by Jesus himself. It tries to be scary and horrific but epically fails.This train wreck was directed by Rufus Wainwright and like a lot of movies in the 90s it suffers from over stylization (AKA The Tarantino Effect). Style over substance and style just for the sake of trying to be cool. It pays no attention to factual accuracy and just kind of creates it own thing on the fly. The musical score sound like something out of the 80s and not in a good nostalgic way. The entire look and feel of the film feels pretty dated and it wasn't even made that long ago. This is definitely a view at your own risk movie. "},{"Title":"Having the faith or not!","Date":"4 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Regardless of if u fall under the category of you having faith or not, this movie will captivate you, we have all wondered at some point, if there is actually something else out there other than aliens or just ourselves, we where all so to speak, generally, brought up believing in the fact that God and his Son exists. Myself, personally never actually committing to this idea, but always wondering if there is a higher power, and if so could it actually be real and would it ever affect little old me, well, this is the movie to start u thinking, God never came into my life, so why should i believe he existed, the church claim only the worthy should manifest such claims as visits, stigmata, or blessings etc, what if,,,,, it actually happened to you, or your family/friends! would you then be a believer? and if so, would u then decide you had to attend a church to praise him? This movie opens and closes all chapters, and leaves u wanting more? You don't have to be religious to get this movie, you do have to have a mild understanding of whats its all about though, and if, like me, you tread the path of the unknown, this movie may yet make you wonder, there may actually be more to this whole game that i call life than i think, i still ain't a believer, well not in the church nor its foundations, but i now believe that i'm not alone with my thoughts. This is one of my all time favourite movies though. A must watch movie, again and again! "},{"Title":"asdfja;sdfjasjdf;lajsd;lfja","Date":"18 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" What film has the least to do with Christianity--1 Porky's, 2 Betty's Guide to Thai Cooking, or 3 Stigmata? 3. What has the least to do with reality on the planet Earth? 3. Do Roman Catholics actually believe in this stuff? I assure you that no non-Catholic does.I believe in the power of prayer, and this flick did deliver the laughs I was hoping for but, wow, this thing was incredibly poorly plotted & scripted. I can see how some could wish to try to turn Christianity into a horror movie but any Bugs Bunny cartoon has more in common with Christianity or simply with sense than this thing.After each TV commercial break was very short, it eventually occurred to me that that was due to almost no firms being willing to sponsor this. Thanks for that bonus laugh. "},{"Title":"Many lessons in this religious film","Date":"23 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This film is a great introduction to religion on quite a few things. I highly recommend everyone to see it.1) Religion is about fear of death. The last spoken line in Stigmata promises everlasting life for believers - exactly the same as the most translated passage of the Christian Bible.2) Religion = violence. Ever wonder why virtually every popular, religious film is brutally violent? Ever wonder why most wars around the war involve different religious groups on each side?3) Religion lies about its critics. Lilacs and roses didn't just spring up out of nothing. It took billions of years for life to evolve from basically self-replicating chemical compounds to flowers. The scientific priest in the film completely misrepresents evolution and science.4) Religions lies about itself. There's no scientific investigative branch in the Vatican, or any other church for that matter. There's no scientifically satisfying explanations for incidents of stigmata because there are scientifically demonstrated cases of stigmata. When the Vatican looks into supposed miracles, such as the woman that supposedly was cured of sickness that didn't respond to medication, they ignore evidence, such as the doctors that insist she had a simple illness and was treated with drugs, or her husband who later corroborated the doctors' account.Curiosly, the film talks about videotaped stigmata on a subway with nearly two dozen witnesses. It's not a coincidence that no real-life miracles happen that way?4) Religion denigrates those who do not follow its teachings. Why must an atheist be so stereotypically a drug-using hedonistic party-goer? Sure, it doesn't really say it's wrong to smoke, or drink, or club, but all that combined is nothing but a stereotype that cannot help but be negative. Frankly a visit to a secularist group will shatter it in a second, but of course, religion is about belief despite the evidence.5) Religion kills. Exorcism is still promoted by the Church and practiced by people around the world. American children have been killed but due to our religious population, most culprits are not even punished. It's not just limited to a defender of the Vatican Church. "},{"Title":"Poorly done film.","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" While watching this movie I kept waiting for things to finally start of. It takes way to long for the movie to build up things. The movie is basically one big mysterious one, in which some odd things happen and when things finally get explained at the end, the movie still leaves more than a couple of unanswered questions and quite frankly, some things just don't make sense.The movie could had become an interesting one, regarding religion and a scientific open approach about it but the movie doesn't really offer any material to think or debate about. It's as if the movie can't decide what angle to pick. Does it want to create a religious movie? Or does it want to create a deep going philosophical one, featuring arguments and hard facts. The end result now is something messy. It features realism as well as overblown movie moments, which doesn't really makes this a well balanced one. This movie basically is a poor man's The Da Vinci Code. It makes this a very pointless movie to watch.Not much wrong with its style though. The movie is visually good looking, which still makes the movie somewhat pleasant to watch.It's mostly the story that makes this a silly one to watch. Once you start thinking about it, a lot of things in the movie just don't make sense. Why are some of these things occurring? And why are they happening in the way they are? The movie doesn't go to a lot of trouble to try and explain any of it. On top of that, the movie is also mostly predictable, in the way it progresses and it also isn't afraid to 'borrow' from other films. The movie still has a pretty good cast with Patricia Arquette, Gabriel Byrne and Jonathan Pryce. So nothing wrong with the casting in this one. Everyon fits their roles well and especially Gabriel Byrne was good.Had potential but it gets ruined by its silly story.4/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Stigmata..my views","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I was raised Catholic, and The Stigmata was not something discussed in Sunday School. So when I saw this movie I was quite shocked to learn about this 'phenomenon'. After seeing the movie however I was completely taken by the subject. I like the way the movie portrays an Athiest receiving the wounds of the dying Christ, as the only recorded Stigmatics are religious believers. I thought it had a very interesting plot line which kept my attention easily. Frankie's continuing disbelief after receiving the first two wounds was questionable though, as for me it would have only take one to convince me. Also I did not like the relationship between Frankie and Andrew, as it made Priests look bad. Then again the movie wouldn't have been quite as good with out that tension, I suppose, between Frankie and Andrew. This is one of the best movies I have seen in a while. "},{"Title":"philosophy of religion","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is an amazing movie in a sense that it defines religion in its true sense.Specially the emphasis is on the fact that God is within a person instead of being contained in a building or a church.The actingof Gabriel Byrne and Patricia Arquette is quite superb.Some of the sequences are really breathtaking like the scene where Arquette (Ms Page)clings in the air.9/10 in my ratings. "},{"Title":"Stigmata is a very well done movie","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  And that's because the acting and the storyline in the movie make up for the second rate editing by the producers.Patricia Arquette does a good job in this movie. Better than the other ones. Little Nicky was a piece of crap. Only because Patricia sucked. In this movie however, she shines as the messenger for a dead stigmatic priest called Father Alameida.Gabriel Byrne again delivers with one of his best performances to date. He is the best character in the film, playing the hero priest trying to help the victim.Johnathan Pryce was quite good in this movie too.The movie can't beat The Exorcist but it does stand up for itself.Great Stuff. 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Challenges the System","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  And by the system I mean the church and organised religion as a whole. This movie is worth it (and don't take this wrong the entire movie is great) for the words at the end Look not for me in buildings of brick or stone, split a log of wood and you will find me, lift a stone and I am there...the words of the gospel that are declared by the church to be heresy. This movie makes you question your beliefs, in a good way, it even made me question mine, and I am not Christian or Catholic. Truly a great movie, but not for the faint of heart. "}{"Title":"Perfect Thriller","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This Film is a Perfect Thriller. Some of the Moments made me Feel as if My Skin could just Fly right off my Bones because it Had such a Special Touch. It is Remarkable that, In My a Opinion, A Classic Film, could be made so Recently. It is a Masterpiece. Recommended for Everyone. 10 out of 10. Also Recommended The Exorcist "},{"Title":"Absolutely brilliant plot and wonderful acting!","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is a brilliant film! The plot is very clever and is thought provoking, both concerning history, church and belief. The acting is so extremely good - Byrne continues to deliver great and competent performances, but unlike End of Days, where he was the one who carried the plot and the story, it is Arquette who grabs the laurels here. A stunning film!  "},{"Title":"Mysterious","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I loved the film.  For one thing, it gave the non-Catholic public information on what the Stigmata actually is.  I loved the fact, too, that it's a contemporary story and not some 'holier than thou' one.Also, thought it was sensitive the way it portrays the main female character gradually becoming more gentle (more like a Saint; aware of the beauty all around us; in the flight of a bird, in the colors and smells of flowers)-----which underlines the message of the film  God is all around us....God in us, not in buildings of stone.... "},{"Title":"Astonishing","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A little slow in the beginning, but towards the end reveals its secrets. The entire film centers, and wants to transmit something from two of the many missing books that the Vatican hasn't incorporated (why?) into the Bible the Dead Sea scrolls discovered in 1947 in Qumran and the lost Gospel of Thomas discovered in 1945 in Nad Hamadi.The film, following the tracks of these forbidden and banished, but nevertheless actual books wants to deliver a simple message, a message many people have been trying to deliver through history, a message that would shake the already-rotten foundations of the Church There is noone between God, the all-permeating force, that force that keeps everything together, and you. Absolutely noone, and nothing. You don't need the priests, their suits, you do not need the temples, you do not need the cross symbol, you don't need the Church. This is all major B.S., it is a form of government, established in order to limit you. There's absolutely nothing between the force, God, and you. "},{"Title":"Best horror film of the year","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I thought this film was a horror film, but it also combined the church in the matter, which makes a film even scarier (if you don't believe me, watch the exorcist).  Even if some consider this a comedy (from a theoligist point of view), it is still a hardcore horror film with blood and stuff.  Patricia Arquette is great as the un-knowing person who winds up with the wounds of the stigmata (even though she doesn't go to church) and Gabriel Bryne is convincing as the priest who is investigating her problems.  Great look into christianity and some crazy man talking scenes from Arquette make this a must see for horror fanatics.  By the way, like some other films, the DVD is better than the VHS version.  A+ "},{"Title":"Amazing!!!!!!!","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This film was even better than I had expected. It was one of the best films I have ever seen.It had a little bit of everything. Romance, Action, horror,sci-fi, and comedy. GREAT acting! Terrific special effects. Just a great film. I can't stop watching it and I'm glad the director stuck with the ending that he did because on the dvd they show another ending which i personally think isn't as good as the one they chose. So i think it was a good choice . I would suggest this film to anyone. I love this film.Very well done.Everyone was perfect. "},{"Title":"A must see!","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  If you question the church and or God then this movie is right up your alley.My family and I had to pause several times to discuss what we were watching.A very intense movie with great casting.I found the actors to be very believable in their roles.I enjoyed this movie tremendously and it left me wanting more. "},{"Title":"kill the messenger and spare the audience","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I am a kind person, so I gave this movie a 2 instead of a 1. It was without a doubt the worst movie that I've seen in a long time.  There was very little plot and the deeper interesting areas that were touched upon i.e. what Jesus may really have wanted us to know, were glossed over and instead we were given heavy visual doses of sadistic punishment inflicted upon our heroine (Arquette).  Total crucifixion in the first 15 minutes would have been more humane to both her character and the audience. The acting was barely there and the direction was uninspired.  And, if I saw one more drip of water or dove flying toward the camera, I may have started screaming louder than Patricia. "},{"Title":"Interesting, yet far too messy to be called `great'","Date":"26 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I'm wondering why it took me so long to finally see Stigmata! It already is 5 years old, it has a religious theme (which I like in horror) and it stars my own personal True Romance goddess; Patricia Arquette! First establishment regarding the year of Stigmata's release, I'm already glad not having to review another teen slasher movie with screaming girls and killers wearing stupid masks. Stigmata is slightly superior compared to all the meaningless, forgettable horror from the same decade, yet it lacks quite a lot necessary aspects to be called `great' or even `good' at times. Stigmata stands for the wounds Christ suffered from when crucified. Deeply religious people sometimes go through this same hell. In this film, however, it overcomes a young Atheist woman played by Arquette. The skeptical priest/scientist Gabriel Byrne is sent to her by the Vatican to investigate. He discovers that the girl is a messenger for a recently deceased priest who found an entire new Gospel that threatens everything the Catholic Church stands for. There are about as many positive aspects in Stigmata as there are negative ones&#133; First and foremost, it confuses Stigmata with `possession' which more or less ruins the entire premise. `Stigmata' isn't from the same caliber as `The Exorcist' or `The Omen' but sometimes it pretends to be. Although director Wainewright clearly has the promising style-ideas, he lacks some talent and is a bit overenthusiastic in in setting his deep religious theme in an atheist surrounding. The Gothic Metal soundtrack doesn't really fit, and that's just one example. ***MAJOR SPOILER HERE*** The biggest annoyance - and so predictable - was the twist that Father Byrne falls for the charms of Patricia Arquette and (religiously spoken) turns his back to God again. What is with cinema and religion? It looks like they portray it like some sort of disease from which the priest needs to be cured. ***END SPOILERS***  But, let's not be entirely negative&#133; As stated before `Stigmata' had potential and some parts are downright suspenseful and ingenious. Like the whole opening sequence (including the credits) that take place in a deep-religious little village in Brazil. The atmosphere in the church is rather tense and you can clearly see the villagers are convinced God has contacted them. And it has good acting! Patricia Arquette is still gorgeous enough to pass for a 23-year-old party-girl (she actually was 31 around the time this film was shot) and she portrays a stunning martyr at times. Gabriel Byrne is brilliant as usual and probably the only actor in America who's able to play a priest and Satan himself in one year (End of Days), without losing his credibility. Both films are too weak compared to his flawless acting talent, by the way. Stigmata is an ideal film to rate 5 or 6 out of 10. It's in fact nothing groundbreaking or extraordinary, but not entirely redundant, neither.    "},{"Title":"Give it a chance","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Acting, cinematography, and score are completely irrelevant within this movie.  The easily identified plot and lesson to be learned are far more important.  I myself am far from Christianity especially Catholicism and this movie sort of reinforced that feeling.  All I can ask a viewer is to think critical and play devils advocate (no pun intended) with your beliefs after watching this movie.  I am a simple man and all I need a movie to do is to make me think...this movie made me write this and that is far more than most movies.  Please give this movie a chance and don't read too much about it before viewing. ThanksMike0/0 this movie isn't worth rating but worth viewing. "}{"Title":"Flashy nonsense","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Father Kiernan is a scientist and a priest who is sent to investigate sightings of Jesus' image etc.  When at one such case he comes across a suspected genuine case of stigmata from a statue at the funeral of a dead pries but is suppressed by the Vatican.  When the rosary beads from the priest are sold to tourist who gives them to her daughter (Frankie Paige), the stigmata return and Frankie finds herself afflicted despite her lack of belief in God.  Kiernan investigates and put himself on the line when he suspects that she may also be possessed by someone who is speaking the words of the lost gospel of Jesus.Despite hearing lots of bad reviews for this film I decided to give it a go anyway.  I'm not a big gore fan but I do like an intelligent horror film now and again.  Sadly this started out with a bit of mystery and promise but deserted it in search of Excorist-style goings-on.  The plot is full of holes that bothered me &#150; for example it is never satisfactorily explained why Frankie started getting the stigmata in the first place &#150; there is a vague reason but not a strong one.  Instead the film focuses on style over substance and it is pretty slick as a result &#150; however this is not enough for me.The film is very short and never really gripped me &#150; there were a few visions that were a little creepy but overall the gore and supposed horror didn't really deliver for me.  The lack of coherent plot is probably the main cause of this as I never knew where the film was going, the whole `gospel of Jesus' thing just seemed thrown in out of nowhere in an attempt to give the film some way of ending, but again it was muddled.The cast are good on paper but not quite as good onscreen.  Arquette is not a great actress but she does better than I expected here (having seen her miscast so often).  Her role doesn't call for much in the way of characterisation but she's good at that!  Byrne is the coolest priest on the face of the earth and his easy cool keeps the film going at times, no matter how unlikely he is in the role.  Pryce is a waste but worse than that is the pointless addition of Nia Long.  I can only assume Long's part was meant to be fuller else why would she do a role that could have been played by an extra?  I really like her and was let down by her choice here.Overall this is too flashy for it's own good and the focus is clearly on the MTV direction rather than the plotting and characters.  It isn't a bad film but it is an unmemorable one that didn't impress me in any way.  What good ideas and intentions it started with were lost somewhere along the way and it didn't really go anywhere or do anything that grabbed me or kept me alert. "},{"Title":"The more you watch the worse it gets","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is a totally unrealistic movie which gets progressively more bizzare throughout the film.While non-religious people can certainly have supernatural manifestations, this makes a mockery of all legitimate documented cases of the supernatural.The idea of one priest seeing a girl privately is not appropriate in this era, as his case would lose credibility.While the idea of corruption in the church is not new, the attempted murder of the stigmata victim is clearly beyond belief.Special effects were tacky and acting was mediocre at best. "},{"Title":"Ignore the Reviews","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  So sue me.....while I normally ignore reviews in deciding to see a movie, a review for this movie was so scathing I thought it must be awful.Big surprise I really enjoyed it. I loved the message it gave. While it had scenes similar to The Exorcist, I think any movie that depicts the subject is going to be compared.I thought Patricia Arquette and Gabriel Byrne did a good job (doesn't hurt that I LOVE Garbiel Byrne).  Bottom line, for me, was the message of the movie.Forget the reviews, I think they were totally, totally off-the-mark and unfounded. "},{"Title":"Short Attention Span Theater","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is the worst movie I've seen since Meet Joe Black.  It is painfully obvious that the director has previously worked primarily on music videos and commercials.  The camera work and effects are overly glossy and appear tailor made for a music video.  The movie is full of blood and gore, silly slo-mo effects, and does it ever stop raining in Pittsburgh?  Not according to this movie.  As for the plot...it never works you up to an edge of your seat feeling, and the character development is almost non-existent.  Skip this movie and save yourself the $7.50. "},{"Title":"Brilliant it will scare the hell into you.","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This film is brilliant. Stigmata for me always made me believe in god a bit more. Frankie paige (Patricia arquette) Has no faith in god whatsoever. Until one evening she recieves the first wound of the stigmata. The stigmata are the wounds of the crucified christ. I must admit it was one of the most disturbing films I had seen since scream. Especially the vision when Frankie sees the baby thrown in the road. The film also stars Gabriel Byrne-a catholic preist who is sent from the vatican to investigate Frankies wounds. Stigmata is based on one gospel (the gospel of S.T thomas). A priest named almeida stole the gospel and continued to translate it. Cardinal houseman (johnathan pryce) does not want the gospel to go out because it might destroy the modern church. Stigmata is a fun horror feast for everyone. But at the end of the day it is based on peoples faith. The film was cleverly direted by Rupert wainwright. Patricia is ace. Her perfomance was pheonominal. Watch it!!!!!!!!!!10 out of tenSleepyluke  "},{"Title":"Very under-rated","Date":"1 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Watching it again, and walked the dog at a break. Had a thought and came back in to continue and check IMDb. Stunned by Matt's (Canada) comment that if you thought this had merit, you'd like Dogma too. Yeah, same thought.It's a great cast. Gabriel & Patricia are excellent; but watch the supporting actors. Jonathan Pryce is always good, and Rade Serbedzija (had to paste that!) is atmospheric.Stigmata and Dogma have the same underlying thought that religion may not be as organized as believers think, which is good; just that Stigmata stays to to a more traditional format - nods to the Exorcist, etc.. Come on - Alanis Morisette as God!.One of the films I'll watch again & again, though.Happy watching. "},{"Title":"Is there a fifth Gospel?","Date":"15 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Politics and religion they say should not mix for obvious reasons and this film gives us another reason- there is enough politics in Rome to keep them busy. I was aware of cover ups in the church, as there appears to be in most societies, but this film for me shows that an organization as respectable as the Catholic Church can go to such lengths to protect its interests.Stigmata is a gift for holy good living people so when a non believing but good living woman starts to get stigmata after receiving a gift of a rosary from her mother it signals the beginning of a roller-coaster journey that brings her into contact with a priest who is struggling to marry his two ideals of science and religion. As they journey through this path of self discovery they both grow in their awareness of a greater existence but of the need of the organization to suppress any discovery even to the point of breaking state law and Gods law. This is a film I've enjoyed and would watch again. "},{"Title":"Flawed supernatural thriller has some visual style with an fine performance by Arquette that keeps the movie together.","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" When a priest finds a buried secret and decide to commit suicide in South America. An Atheist Pittsburgh hair dresser (Patricia Arquette) receives rosary beads in the mail that were stolen from the dead priest. She experiences seizures and bloody wounds associated with the crucifixion of Jesus. A Priest/Scientist (Gabriel Byrne) investigates, while a Cardinal (Jonathan Pryce) emphasizes public relation spin over the truth.Directed by Rupert Wainwright (Blank Check, The Fog-2005) made an entertaining, stylish supernatural thriller. Which this film plays at time like an Big Budget MTV long music video. It is the good performances by Arquette and Byrne keeps your interest.DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer and an strong-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD has an running commentary track by the director, deleted scenes, alternative ending, music video and the original theatrical trailer. The DVD best opinion, you choose to watch the original theatrical ending or the film's new conclusion. Terrific Cinematography by Jeffery L. Kimball (Jacob's Ladder, True Romance, Wild Things) are one of the few highlights of this flawed movie. Only Wainwright close-ups of objects is annoying at times. Super 35. (*** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"It's about an atheist woman who becomes afflicted with the wounds of Christ, and the priest/ scientist who helps her.","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie is very thought provoking. As the movie advocates, the Church is not needed for one to find God. The Catholic Church--like TV evangelists--has seeming went away from the humble teachings of Jesus. Religion has turned into politics, self glorification, and the quest for wealth (to build grand churches.) Didn't Jesus say something about it being easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle than a rich man to get into Heaven? The Church fears that the stigmatic is threatening organized religion by writing text from an unnamed gospel of Christ in his own handwriting. This movie points out that organized religion is concerned more with sustaining itself as it is now than as Jesus taught. The movie also highlights the struggle that priests have with celibacy, as they are still human and tempt-able. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good!","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This film was on TV last week, but I forgot about. Lukcily we had a copy at Blockbuster, so I rented it. I sort of put off watching it because I wasn't expecting it to be very good, but I finally watched it last night, and was very surprised.I don't normally like so called scary films, because a lot of the time they're trying to gross you out and not really frighten you (okay some are supposed to frighten you), and this film spooked me and made me jump on several occassions.I really liked the way it was filmed, the shots of Christ getting crusified when Frankie was being attack were quite disturbing. The acting was quite good as well, which is usually the exception in scary films.I also liked that there were no real bad guys in the film, sure you could say that Jonathan Pyrce's character was a bad one, but it's clear that's what the character is doing is what he believes to be right. Kudos to Jonathan Pyrce.Overall a rather good film "}{"Title":"Miracle or religious mystery?","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Gabriel Byrne plays Father Andrew Kiernan, a priest who travels the world for the Vatican to debunk claims of religious phenomenon. A young hair dresser (Patricia Arquette) proclaiming to be an atheist, begins exhibiting the wounds of Christ.This is a mind provoking drama complete with intense language and violence with moderate sexuality. Forget trying to unscramble the Christian mythology.The movie is held together with a kinetic, sometimes robotic, but ambient soundtrack. Smashing Pumpkin's Billy Corgan directs the score and with the help of Mike Garson creates melodic incidental music. Also featured in the soundtrack are Natalie Imbruglia, David Bowie and Sinead O'Connor. "},{"Title":"Scriptures and Stigmata","Date":"4 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I enjoyed this movie very much. It is a blessing to see this movie as some of the events in the movie tell us of scriptures without naming the scriptures. John 19.34 But one of the soldiers with a spear pierced his side, and forthwith came there out blood and water. Mark 1517 And they clothed him with purple, and platted a crown of thorns, and put it about his head,In the movie Stigmata Fankie has a crown of thorns.Luke 21.11 And great earthquakes shall be in divers places, and famines, and pestilences; and fearful sights and great signs shall there be from heaven. Matthew 12.31 Wherefore I say unto you, All manner of sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven unto men but the blasphemy against the Holy Ghost shall not be forgiven unto men.Do you recall when Frankie was told of the Stigmata was a gift she said  Some gift. Can I give it back?In the Catholic Bible when you search the word Stigmata it says... Stigmata. Wounds or scars,corresponding to those in the feet,hands,side and brow of the crucified Christ, imprinted in the flesh of a human being and accompanied by physical pain;they may be recurrent or permanent;some times there is local suffering without visible marks.This phenomenon has been recorded of 300 persons from the 13th century until today,of whom more than 95 percent were women;about 50 percent of cases were attested, some of them explainable on natural grounds, With some few exceptions the best known stigmatists were friars,nuns or tertiaries of one or other of the mendicant orders. The first ,most famous and one of the best substantiated cases stigmata was that of Saint Francis of Assisi and the happening is celebrated throughout the Western Church by a feat of their Impression on September 17,a similar feast is observed by the Doinicans in respect of the (invisible) stigmata of Saint Catherine of Siena, on April 3.The fact of stigmatization has been demonstrated in many modern examples and no satisfactory natural explanation is forthcoming; the stigmata often bleed periodically,notably on Fridays and in no recorded case do the wounds suppurate. It appears then God singles out certain noble souls to be united more closely with the sufferings of His Son, souls who are willing in a peculiarly fitting way to expiate the sins of others.If You remember in the movie Stigmata Frankie willingly put on the rosary tying her spirit to Chistianity even though she said she was a non believer.If I were to suggest a Christian movie night for women Stigmata would be worth seeing and with friends. This movie also shows how Frankie falls in love with the priest Andrew. Andrew is also a scientist along with his priesthood in the Vatican who ended up finding the missing gospel known as the Gospel of Thomas which I found and added to my space .Rev. Sherry Hembree "},{"Title":"Great stuff. (Point blank.)","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Finally there is a movie that worth a damn watching involving priests. I mean, sure, Exorcist... pretty disturbing, pretty good at that. But Stigmata brings a sort of unique blend of neoclassicism with more of a narcissistic approach-- HEY! WHAT THE HELL DOES ALL THAT MEAN?!? BETTER YET, WHAT'S IT ALL WORTH?! NOTHING, so go talk to your self in the corner, loser. As I was saying, 'Stigmata' is the BEST religion, Satan, Antichrist-like, oogie-boogie movie I've seen... EVER. Great stuff! Frankie Page, played by the everso sexy Patricia Arquette, is the protagonist in the whole story-- oops, big word, huh?-- rather, she is the main character who mysteriously receives the stigmata, which are the wounds that Christ endured in his final hours. Gabriel Byrne, playing Father Keirnan, a Vatican investigator/priest-- kind of like Dick Tracy meets the Pope, does an outstanding job playing a truly human character a priest who can honestly explain his struggle with being a member of the cloth, a priest. His honesty brings together an interesting relationship between the suffering Frankie and himself. The film gave me a real hanging-on-the-edge-of-my-seat kind of feeling. Like wildfire, Frankie can ignite into a new phase of the stigmata without warning.  I'm still trying to find the significance of the reversal drops of water.  Pictures flashing of ... well, I can't say everything about the damned film, ya just gotta see it. So, without further ado....Love,Comm MajorPS  A 10! A f*ckin' 10! "},{"Title":"VERY good film that is very shocking at times","Date":"24 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" VERY good film that is very shocking at times. This one will stay with you for a while after you watch it. The 2 main leads were excellent and had awesome chemistry together, and were both very likable. The script is pretty good , if a little confusing at times, and the finale was quite good and often shocking. I thought the possession makeup was really cool. The directing was awesome Rupert Wainwright did an awesome job of directing here with some very cool camera work loved the shots of inside the church, and he managed to make it creepy and very well paced. There is lots of gore get a statue that bleeds from the eyes throughout the film, Tons of nailed wrists, that spurt blood profusely. a wrist spurts an extreme amount of blood when a bandage is removed, EXTREMELY bloody whippings,someone gets a blood sample, nails in the forehead with spurting blood, lots of bloody images, nailed feet, self mutilation, lots of bleeding eyes and one really freaky possession scene. The acting is wonderful. Patricia Arquette is very gorgeous and gave an amazing performance here she showed a lot of emotion and vulnerability and had great chemistry with Gabriel Byrne. Gabirel Byrne was fantastic here and was extremely likable, and her chemistry with Patricia was so on. Jonathan Pryce did his job well as did Nia Long as Patricia's best friend. Overall a must see period! **** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Kinda make you you wonder.","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie, I gave a 10 not just for the plot, but for the actors.  Now I could have be better if Vincent Price were not in the movie(too shabby) but please do not get me wrong.  I like all the actors.  I like the color scheme that they use for the church and the effects for the exorcism.  I loved the effects period.  I am glad that this movie had my thumbs in the air instead of up....you know where.  I enjoyed in the theaters and I enjoyed it at home.  Hope that you will like it too. "},{"Title":"excellent movie about the nature of the Catholic church","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  As an atheist who has always noticed the corruption of several parts of the church, it was refreshing to see the movie industry finally portray it as well. Stigmata was a stunning movie with interesting historical commentary.Though I am not a fan of Patricia Arquette, I believe she delivered a very good performance in this movie.I would rate this movie as a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"This is something that may make you think","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  If you dont like movies that touch on almost every religous taboo, than I think that you may want to stay away from this film.  Although the dialog in some scenes is corney and the acting a little worse, this movie takes you on a theological ride that may change your comprehention of the Church.One of the things that made this movie work is the supurb cinematography. This is filmed in an almost David Fincher (Se7en) way, using rotating angles, rock video effects, and an all around dreary setting to set the mood.This movie IS NOT for everyone.  Of the group that saw this movie with me, about half of them didnt like this film. I on the other hand liked this film very much. But I am only one man.  I have not the authority or the power to tell you what to think of this movie.  Every person must make that decision on their own.  Then and only then can you say if the movie was good or not. Happy viewing. "}]