[{"Title":"A Masterpiece","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"49 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Angela's Ashes is a gentle movie about love, suffering, striving, and eventually, triumphing.  There are no explosions, no aliens, no car crashes, no easy answers.  The acting is uniformly excellent with Robert Carlyle's performance as Malachy McCourt especially outstanding.  Beautifully photographed, funny and devastating by turns, Angela's Ashes is an experience to be treasured.   "},{"Title":"A Rarity A Film Totally True To The Book","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"39 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I doubt if I would rate this film that high if I hadn't read the book. Frank McCourt's best-seller is so good, and this movie is so true to it, that if you liked one, you'll like this because rarely has film been so close to a book. It's amazing, given what normally is the case.Even though the film brought no surprises, I still thought it was fascinating because of the fantastic cinematography in here and the great job done by the actors. The muted colors in this film are beautiful and the lighting is superb. Then again, it's hard to go wrong with a nighttime streetlight-lit shot of cobblestone streets. The directing talents of Alan Parker were never more evident than here. He should do more movies.The book, Angela's Ashes, is a biography of McCourt and his extremely poor Irish family. All three boys who play McCourt at various times in his development are excellent here. The whole cast is excellent, for that matter, led by Angela (Emily Watson) and husband Malachy (Robert Caryle). Two sadder-looking faces, you never did see, and a more rainy, dreary town (Limerick) you never did see....so if you're looking a happy, uplifting story, pass this one by. However, if you want a film totally true to a great book, wonderfully photographed film and one acted well ....and with some unique humor to it, check this out. I don't want to leave out the humor, the key ingredient in McCourt's otherwise- depressing days of growing up. Humor and dire poverty never went together so well as McCourt made it sound through his book and the filmmakers did through this movie. "},{"Title":"Moving drama","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"36 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In the very opening scene of Alan Parker's `Angela's Ashes,' we are informed by the narrator and main character, Frankie McCourt, in a phrase that turns out to be a masterpiece of understatement, that he had a `miserable childhood' &#150; but just how miserable we may not be quite adequately prepared to see.  Based on the author's Pulitzer Prize winning autobiographical memoir, this compelling film plunges us directly into the wretchedness and squalor of life in Depression-ridden Ireland, a setting overflowing with disease, starvation, joblessness and despair.  Indeed, by the time the film has hit the 25-minute mark, we have already witnessed the deaths of no fewer than three of Frankie's little siblings.  The film, like the novel on which it is based, never flinches from portraying the brutal reality of the life the people of this dreary town must endure.Yet, the film is also, at times, rich in humor and a sense of that unquenchable optimism that somehow exists in even the most hopeless of circumstances.  Frankie, despite the harsh conditions of his life, remains a boy focused on the good things that come his way, enduring even a loving but utterly irresponsible ne'er-do-well father (beautifully played by `The Full Monty's Robert Carlyle) with an indulgence and tolerance borne of filial devotion.  As Frankie grows from young boy, dutifully fulfilling the parental role for his younger brothers, to a man verging on the edge of adulthood, he feeds on his dreams of moving to America to start a new life full of hope and promise.  The people and situations he encounters on this road create a stunning tapestry of life, teeming with bitterness and coldness it is true, but also with occasional, albeit momentary, displays of warmth, kindness and compassion &#150; whether they be from a seemingly bitter aunt who, much to his astonishment, buys Frankie a brand new set of clothes in which to start his new job, a teacher who inspires him to see life beyond the circumscribed limits of this dreary Irish town or a compassionate priest who counsels Frankie in a moment of dark despair.  These help to counterbalance the deadening effects of his father's thoughtlessness and drunkenness, the death of his first love by consumption, the often brutal treatment he receives at the hands of both his teachers and fellow classmates.  And all the while there stands his mother, the anchor that holds him firmly in place, a woman beaten down by poverty, the untimely deaths of her children, the fecklessness of her otherwise loving husband - yet a woman so full of the quality of stoic self-sacrifice that it is from she that Frankie draws the strength he needs to move on in his life.Emily Watson provides a luminous portrait of this woman, triumphantly conveying the longsuffering reserve that helps shield her from the ugliness and dreariness of her life and provides her with the strength to carry on and build into her children a sense of moral rectitude.   And the three boys who portray Frankie at various stages of the drama are utterly perfect in their wide-eyed naturalism, as they look upon a world often incomprehensible in its drabness and cruelty.It seems to be becoming a truism lately that, if you want to see the bleakest portrayal of life imaginable, go to see a film set in Ireland. Nowhere does the sun shine less frequently, nowhere do the drab colors of gray and brown so heavily predominate, nowhere does poverty seem so all encompassing and inescapable.  The Ireland of `Angela's Ashes' is surely no exception.  The filmmakers, moreover, cast a scathing eye on the mindless superstition, bigotry and hypocrisy to be found in much of the blindly pro-Southern Ireland, anti-Protestant, anti-British, anti-Northern Ireland attitude perpetuated by the Catholic Church there in the 1930's.  Thus, in the depths of McCourt's autobiographical story, lies a diatribe with its roots planted deep in political and social protest.  Yet, because of our fascination with the boy at the center of the narrative, these qualities filter through subtly, never dominating the proceedings.  `Angela's Ashes' is rather, from beginning to end, a moving story about goodhearted, ordinary people learning to cope with the immense hardships life throws their way. In the long run, it certainly makes one happier with one's own lot in life. `Angela's Ashes,' for those who can take its uncompromising view of reality, is a richly rewarding experience.  "},{"Title":"Affecting look at the human face of poverty","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"22 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The trouble with making a movie out of a Pulitzer Prize winning book is that no matter how good and true to the book it is, it will usually be a disappointment.  This has a lot to do with the difference between reading a story and seeing one.  When one reads a book, it is usually done over time, perhaps a week or two.  The words stir the imagination and the scenes described become images, usually more illusory than real.  There is plenty of time for this process to work.  A film, in contrast, is viewed over a period of about two hours, where the viewer is perceiving rather than imagining.  The portrayals are well defined and no matter how creative the director, it is very difficult to create scenes that equal those of readers who have previously conjured fantastic images in their heads. I believe this is the reason this film was such a disappointment to so many viewers who had read the book.  Thankfully, I saw the film first, so I had no preconceived notions.  With that fresh perspective, I must say that it was outstanding.It the story is taken from the memoirs of Frank McCourt, who recounted his childhood in Ireland in the 1930's and 1940's.  It is a poignant and compelling story of a poor family struggling to survive.  The images are powerful depictions of the indignity of indigence in a world where hunger and disease were common and people went almost as frequently to the cemetery as to the market.Alan Parker brings us a starkly realistic view of McCourt's Ireland.  He scoured Ireland to find a ghetto that brought forth the images described in the book, but after an exhaustive search, he decided to build the lane from scratch using McCourt's photographs.  Upon visiting the set, McCourt said it was chillingly accurate and he couldn't believe he wasn't back home.  Parker desaturated the color to give the film a very stark look, consistent with the squalor he was trying to portray.  Paradoxically, the loss of color intensity intensified the power of the images.  Though I'm not a big fan of this technique (I like rich and vibrant color), in this case it was the perfect choice.The film suffers a bit from excessive length, undoubtedly because there was so much to cover.  However, when Parker bombards the viewer with disturbingly hopeless imagery for well over two hours, it becomes tedious.  This is another advantage of reading a book.  You can more easily put it down and come back to it.  Parker sometimes overdoes certain ideas that he could have condensed.  We could have done without half a dozen vomiting scenes and all the chamber pot activity.  One or two such scenes would have gotten the message across.The cast was consistently excellent.  Parker saw over 15,000 child actors before casting the three boys who played Frank at various ages.  All three were wonderful, but my favorite was Michael Legge, the oldest Frank.  He was the most hopeful person in the film, giving him character and determination, without losing his idealistic innocence.Emily Watson is a great dramatic actress and rose to the occasion to endow Angela with superhuman strength, courage and persistence in the face of crushing hardship and sorrow.  Robert Carlyle was also terrific as Frank's father.  He made the character a lovable man with fatal flaws.  Despite his heinously irresponsible behavior squandering money on drink as his family starved, his charming nature and effusive affection for the children evoked as much love from us as disgust.This is a brilliant production.  Though many who read the book were disappointed, I must point out that Frank McCourt, who wrote the book, was unabashed in praising it for its realism in capturing his impressions and feelings of the times.  I rated it a 9/10.  Other than a bit of overkill, this is superb filmmaking giving us an affecting look at the human face of poverty.  "},{"Title":"Good adaptation of a great book","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Alan Parker has made many films which adapt material from other media. I have been less than thrilled with most of these, but I've enjoyed one or two. Angela's Ashes is one of his better works, but it adapts a book which< I would argue, can not be properly adapted. This is a very pure, almost sterile, adaptation of the original memoir Angela's Ashes by Frank McCourt. It chronicles vignettes in the family history of the McCourt's, a poor Irish Catholic family struggling to survive in early 20th century Ireland. The film, like the book, is stark, painful, hopeful, powerful, and deftly accurate. More than a period piece, this film works as a dramatic rendering of social history.Unlike the book, this film depicts Frank's childhood from a disembodied third person perspective, though it is liberally complemented by an effective voice-over narrative drawn almost directly from McCourt's own prose. Frank is the oldest of several siblings (many of whom never reach adulthood), in a family suffering from poverty, alcoholism, and persecution. Although the film has many positive messages, like the lives of the McCourt's, it's not an easy road. Those who wish to be simply entertained should probably not bother.The performances are all exquisite. Kudos to the cast and the director for making them all look so great. Visually, the film is stunning for its starkness and powerful use of contrast. The pace is a little breathless at times, but, given the richness of the original work, this is appropriate.All considered, this is a very worthy representation of the book. The only quibble I have stems from the very act of translating what was a very intensely personal, first-person memoir into a third-person medium like film, not from anything the production team did, or from the script and cast. It would likely have been impossible in a mainstream film to depict the texture and poetics of McCourt's prose to the extent that viewers would really feel that they had grown up with him and knew him like a member of their own family. This is how the book made me feel, and seeing the movie after the book I was reminded of the feeling, but not quite so powerfully affected. I would agree that reading the book first will help you enjoy this film, however, I also believe that this stands well on its own. "},{"Title":"I suggest you read the book... and keep an open mind.","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"23 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've read both Angela's Ashes, and 'Tis (the sequal also by McCourt), and I think that really helped get a good perspective of what's going on. A lot happens that we aren't shown in the movie, which makes sense considering a word for word rendition of the text would be far too long.But reading the book provides you with a little more background- more insight as to WHY the family is in the situation it is (the mother was knocked up and the two were forced into marriage and family life that probably NEITHER were ready for), and especially the impact of the death of the little baby girl had- most notable in the father.All in all, it was a great film... seriously. It's the memories a poor Irish childhood- but the best part is that much of it is told through the eyes of a 'child' (even if its in retrospect). The reason that it is unique, I think, is that if the viewer is open enough, they can get beneath the obvious misery that we're pelted with and really see the innocence of a child through out the story.I get really irritated with those that brush it off as been there, done that, or Woe is me, I was a poor Irish child. I think that shows ignorance and disgusting apathy- go watch a movie where stuff explodes to keep your feeble mind occupied, because you obviously are too shallow to understand what you're seeing. Imagine yourself as that child- in a nation full of families stuck in the same rut. This isn't some Hollywood drama concocted... this is(was) someone's LIFE. And the movie sticks very much to the book- I remembered many of the exact lines word for word from the text. Also... a few people have complained about the 'incomplete' ending. That's pretty much exactly where the book ends- read (horror of HORRORS!) the sequal, 'Tis, to find out the rest.Either way- very touching film. Definitely dark and deep, and I recommend it to anyone who has an open mind. "},{"Title":"An evoking look at Irish life","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Angela's Ashes is a well made picture, and one of the better movie to come out this year.  Also, this film is Alan Parker's best since Pink Floyd's The Wall.  The picture evokes a feeling of sorrow for the young Frank McCourt, in a tale that never has any definite answers, it just leaves them open.  The acting is superb, mainly by Emily Watson as the loving mother Angela McCout and Robert carlyle who gives his best performance since Trainspotting here as the father with almost three different personalities.  We watch as young Frank goes through three periods of his life in the poverish Ireland and thankfully in the end everything turns out OK.  This makes the film even better.  Along with a gentle and moving score (by oscar winner John Williams), this film is very provocative, touching and dramatic.  Well done. "},{"Title":"A miserable Irish childhood is overcome","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Being married to a man from Ireland, I can really relate to this movie. I went to see his family home in 1978 and he grew up in very similar circumstances.  The movie portrays the depression and drinking problems the Irish have.  Emily Watson is great as his mother- she has to swallow her pride and beg so her kids can have food and clothes.  The Vincent De Paul society is a great presence in Ireland.  The way the kids are beat in school is right on- my husband tells me horror stories of how the priests and nuns treated him.  Like Frankie he was able to get out of the country when he was 19-- This movie captures both the good and the bad of McCourt's book.  I showed it to my son so now he understands his father a lot better.  As a whole the movie deserves a lot of credit for staying true to McCourt's words.  Robert Carlyle is good as Frankie's father.  Everyone in the movie-- fits one type of Irish personality. We still keep candles burning in front of the statue of Mary at home. I will watch this move again so I can pick up on some of the other aspectsof Irish life.   "},{"Title":"Watch it for Watson!","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" By rights, 'Angela's Ashes', Alan Parker's film of Frank McCourt's account of growing up in astonishingly deprived conditions in the impoverished theocracy of inter-war Ireland, should be unwatchable just how much misery can a viewer be expected to take? But in fact, Parker tunes the misery level to perfection, and the movie is never as gruelling as its subject matter might lead one to expect. And while it doesn't quite have the emotional impact of the work, say, of Ken Loach, our foremost chronicler of contemporary poverty, there are still fine performances from all of the cast, most especially from the luminous Emily Watson (playing the eponymous Angela, whose ashes, however, appear to have disappeared from the screenplay). There are some nice stylistic touches as well Limerick may be one of the wettest cities in Europe, but in this film, it lives under a perpetual cloud, though it gets a little brighter when the hapless heroes move into a slightly better class of house. But only a little. This is a movie that leaves you with a sense of sheer amazement and horror at how recently people lived in worse conditions than we would treat animals; and at the scale of the social and economic transformation that Ireland has undergone in McCourt's lifetime. And also at the unrivalled brilliance of Watson's skills as an actress. "},{"Title":"A fine drama","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Angela's Ashes is based on a 1999 memoir of the same name by Irish-American author Frank McCourt. Both the novel and movie detail his experiences growing up in the impoverished slums of Limerick Ireland during the time of the Great Depression. McCourt was, strangely enough, born in NYC but his parents decided to pack up the family and move back to Ireland upon the death of their infant daughter. When the baby dies, Angela (Frank's mother) shuts down completely and is unable to care for her other four children. Some less than helpful relatives intervene and soon they are on a boat. The deaths of McCourt's three siblings (two the result of disease and malnutrition) provides for some of the most haunting imagery. I think back on the scene where one of Angela's beautiful twin boys lies white in death on her bed as she cuddles him in her arms. In another particularly poignant scene, ten-year-old Frank goes looking for his drunkard father Malachy in a pub and sees him drinking right on top of his dead baby's casket. It's scenes like this that make Angela's Ashes such a heart rending experience. It would have been easy for this film to turn into nothing but a couple hours of despair, but thankfully, McCourt has a good sense of humor and filled his memoir with plenty of comedic anecdotes to be sprinkled here and there. "}{"Title":"Read the novel first - then see the film you will appreciate things better","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Emerald Isle, due to its naturally green countryside, has more than its fair share of rain; we see plenty of that in `Angela's Ashes and people splashing or wading through murky puddles to get to their rented houses the tenants may be able to afford the few shillings rent per week, or may be not. Such were the conditions in a slum of Limerick, locality afamed for its humorous five-lined verses, in the west of Eire, then still very much under English `ownership'. Eire is today the only European country to have less population than it did in 1900. Reading/watching `Angela's Ashes' makes it quite clear why that was so the Irish emigrated to North America and Australia, and indeed as a lad trying to grow up in post-war London I could hear comments like `there are more Irish in Islington than in Ireland'. I could have mentioned any other suburb of London, but it so happens that Alan Parker and Emily Watson were both born in this inner suburb. Many of those Irish émigrés found fame and fortune, and their offspring have helped to keep the White House occupied, though mostly they found their ways into suburbs of Chicago, New York, Boston, etc. But the 1930's in poor suburbs of New York in the Great Depression was hardly a friendly environment lurking behind the awesome sight of the lady with the torch in the harbour (a present of the French Government).`Angela's Ashes' records those grim years for a poor family, based on hard autobiographical facts; but Frank McCourt's book better conveys that curiously Irish sense of fatalistic humour combined with that strangely abject Catholicism so pervasive in life of those times. The elements contrast and contradict themselves the useless alcoholic father who must be respected because he is their father, though later he disappears, and the boy's (Frankie) obedient and supposedly devout sessions at the confessionary box, would seem to veer into mirth if it were not for the sinister underlying sociological aspects. And it is the classroom where much of this spoon-fed doctrinal interpretation obviates the ruthless imposition of supposedly `clean' ideology - whether Catholic or not.Beautifully filmed in almost black and white, with more colour creeping in as the film progresses, undoubtedly Alan Parker has done a good job and has tried to remain faithful to the philosophical concepts of the book. Excellent Emily Watson and Robert Carlyle, but no less so the different youngsters used in the film as the children grew up, especially Michael Legge. Other secondary actors are all exemplary, well cast. The result is a film that has an authentic feel to it, such that having already read the book and seeing this film twice in no way diminishes the interest it suscitates. The music is a very different kind of John Williams to what we are accustomed, giving correct ambience to the story's unfolding.  "},{"Title":"It's Not A Comedy","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There's a famous sketch with several men gathered round a table and one ejaculates  When I were a lad we didn't get anything to eat six years and we were grateful to get nothing  Put out by this type of inverted snobbery another exclaims  You had things easy , when I were a lad I worked twenty seven hours down a pit every single day  The impromptu urinating contest continues with other members claiming  You had things soft , when I were a lad my dad would make us drink sulphuric acid then he'd chop our heads off and stick them on a pole  You do find yourself reminded of this sketch while watching Alan Parker's ANGELA ASHE'S the film version of Frank McCourt's autobiography . The story starts in a crowded hovel in New York where an ex-pat Irish family called McCourt live . I'm probably misleading you if I use the word  live  because if that's living I sure don't want to find out what dying must be like . things are so bad that they move back to County Limerick in Ireland . You know that phrase  out of the frying pan into the fire  ? well this happens to the McCourt family , just when you think things can't get any worse they get worse - This happens in every single scene . Some people have criticised Alan Parker's interpretation of THE WALL as being so depressing as to be unwatchable , but compared to this Pink Floyd's rock opera is a musical comedy This doesn't mean that ANGELA'S ASHES should be viewed as being a bad film . Far from it since it's the best movie Parker had made for many years and much of it is down to casting two of Britain's most consistent thespians from that era namely Emily Watson and Robert Carlyle . Carlyle especially gives a great and understated performance as Malachy McCourt one of the most hateful and despicable characters he's ever played . He's by no means the raving psychopath that he played in TRAINSPOTTING but you will hate him none the less . But despite the talent behind and in front of the camera and the attempts at humour which the Celtic race are renowned for you'll probably only want to watch this movie once due to the depressing subject matter . "},{"Title":"Irish paralysis as a historical burden","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A great movie that needs to be recommended. It is the story of the childhood hardships of Frank McCourt, based on his book. It is the story of Ireland and how living and growing up in Ireland influenced and affected the ordinary and poor families in the 1930s, a desperate and bleak time. Life in Limerick was a burden for anyone and nothing but an uncompassionate struggle for the very day-to-day existence. This story symbolizes the epitome of James Joyce's perception of Ireland as a society caught in paralysis, a society the capital of which he described as the sow that eats her pigs. The historical paralysis as an eternal scar on the Irish mentality and the religious paralysis as being mentally chained by the stifling impact of the Catholic Church is even strengthened by the personal poverty and the manifold tragedies that afflicted the McCourts. In the center of this account stands Frankie, and we come to experience the scorning contemporary society which offers nothing but apathy towards its citizens' needs through his eyes as he grows up amidst bleak and dirty surroundings. It is an account moving in its simplicity and agonizing in its apodictic truth. The moments of joy and happiness in Frankie's life, rare as they are, allow temporary escapes from a society and a culture caught in its despair and paralysis. The movie tells the story of an Irish boy growing up and trying to find hope and love amidst despair and abject poverty. It is a valuable account that needs to be applauded for its authenticity and brutal candor. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Not an easy book to film","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Angela's Ashes is an almost impossible challenge to a filmaker. Yet the producers have done a more than capable job of translating Frank McCourt's bitter sweet story onto the screen. It's a little on the long side. But its main fault is the failure to capture the wonderful contrasts of the book. You would laugh on one page and cry on the next. There are many more tears than laughs in the film. And surely it must stop raining sometime in Limerick. At times I wasn't sure whether I was watching McCourt's story or Noah's.  "},{"Title":"Best seller ill-served","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"     A movie of Frank McCourt's bestselling memoir was always going to be a box office smash and that is the only reason I can see that Alan Parker had to be associated with this project. Biography isn't really his oevre and, while he has worked in the area of working class social realism, he hasn't really tackled the issue of poverty. And here is the problem - there is no narrative in the book, it is a collection of incidents linked by three major themes (poverty, class & like Angel At My Table the heroes' rotting teeth). Parker even throws away the minor theme (which grows through the memoir) of a desire to return to America.    The result is a mess of pottage. It is as if Parker hasn't even bothered to read the book (and, incidently gives more screentime to Malachy's alcoholism than Frank does). It's as if the old Victorian melodrama fable of the poverty stricken family linked to the drunken father is irresistable to Parker - irresistable but he's unable to actually DO anything with the dramatic cliche.    The film is ill-served by some very peculiar camera-work. For instance  the early parts of the film are all shot down at the level of young Frank but the POV is looking down on the action (i.e. camera low, set far away, and framed at a downward angle). For all sorts of reasons this is wrong not the least being that it distances the audience from the characters by making us appear to sit in judgement upon them. "},{"Title":"Alan Parker did it again","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  He has done it again. A wonderful novel turns, in the hands of British director Alan Parker,in another boring tale of poverty and suffering. His cinematographer Michael Seresin makes us wish he had sunk his head in the gutter. Emily Watson looks as if her elder son was his little brother. Only Robert Carlyle provides some dignity to his role. "},{"Title":"Very well done","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Excellent performances all around, notably from Joe Breen, who plays young Frank McCourt, and Robert Carlyle as his father.  My understanding is that in real life Joe Breen is the son of an Irish farmer.  The role of Frank's grandmother is well-played, though the role of his aunt seems somewhat understated compared to the book.Although the film is 145 minutes long, it is well-paced and does not really drag anywhere.  The photography does a beautiful job of capturing the essence of poor and working-class Ireland in the '40s, with lots of rain and grayscale tones.The film ends sooner than the book, but leaves ample room for a sequel ('Tis?). If you read the book and liked it, you will like the film.  If you haven't read the book, you will like the film. It's refreshing to see a good, well-made film about people who don't live in L.A. or have a lot of money.   "},{"Title":"the miserable Irish Catholic childhood...","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When Frank McCourt's autobiography Angela's Ashes was published, we were all quite impressed with it, specifically how McCourt was able to write about each stage of his life as though he was still the age portrayed. Obviously, the movie wasn't able to do this. But otherwise, the movie was a worthy effort, showing the poverty in Limerick and how the father (Robert Carlyle) spent his earned money on alcohol, and the mother (Emily Watson) felt like she couldn't do anything about it. An interesting device that the movie does use is that the soundtrack is mostly American jazz (which Frank probably heard a lot on the radio) rather than Irish jigs.So, the book is better - especially how he indicts the Catholic Church for keeping his family in poverty - but the movie is passable. Alan Parker has maintained a pretty good track record. "},{"Title":"Depressing look at a young Irish boy's childhood.","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Woe is me. Misery upon misery. This harsh drama is based on the much acclaimed autobiography of Frank McCourt. A penniless and hard drinking man (Robert Carlyle)and his wife (Emily Watson)try to raise a family in Depression-ridden 1930's Ireland. Young Frank(Joe Breen)endures the deaths of siblings; the lack of compassion from his drunken irresponsible father; the sadness and desperation of his overwrought mother; his imposed parental role in raising his younger brothers; and the hopes and dreams of leaving a world of starvation and little opportunity. This movie really tugs at the heart strings. Somehow there are flashes of humor and optimism during the two and a half hours of despair. "},{"Title":" Depressing Movie","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was given the book Angela's Ashes as a gift because I have an Irish background that goes way back. There were many funny incidents which made me laugh out loud, but as I read on, I found it depressing. The movie was now available in video because it wasn't a success at the box office, so I stopped reading the book, and watched the movie. It was a struggle for me to sit and watch it to the end. I found it very depressing ...just like the book.I was once told by an Irish friend that being a Catholic schoolchild in Ireland was more difficult than being one in any other part of the world. Even worse if you were a young married mother not producing children ... the priests would insist on a doctor's visit for both the husband and wife, to find out the reason why. This movie came close to my friend's stories.    Frank McCourt certainly has to be admired for winning the Pulitzer Prize for writing his memoirs. It is amazing how he survived the squalor as a young boy to achieve a coveted award like this. It's hard to imagine any actor wanting a part in a movie of this nature, short of having a strong Cause in relation to it. However, all the actors were excellent from the children to Robert Carlyle and Emily Watson. I don't think Carlyle found his Irish accent hard to master due to it being close to his own Scottish tongue.In today's world where we all want more, watching this movie can certainly make you feel very rich indeed, but it's not the happiest of movies to watch for entertainment. I can see this movie being used for teaching purposes. I think this would be the only way you could get teenagers to watch it ...while trapped in their seats at school. The school teachers in this movie were tyrannical, bar one who doesn't see much hope for his clever students and advises them to leave Ireland.When I was a schoolgirl in a Catholic school in Scotland, I remember children from an Irish family being taunted because they were wearing uniforms from the Parish. Clothes which were so easy to recognize ... not as fine as those bought in the stores. Watching the McCourt boys being taunted about the boots they were wearing brought this to mind ...how cruel children can be. Although I attended a very good school, I was disillusioned by Catholicism and couldn't wait to grow up and leave, and haven't had any regrets in doing so.None of us can choose when to be born, but I'll guarantee anyone who watches Angela's Ashes will be thankful to God, or whoever (?) that their childhood wasn't like Frank McCourt's.  "}{"Title":"Ashes Breeze Away.","Date":"21 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Angela's Ashes (1999) Dir Alan Parker / Cast Emily Watson, Robert Carlyle, Joe Breen, Ciaran Owens, Michael Legge Fashioned together by many effective subplots that could stand alone. Title refers to trials and heartaches of a woman who raises her children practically by herself yet losing some in the process. Her husband constantly wastes their income at the bars. This subplot is unfortunately left hanging in conclusion. Director Alan Parker does a skilled job. His range of genres stretches from Midnight Express to Pink Floyd The Wall. Strong acting by Emily Watson who pushes forward despite overbearing odds and every problem that presented itself. Robert Carlyle as her drunken husband knows how low he has sunk and the disappointment he presents to his family. One could say that he just lived on with emotional consequences but that area of the story seems loosely handled. Joe Breen, Michael Legge and Ciaran Owens are the young actors who portray Angela's son whose point of view we observe throughout. They are featured to represent each of the three acts that doesn't quite payoff the screenplay. He sympathizes with his father but feels closure with his mother whom risked much so that he may obtain a future. It is a well crafted film that doesn't always work but its message is mending life where others saw fit to break it. Score 7 / 10 "},{"Title":"Nostalgic, heartwarming and terrifying in equal measure.","Date":"7 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A distraught young family make the long journey from America back to Ireland to discover it is much worse than when they left.Starring Emily Watson and Robert Carlyle.Written by Frank McCourt ( Book ), Laura Jones (Screenplay) and Alan Parker (Screenplay).Directed by Alan Parker.This is an incredibly touching and well acted movie. I was especially impressed with the young actors. They always say never to work with animals or children but I don't think I've ever watched a film with better acting performances from children.As well as the terrific acting, the storyline is emotionally compelling and at times pretty hilarious. The location filming is superb and it is overall a brilliantly produced movie. It is nostalgic, heart warming and terrifying in equal measure.I haven't read the original book yet but I have a feeling it's probably even better. I'll have to read it at some point.Great film.10/10 "},{"Title":"ANGELA'S ASHES- the book is better. read the book FIRST","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Angela's Ashes is a moving memoir based on Frank McCourt. This touching movie and book is about a family's struggle to survive. This film is not for younger, but for older people who enjoy realistic kinds of movies-although, it is a highly recommended movie. Angela's Ashes has changed the way I thought of the book. If you watch the movie first, you will know that there are many parts that don't make sense because it is not very well explained. There are some small mistakes in the movie, but many don't really notice it.This film is for many people who like memoirs or biographies. It also appeals for those who like to watch different sort of movies. Even though this movie is considered in the category of Drama, there is also a mix of comedy in it. This Many people would agree that Angela's Ashes is a type of movie for older people, not children.Angela's Ashes is a favorite book of many people, one of New York's top sellers. I believe that this film is a great in many ways, although there are a few parts that the filmmaker could have done differently. The movie makes me like the book more, there are sections in the film that people would not understand if they have not read the book. One of the reasons that I like this production is because it gives you an experience of what it is like to live in poverty. It makes you grateful for all the things you have and it makes you glad that you did not have to go through all the things that this family went through. The book has explained many things, and the film should have had more clarification on some of the parts. The reason that many of the parts were not very well clarified is because the producers had to cut many of the parts from the book because the movie was too long.In this production, the actors are excellent, especially the actors that played the role of Frank McCourt. I believe that Emily Watson and Robert Carlyle played an excellent part as parents, and I think that all the actors included in this film played an excellent role as their character. One of the things in this film that makes it fantastic is the cinematography, especially the muted colors that are used. I like how there are many details-for example, there was the wet weather and you could also see the dirt on the clothes.There are many things in this film that the filmmaker used to deal with some of the parts of the textual elements. There is a part in the book, it is the day before Frank goes to America, there had to be a filming of the lunar eclipse. First of all, a real eclipse would take longer than it was shown in the movie, second-an eclipse only appears when the moon is full, and an eclipse does not cast a moving shadow. Another part is when Frank gets the conjunctivitis-an eye disease-when he rolls his eyes back, you can see the edges of the full-eye contacts that are used to arouse the ailment. An additional section that was a slip up was that the Statue of Liberty had a golden flame instead of the light-house flame.In conclusion, this is a great, heart-breaking movie. It really shows what it was like for families who do not have enough money to buy food to support themselves. This is the story of a boy who came to the understanding of extreme poverty. It could give many teenagers a lesson-they should not be desirous-and they should be glad that they did not have a child hood like Frank McCourt's. "},{"Title":"Movies have connected relations between people.","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Maybe too late to speak about film produced on 1999 ,but for Iraqi people there are lovely chance to see film like Angela s ashes which based on memories of Irish writer McCourt who captured people around the world by scenes of poor family failed to live like others for different reasons.But the writer and the director had transporting to magic situation ignoring all these difficulties after the scene of moon set for awhile just like the scene of his childhood which had gone forever.Mr.McCourt as I think make the life so little like this moment and so big like the universe .When you spoke about things like these,you approached to Humanity.Atlast,I saw nice film and very genuine actress . "},{"Title":"Great adaptation","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When I read Mr. McCourt's novel a couple of years ago, it broke my heart and uplifted me at the same time. I was so scared of ruining that extraordinary experience that - having been disappointed by movie adaptations so many times - I decided not to watch the movie. However, last X-mas, I changed my mind... and couldn't help loving every second of the movie the novel's emotional roller-coaster ride was brilliantly adapted and the acting was exquisite (great performances by so many young actors). Sure, maybe Mr Parker tried to put too much of the book's twists into the movie, so that it felt a little bit erratic from time to time, but still it may be the best film adaption of a successful novel I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite films","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** I have not read the actual Novel this movie was based on, so my opinion of the movie is just that, the opinion of the movie.This is one of my favorite films of all time. I cried alot while watching it, and most of time nothing more was going then them sitting around a kitchen table. It's an excellent film, and I loved it no matter what anyone says.First off, the acting was wonderful. Robert Carlyle is completely believable as Malachy McCourt, the drunken father who abandons his wife and his children after their luck appears to run out. His acting is wonderful. Emily Watson is the real star of this film though. She is wonderful as Angela, the scared mother of 4 young children in Irish poverty. I cried when she cried, and I wished that I could have simply walked though the screen and hugged her, because the paint she transmitted was so strong. The children in the movie also do a good job, especially the oldest Frank.The directing is also wonderful. I love Alan Parkers' angles and his sense of capturing the moment. The crew also did a lovely job recreating 1930's Irish slums and the costumes were great.*SPOILERS*The first half of the movie was confusing, but as it went on it got better. When the three children died, I was already sobbing. The way their father could pretend nothing happened p***ed me off, but the emotions of love and fear came through even more.By the time Frank grew up, I figured he would be a bit more sensible. He goes off and has sex with a girl that he doesn't even know. That was weird. Well that, and the fact that he got off to sheep.Anyway, I really love this movie. That fact that it was based on Frank McCourt's memoires makes it even more wonderful.I reccomend this to anyone. A total 5 out of 5!Amanda Marsters "},{"Title":"Another Alan Parker gem","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a totally depressing yet fascinating depiction of a not-so-long ago Ireland.  The extreme poverty and desperation is awful to watch, only slightly lessened by the humour.  It's just like it was all a dream from some nasty, desperate time which has now all passed into history, thankfully.Alan Parker offers an incredible, excruciatingly wet and drab recreation of Limerick and other places in Ireland.  The authentic, surviving Victorian terraces in Limerick are put to good use, as are the period, brilliant cobbled streets of Dublin and Cork.  If you watch the documentary on the DVD, they show how they created a set for the back street they all live in.You get all of the clichéd (yet realistic) Irish themes of Catholicism, boyhood, Republicanism, pre-war poverty and stuff like that.  It's not how I remember things in Monkstown, of course.  It's almost like a black and white film.Emily Watson is sensational as Angela and likewise Robert Carlyle. The DVD has a brilliant commentary by Alan Parker, describing how it was all put together, the locations chosen, acting and so forth.  There is also a commentary by the original Pullitzer author, Frank McCourt. "},{"Title":"Tragedy without Empathy","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Dramas walk a thin line these days, especially ones based on best-loved books. I haven't read the book, but I can say that the film did nothing to endear me to Frank's troubles the way the book appears to have for its readers.The photography and the performances were fine, if overwrought, but that's part of the balancing act of drama. Too much in any one direction and it becomes melodrama, farce or, as in this case, generic. Despite being based upon a book which seems to contain a lot of heart, the film is closer to a dispassionate documentary than it is a first-person account of someone we can identify with and care about. Without that, it just becomes yet another story. "},{"Title":"Angela's Ashes","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Alan Parker makes Frank McCourt's Pulitzer prize winning book into a long, fairly good, sometimes depressing movie.The story sees the young Frank McCourt attempting to survive his troubled life in Ireland in the 1930s and 40s.  Robert Carlyle stars as his alcoholic father and Emily Watson plays very well, Frank's troubled mother, Angela.The movie is meant to seem depressing, with a few hints of laughter occasionally popping up, but there is the idea that the movie just doesn't hit us the way it's supposed to. ***   "},{"Title":"One of the best movie which has a great redeeming value!","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is perhaps one of the best movies that tell a story that NO MATTER HOW terrible your life -- whether real or perceived -- may have been, you have the opportunity to self-evaluate and to self-adjust to whatever challanges that cross your path.Personally, whenever I have a bad day, I watch this film to remind me that THAT day is in the past. And it wasn't so bad after all.Great movie!!! "}{"Title":"You should probably read the book first---I don't know","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Angela's Ashes is based on an autobiography of the same name by Frank McCourt.  I haven't read the book (I was supposed to for a book club I was in---shh!) but my grandmother did, and she loved it.  Apparently, McCourt knows how to mix humor with tragedy so that they blend into a perfectly enjoyable novel.  I saw elements of humor and tragedy in the film, but since I did not read the book, I cannot compare the two.  All I can say is that this film did not keep my attention, and I remember having to leave the theater with my family before it was even over because we had to be somewhere else, or something. I wasn't disappointed. I did end up seeing the conclusion, years later.  So, overall, this movie is typical.   I give it a 7/10 by my voting system, but if I were to rate it merely on whether or not I enjoyed it, it would be lower, like maybe a 5.  "},{"Title":"Great Book, Great Movie","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Angela's Ashes is one of the finest films Hollywood had produced in a very long while.  Here we see the struggles of a family trying to survive depression era Ireland. The father, Malachy, Sr. is an irresponsible, drunken lout who loves his family but loves the drink more.The mother, Angela, strikes us as not the most intelligent being on the planet but she does try to keep her family intact. This film touches your heart and gives us a glimpse into the mouth of wretched, grinding poverty few of us in America have ever seen or even imagined. I thought, there but for the grace of God, and my ancestors immigrating from Ireland centuries ago, go I.  An inspiring tale. Read the book first, then see the movie.  On a scale of 1-5(5 being the best)this gets an 11. "},{"Title":"not as good as the book","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  i read the book before i saw this movie and it was nothing comapred to the movie, the book had much more detail and it was just so much better, the movie well it wasnt the best, it was alright, i guarantee it didnt deserve 10/10 though thats why i gave it 6.  "},{"Title":"Based on it being a true story, a beautiful film","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is such an epic, filmed to perfection, with every frame, every scene a work of art.  Now this would surely make it a fantastic film, but it doesn't.  The story being the true story of Frank's McCourt childhood, clearly limited the film makers, as we have such a heart breaking tale that it is close to difficult to watch at times.  In some ways I think concentrating a bit more on Franks dreams and ambition would have delivered a little bit more hope, creating a better finale.  Because that is really what both the story and the film are about; A boy growing up in an environment of no hope, while still managing to cling to his dreams and goals for a better life.  It is difficult to judge a film, when you can see how much work, how much professionalism and superb acting has gone into it.  You feel like you are unworthy to criticize such a wonderfully done film.  The bottom line though, that even though it will leave you thinking for a long time, and will affect you, there was something lacking.  Difficult to put ones finger on it, or to actually find the flaw, but it is there, for better people then myself to point out.  8/10 "},{"Title":"Stunning, Touching, Brilliant","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I did not see this movie at the theaters and I am regretting it. I was scrolling through my cable TV options and I stopped at HBO in one of the first scenes of the movie and I stuck at it. The movie is about poverty, poverty as one may never imagine (I least did not). The main characters are wonderfully played, the scenes are magnificent. Constants touches of humor make you bear the excess of gross takes required to transmit the feelings of the characters. The innocence and great resolution of a little boy who endures poverty and chases his dream to get to America.Do not miss this movie you love it. 8 out of ten. "},{"Title":"Best Irish Film in Years","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I Immensely enjoyed this gripping drama.  I feel better about my Irish heritage every time I watch it.  It is an accurate and poignant portrayal of life in Ireland and the way that Irish Catholics' act towards class distinction and Protestants. I much enjoyed the cast, from People like Emily Watson Angela, who is a Very well chosen experienced 30's genre actress, and Robert Carlyle Dad, who is a brilliant genre actor. I applaud the casting director and the dialect coach, for the children and adult actors' amazing grasp of the characters and accent.  I also am glad that a man like Frank McCourt was able to write a story about his life and that  Laura Jones(II), saw the potential to make it into a film with the help of  Alan Parker.  "},{"Title":"Deserved Best Picture Nomination! A true tear-jerker!","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie has captured my heart. When I first watched it, I thought that it would be some cheesy old TV movie but it is not at all. It is a brilliant movie that has changed my life and way of looking at things. The sad childhood of this man is nothing more than my deepest non-desired thing as he has past many obstacles and yet accomplished his point. People can live their lives no matter how they live them or how they spend them.After watching this movie I couldn't stop thinking about it. It indeed gave me some horrific nightmares which were worth the hassle. During my first watching, I was crying non-stop and by the end of it, I realized how lucky I really am. Since then, I offered this movie to more than 50 people who fell in love with it too and I have watched it over 10 times. Once again I tell you that it has changed my life. If I had the chance I would award it for a Best Picture Academy Award. Watch it because it might even change YOUR life today!Savvas Stavrou's Rating 10/10 - Excellent. Must see. "},{"Title":"Didn't really come upto my expectations","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I probably had too much expectations from this movie. I had heard a lot about the Pulitzer winning book by Frank McNormak, and admired most of Alan Parker's other works inlcluding the heartwarming 'The Commitments'. I knew Alan Parker has the pulse of the Irish life and irish people, being Irish born himself. But this movie somehow didn't touch me the way 'The commitments' did. I found the story-telling lacked its sting and the characters lacked depth. Specially the character of the father played by Robert Caryle, has been developed on surface level. He has been shown to be a good-at-heart, proud of his irish self, bit irresponsible father. but thats all to it, there's hardly any character transition. and no analysis into the reasons why he shies away from his duties.  i had issues with the completeness of the story also. i would want to know more about how the family got to NY in the first place, how did Frankies parents who were from different parts of Ireland meet each other, while Frankie's father was jobless how did such a big family survive? The worst part about narrative story is that you know that Frankie is going to get out of all the mess finally to tell us the story, this is a hurdle in the development of real drama.  Inspite of all this, this movie gives a very good portrayal of the Ireland during WW-II. The wet, dripping alleys and houses, the poverty and filth, unemployment and destitution, and the hate for the british. its a good insight for anybody who doesn't know much about Irish People.The photography and music are brilliant. I liked the use of pale colors, and tones of blue and white, which gives it a documentary and old feel. I would rate it 7/10. "},{"Title":"An accomplished machine that alters your face effortlessly","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Angela's Ashes, which I saw last night, is one of the most well fowarded films I have ever seen. I understand that Americans will not perceive this film as well - though perhaps I am completely wrong in this; after all much of the USA suffered the depression just as badly or worse as this Irish situation - but yet they cannot compromise for the religious affects of the film.Robert Carlyle is a very good portrayal of the ne'er do well father, and you can really sympatise with the children and the wife, an excellent Emily Watson who puts across both the control-needy and maternal aspects of her part perfectly. But it is the children - every single one from watching their father ascend the stairs drunkenly to their antics behind the stone wall - that really impressed me. They looked innocent, forlorn and rejoiceful at the perfect times. The best of luck to them in the future.Wonderful empathic escapement - 10/10. "},{"Title":"Touching true story of suffering and triumph.","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have seen this movie several times and for some reason can never turn the channel when its on TV. I'm not a huge fan of British or Irish movies but this story is very well told. Its the true story of a boy named Frank Mccourt growing up in dirt poor Limerick Ireland who eventually becomes a successful American businessman.  Mom doesnt do much but smoke and have one child after another with no means of supporting them. She loses a couple of them to illness when they are very young. Dad is a jobless drunk who would rather sit at the pub and drink away any wages he has earned than to feed his hungry kids. The story is told in 3 different segments. The first being when Frank is a toddler around age 5, then around the age of 10, then again at 15. All the boys selected to play him were brilliant in this film.  The mother played by Emily Watson does a great job as well. The father you will recgonize from the Full Monty. Excellent movie. 8/10.  "}{"Title":"Very good","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Irish depression is brought to the screen in excellent fashion by Alan Parker. The story is mostly subdued, it's quite painful to see how bad it was in Ireland. Drink and disease was the main problem which troubled Ireland. Treatment of the poor was horrendous. The film opens up ones eyes!The photography is grey, but perfect. Mostly set in the rain, the director and cinematographer do an outstanding job. The music by John Williams is very good, not one of his classics, but does the job.The acting is tremendous, Emily Watson is mindblowing, a real stand-out in this picture.See it in widescreen.Very good film.  "},{"Title":"Very Moving and Dramatic","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  when i saw this movie in the store, i though, well, might as well give it a try. i never would have guessed id have liked it quite so much. indeed, it protrays the suffering and misery of Ireland in its Depression. Frank McCourt's telling, although i still have yet to read the book, is powerful and moving. i admit, this movie is not for people who 1) are not interested in history, and 2) think that it will all turn out with a happy ending. well it doesnt. over the course of the movie, Frankie loses three siblings, his father leaves his family, his first love dies of consumption, and eventhough it ends better for him, i do wonder what ever happened to his family after he left. i still think it is a tragic, but humourous movie, and i recommend it to those who want to learn truth about a broken childhood. "},{"Title":"A good adaption of a great book","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A fairly faithfull adaption of McCourt's excellent book with time constraints considered.  A perfect example of why one should watch the film first, then read the book.  If you do it conversely it will never meet your expectations.  But if you read the novel after watching the show it will only enhance.  Nicely filmed in gray also. "},{"Title":"made me want to read the book","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Unfortunately, I had not read the book before viewing this film.  I thought that the acting was solid, the story was one that needs to be told, and the characters round and I could identify with them.I was confused by the inclusion of the sheep scene and some others.  I am assuming that this was because the film did not explore some sort of comment in the book on his adolecent sexuality, as in Anne Frank's diary, or so.Good film. "},{"Title":"A more ashy account then the book.","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Most of this movie carries not the same feelings as the book. The books is rather amusing in its innocence and child like manner. In the movie the true state of the pore family is shown with ought the cover of the child's eyes. Although the movie does get more amusing at times towered the end most of it is all too serious and gruesome, as the cover suggests. On the cover of the book the boy is smiling, on the cover of the tape box the boy is dead serious (and probably hungry). Other then the different interpretation then the book, the movie was excellent. The actors were chosen with extreme care and, besides the cut outs, the movie followed the book well. If one has already gone though the book the movie may be a bit of a disappointment, if not, it is a great movie on a needy, yet not necessarily unhappy, childhood. "},{"Title":"Well made but depressing and over-long...","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Having read the Frank McCourt novel before seeing the film, I can say that it is a very faithful adaptation, but does it translate successfully from prose to screen, in my opinion I would say No. The film does however look good and some of the performances are very well acted but the film just seams to un-involving. Everything from the book is gutted and thrown in, we get to see young Frank doing the most mundane of things, it wouldn't have been as bad if Director Alan Parker had added some of the warmth and humour that made his Commitments (1991) such a joy to watch. Another problem is that some of the segments of the book that are very important, Frank going to work for the first time is a deeply important part in the boy's life, in the film it gets about five minutes. It's not a terrible film, but one of those films you'll possibly watch once and then never again. But I regard it a worthwhile watch just for Emily Watson's restrained performance as Angela, who although we don't see her as much more of a put upon housewife in the beginning of the film, she soon turns out to be the glue that is holding the dysfunctional family together. And Robert Carlyle is given the chance to play a softer role, even if he is still the villain of the film...6/10  "},{"Title":"The saddest movie about a poor family","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I haven't seen a sadder movie than this one, this is incredibly sad and very touching. It's memorable every minute, the scenery and the plot were fascinating. The story touched my heart because it was about a VERY poor family who had nothing, just debts, trouble and a lot of children. The most impressive part was when Angelas's husband wasted his limited money in buying stuff like alcohol, games, etc, without thinking a little of his children, how bad he was, it's incredible to see the family's poverty, they didn't have anything, however they had a bunch of children who were dying because of lack of food. Angela and her husband didn't feed their kids very well, they didn't even have a bathroom. It really made me think about how fortunate we are. We have everything and we complain about insignificant stuff. Great movie that makes me be a thoughtful person, watch it and look at some very poor people who are very unhappy because of money, irresponsibility, immaturity, etc. Think about your standing position and compare it with the characters in this movie. We must always thank God for everything we have.  It's really worth watching.           "},{"Title":"And you thought you had a bad childhood huh?!","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I feel two ways about this movie...on one point it's a very well made film, beautifully shot which really sets the mood of the film.  The other point is alright already!  It's a sad story to be sure, I just didn't know it was going to be consistently depressing for the better part of 2 1/2 hours.  If you have read the book you'll probably want to see the film just out of curiousity, you may still want to see it because of what you've read or heard from friends.  You'll look at your own childhood and be thankful you weren't one of the kids out of the film. "},{"Title":"The last 45 minutes are worth it","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  	This film is superbly made but so unrelentingly dreary and disagreeable that it's hard to consider half of it as entertainment.  I don't question for an instant that it gives us an accurate picture of life in Limerick, Ireland, in the late 1930s.  It was, at least for the McCourt family, an existence filled with hunger, brutality, filth and sickness, superstition, ugliness and death.  Frank McCourt's Pulitzer autobiography, the basis of the movie, is no doubt authentically filmed.  Is there any hope for young Frankie?  Not in Limerick in those times, no.  Frankie's dream is not to cope or to change (who could?), but to escape.  My feelings exactly.  At the start, I honestly had trouble staying with the movie, despite its great artistry.  The child actor Joe Breen, who plays young Frankie &#150; and whose face appeared in the ads (bad choice) &#150; is unappealing.  The actor should create audience sympathy.  (Roddy McDowall in `How Green Was My Valley.')  Instead, his circumstances create it.  He and his family go on mindlessly in a sea of muck.  This first part of the film is too long by 20 minutes &#150; brightened only by a fine performance by Robert Carlyle as Frankie's loving but no-good father.  (Of course, shortening that section would have shortened his role.)  The dreary points have been made and made and made.  The last part of the film, when Michael Legge takes over as the older Frankie, suddenly becomes interesting.  He, if no one else, is willing and able to DO something.  Frankie as a teenager learns that there is more to life than he has seen so far &#150; and he sets about to make a change.  His goal is to get to America, and he's actually able to find a job to start him on his way.  At last we have a character to hold onto, to pin our own hopes on, to cheer for.  But it took far too long.  We were never given a hint of this kid earlier.  We'd had what seemed like hours of hopelessness.  If it's solely by luck that he can leave, by good fortune appearing unexpectedly in the endless miseries of Limerick &#150; luck was probably the only way out of that hellhole.  Grab it, Frankie!  Steal your chance!  Get out any way you can.  On that tub of a steamer, look up lovingly at the Statue of Liberty as you pass.  You made it!  Frank, I'm happy for you beyond measure. 7 stars out of 10  "},{"Title":"one of the best films of  1999","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"    Alan Parker who has direct many great films exceeds himself with this superb rendition of the autobiographical novel by Frank McCord.  It is the harrowing saga of a youth growing up in utter poverty, & his struggles to keep on going no matter how bad everything is told with both humour & sadness.  Emily Watson  & Robert Carlyle are his parents. But the real stars are the 3 lads who portray Frank  from the ages of 8 to 16. they are just brilliant in there interpretation of the  frank at 3 separate stages in his life   It is a long movie but I was not bored even for one second.John Williams Music score is brilliant as his usually are, The song score has using  classical,Pop & traditional songs only adds to the overall enjoyment.    I Highly recommend this film for all those who love serious dramas.   **** "}{"Title":"Very depressing","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Having not read the book I did not know what to anticipate. Somehow I thought things would get better but they steadily got worse but then in real life and this was an autobiographical story, they do get worse. I suspect that the movie did not live up to the book, judging from all the literary acclaim that the book received. This often happens. Sometimes it is extremely difficult to capture the powerful word images that the author projects onto film and I had that feeling about this film. I have been in Limerick and when I was there it was pleasant, something never depicted in the film. Perhaps, the director wanted to turn Limerick into a very stark place and avoided showing any good weather because it might spoil the effect. Though neither Emily Watson or Robert Carlyle are on my favorite actor list, they were cast perfectly in their roles which fitted both. Both look like drab losers and that was just what their roles called for. It never was a secret that Frank wanted to go back to America. The only question was whether or not he would succeed and if so how.  "},{"Title":"This film is a disappointment if you've read the book","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It feels as if the film makers didn't dare to show what an awful upbringing Frank McCourt actually had. Perhaps when they had such acclaimed actors as Robert Carlyle and Emily Watson playing the parents, they didn't dare to show how bad they really were. This especially goes for the father, who seems so much nicer in the film. I mean, he did drink up all the money while his children starved, their only nourishment being boiled water with sugar lumps in it (which they drank all the time in the book, but I didn't  see it once in the film). And Emily Watson was looking way too healthy and well dressed as the mother. I also didn't like the casting of the oldest Frank. It the book he often mentions how ugly he was with pimples and red eyes, but the Frank in the film was adorable and cute with long black eyelashes.I think that if they hadn't tried to cover things up so much in the film, trying to make it more idyllic, this would probably have been a very good adaption from the book. If I hadn't read it first, I'd probably rate this film much higher.  "},{"Title":"Not an easy story for me to identify with","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had severe empathy problems with this film. The Papal edict against birth control was in full effect in Ireland in 1935 and caused untold misery and poverty for Irish Catholics.  Angela, the matriarch wanly played by Emily Watson, doesn't help matters by being such a stoic nitwit, passively allowing her no-account husband to drink away their dole money and puffing on a cigarette while telling him how useless he is.  Why didn't she accompany him on his trips to pick up their welfare check so she could snap it away from him before he squandered it all?  Too often, we see her standing mutely by or taking the easy way out whenever possible (begging for leftovers from the rich, sleeping with her filthy slob of a cousin in exchange for board and lodging, etc.).  Ignorance, hypocrisy, cruelty, and blind, unquestioning religious faith prevail to such an extent in this society that you might almost think Frank McCourt's memoir was a vendetta against the Irish and the Catholic church.  Maybe the film would have worked better dramatically if someone (anyone!) had been depicted struggling against some of these dire conditions.  As it is, we're left to wallow in the muck.  If you can get over these hurdles, the film is reasonably well-made and engrossing, and it does end on a hopeful note with Frankie's return to America, although the rather sleazy way he goes about earning the money for the passage gives one pause. "},{"Title":"A perfect adaption","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Alan Parker has made a unique adaption of a unique book. What is so very rare on screens are adaptions which seems to be as good as their sources of inspiration. I read the book and enjoyed is very much, I saw the film and was moved and entertained once again or rather anew.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful and touching with a bit of humor.","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Angela's Ashes is quite a good movie that brings you back to the poor and dark Ireland of the fifties. This is not the story of a rich family, on the contrary, the McCourts are maybe one of the poorest families in the town of Limerick. Little Frank McCourt, the main character, I suppose, shares his lifestory, one that doesn't contain much happiness. Although the biggest part of the movie is sad and touching, some things are fun and you can even say they've tried to put some humor in it.  To sum it up an excellent movie which surely deserves 8.5/10. "},{"Title":"Moving, faithful adaptation of a bestseller","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One had to feel sorry for Alan Parker in 1999. When he started filming ANGELA'S ASHES, it was based on a new book which was relatively unknown, and was sure to be a hit once the film came out. By the end of shooting however, the book was an international bestseller, and all eyes were on Parker and his team to come out with the official visual aide to the book. The pressure was undoubtedly huge, and fortunately this film film is in no way disappointing.Frank McCourt's superb writing is lovingly captured in a humourous narration that runs throughout the film. The three boys playing Frankie of varying ages are all wonderful, and manage not to get the viewer so deep into pity, but creates a witty, almost ironic look at life in Limerick, which seemed to be the only way the residents at that time could hope to survive. The leads, Emily Watson and Robert Carlyle are both stunning - how Emily Watson coped with portraying so much pain is astounding. And a superbly moving, but simple score by John Williams complements the film perfectly.One of the great hits of 1999, ANGELA'S ASHES is a must. "},{"Title":"A heart warming, wonderful story of personal triumph over adversity","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Not having read the book and after hearing all the reports of how depressing the film was, I put off seeing this until I could rent it and could watch when I was ready. Boy am I ever sorry, truly.Where it is true there are MANY sad moments in the film, there are equally as many light and uplifting ones. The reality is these were hard times and it's amazing what humans persevered. I felt this film captured that and gave you a glimpse of that harsh world so many people faced, day to day (and even now.)The casting was amazing, each performance was authentic and heart wrenching and if you're lucky enough to either rent or own the DVD, there is a bonus track of Frank McCourt's comments.  If seeing a true story like this isn't enough, seeing it through the appreciative eyes of the author, is quite a treat.This one got added to the home collection. "},{"Title":"Can't dry off after watching this movie. (what ashes?)","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The film takes place in Limerick which, from the looks of it, is in the middle of a rainforest.  Two brothers grow up with a mother who struggles and begs to keep her family alive and together.  The father uses every bit of money he ever earns to drink pints.  (More like gallons.)  The film shows slices of life in the growing up process, and details how Frank finally gets the money to leave Ireland and come to America. It's hard to imagine living in a place that is that wet.  Rain rain rain all the time.  The boys were no angels, but they survived without getting into too much trouble, and became literary lions in America. In the movie, however, Angela, the mother, does not die, and so there are no ashes.  Or did I miss something? Where are the ashes?Very good performances by all; if any one performance stood out, it was the teenage version of Frank McCourt. "},{"Title":"Great Movie Deserved Oscar Nominees","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"               The life of Angela McCourt and her son Frank in Frank's best selling autobiography could not be put to the screen better than Alec (who also directed Evita) did. An excellent movie deserved oscar nominees definitely for picture. American Beauty was dumb. Angela's Ashes was a long movie that entertains and touches all the way. I totally recommend it!   "},{"Title":"Faithful in its Recreation of Incidents from the Memoir","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Rating  6/10.  Of course it doesn't compare to actually reading the book but it faithfully and accurately recreates pretty much all of the major episodes from it.  The story itself isn't all that unique or remarkable, so if you see the movie without reading the book you'll wonder what all the fuss is about. It's the humorous, wry prose of the author that made the memoir so good "}{"Title":"good film.","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I liked it. Michael Sersin's photography is very good, as are the performances. Alan Parker can direct, as he does. I reccomend this film to anyone looking for a well-crafted moving film experience. Emily Watson, Robert Calyle, and all of the children are abosloutley wonderful. I loved the humor, and especially Geoffery Kirkland's design.  "},{"Title":"An Oppressive System Yields a Thought-Provoking Film","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Irish Free State depicted in Angela's Ashes would have to be rated one of the most deprived and depressing places in civilized Europe.  Imagine geographic isolation, political and religious impotence, abominable and disease-inducing weather, unremitting hunger, the festering wounds of a horrible civil war, and the mindset of a conquered and humiliated people emerging from 800 years of foreign domination.  (And we wonder why the Catholics of the north bitterly resent the marches of the Protestant Orange Order through Catholic neighborhoods!) The collective emotional and pyschological scarring of a whole people seem more reminiscent of the experience of Russia under the Tatar Yoke than of a member-state of the British Commonwealth of Nations.  It's no coincidence that both the Irish and Russian peoples have the reputation of notoriously hard drinkers.  The similarity with Russia does not end there.  The Ireland depicted in the film seems like nothing so much as a self-policing Gulag, where pity and compassion are in very short supply, and where the inmates have been cowed into being their own jailers.  In an Irish context Catholicism seems to breed an especially virulent strain of self-loathing, while at the same time economic impotence seems to drive many into unbelievable selfishness.  Personal survival at the expense of everyone and everything else seems to be the rule for most of the people in this film.   I was infuriated at seeing Frank McCourt's uncle in the film act like a dog with a bone while eating his chips, and  I wouldn't have been surprised to hear him growl and bark.  Frank's father was, if anything, worse.  It's painful to watch a man so weak as to deprive his own family of sustenance just to satisify his own need to escape the world through drink.  It's painful, but it's familiar.  Other reviewers here have commented on the implausibity of the wetness of  the Limerick City that is the setting of much of this film.  To that I would say that when your skin hangs loose on your bones and when your clothes are paper-thin every day would seem unrelentingly cold and wet, even when the sun is shining.  The damp is as much psychological as physical.  It's no wonder that countless  Irish have escaped that environment through drink, and countless more have physically - but not altogether emotionally - escaped through immigration.  The effect of this harsh film is to make us pity and remember the downtrodden victims, but also to give thanks and admire those who survived.  In the end, the only ray of sun that  I can recall seeing in the entire film was the one playing on the Statue of Liberty in New York Harbour, welcoming those tired...poor...huddled masses, yearning to breathe free.  Only then did Irish eyes really feel like smiling. "},{"Title":"Excellent Portrayal of 30-40's Ireland Via Frank McCourt!","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Alan Parker does a masterful job of translating Frank McCourt's Angela's Ashes to the screen.  This film is very faithful to the book, with uniform superb acting, and authentic scenes of Limerick, Ireland in the 1930's, 40's.Every character, from the three actors who play Frank at various ages, to the downtrodden but indomitable mother, to the tormented, pathetic father, and to all the other relatives and schoolmates, lovers, and friends who make up this time and place is absolutely superb.  The film is every bit as moving as the book with all of its laughter, pathos, and descriptive references.  I expected Angela's Ashes to be anti-Catholic in flavor, but found the church to be irreverently but lovingly portrayed.  Before Frank takes his leave for America, one priest even helps him come to terms with himself.Easily one of the best films of the year. "},{"Title":"Unrelenting despair abounds.","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A film rarely comes along that plays with my emotions like this one did.  One moment I would be saddened by the events depicted on the screen, and within a minute or two, I would be smiling or laughing at the portrayal of another event.  Angela's Ashes is one of those films.This movie is very well filmed, and brings the despair and zeitgeist of the times to the movie screen in a spectacular fashion.  While other films based in Ireland, such as Michael Collins, have brought that country to the screen in terrific color and grand splendour, this particular film shows Ireland of the 30's and 40's for what it really was.  Poverty and hard times abounded, and this movie makes no bones about it.The acting in this film was spectacular.  From the portrayal of Malachy Sr., to Angela, to Frank and the rest of his family, along with the other characters in the film, this is one of the best casts I have seen in a while.  The father is a man with fatal flaws, but Robert Carlyle's portrayal just doesn't allow the viewer to hate him.  Emily Watson (Angela) also does an excellent job with her character.  However, the show is stolen by the three boys who play Frank at various ages.  All of them have the perfect facial expressions and emotions, and I would love to see more films they are in.As an auto-biographical tale, this movie works well.  There are no special effects, no eye-candy, and this film wasn't made to be a blockbuster.  This is part of the reason it works.  To see a movie that is emotional, as well as true to its roots, especially in this day and age, is very special.  While it is based on the book of the same name, I have yet to read the story.  Judging by what many people have to say about the difference between the movie and the book, I will definitely make it a priority to find the book at the library and give it a look.Overall, from somebody who has seen the film but hasn't read the book, I have to give this one a thumbs up.  The acting is superb, and not since the movie 1984 have I seen filming that adequately portrays the times which the movie represents.  Be on the lookout for the Holy First Communion scenes, they had me in stitches.My Rating  8/10 "},{"Title":"positive","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Although gloomy, both literally and figuratively, and a little depressing, this is an excellent movie.  The acting is absolutely wonderful, from the smallest child to the oldest character.  This movie is a vivid portrayal of Ireland's urban poor in the '40s (and probably things haven't changed a lot), as well as what a family will do to survive; class prejudice; Catholic-Protestant prejudice; and Northern-Southern Ireland prejudice.  "},{"Title":"The heartof the book was cut out!","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've waited so long to see my favorite book made into a movie and the heart was cut out of it. The wonderful,believable cast was wasted. This was truly a rushed job.All of the emotion and passion of the book(both paperback and audio) was not there!!! Angela,s ashes should be filmed again,alone with it's sequel tis.  The book should be fully (from start to finish) bought to life!! Cutting nothing out! Allowing Frank to narrate his own life story. His life story deserve,s to be told just as written!! Thank you "},{"Title":"Got the hard parts, could have done better on the easy parts","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Angela's Ashes is not the sort of literary achievement that transfers well to film, but this was a good attempt. I would see anything that has Emily Watson in it because she's such a fine actor.  I thought she could have looked a bit scruffier, and perhaps some grey hairs by the time Frank was a teenager.For me the charm of the book was the levity in the descriptions of the squalor in which Frank grew up.  The movie did a good job depicting the squalor, but could not maintain Frank's captivating descriptions which have a childlike charm, and despite everything, largely unjudgmental.  The rendition of the First Confession got close to it.    I've spent quite some time in Ireland, most of that in Limerick, but I never saw rain as heavy as it was in nearly every outdoor scene.  It's wet, but it doesn't have monsoon rain.  Even Ang Lee's marvellous Sense and Sensibility did that too.  It seems that just as we get used to the rain in the British Isles, we have to get used to this type of depiction of it on film.A good effort, but I thought the scene with the lunar eclipse (which was not in the book as far as I recall), was corny. "},{"Title":"Overall, a pretty good movie","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  After reading Frank McCourt's brilliant memoir, I have to say that the movie brought home the despair, hopelessness and utter poverty of the author's existence.Frank's father failed him. After reading the memoir I felt nothing but hate for Frank's dad. But Carlyle's portrayal evoked sympathy for him. An alcoholic- probably, but he like his family was a victim of Limerick's social environment.The Catholic church failed him. For all of Frank and his family's devotion to their faith, how were they benefited? It is interesting to watch the benevolence of the men of the cloth. Only near the end does Frank find compassion in the church.The British school system failed him. His teachers may see his intelligence, but they can do little to help a boy who cannot afford secondary school. At times, the McCourt family seem less like humans and more like animals seeking the necessities to maintain their meager existence.Although the movie was long, I would have liked a few more school episodes, as they were the most humorous parts of the book.I also would have liked an update at the end letting us know how Frank is in America.Very worth-while movie. "},{"Title":"from despair, hope.","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Films of books that draw most of their attraction from their literary style are difficult undertakings; often all you get a few highlights filched from the plot and distorted. Joseph Strick's brave attempt to film Joyce's Ulysses shows just how hard it is to capture the spirit of a serious literary work. In this case the adapters have done quite well in conveying some of the appeal of the book, but the film is a pretty bleak one, with less of the book's lightness of touch, without with it would have been unreadable. Frank McCourt's memoir of growing up in the grinding poverty of  the lanes of Limerick is a pretty grim tale, but it is made bearable by his storytelling style. In the film it rains all the time and everyone is miserable, even the relatively well-off, and there is little light relief.I thought Robert Carlyle was terrific as Dad, the lively, useless drunk it was hard to dislike, and Emily Watson as Angela the put upon mother was equally effective. Both were a bit too clean-cut to be totally realistic, but then the rest of the squalor was laid on pretty thick. Frank is portrayed by three different actors whose performances blend in so well that it is not until the end when we see them together do we realise how different they look. The authority figures - priests, schoolteachers and charity officials are generally pretty grim and uncaring, often displaying an element of sadism,, though one old teacher recognises Frank's abilities and tries to get him into high school. The school was run by the notorious Christian Brothers so perhaps Frank had a lucky escape.The general lack of charity displayed by almost everybody is quite remarkable; the help the McCourts did get from their family, neighbours and the church was grudging and  minimal. Dad was a drunk, so they were consigned to the ranks of the undeserving poor. A much warmer and perhaps more authentic view of poor Irish life is given in My Left Foot where the whole street helps Christy to overcome his disabilities.Despite the grim background the surviving members of the family did far better that one might have expected, with Frank going on to a career as a teacher in the US and becoming the author of a couple of best-sellers. Malachi, one of his younger brothers, who became a bar-owner has also done well with his own memoir, and the other brothers did all right too. At the end of this film, Frank is back in America, like millions before him, to make a new life in a new land but probably would have succeeded in Ireland, if he had stayed. Angela sacrificed herself for her children, but they did not let her down.  "},{"Title":"Poignant and Accurate Adaptation","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The movie is an excellent adaptation from the book, made more memorable by the voiceovers quoting from the book.  Congratulations to a wonderful cast for their portrayals of the McCourt family - which could not be an easy feat given they were real people!  If you enjoyed the book, you will enjoy the movie.  Although the depiction of the poverty in the slums of Limerick and the conditions of life, when seen visually as opposed to the imagination of the written word, can at times be harrowing, it is made up for in the lighter moments of the film.  I believe that the movie has remained true to the book and is a tribute to Frank McCourt, his family and of course, the heroine, his mother, Angela.   "}{"Title":"No Magnolia, no American Beauty, but...","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm afraid to say that I loved Angela's Ashes, because it's no film to blow your mind, it's nothing totally original, it's not a masterpiece by any chance. But, I don't know, there was something lovely, irresistible about it. I'm not the kind of person who rates a film just for the feelings it brings to me or for the fun it purposes to me. I like to be defied, to have something to reflect days and nights. But, as a friend of mine said, if all the films were like Magnolia, it would be boring to go to the movies and they would become usual pictures. Then Notting Hill or Gladiator would become rarities, and they would become our new art-house films. So don't think I want to take the merits of Angela's Ashes. It's very good, made with heart and sensibility. It's not a rarity or an art-house production (it had a budget of $40 million), but it's one of the most enjoyable movies I've seen this year.Wonderfully directed by Alan Parker, Angela's Ashes is not centrated at Angela's character, as you may think. It is based on Frank McCourt's book, telling his auto-biographical story. In the '30s, he lived with his mother Angela, his father Malachy and many brothers in Brooklyn. However, after the death of his just bornt sister, the family had to move back to Ireland. As Frank said, they made the reverse way (from the US to Ireland, and not from Ireland to the US). They used to be poor, but became poorer living in Limerick, a South Irish town. Frank continues narrating his story, telling his father's constant drunks, his mother's apparent depression, his relation with the Catholic religion and his miserable life. Many of his brothers died and others bornt. But he still kept the dream of going back to America. Alan Parker seems very comfortable in direction. With the help of a beautiful adaptation, he makes a warm, bittersweet, sensible, adorable film, contrasting very funny moments with very dramatic ones. Everything told with the right tone. There are memorable scenes, memorable quotes. All this makes Angela's Ashes something hard to hate.Then there's Emily Watson. Here the main character is Frank, but she just shines as Angela. Watson is without any shadow of doubt one of the greatest actresses of our days. I would put her right there with Julianne Moore and Jodie Foster. She was the best of the five nominees the two times she was in the run for the Oscar- in 1997 with Breaking the Waves and in 1999 with Hilary and Jackie. I hope the Academy makes justice to her the next time.I would truly recommend Angela's Ashes to everyone. I won't say 'you won't forget it' or 'it will change your life', but I'll say 'you'll be really engaged'.8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When I first saw this movie, I was struck. Struck by the Frank Mccourts life, by his struggle through extreme poverty--I belive this is a film anyone who is not afraid to view something more captivatiing then what they think their lives are like, should see. It made me think, these days, there are people who waste food, for instance. In this film, wasting food was considred a deadly sin. I was appaled by the conditions of his life. Before I used to throw away food, ill admit, but then I saw this, and never again had I thrown away so much food and things. There is not much charactar development, probably because its a true story, but the story itself is heart-felt, and insipring to watch this boy rise from the poverty of Old Ireland, to become a famous writer towards all. It truly shows us, just how much we should work hard and not be lazy, just how much we should NOT waste food and belongings, but most of all, it shows us that no matter how bad you think your life is, we should open our eyes, and look around, and not be so sellfish on ourselves. I loved tjis film to the grave, i recommended it AND the book to anyone who is interested. "},{"Title":"Best movie ever","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Angela´s Ashes  is the best movie I ever seen. I have seen it first in Dublin during my holidays in Ireland and I was very impressed from the story and the actors .Watson and Carlyle are doing a good job but the ones you will remember are the actors who play Frank. Joe Breen , without any experience in acting, makes you laugh and cry and sometimes both at the same time.Ciaron Ownes and Michael Legge are both very talented young actors so keep your eyes open for any on movie with them.  "},{"Title":"Zig-zagging story","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Angela's Ashes is one of the bigger disappointments of 1999.  Though, visually entertaining the story itself is jumbled and unfinished.  The film seems to take a little of every scene from the book and just teases the viewer with the bare basics of each individual story and never follows through with any substance or endings.  What you get at the end of the movie is a feeling of flipping TV channels for well over an hour and never finding anything good to watch. "},{"Title":"Too much happening in too little time","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Having read the book, the first thing that entered my mind when I heard they were going to shoot a film was How on earth are they going to put all that stuff into one movie?. And yes, that's exactly what's wrong with this film. Even though the actors are giving it their best, there just isn't enough time to explore the inner feelings.Each period in Frank's life is told in such a short, compact way that you don't feel any emotion. E.g., you see a new-born baby and the next frame you hear it has died. You get no time to get attached to the baby, you didn't even get time to get to know the family, so you don't feel the pain they experience. And since in my opinion the book's strongest point is the way it conveys the feelings of loss, mourning, misery and also happiness, I must conclude that the film misses the point completely.I still gave it a 7 though. "},{"Title":"Oh dear!","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Well, it may be very beautiful to look at, in a masochistic sort of way, but this really is a bit of a mess of a film. It's a string of vivid enough episodes strung together, but it all seems terribly aimless - thinks the director let's pile on another shovel-full of misery (and another vomit scene) and that'll do it. Well, no, actually. Thinks we OK, the kid's had a hard life ... and then? The actors don't even seem very convinced. Me neither. "},{"Title":"Very Dramatic","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw Robert Carlyle in The Full Monty. I was able to see his comic side in THAT movie....and now I was able to see his DRAMATIC side. He does a fine job playing the lead character.It was truly heart breaking seeing what all the family had to go thru. So many people have it so hard in life. This film will help you understand a little more about what some people have to endure. It will also help you realise just how endurable the human spirit is. "},{"Title":"WHEN IRISH EYES AREN'T SMILING","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Growing up impoverished in a poor Irish tenement in the 40s.Wait a minute. Haven't we had this one before?You know, the old Irish exuberance and resilience winning out over harsh conditions.And how many times have we seen the Irish immigrant clamber up on a conveniently empty spot on a ship's railing and stare up in wonder as the ship sails past the Statue of Liberty?Yes, folks, Alan Parker - usually a director to fight shy of cliches - here embraces them full on, and comes up with his dreariest film for some time.Despite the flashes of humour throughout, there's no getting around the fact that the film is relentlessly downbeat; 3 children all die within the space of the first half hour. And the limitations of the script mean that 2 usually compulsively watchable stars simply don't register at all as the noble mother and the no-good-for father.Michael Seresin's slate blue cinematography and John Williams' expressive score help give this the veneer of class it is disappointingly lacking. "},{"Title":"not enough of details between dramatic changes","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The speed of this movie moves really fast before I was able to feel the grip. Sort of I can see Charlie woke up, he ate breakfast, he went to school, he came home, and he went to bed but not enough of details between dramatic changes. But there are some humors in this movie and my best laughing part was she talking to god in Central Park in N.Y.  "},{"Title":"First of all....I didn't overly care for it, but you may like it.","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  First of all....I didn't overly care for it, but you may like it. Here we have the true story of an Irish family and the many struggles they face. And yes they do face some pretty serious struggles and contend with tragedy around every corner.Unfortunately, the film is not able to adequately portray these tragedies so that the audience member can be emotionally moved by them. Now while this film is based upon a bestseller, which will undoubtably bring countless patrons to the theater to see it. I suggest that if you want to truly identify with the story, then read the book.I will attempt to briefly describe this movie for you...it's a story of an Irish Catholic family who comes to America only to turn around and go home when things don't turn out well for them. However in Ireland they face even worse hardships, but are at least close to family. But the family is definitely dysfunctional, so they probably should have stayed put in the USA.Now I am not trying to make light of their tragedies, but after watching 3-4 children die in their family and the father not being able to find a job for 15 years of daily looking, something should kick in and say you need to do something different. Everyday you watch the children get taunted by their peers at school and then return home to a parents who can't provide them food or proper shelter.That in itself makes the story sad, especially when you know it's true, but it's presented so repetitively that one gets bored watching it. Parts of the story are interesting, for instance, watching the unique relationships between the family members that are based upon the person's religious upbringing or where in Ireland they were born. But these interesting parts are not enough to bring this film to the level of recommending it.Bottom line...I provide this film with the rating I did, not because it deserves it, but because I too am an Irish Catholic and don't want to face the guilt of giving it a lower rating. "}{"Title":"A dark and gloomy tale provides for a good film","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Angela's Ashes is a dark, gloomy tale set in the poverty-stricken areas of Limerick, Ireland.  It is the true story of Frank McCourt and his family as they face the troubles of being poor. The movie is enjoyable but don't expect it to cheer you up or put you in a good mood. It does just the opposite of that depressing you and making you grateful for the many pleasures that we have. It shows how bad life can be but how you have to keep hope through hardships of titanic size. This movie will be liked and enjoyed by many regardless if you have read the book or not.The acting in Angela's Ashes is strong especially by the two lead actors. Emily Watson plays Angela McCourt the somber and dreary wife and mother of the family. Watson gives a good performance that we have seen from her before in movies like Breaking the Waves, Hilary and Jackie, and The Boxer. The three young men who play Frank McCourt are impressive but the best performance in this movie definitely comes from Robert Carlyle. He plays the McCourt father, Malachy McCourt. He has been seen in weaker roles before in movies like The Full Monty and most recently the latest Bond flick, The World is not Enough. He is a pleasure to watch as the alcoholic father tormented by his own pride who drinks the rare money away. He certainly gives the best performance in Angela's Ashes and it is too bad that we did not get to see a little more of him. Carlyle and Watson have great chemistry together and are very good as husband and wife. The movie is also directed well by Alan Parker who gives the movie a kind of beautiful feel. He gives the movie a certain tint that makes even the most horrendous of places gleam with life. It gives the movie a good feel and makes it more pleasant to watch. The only problem I had with Angela's Ashes is that the McCourt family seems too stereotypical. It seems as if we have seen this family before. We have seen the father before who is plagued with afflictions that drinks the money away even when his newborn baby at home is hungry and cold. He has too much pride and eventually is driven away by his own shame. We have also seen Emily Watson's mother and wife character before. The sympathetic mother who will do anything to make her children's lives better and the reluctant wife who regrets the marriage that she is trapped in. They are your usual poor family living in your usual squalid conditions. This is the only disappointing part of Angela's Ashes. All in all Angela's Ashes does justice to the book. It does what few movies based on books do today. While I am positive that it is not nearly as good as the book I do think that it comes close to it. Those who have read the book will not be disappointed as well as those of us who have not read the memoir. The movie in its finality is a satisfying movie experience showing you a different aspect of life where there is never any hope for any of the characters. You just hope that they survive another day living in their unsanitary conditions. The movie is worth seeing if you liked or are interested in the book but may prove to be dull or unmoving if you have never experienced the novel. As the movie meanders through the troubles of being poor it is too bad that the characters and the story was not a little more original. It is too bad that Angela's Ashes did not have its own certain traits to make it different from the other films about being poor.*** (money well spent)  "},{"Title":"There is no childhood so miserable as a Catholic Irish childhood.","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  These are the words from McCort's book that start off the film and serve as a theme for the film version for Frank McCort's autobiography. I enjoyed the setting, which was painfully accurate, the acting which made you forget anyone actually was pretending to be what they are not. The soundtrack, with trite American tunes like Dipsy Doodle remind you of the period (the 1930's and 1940's) when the action of the film occurs.I believe that I read that all of McCort's brothers eventually came to the US, and brought Angela's ashes along with them. The Holy Mother Church dislikes cremation, but neither the Church nor Ireland did right by Angela McCort, and her ashes are here, with the clammy Irish damp burned out of them.I imagine that this film will become to some Irish Americans as the Godfather and Coming to America has become to some Italian Americans. I hear that the Irish rather dislike being reminded how poor, bigoted, ignorant and uncharitable some of their ancestors are portrayed, but the film seems authentic. My own Irish four-great grandfather came to America before the potato famine and became an Anglican and a thirty-third degree Mason just to convince the rest of Georgia and himself that he was no shanty famine Irishman, (well, not any longer, anyway) and this feeling of mixed nostalgia, hatred and shame for the auld sod comes out in this movie for me more than any single other emotion.I thought it was a masterful film and can't imagine not seeing it again and again when it becomes available for rent or purchase later on. It really should win some serious awards, because it captures the humor, the despair, the fatalism, the hope and the luck of the Irish better than any recent rendition of a book that I have seen. Most books can't be squeezed into even a two and a half hour film, but this was the most successful attempt I have seen to capture the essence of 15 years into 150 minutes I have seen so far. "},{"Title":"Holds its grip then drops...","Date":"10 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Alan Parker did a wonderful job identifying each character in great detail. The terrible conditions that this family went through was often unbearable to watch.  Since so much detail was given to each character, I was disturbed at the fact that the movie ended without disclosing what happened to the rest of the family.  After all, so much time was spent getting to know each one that when it was over, there were many questions.  One for example, is why the title Angela's Ashes. If you haven't seen it yet, wait for video.  "},{"Title":"An Ugly Experience, A Tremendous Film","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Thankfully, the film does not attempt to deliver the group hugs threatened by the carefully edited previews. The cinematography is gorgeous, yes, but effectively avoids making Frank McCourt's Limerick, Ireland, into a place that one would choose to inhabit.I'm most impressed by the portrayal of family as an institution. Like the Church and government (in the film as in life), the family adds to an individual's problems as often as it serves that individual in times of need.The adults are both agents and victims of these institutions, and the characterizations defy stereotyping. The cold, conventional grandmother is pathetically vulnerable. The father selfishly drinks the family's earnings but desperately loves his children and wife. The mother who makes up for the father's economic impotence is, and remains, emotionally distant from her children.Family is an untouchable force; family members can be, and often are, just as unreachable. Angela's Ashes does not provide explanations for these mysteries. It mourns a bleak childhood without failing to celebrate the memories of good times--as precious as lumps of coal fallen into the street. "},{"Title":"Miserable Irish Catholic Childhood","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Angela's Ashes begins with the line from the Frank McCourt autobiography that the worse childhood is the 'miserable Irish Catholic childhood'.  This film, wonderfully acted, imparts this feeling for the next 2 ½ hours.  In the first half-hour, little Frank has lost his newborn sister and his younger twin brothers due to poor hygiene from the filth  of their living conditions and the portrayal of such pathos makes you want to go out and pick up every stray kid you can find.  The question is can Angela's Ashes sustain this level of depravity and can we the audience stomach it enough to maintain our sympathies?   For the most part, the answer is yes and indeed, at film's end, there is an incompleteness about the McCourt family that hopefully will be remedied by its sequel.   Angela's Ashes doesn't hold back anything in order to sanitize McCourt's childhood.  It is all there from the broken household that has no decent father, to the shame of the mother depending on public and religious charity and finally to giving sexual favors, to the tyrannical Irish culture that blindly obeys the Catholic church and just as blindly equates poverty as weakness and sin.  I would take issue with the three separate characters who played Frank as he was growing up.  It lengthened the film to have to bring each character along and the adjustment to each phase wasn't as transparent as the filmmakers had thought.  Limiting Frank's development to two characters with more emphasis on the early Frank (as the book did) would have made it a smoother, albeit shorter, film. Others have commented that the real Frank McCourt should have been the narrator giving it more authenticity, a small quibble as far as I am concerned. That being said, kudos are in order for Emily Watson and Robert Carlyle for their sensitive and truthful playing of Emily and Malachy and to Joe Breen, Ciaran Owens, and Michael Legge II for their endearing Franks.     "},{"Title":"A great piece of work, but strangely unmoving","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Given Alan Parker's remarkable directorial ability, that Frank McCourt's heart-rending auto-biographical novel fails to raise a tear on the screen, is very strange. However, there are plenty of laughs and magnificent characterisations in the films two and a half hours. It must always be incredibly difficult for film-makers trying to represent growing up, and having to use two of more child actors. The results here are uneven, but generally fine. For me the great quality of the film is its visual consistency - giving a real sense of the passing of time and the changes in perception of a maturing consciousness.I'd certainly recommend the film... "},{"Title":"Truely Amazing","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Angela's Ashes is a wonderful protrayal of life in poverty stricken lanes of Ireland's Limerick in the 1930's and 40's.  Very gripping and emotional. Emily Watson does a wonderful job as Angela, a caring and somewhat overbearing mother and wife.  A must see for 2000!  "},{"Title":"Great acting in true story","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Angelas ashes gives examples of some of the best acting you are likely to see in a movie this year (2000). Each cast member should hold their heads high and be very proud to have been a part of this movie. Michael Legge is brilliant as the older Frank and Robert Carlyle proves that he can do no wrong in the cinema world. Carlyle has this amazing ability to pick up an accent and keep it through-out a movie. The book was basically memoirs and yet the movie tries to string together a story rather than showing someones experience. The title may make the viewer think that it is about Angela but the whole film is Frank and thanks to the three actors who share the role he comes across as a real person. Once again though praise must be heaped upon Carlyle as his alcohol infused character comes off the screen and into the viewers hearts. The only let down is Parker, we know he likes making in-depth studies of life and more often than not his films need their enormous running time in order to seem complete. Angelas Ashes is different in many ways. There is the thought that maybe the film could have been longer as certain areas appear to have had huge chunks ripped out but on the other hand a lot of characters are introduced that make us wonder exactly why they are there.The final diagnoses is that this is definetely a movie which is worthwhile viewing. It maybe a little long bit it is cetainly not over-long or unnecessarily long. There are noparts where it sags or loses pace and due to some great acting the whole experience seems very REAL.  "},{"Title":"Simply Terrific!","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Yesterday, my wife and I saw Angela's Ashes, and all I can say is it is perhaps one of the best movies I have ever seen! I am aware of the criticism of this move, particularly from the Irish-American audiences, and I understand how some people might view this as a betrayal of family secrets by Frank McCort, but I only witnessed one man's recounting of his tougher-than-usual life and times in Depression-era Ireland. This is a touching movie, and even though it is gritty, there were several heart-warming qualities about how he turned bad situations into insightful opportunities, and how he survived! If you are one to compare the faithful adaptation from novel to motion picture, I don't see how you might find fault with Angela's Ashes.  It is one of the most faithful adaptations I have ever had the pleasure to have witnessed! Go see it, and learn! "},{"Title":"Absolutely fantastic","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I went to see the film with expectations to be depressed from start to finish. To my surprise I laughed most of the way through - at least when I did not feel anger at the situation in which our hero(s) found themselves in. It is a film full of humour and gentle portrayal of the hopeless poverty, hopeless situation that people found (still find) themselves in. No way out, at least for some. But in the end there is hope. Beautifully filmed as well. - "}{"Title":"Bloody Awful!","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Before I start to berate this absurdly over-rated film, I should mention its strong points, namely very fine performances by all of the actors involved, particularly Emily Watson. That aside, the film has to be one of the worst adaptions of a book that I've ever seen. How do I know this? Simple, I've never read the book. Two of the people I saw it with did, and they had to explain to me what the father character was really all about (the book apparentely contains a lot more detail.) You should not have to read a book ahead of time to appreciate the movie on which it is based.Furthermore, the film is completely episodic. This is fine if you're talking about a five-part TV miniseries here (which is what this SHOULD have been) but this is a two-hour film, and the director should have provided some sense of continuity and cohesion. As it is, it is for the most part unbearably boring. Sure, there are some fine moments, but a fine moment here and there does not a good film make. Angela's Ashes is not worth you time or money. "},{"Title":"Rather depressing","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm told the book is better than the film, but save for the odd moment this is a rather bleak movie and a fairly damning indictment of the narrow Irish nationalism of DeValera's  Catholic theocracy of the 1930s and 40s, the legacy of which still haunts us today.I got the feeling that both Emily Watson and Robert Carlyle, though good, weren't particularly stretched in their roles though the performances from the youngsters were superb.Several questions were left unanswered though perhaps we are to supply our own answers - what happened to the father? Why did mrs Finucane die? What is the significance of the title, save that Emily Watson is forever poking fires.Worth a look, but don't go out of your way for it. "},{"Title":"Bleak, powerful, unforgettable","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  George Orwell once remarked that autobiography is only to be trusted if it reveals something disgraceful. On this assumption, Angela's Ashes must be highly trustworthy as it reveals TWO truly shameful episodes in Frank McCourt's young life. The first is his writing threatening letters on behalf of a local moneylender, Mrs Finucane. This usurer was preying off his desperately poor friends and neighbours, and even off one of his relatives, but he still wrote the pompously worded letters to terrify them into paying up. He was so desperate to escape from his impoverished boyhood in Limerick, Ireland that he was willing to go to any lengths short of murder to raise the fare to America.Murder was not necessary for his second despicable action he comes into the unsavoury Mrs. Finucane's home and finds her recently deceased. But before calling for help, he steals from her purse and money box. Thus he has the fare to escape to a new life in America.It is rare that any film, fact or fiction, has the nerve to portray its hero in such an unappealing light. Up to that point, you could not help rooting for Franky. He has humour, spirit, courage, intelligence, fierce family love and loyalty, an appetite for hard work and perseverance. He defends his downtrodden mother against her loathsome cousin to whom she is, in effect, prostituting herself in exchange for food and shelter. Yet you understand the depths of his desperation in committing such foul offences. The horrible squalor of the Limerick slums, the dirt, hunger, damp, disease and death are all rubbed in repeatedly. All the same, both my father and my mother came from very poor West of Ireland families and both they and their numerous siblings escaped to better lives in England and the USA without robbing anyone. So I could not help but feel deeply uneasy at the way the film seems to half-excuse Franky's actions.Emily Watson deserves a third Oscar nomination (AND an actual Oscar!) for her wonderful performance. She never fails to amaze me. When I saw her in Breaking the Waves I assumed she is Scottish. In fact, her normal accent is educated South-of-England middle class, as she displays in Jackie and Hilary. Yet here she plays a very working class west of Ireland mother. One subtlety, missing in the film, which is well described in the book, is the astonishing range of Irish accents, even in a small area. A country Limerick accent marked you out from a city Limerick dweller. People from Kerry, Cork or Dublin were foreigners. Worst of all (arguably even more abominable than an English accent) was a Northern Ireland accent, as Franky's drunken father is unlucky enough to possess.Robert Carlyle gives a memorable and nuanced performance as the wretched father. He obviously had some strengths as a parent, as Franky and his brothers love him, his wild imagination and story telling. Yet as they grow up, they cannot avoid noticing his alcoholism, his inability to hold down a job and his self-defeating pride. Unlike his realistic wife, he is too proud to pick coal off the street to warm his shivering children. Unlike his neighbours, he is reluctant to move to the hated enemy England, where work is plentiful, to provide money for his starving and disease ridden brood. When he does finally move to England, he abandons his family completely.The portrayal of the father was another source of unease for me. I am losing count of the recent films where fathers are routinely portrayed as absent, hateful, irrelevant or useless Election, The Opposite of Sex, The Five Senses, Rosetta, All About My Mother, Anywhere But Here, Tumbleweeds, Felicia's Journey, Music of the Heart...  Is it me, or do filmmakers have a determined grudge against fatherhood, a conscious or unconscious agenda to denigrade it at every opportunity? Why do they pick such topics for their movies so consistently?About the only adults to come out of the movie in a favourable light, apart from the usual sainted mother, are two inspirational teachers, one of whom urges his intelligent, but poor, pupils to escape to America as they have no future in Ireland. The clergy, needless to say, are distant or snobbish, but are not as savagely maligned as you might expect from other horrid-Irish-childhood memoirs.Compared with the book, the basic story remains intact, but much of the verbal humour is lost in translation to a visual medium. Plenty of acidly humourous dialogue and situations still remain.  I may be biased by happy memories of summer holidays not far from Limerick, but I cannot believe it is as continuously wet, grey and miserable as the heavily manipulated cinematography makes it appear.Still, an unforgettable experience. Well worth seeing; I give it 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Raindrops keep falling on my....Everything!","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Key Words  Rain / Mud / Gray / Depressing / ChildrenThis gives a picture of bottom-of-the-barrel slum dwelling life.  The book concentrated on the human characters and bonds and love that overcomes all.  The movie concentrates on the family being overcome by their horrible environment, and, as far as we get to see, only one character rises above it all.  What a shame!  All the film energy went into trying to tell us how depressing it all was for the family, whereas the book let us know that the children were so well adjusted that not even this could get them down.  The acting was good, especially as done by the children.  See this one as a moody, depressing slice-of-life, but don't expect your heart to soar at the end as it did with the book. "},{"Title":"Good but overdone on the grayness!","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A Powerful movie that will move all who see it especially those that know Ireland of now and that of the olden days.  Boy has it changed! I had listened to the audiobook narrated by the author and in that the poverty and misery was bearable.  In the movie it was much more sombre and hard to believe.  The constant rain for one was a myth.  The climate was overdone with what looked like monsoons at times.  Nevertheless the Movie captured the essence of the book well, apart from the weather.  And I say that coming from Ireland myself.  Parker is a frequent visitor to Ireland and knows it well.  Present Limerick residents will resent the negative portrayal but that was the past.  "},{"Title":"slightly disappointed, but still a great movie","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I read Angela's Ashes last year, and I became enamored with the story.  When I heard that it was going to be made into a movie directed by Alan Parker, I was counting the days until its release.  I haven't been this excited to see a movie since The Phantom Menace was released.  When I went to the theater last night to see Angela's Ashes I was prepared to fall in love with the story again.I'm sad to say that I was a slightly disappointed.Watching the film version to this wonderful story was like reading Cliff Notes to a novel  the main points are covered, but small details that made the story so touching are left out. For example, the film never mentions the little girl that Francis met while he was in the hospital for typhoid.  The young lass was the one that turned Francis on to Shakespeare and gave him his love for literature.  The film also doesn't portray the deep, intimate, brotherly bond between Francis and Malachy as well as the book did (Malachy was only a year or two younger than Francis and experienced many of the same hardships as Francis).  The film left out the part where Francis and Malachy went out to steal groceries left on neighbor's door steps in order to feed the family.  Also, the time when Angela became deathly ill which prompted the father to return from England for a visit was also left out.  I could go on and on.At first I thought Alan Parker was the perfect choice to direct this story.  Angel Heart, Pink Floyd The Wall, Mississippi Burning are great films.  Yet, after I left the theater, I began to wonder how different the film might have been if Neal Jordan or Terrance Davies had directed it.  Even though the film was around 2.5 hours, I still feel that Alan Parker didn't take his time.  I got the feeling that Parker's heart wasn't into this film.Nevertheless, Angela's Ashes stands head and shoulders over all the other films I have seen this year.  The acting, especially from the kids, is outstanding.  The cinematography perfectly captures the beauty and dreariness of Ireland. And although the movie wasn't detailed the way I wish it was, it is still an amazing and powerful movie.  I hope it gets a slew of nominations at the Academy Awards.  I highly recommend Angela's Ashes. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Kudos for the faithful production!","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It is seldom one sees the translation of book to screen done so well. The events as well as the mood and the heartbreak and joy of this autobiography were depicted faithfully and with great care.  The actual locations shown lent great credibility to the story,  and the  so-called residence on the infamous lane was reproduced in unbelievable detail.  The actors did a fine job.  One small point I felt Ms. Watson's performance was a bit too subdued.  M'am, as McCourt wrote about her, appeared to me to be a tougher lady, better able to speak her mind out.  I also missed seeing her quiet moments with her friend, sharing tea and a cigarette!  She did have one or two small pleasures, after all!  But the movie is a wonder!  I loved it. Not to be missed! "},{"Title":"Powerful and interesting!","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A brilliant portrayal from the eyes of Frank McCourt  about his childhood in poverty stricken Limerick, Ireland, in the 1939s onwards. Robert Carlyle is superb as his alchololic father who think's he a proud Irish nationalist, and is well Oscar Worthy! Overall, I hope this movie scoop all the Oscars! Emily Lloyd is the real star, playing Frank McCourt's long-suffering mother. She looks the part, and conveys the emotion. "},{"Title":"It is a dull waste of time, talent and toil? 'Tis.","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Flat, dull and pointless adaptation of Frank McCourt's witty Irish memoir. Terrific production values, but forced acting and a muddled script. Alan Parker is one of the best of all working filmmakers; I can't believe this is the film he's been so publicly exerting himself over for the past two years. "},{"Title":"When I was a boy...  Misery, and agony make for a lousy time.","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Angela's Ashes- born poor, Irish, and Catholic, Frank McCourt entered the world with three strikes against him.  To make matters worse, he also had to contend with a drunken, unemployed father, never knowing where his next meal - if any - would come from, having to endure petty prejudices, and wondering which one of his family members might die next. In this bleak existence happiness is a rare commodity, doled out in minute portions.This movie reminded me of the classic Monty Python sketch in which four men try to outdo one another's hard-luck stories about growing up, each more ridiculous than the last.  The difference of course is that the grinding poverty and adversity of  Ashes is based on a true story.  And therein lies the problem.While McCourt may have found it cathartic to put pen to paper, the viewer derives little if anything from this tale of woe, except possibly frustration.  Almost every moment of this film is spent dwelling on misery, almost relishing them.  Each time that it looks like Frank or his family will get a chance to improve their lot, they are derided, pushed down, or ignored by the very institutions that are supposed to help them.   Granted there are a few small victories, but being subjected to this misery for over 145 minutes with little respite is simply overwhelming.  Eventually you become numb to it, and no longer care what happens.  Hard luck stories have been told before. And better.  "}{"Title":"Great Drama","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Angela's Ashes is a superb movie adaptation of a famous novel in the tradition of How Green was my Valley'.  It is the story of a dirt-poor family struggling for survival in 1930's Ireland.I must admit that, going into it, I was afraid it would be a stereotypically depressing, slow moving odyssey (like, for instance, Ironweed) but decided to give it a try it on the strength of Alan Parker's past films, many of which I love.  Fortunately, it was nothing like what I feared.  It is extraordinarily well written and acted. The production design and the cinematography are outstanding.  John Williams' music, which in my opinion can be overly saccharine sometimes, is as powerful as his score for Schindler's List.The story is told through the eyes of the children, and the young actors in the film who portray them are so thoroughly engaging (those faces!) and so very well directed that everytime one of them changes into an older version of himself, played by a different actor, I actually felt a loss.  The movie is simply filled with a number of enchanting characterizations, some that very quickly come and go, that rival in feeling and zest the best of Fellini's.The film as a whole is completely engaging in its drama and unexpectedly filled with great humor, and it grips you for all of its 140 minutes length. Alan Parker exceeded himself with this film and easily deserves at least a best director nomination. "},{"Title":"You might be poor, your shoes might be broken, but your mind, Your mind is a palace","Date":"6 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Still, no surprise here. A movie about life in impoverished Depression-era Ireland was in fact depressing. Ireland holds little promise for young Frank McCourt, the oldest son in a tightly knit family. Living by his wits, cheered by his irrepressible spirit, and sustained by his mother's fierce love, Frank embarks on an inspiring journey to overcome the poverty of his childhood and grow up as a successful author. Based on his memoirs of the same name, the movie begins with McCourt painting the 20th century Turn of the Century, immigrant's nightmare. It wasn't the picture of America dream, but as a broken dream, where his immigrant parents eventually give up and return from New York to their native Ireland when McCourt is just a small boy. Life doesn't get better for young Frank, and that might be the fault of the film and the book. It's too morbid. Children are always dying from pneumonia, typhoid, or tuberculosis. There is a lot of deep wrongs, here that the movie deal with, such as alcoholism, child abandonment, sexual abuse, etc. etc. that some viewers might be turn off of. Some people love hearing people survive against the odds, hints why the novel was popular, but that same fanfare didn't translate into film, because of some keys things. I read the book, they make the father Malachy (Robert Carlyle) look amazing in this movie, but sadly, he was a drunk. Frank blame him somewhat for one death in the family due to his drinking with black pint scene. This film seems to portray him as responsible, hardworking, and optimistic. He is quite different in the book. Still, what a great actor, Robert was. The author is trying to honor his mother by remembering her ashes. Frank's mother Angela (Emily Watson) takes the title of the film due to her endless amounts of smoking. Figuratively, it stands for the darkness of her very hardscrabble life and her dreams of raising a healthy family with a supportive husband have withered and collapsed, leaving her with only cigarettes for comfort and the smoldering ashes of a fire for warmth. While the movie makes her look good, once again, the book is a bit different in my opinion. Angela is still a filthy prostitute. People talk in reviews here about this woman's great self-sacrifice, but I noticed that she never failed to have a cigarette hanging out of her mouth, going through depression as her kids were going hungry and having to walk through the overflow of a toilet just to get into their house. I can't see any great self-sacrifice there, just laziness, lack of self-respect and self-indulgence. The mother is just as bad the father. Emily does a great role as well as Robert. Frank also go through his own guilt. It felt like a hate-filled Bildungsroman movie. Most of the movie, Frank is burdened by guilt at his own sinfulness, particularly the sinfulness of his sexual thoughts and behavior. He frequently worries that he is damned or that he has damned other people due to his Catholicism. While the movie might make Ireland look bad, it's helps cherishes the strong human spirit. Still it doesn't have the same spirit of the book. The music sounds so melodramatically to the point that mainstream America feels depressed. It's kind of hurts the film when the humor of the story comes in. The Irish humor is a little dry for American audiences as it hard for them to understand the Irish culture, the Anti-English Sentiment, and the Irish slangs in the language. Still, I love the movie culture symbolism in theme such as the river Shannon. Still, I can't see anything funny in this film, and certainly nothing noble in any of the characters. The movie is just one shovelful of grim after another linked by an unseen narrator who speaks of them in the past. This a major blow by Alan Parker, as it should have set the narration in present tense, using Frank to quote directly from his book. It is thrown upon unrecognizable and unbelievable caricatures of the Ireland culture that might not be true. We may never know the extent of the town of Limerick's misery. Not all books are meant to be translated into film. Still, they did an OK job with it. "},{"Title":" If you don't mind father, you can take you blessing and  . . .","Date":"1 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Frank McCourt wrote this incredible tale of his brutal life growing up in Limerick Ireland. His home country has worn the scars of it history well on the faces of it's migrating citizens. That face can be easily seen in the tear streaked faces which permeate the film called  Angela's Ashes. . Being one of them by blood stock, Frank McCourt (Joe Breen Ciaran Owens Michael Legge) tells of his impoverished family and their desperate day-to-day struggle just to eek out a living. Their daily efforts are further hampered by an lay-about, alcoholic father (Robert Carlyle) and a haggard mother. (Emily Watson) Beginning in America, then traversing the Atlantic for a better life, then returning, McCourt forgoes the achievements of the family and instead relates the constant ravages of dire poverty. Always in need, the family is forever moving. From meager pitiful surroundings, they move from place to place dealing with ambivalent church authorities and their artificial sympathy, to the constant nagging hunger which is forever present. Indeed, McCourt records in his boyhood memories the silent ridicule of surrounding neighbors. Believing things will never change, Frank is surprised by Aunt Aggie (Pauline McLynn) who favors him. This allows his fortune to change, allowing him to believe the world may yet deliver his family up from the rain-soaked cobblestone streets of Ireland to the Land of Opportunity which is his dream in America. The movie is filled with stark realism, brutal images and gruff bitter memories of object despair. With a musical score written by John Williams and directed by Alan Parker, 'Ashes' will be found on the top shelves of the Classics. **** "},{"Title":"A film of Alan Parker to  enjoy, feel and suffer.","Date":"5 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Magnificent film based on the best seller autobiographical of Frank McCourt. Angela and Malachy McCourt (Emily Watson and Robert Carlyle) and leave a New York plunged into economic hardships of the great depression that there was in the 1930 direction to their native Ireland. But the life they do not go better there because of the crisis after the independence and the alcoholism Malachy, that wasted in the bars the little wage that wins. On the basis of subsidies and charity Angela is the will be managing to keep her four sons.The director Alan Parker, adapted with great strength, balance and sobriety, the heartbreaking and dramatic autobiographical novel, of great success, by Frank McCourt,It's a movie in which dominates the narration, with the presence of religion as a determinant on many occasions of the facts, with an atmosphere created brilliantly, as well as a collection of the environment paltry in the early years of the twentieth century very real and blunt. What more i liked were those stretches of beauty human among so much tragedy and both drama, extracted from the landscapes of the green and lush Ireland. They are two hours of cinema truthful, without fuss, that reaches the senses with simplicityThe good adaptation of the history and the right direction or everything together, It make you feel at least a little that the protagonist could feel living his lives of those years. These things are in real life and have been captured perfectly by the Parker's camera , by most critical derogatory who has had the film, because it was very ill- treated at the time. Not only is an adaptation almost verbatim from the masterful novel by Frank McCourt, but also i think also a film impeccable. Address, indent, assembly, and music, (exceptional John Williams, as always). Stressing also the splendid photography of Michael Seresin. The performance of Emily Watson is simply worthy of a big award, is undoubtedly the best performance of the film, along with that of Joe Breen. It's also very good by Robert Carlyle, although in the indent ends early.In sense film is a film to enjoy. In a human sense, is to suffer "},{"Title":"Nicely lifted literary biopic","Date":"14 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Having seen this film I wanted someone to talk to about it but everyone I uncovered who knew anything about had read - and been charmed by - the book. Well, I hadn't and haven't read it and after seeing this indelible, if meandering film I don't feel the need to.Alan Parker goes for a very straight literary transposition in as much as the film is episodic. It's as if you're watching the chapters. The images are often funny or shocking and rarely simply padding the screen between events. Even the reductively bare but touching sequences as Malachy walks his son Frank across the countryside chatting away are marinated in a peculiarly Irish dye.Robert Carlyle is good as the good-for-nothing Malachy who has clearly acquired a romantic penumbra in his son's memory. Better is the excellent Emily Watson who plays Angela's despair close to the surface. I liked Joe Breen's Frank above all - inevitable a reactive performance but well coached by Parker and commendably delivered. 6/10 "},{"Title":"True film","Date":"13 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's an amazing film! At certain moments, of course, it's too naturalistic and too outspoken, the scenes with vomiting and masturbation could be omitted, the film wouldn't lose its artistic value, if these two were omitted. The film depicts the shaping of Frank's character, including his sexuality. I was attracted by a number of historical details, including the type of clothes, type of premises of that epoch, and the like. Definitely, Emily Watson's acting is as always excellent. Robert Carlyle was perfect - he managed to make a charming portrayal of a failure and drunkard. I really enjoyed the film and would recommend it to those who search historical truth in the feature films. "},{"Title":"A beautiful film","Date":"22 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I first saw this film in high school. My English teacher asked us to watch this movie and write a personal response to it. When I first saw this movie, I did not know what to expect, but when my viewing was complete, I found only a composition that took my breath away. The story about a young boy, Frank McCourt, growing up in the poor and bleak city of Limerick, Ireland, during the Great Depression, under an autocratic church and a father that could not get a job because he was addicted to alcohol moved me deeply and emotionally. Frank McCourt struggles not only with troubles on the home front, but with a church that teaches the people about Jesus without mentioning the concept of forgiveness of sins. They constantly put people in fear to live because they taught that you are doomed forever if you sin. I not only saw how ugly the church authority was, but I was also moved by Frank's life. For example, when Frank saw his father for the last time, he comments, through a narration, that he does not even have the freedom to say, I love you Dad, because in Limerick, you are only supposed to love God and horses that win... Anything else is softness in the head. When I saw this part, I almost wept, because it showed the limited freedom of a life in Limerick. As well, the theme that there is always hope in a troubled life is beautifully portrayed by the visuals. In the midst of the dark streets of Limerick, green grass grows in the cracks. Eventually, Frank triumphs when he gets enough money to go to America and start a new life. Also, near the end of the film, he meets a priest who understands that God forgives us when we sin. At last, there was a priest that truly understood the message of Jesus.The plot is beautiful, and the score not only captures the time period of the 1930's, but it is gently moving. It beautifully fits the atmosphere of the film.I would strongly recommend this film to anyone. It is a really underrated gem that deserves more credit. "},{"Title":"ingenious","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Simply an ingenious book turned into a fantastic film. A real insight into life in Ireland post WW2.Shows expertly the real life, hard-hitting problems, that the people of Ireland had to face and the strain that the economy was in.Also shows the division between the North and South of Ireland superbly by showing the division of their hearts and minds subtly. The physical and mental strain for the people of Ireland, young and old well shown throughout.A film that pulls on the heartstrings of anyone who has got one, in contrast however, leaves you weirdly uplifted and at peace. I would recommend this film to anyone who enjoys a good film as the story line was exquisite and acting marvelous. A huge commendment has to be given, to the young kids who were able to bear the task of becoming young, depressed, starving kids and who carried it off so magnificently. "},{"Title":"Frank McCourt Leads Alan Parker down the garden path","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Many people who grew up in Ireland in the 1920s and 30s have turned on Frank McCourt and suggested that his account of poverty in Ireland in those times is absurdly exaggerated. They are most probably correct.Unfortunately, Alan Parker has taken McCourt's vision and turned it into a film so bleak and emotionally manipulative that Steven Spielberg himself would have been proud to make it.I can commend Emily Watson's subtle, under-stated performance but Robert Carlyle's performance as the inadequate father makes Francis Begbie in Trainspotting look like an in-depth character study.Don't be taken in. "},{"Title":"a baby dies and her names Angela and they ended up living with there cousins, but they were really mean","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I think this an awesome movie and I think that if you haven't seen this movie you should see it, it changed my life because I never really realized how lucky I really was until I saw this movie.The family hardly had any food to eat and would eat whatever they got. They had no money to buy their kids shoes, so their dad went to a garbage dump to get some things so that he could make them some shoes. So I think who ever thinks their life is bad should'not because there really is people out there who don't have hardly any money and live out in the street. Just try to imagine that you were poor and had nothing to eat. How would that make you feel if you saw people eating in a restruant eating lots of food and you could'not because you had no money. "}{"Title":"Vivid and compelling true-life story","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a screen version of the award-winning biography by Frank McCourt. Set in the Irish town of Limerick during the depression it realistically portrays the life of a young Catholic boy growing up in a family stricken by poverty and misfortune. I found the story compelling in the way that it was told through the eyes of a child at various stages of his life, and the use of voice-overs was highly effective for this style of film. The casting of various main characters was perfect, right down to the authenticity of the accents. In particular I greatly admired the child actors who brought the combined sense of innocence and intelligence to the part of Frank. This was an important part of his character and came through nicely. The majority of the movie was filmed on a custom-built set focusing mainly on the small, dirty lane where the McCourt family lived for a time, however I only became aware that this was a set after I had watched the 'bonus material' at the end of the DVD. That demonstrates how realistically the movie makers depicted the grim, squalid conditions which so many people were forced to live in at this time. The movie is fairly lengthy at almost 2.5 hours, however the time passed quickly as the story kept a good pace and there was never a dull moment. The script writer has done an excellent job in re-writing the original book so that it translates well to the big screen, and managed to work together with the director and crew so that certain scenes are no longer needed to be written or spoken, but merely shown visually instead. It seems inhumane to take pleasure and enjoyment from watching another's misery but I feel that in this case the movie works to provide education to us all about life in the first half of last century. And although we may feel pity for Frank, at his misfortune for being born poor and with an unreliable father, we have to admire the way in which he refuses to be beaten down. He always clings to the smallest glimmer of hope that he will succeed if he uses his mind and this is a point reinforced by one of his school professors. I was warmed by this story and extremely delighted when he achieved his goal, mostly through hard work and sacrifice but also with a small change in luck at the end. I would recommend this book to everyone but in particular to those of us who have not been born to privilege. It reminds us all that not only are there people out there in a worse position than yourself, but that you should never give up on your dreams. "},{"Title":"OK but overlong and seriously flawed","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Having a great amount of potential I had looked forward to this project with anticipation but after finally seeing it in 2000 I was severely disappointed! I felt the movie wandered around quite a bit without ever focusing on anything in particular, it had a very disturbing undercurrent that seemed to betray some of the lighter material. I understand the story is essentially dark and that works in many films but here it just left me feeling alienated.The acting is not particularly good and the story itself is frequently boring. It seems to think it's much better than it really is and the director and editor have put together the film in such a way that it's screaming out for Oscar nominations, but the reason it didn't receive any is because compared to other epics it simply isn't very good at all! It's OK but takes itself far too seriously and is simultaneously disappointing and underwhelming. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but not great either","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The problem with really good novels is that they seldom translate well into film. The Shipping News is a case in point Proulx's masterful wording cannot be converted into characters, places, things, and visuals without losing its depth. A well-written novel is already alive, in the mind of the reader, and doesn't necessarily need a film to complement its existence. Any undertaking of transferring the intricacies of excellent writing to film is a foolish endeavour, and such is the case with Angela's Ashes. Some things simply can't be duplicated into film, and therefore have no film equivalent. A well-written novel operates on so many different levels that film usually can't capture it all. Frank McCourt's book is grim and gray, engrossing, lively, human, and incisive; it is a living thing in and of itself. While watching the film, it's impossible to feel the same sense of desperate longing as when reading the book, and all the situations look like clichés Frank kneeling in church, Frank getting nooky for the first time, Frank watching his dad walk out on the family. Midnight In The Garden Of Good And Evil was the same way Eastwood tried to make a visual translation of the book and all the charm and humor was sucked out of the book, leaving a stillborn disaster that he probably still gets ribbed about. It isn't impossible to capture the intricacies of a good book, and as proof I offer the existence of Silence of the Lambs and The Godfather. In Angela's Ashes, the characters are almost caricatures of poor people. To visually underscore the despair of Limerick, the director chooses to always have it raining, which fails as a mood-setting device only because it's such an obvious attempt to establish setting; it becomes its own tiresome joke. Remember all those lame O.J. jokes in the mid nineties? That's what this movie is like, with the director constantly nudging you and saying look, they're poor. All right, I get it already. There is little of value in the movie, and you'll take nothing away from it that couldn't be told to you a million times better if you simply read the book instead. Meh. B is for boring. "},{"Title":"Uncomfortably real","Date":"29 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Angela's Ashes is a gritty, realistic portrayal of a young Catholic boy growing up in bitter Irish poverty during the late 1930s and early 40s. It is a world devoid of color and comfort where nobody is truly happy, a world where a full belly and good shoes are unobtainable luxuries and what few pleasures he is able to steal are heavily peppered with Catholic guilt.His life isn't marred by any one great tragedy, but rather dozens of small tragedies that erode away his hopes and resolve. He watches his younger siblings die one at a time thru a malady of diseases, he watches his unemployed father shamelessly drink away job after job and all their money, he's ejected from his squalid home and his mother is forced to prostitute herself to a loathsome drunk for a spare room, he has Catholicism rammed down his throat by cruel teachers and his own relatives, and through it all he's never allowed to forget that he's Northern Irish, the lowest form of life on earth.I watched this movie for some time waiting for the plot to manifest itself. And then I realized that, as in real life, there is no plot, just a series of 'events' all strung together that are sometimes unjust and often make no sense. Alcohol, poverty, the Church and hatred of England seem to influence and define everything. World War II is barely given any notice, except when a teacher proclaims that the English were getting what they deserved during the Blitz. This was a well-done movie and I'm glad I watched it, but I will never see it again. It left me emotionally drained and immensely grateful for the things that I have. Several times I wanted to reach thru the screen and grab his father by the neck screaming 'What kind of man are you!?!? Look at what your love of drink is doing to your family!!!! While you're out here vomiting cheap whiskey on a lamppost your children are cold and starving!!!'. I've been known to tie one on myself, but after watching this I was ready to get on the teetotaler bandwagon and denounce that 'Demon Drink'.There's no light at the end of the tunnel in this movie. It's a daily struggle to survive. It only lasted a little over 2 hours, but it seemed like twice that. Overall 8.5/10. "},{"Title":"Leprecorniness redeemed by a blarneystone script","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The first half-hour of 'Angela's Ashes' suggests we are about to endure two hours of heartfelt, leprecorny sentimentality.Are we really to feel enduring tugs-at-heartstrings at the conveyorbelt churn of dead babies from consumptive cradles to childsize coffins? Is Alan Parker simply reeling off a litany of post-potato famine misery, where the idealistic Ulster-born catastrophe-dad Malachy (Robert Carlyle) simply excretes dolemoney up pub walls as his guilt-ridden wife Angela (Emily Watson) succours a bedful of guttermouthed flearidden waifs?Thankfully, things pick up just as we're about to slash our wrists.Angela's Ashes turns into a clever rites of passage movie about transcending poverty. It takes humorous potshots at church hypocrisy, with the narrator Frankie achieving redemption through his natural intelligence and hard-work. The doleful caricatures - quizzical priests, tweedy schoolmasters, masturbating pubescents, Catholic grannies, a sourpuss moneylender - are gently mocked. The persistent Limerick rain cocks a snoot at Eire touristboard sunshine. And Frankie's ingenuous confessions lend solid comic relief to the miserabilist backdrop of damp and disease. So while we gawp at the realistically-portrayed suffering of conjunctivitis and tuberculosis, we can also laugh at tales of w***ing behind dry stone walls, of vomiting the host, of having 'protestant' hair.Frankie keeps his eyes on the prize and this is of course as predictable as a second-rate Shane McGowan lyric NYC, the Statue of Liberty, The American Dream. "},{"Title":"Irish Pride","Date":"20 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The movie is filled with sad stereotypes of the Irish. Guinness drinking, unemployed fathers, rock throwing, British hating, head shaving, hand smacking, rain 8 days a week, catholic pride, pissing in the streets, broken shoes, chips with your fish, five in a bed, Pope Leo loving, coal picking, pride, pride, and more pride. What a great movie Angela's Ashes is. A delightful cast that connect with everyone in the audience. The story rotates around Frank, who grows up in the shambles that make up Ireland. Even though it is a story about a child becoming a man in a broken, yet normal family, the movie deals with much much more. It is in fact, one of the best adaptations of Irish heritage. The good and the bad, the film makes you laugh, cry and think.  "},{"Title":"Read the book first","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Angela´s Ashes the movie is not bad. But the book offered us a lot more. With many books turned to film much was sadly left out. If you have no read the book before viewing the film then you can see the holes in the plot. Mike McCourt is a good writer and his brothers are too, this why I say read the book first, you´ll then understand why it was made into this so-so film.  "},{"Title":"Simply truly great","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I must admit I couldn't finish the book. Maybe because I couldn't really relate to the poverty in it. It didn't really make an impact on me. When I saw the movie, I was stunned. All the things I have read suddenly came to light. Not only because of the great actors (Emily Watson is particularily great) but because you almost feel the rain, the wet streets, the hunger of the dying children. It is amazaing, that people in Europe have lived like this not more than 60 years ago. Alan Parker is a genius, simply. "},{"Title":"Back in the box and back to the video store, all in 10 minutes","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Cute opening line, something about 'if there's anything worse than an Irish childhood, it's an Irish Catholic childood.'  Then, after four successive boys, the first girl of the family is born (much rejoicing here), then, is immediately found dead in her crib.  Sorry, this movie lost me right here, and, judging by comments from others, I reacted none too soon.  Back you go, into the box and back to the video store, all inside 10 minutes... "},{"Title":"depressing and repetitive","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  How many times and in how many different ways can one tell a person how horrible childhood was?  Growing up isn't peachy for anyone, and Frank McCourt's childhood was pretty close to being as bad as it gets. That said, this movie wallows in Frank McCourt's misery ad nauseum.  Things can be gained from a person sharing their pain, but at a certain point it just becomes worn out.  After the hundredth page of the book, I understood. An hour into the movie, I understood.  As for the quality of the movie, the acting is mediocre at its best and downright bad at some points. Throughout the movie, Angela provided a ray of hope which was nice. The sheer desperation of it all becomes overwhelming, however. As this story is a memoir, there really is no plot other than the story of this man's life, so in that sense it is hard to become interested in the story.  With little coherent, continuous story to move on, the movie is forced to ride on emotion, and with only one emotion expressed throughout the movie, it really gets old.  I recommend skipping this one. "}{"Title":"A Dark film crammed full of humour .","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Although Angela's Ashes is extremely depressing it is full off lovely bright and heartwarming moments that make you smile. It is the story of one boys life as he brought up in Lymerick and the poverty and struggle that he has to endure before returning back to America to find the so called promised land, even though they moved back to Ireland because of the american depression in the first place. As i started off saying this film is totally depressing in parts and the family seem to take death as an everyday occurance. But it is worth watching for the humour, the cinimatography and most of all the acting. Not so much the acting from the adults but the Children who play Frankie at different stages of his childhood.  I havent read the book from which this film was based but i would be interested to read the next chapter of this boys life. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Humorless and humanless. Tis not worth seeing.","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I like so much of Alan Parker's work. The Commitments, Angel Heart, Road to Wellville. This film is a huge disappointment. What it needs are more, much more of Frank McCourt's words. That is what makes the book so wonderful, and all that storytelling magic is completely missing from the film. It is simply a series of unconnected misfortunes, with no explanation of why all of it it was happening to this family. And the father was nowhere near as present and visible in the book as he was in the film. I almost felt sorry for him, he was portrayed so sympathetically. Sorry, he was a derelict parent who was drunk almost all the time. This movie is a humorless, humanless experience. If you read the the book, leave it at that. 'Tis not worth it. "},{"Title":"Watch this film in a warm, dry place.","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Angela's Ashes is depressing reality sprinkled with humor. In the end, one wretched family member victoriously realizes his dream while the rest we must assume continue to live in squalor and incessant Irish ghetto rain. This is a slice of miserable life movie which will likely only be fully appreciated by realists. Irish realists. "},{"Title":"Leave well enough alone","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you have read the book, leave well enough alone and don't bother with this pedantic adaptation that tries to be faithful, but succeeds only in being mechanical.  Many of the emotions that jumped off the pages ring hollow here.  There are a few good scenes, and the characters are well cast; it just all seems somehow, homogenized. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I really enjoyed the book but was quite disappointed by the film. Without the internal thoughts of the main character guiding us through the events of the story, the film lacked a real drive. Their lives were miserable and just got worse and no one seemed to do anything about it. Without the context provided by the narrator the film falls flat. "},{"Title":"Sad sad sad","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie it is an Irish GRAPES OF WRATH (the same time period, but not as good a movie). CINEMATOGRAPHY was beautiful the color tones were done to sadden the story, no one looks real.  The music was very moving and appropriate to the times.  The children were such good actors and well directed, their faces!!!! WOW.   I see a nomination for  the mother and the dad.  The sad thing about this movie was it really as bad as the boys tells it?  I left the movie  depressed, with a hole in my gut. Few redeeming qualities. "},{"Title":"A great and powerful tale","Date":"19 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Angela's Ashes is a moving drama by long time and now retired director Alan Parker adapted from Frank McCourts Pulitzer Prize winning book about his childhood. Already in the opening scene we are informed by the narration from the main character that I had a miserable childhood, and wow what an understatement that turned out to be. In the very same opening we are introduced to most of the main characters, the mother Angela McCourt (played by Oscar Nominee Emily Watson) and the somewhat loser father Malachy McCourt (played by Robert Carlyle), as well as his younger brother Malachy (jr.), the twins and his little baby sister. Just to set the tone for the rest of the movie his sister dies in the very next and devastated by the loss Angela moves her family back to Ireland. His baby sister dieing also makes us understand a lot about his drunk and no good father who disappears for several weeks. As the poor family arrives in Ireland we are introduced to his mother's side of the family, Angela's brother, sister, the sisters husband and the strong overly judging grandmother (played by Ronnie Masterson) who besides her roughness makes the perfect comic relief. You might get the idea that most of their problems are over now but your soon drawn back into their miserable surroundings as the father, crushed by the fact that he neither can get or keep a job picks up his drinking habits again and the rest of their family keeps fading away. In the film Frank McCourt is played by three different actors (Joe Breen, Ciaran Owens, and Michael Legge) without counting the narrator voiced by Andrew Bennett and contains for the most part different peaces of his life kept together by the wonderful narration. The story itself is a heart-warming and honest look at how hard and dangerous it were to grow up in Ireland in the 30's and 40's and deals with a boy's fight to get out of his terrible and miserable surroundings of hate, poverty and religious conservatism. Personally I think the film works beautifully in making a harsh and true look at the events and Frank McCourt himself has apparently praised the movie for a correct portrayal of his life. The actors all give marvelous performances, especially Emily Watson who is the perfect dramatic actress and as for Robert Carlyle's performance he makes the makes father more sympathetic than most other actors ever could. Even the child actors give strong performances as innocent and blue-eyed children in the transformation of becoming adults and as the main character grows up we learn to love him, even at his most sinister at the end. I can with one hand at my heart state that I could not find anything wrong about this movie and that it moved me more than most other movies has ever moved me before. The acting is strong, the narration is perfect, the direction is wonderful and the cinematography is probably one of the most beautiful things you will ever see in your life. The music is also very lovable and as a whole I would say the movie is a extremely strong 9/10. "},{"Title":"Disappointing Film Of A Great Story","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  	For anyone who read the novel by Frank McCourt, `Angela's Ashes' would've been one of the most anticipated movies of the year.  The book, which is terrific, takes  you on an emotional roller coaster ride without cessation; there are passages so gripping it becomes almost unbearable at times.  The movie, however, directed by Alan Parker and starring Robert Carlyle and Emily Watson, unfortunately doesn't come close to capturing the desperation, hopelessness and pathos of the book.  McCourt's autobiographical account of growing up in extreme poverty in Limerick, Ireland, is a gut-wrenching experience; that he even survived his childhood under such conditions as he recounts is a minor miracle in itself.  His father, Malachy McCourt Sr., (played by Carlyle in the movie), wasn't a bad man, in an evil sense; he was just no good.  He loved his family, but was too weak, prideful and irresponsible to even begin to look after them at all.  Though reasonably intelligent, apparently, he was nevertheless lazy to the point of slothfulness, couldn't keep a job even if he lucked into one, and most of the time didn't bother looking.  He never had money to keep bread on the table, but somehow always managed to have enough for tobacco and for a `pint' at one of the local pubs.  Carlyle, a fine actor (great in `The Full Monty'), never seems to get to the core of this admittedly complex character; the ability to mine the depths of what really made Malachy tick somehow eludes him.  His performance is passable, but it's all on the surface. 	Emily Watson fares little better with her Angela.  A Gifted actress (Breaking the Waves' and `Hilary and Jackie'), she handles what she is given to work with aptly enough, but there is so much more that simply goes untapped.  She, too, never really seems to get to the soul of Angela, whose whole life was nothing less than tragic.  And with such rich source material from which to draw, it's puzzling as to how this movie failed to deliver the emotional impact promised by the story.  That Parker chose to use the same voice as the novel to tell it is one reason, possibly.  The matter-of-fact, stoic narrative that worked to great advantage in the novel simply doesn't translate well to film, at least not in this case.  Here, it merely falls flat; somehow it gives an ambivalence to the proceedings that keeps the young McCourt, his family and their circumstances, at arms length throughout.  Visually, the movie is stunning, though; the cinematography successfully captures the bleakness of Limerick and the surrounding countryside. Parker, however, fails to blend it all in sufficiently enough with the actual story to make it effective.  Using the same approach for visual content as he does for the emotional, he succeeds only in presenting an image without enticement.  He asks his audience to bring more to this than they can, given what they are being offered; it simply isn't enough.   Still, it in no way diminishes the artistic merit of the photography, which is, in fact, the high mark of this whole endeavor. 	The young McCourt is portrayed in three successive stages of his youth by Joe Breen, Ciaran Owens and Michael Legge; all able performances.  The supporting cast includes Ronnie Masterson (Grandma Sheehan Keating), Pauline McLynn (Aunt Aggie Keating), Liam Carney (Uncle Pa Keating) and Eanna MacLiam (Uncle Pat Keating).  For those who haven't read the novel, `Angela's Ashes' will provide some touching moments, though nothing particularly memorable.  This should have been a ten-hanky movie; instead, it leaves the tear ducts dry and the heart just a little empty.  This is an unfulfilling rendering of McCourt's acclaimed account of his childhood and, on a larger scale, the failure of society and of the Church to truly minister to all it's members.  The humor, which is laced throughout the novel, is lost here as well, which is nothing less than negligence on the part of the filmmakers, because they have excluded what was undoubtedly one of young McCourt's basic tools of survival.  In the end, then, this film, which should have been remarkable, was one of the biggest disappointments of the year.  And it's a pity, yes.  &#145;Tis.  I rate this one 3/10. "},{"Title":"Please, read the books...","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The joy of the author's verse, as well his uniquely ironic, heartwarming and witty perspective even in the worst of times, is an exceptional and rare inspiration hardly captured in this weak account which merely grabs for the Oscar. The cinematography only adds to the movie's dismal tone. In a country as glorious as Ireland, one can only surmise that Alan Parker refused to include even one sunny, green, lush and hopeful day. As an Irish-Italian-American, it is tragic to see films that persist in presenting overrun stereotypes of the victimized Irish, like the Mafia Mediterranean. Though members of both groups have undoubtedly suffered individually and collectively, revealing their respective strength and preservation is far more compelling. Watch Jim Sheridan's In America instead. "},{"Title":"Hollywood's Oppressive Church","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Great films transport us to different worlds and confront us with the unexpected.Poor films dip into the common vocabulary of everyday images and use them to simply manipulate us. This is a poor film; one manipulative, unoriginal episode after another. Not a shred of imagination. Not one surprise.What's wrong with the people portrayed is that they have no control over who they are and how they react. They are manipulated by the arbitrariness of a society that is based on solid roles and rules.A real film, a good film would transcend that in its perspective. But we are plunked in that dark room and presented with what? We are manipulated by the arbitrariness of a film vocabulary that is based on rote roles and rules. We have no control, but are blindly manipulated in just the same fashion as the sorry characters we are watching (and pitying).Makes me feel dirty that I am swept up in these emotions so blithely. How different am I from this family to be played so by Hollywood just as these characters are played by the Church?Makes me angry at McCourt, who is credibly accused of making much of this up in order to manipulate us - he is a world away from Dylan Thomas who knew how to create rather than copy. Makes me disappointed in Parker, but then look at his career since the original and fresh `Fame.' He specializes in the shameful exploitation of the obvious.Ms Watson is quickly moving up to my short list of actresses to watch, with Cate, Kate and Julianne. No matter that the film is exploitive. She brings a focus that is extraordinary. She transports. The child actors are honest as well. In a decade or so, if Emily matures and becomes as well respected as, say Streep. Then this film will be worth watching to see what she is doing, how she is moving within her skin. Otherwise, better to cry over a real life.  "}{"Title":"Engaging bitter-sweet movie","Date":"8 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Engaging bitter-sweet movie.Based on Frank McCourt's Pulitzer Prize-winning book of the same name, the movie details the childhood years of Frank McCourt in Ireland. Hardly the childhood anyone would wish for abject poverty, three siblings die, father is unemployed and an alcoholic.Shows the conditions some people were, and are, forced to live in. Is pretty much a roller-coaster of misery. Every positive event is followed by a negative one. Very sad.Yet, between these harrowing episodes there's levity and some quite funny moments. If there wasn't, it would probably be too depressing to handle.Most importantly, you empathise with the characters and share in their ups and downs, as all good dramas should cause you to do.On the negative side, the ending feels a bit rushed and incomplete. But then again, the ultimate ending would show the rest of McCourt's life and how it turned out. That would be whole new movie... It certainly was a whole new book, as McCourt wrote a sequel to Angela's Ashes, 'Tis A Memoir. This has, as yet, not been made into a movie. "},{"Title":"The Young and the Damned","Date":"26 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Directed by Alan Parker, and based on a memoir by Frank McCourt, Angela's Ashes stars Robert Carlyle as the father of a family struggling to live in 1930s Ireland. A coming-of-age tale, the film primarily focuses on young Frank, one of the family's gloomy sons.In the mould of Bill Douglas, whose films offered grim portraits of early 20th century Scotland, Parker conveys the bleak, gruelling conditions of 1930s Ireland. This is a world in which human beings are ceaselessly assaulted by death, disease, starvation, poverty, poor living conditions and miserable weather. Catholicism, and the hopeful embraces of churches and pulpits, pretends to offer some respite. Angela's Ashes' better elements are undone by a generic coming-of-age plot. Though funny, moving and even wise in places, the film's overall structure too often forces Parker's material down familiar avenues. The film stars child actor Joe Breed, his furrowed face at times more powerful, more devastating, than the film its in. Emily Watson co-stars as the family's privately suffering mother.7.9/10 &#x96; See Wendy and Lucy, Stroszek, My Childhood, Frozen River and Bread and Roses. "},{"Title":"Emily Watson At Her Most Outstanding","Date":"16 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" While the film reflects many of the faults and weaknesses of the source material, Emily Watson's performance as Angela is one to be remembered for all time. She is absolutely electric and the screen smolders in every scene in which she works her magic. Mesmerizing and hypnotic in her painful portrait, Watson demonstrates once again why she is considered one of the greatest motion picture actors of our time. In film after film, from Hilary and Jackie to The Book Thief, this is an actor that astonishes audiences with each performance. She certainly succeeds beyond all belief in Angela's Ashes in proving the Academy Awards have lost any credibility they ever had when she did not win the Oscar for her work here, or in Breaking the Waves, Punch Drunk Love, or a dozen other incredibly beautiful film performances. "},{"Title":"A great autobiography, Angela's Ashes","Date":"15 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Angela's Ashes is an exhilarating autobiography. The film is from 1999 and is written by Laura Jones. The book is by Frank McCourt. It is very dramatic and follows the life of Frank McCourt from his boyhood in Brooklyn in 1935 to his return to Ireland and the loss of his three younger siblings due to his family's poverty. The cast includes Emily Watson, Robert Carlyle, Joe Breen, Claran Owens, Michael Legge, Ronnie Masterson, Pauline McLynn, Liam Carney, Eanna MacLiam, Andrew Bennett, Shane Murray-Corcoran, Devon Murray, Peter Halpin, Aaron Geraghty, Sean Carney Daly, Oisin Camey Daly, Shane Smith, Tim O'Brien, Blaithnaid Howe, Klara O;Leary, Caroline O'Sullivan and Ryan Fielding. It is a long picture, but well performed and I gave it 8 stars. Dale Haufrect "},{"Title":"Emily Watson Is A National Treasure","Date":"26 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ms. Emily Watson gives what is nothing less than the acting performance of the decade in this wonderful film which is made even more powerful by the magic she brings to the screen. No one else on stage or screen has astonished audiences and brought them to their feet tearfully cheering the way Ms. Watson has over the course of her career. No, Ms. Watson is not a superstar, just a Super Actor. That she was not awarded the Academy Award for this incredible characterization renders the Oscars meaningless for all time! She alone puts her soul into a role and becomes at one with whoever she portrays in such stunning ways that it is beyond description. What she does in the part of Angela will rip your heart out and leave you gasping, overwhelmed by what you have experienced. While the reviews of this film have not been universally positive, no critic with any spiritual connection with art has done anything but praise Emily Watson for her magisterial work in bringing Angela to life, including Frank McCourt, the son of the woman she so elegantly portrays! In so doing, Ms. Watson has added one more performance for the ages to the history of fine cinema and one that will touch the hearts of viewers for generations to come, never to be forgotten and forever a gift to those who treasure truly great Acting with a capital A. There may never be another actor like her in our time for she is a unique gem that can never be replicated. "},{"Title":"The horror's of ancient Ireland... 1935...","Date":"31 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Clocking in at two hours and twenty minutes, Angela's Ashes charts the early life of the real life lead character, Frank McCourt, based on his autobiography. Set in the not so distant past of mid 1930′s Ireland, it looks like a Dickensian tome, with muddy streets, abject poverty and sewage being thrown down the street.It's hard to believe that this was life in the mid 20th Century in a western country, where religion and anti-British propaganda ruled the masses of a country that was more than a little down on its luck. Dingy, realistic and difficult to enjoy, this was a very real take on this dismal period in history.The cast was admirable, with big hitters such as Robert Carlisle and Emily Watson as the titular Angela, but there were no weak links in this department at all. Overall, it was a very well made film but the drama was too loosely constructed and episodic as it simply followed the eldest son and writer of the source novel, Frank, as he grows up and attempts to realise his dream of leaving Ireland and building a new life in America.If you like real life drama set in the dismal surroundings where escapism is nowhere to be seen, then this is a masterpiece, but for everyone else, it's an interesting look into a way of life that should have died out with Queen Victoria. Ultimately, this film failed to make its money back and some would argue, failed to live up to the book and it certainly lacked enough humour to carry the story through what in many cases were traumatic events in such a dire environment.And I must have the missed the point of the title, as what the hell were Angela's Ashes? "},{"Title":"Mirror of 19th century in Ireland","Date":"13 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" **MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS**Angela's ashes is the movie ,based on a autobiography of Frank Mccourt with the same name....It is drama movie of a catholic family in Ireland , This movie shows the incidents since they moved from New York to Ireland .. This movie clearly reflects the middle 19th century in Ireland..It makes us laugh,cry and even make us pity on people of slums in Limerick...Most of the movie is shot in slums and are very well done... The scenes in slums may be the inspiration for Danny Boyle's SLUM DOG MILLIONAIREAll the cast and crew are very much appreciable for this astonishing movie.. The cast is terrific , especially Emily Watson and Robert Carlyle played award winning performances.....The cinematography is astonishing , it makes us involve in the movie and with characters also..Sound tracks are awesome ..I watched all the trash movies and kept this movie aside , and i wonder how i did that...Alan parker is definitely one of the best directors ever, if you had any doubt about it , Go see Angela's Ashes now...After watching this movie i read the book , i can surely say that there is no need to read the book if you watched the movie ...A perfect adaption of a best selling book...if you once completed your viewing then i recommend you to read the sequels (books) of it , known as 'Tis and The Teacher Man .... Its not a date night movie,you must in a perfect mood to enjoy this movie.. worth watching more than once...My RATING 9/10 (5/5 for actors)(4/5 for rest) "},{"Title":"This movie was great A standard","Date":"31 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Rated 9 out of 10!!!!The film Angela's Ashes is a drama that is based on the book Angela's Ashes written by Frank McCourt. The film was directed by director Alan Parker who was nominated for two Oscars in 1978 and 1988. The film is classified as a drama because of the type of events that occur the film. The film has a serious tone throughout the whole thing which is based on the poor living conditions and poverty of Ireland between the 1920's and 1940's. Drama is defined as a situation or succession of events in a real life having the dramatic progression or emotional effect characteristic of a film or play. The story starts off with a young Frank McCourt as played by Joe Breen and his family which consists of a mother, father, and 3 brothers and a newly born baby girl all living in the United States. After a harsh time in the United States and a tragic death in the family during the depression they moved back to their home country, Ireland. In a small catholic town the father, Malachy McCourt played by Robert Carlyle unable to find a job due to being an alcoholic and a protestant. After more deaths in the family Malachy McCourt goes to England to look for a job and plans to send back money to support his family. Back at home in Ireland the McCourt family struggling to get by and the children having to go out and scrounge up food just so that they can live. While the mother, Angela McCourt played by Emily Watson has to beg for food from the people around the town who have leftovers. But what happened to Malachy McCourt who went over to England to earn money? As Frankie slowly gets older he realizes that for his family to be able to survive he has to get a job and successfully got a job pouring coal into holes in the street to supply heating to houses. Later on Frank has to go to the hospital due to a sickness he got from the unclean and dirty town due to the poor sewage from the outside toilets and people dumping their waste into the streets from the middle of the street. Growing up in a rough environment and finally a teenager Frank finds a girlfriend whom he grows very close to but in the end something goes wrong and Frank can't do anything about it. Malachy McCourt was a character that stood out to me during the film, he was played by Robert Carlyle who won the BAFTA film award in 1998 and also nominated for an Emmy in 2006 for the movie Human Trafficking. Malachy McCourt stood out t me because of the way he portrays life he seems like he gives up too easily and whenever something goes wrong or even if something is going good he still goes to the bar and blows all of the money the family has(which is not much) on alcohol. When Malachy finally comes home from the bars he can barely walk and is singing Irish songs that he has picked up from his life. But even though Robert Carlyle played a character that was disappointing he played him very well. Without Malachy in the movie the story line would not have been as interesting as it was and without Malachy the story line would have had to be completely different. Malachy of course was born in Ireland but in the north part so he was a protestant and was disliked by the mother in law because she was catholic and also he is an alcoholic and drinks the families' money away. I didn't like Malachy because of the way he lived his life and wasting it by drinking and not supporting his family.The best scene in the film to me was when little Frank McCourt was in school and got in trouble because another kid made fun of his shoes that had a bicycle tire in the bottom so that he had tread and his feet were not showing through the bottom. Frank went to the principal's office with another kid and they both got their wrists slapped with a ruler for a punishment. This scene was my favorite because of the picture that you see when Frankie has these shoes that have a huge piece of rubber on the bottom so he walks like a duck. The worst scene in the movie to me was when Malachy went to England to find a job and he said he was going to send back the money he earned from the job. But deep down you know he will not send any money and probably spend it all on alcohol.If I was the director I would have changed the ending of the movie because the way it ends know it leaves you hanging to think about what could happen after Frankie makes it to the United States. I would have kept the movie going and had a flash forward to what Frankie could have been doing when he was 30 years old and had him with his wife and kids in front of the house holding a picture of his mother and father, and that would have been the ending to the film if I was the director. "},{"Title":"A bit long, but a masterpiece","Date":"23 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I won't begin to repeat or re-hash the numerous excellent comments on this movie. I'm in the camp of thinking it is a masterpiece, with excellent performances. I watched the movie just this week, and am starting the book now; I'll be interested to see what I think after I read the book.The one comment I'd make is that the movie could have been shortened. I was surprised that it was nearly 2 1/2 hours long. I think that, as sometimes happens, there was a feeling that the entire book needed to be captured; some judicious editing would have been desirable. For instance, as has been pointed out, fewer scenes with the chamber pot would still have conveyed the point. (Not sure if this is a true spoiler, but better to be safe than sorry...) Notwithstanding that, the movie never dragged for me; and in spite of the obviously dreary nature of much of the movie, I was not depressed by it at any point. I guess that this is partly due to the fact that the resilience of the human spirit shown through the entire story. "},{"Title":"my favorite movie","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have seen this movie about a dozen times and every time i watch it, its great. my favorite character is Franky of course, this was a well written movie which portrays the life of a truly special person. anyone that has not seen it should do so a.s.a.p. I also like that this movie was made in Ireland and not on a Hollywood set. it is also cool that 80% of the actors in the movie are Irish therefore there are no fake accents around here. I also read the book and its great, i think that these memories were placed together quite well and i will be waiting for another movie that can stand up to Angela's ashes. which i will grade as the greatest movie that was ever made "}{"Title":"I forgot something  the realistic-looking eclipse","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The special effects guy on this movie obviously knew nothing about lunar eclipses. The eclipse was just about the worst special effect I've seen in any film, and I'm even including the alien in Mac and Me. The eclipse occurred in what, like thirty seconds? A lunar eclipse does not last thirty seconds. Then everyone went back inside their houses. You could tell that all the fx guy did was drag a shaded filter across some footage of the moon, and voila, lunar eclipse. It was so corny and contrived, how LAME. Even if the fx guys had never seen a lunar eclipse, it would have taken two minutes for them to go to the internet and read all about them before creating one. I guess the most surprising thing about the eclipse is it was the one time in the entire movie when it wasn't raining. "},{"Title":"Believable and Heartfelt","Date":"16 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have not read the book upon which the movie is based, but I certainly enjoyed the movie and used up half a box of facial tissue as I mourned, grieved, and suffered with the family.I felt pity for both of the parents as well as the children in Frank's family. From the beginning of the film when the newborn baby Margaret dies, it is obvious to me that the father had a deep love for his children and--as many fathers do, especially when they already have sons--an almost worshipful attitude towards his little girl. (Think of Rhett Butler after his beloved Bonnie died.) I felt very sorry for the father because he did have a lot of pride and it must have killed him as he was aware that he wasn't succeeding. When he came home from England for Christmas and everyone was so cold to him, I could see him thinking, Well, if this is how they're going to treat me, why should I bother to be here? I came back for this? It was simply sad because his wife and children had grievances and were justified in their disappointment with him, but I wished that it could have been a pleasant time and that they would have reconciled rather than giving him the cold shoulder.I thought that the bad people in the movie were the mother's mother and relatives who helped them so little. The grandmother was not just well-fed, she was out-and-out fat. She obviously had plenty to eat. Whereas the father had a disease (acoholism) and could at least be pitied for that, the grandmother didn't provide for her family out of a spite or dislike that she apparently not only held for the father, but also for her daughter for marrying him and for her grandchildren for having the bad luck to be born. The father might have been irresponsible, but he obviously loved his children and enjoyed being with them and telling them stories. The grandmother showed none of that.While the movie took place in Ireland, one has to remember that during the Great Depression in the U.S. many families were torn asunder when the father left to look for work and never returned or took jobs far away or even killed themselves leaving their families destitute and humiliated. The situation was not unique to Ireland. I grieved with the mother and thought that Emily Watson did an excellent job (as usual) of portraying a downtrodden woman who became more and more beaten down.All of the actors did a fine job and, from what I know, the scenes of Ireland during that time period were accurate. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A four-star production, based on a best-selling book by Frank McCort, about the author's life growing up in a large, impoverished Irish family. The action shifts back and forth between America and Ireland, as the family moves about and the know-nothing mother keeps knocking out baby after baby. The film's only familiar face, Scottish actor Robert Carlyle, plays the family's chronically unemployed, perpetually drunk father. Several actors play the hero at different stages of his life, and they all are uniformly excellent. There are moments that reminded me of GREAT EXPECTATIONS, especially when a teenaged McCort finds himself in the employ of the local moneylender, a reclusive older woman with a perpetual scowl. He also has a brief, bittersweet romance with a shy young woman who, due to illness, is unable to leave her gloomy, mansion-like home.  "},{"Title":"relentless downer","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Give me a break. I'm sorry this guy had a rotten childhood but does one have to share everything? This movie is one relentless downer. Every single scene in this too long of a film is miserable and depressing. It's not only depressing it's gross! There are endless scenes of children and adults urinating, vomiting, crapping, gang masturbating, getting beaten by their teachers, eating the eye of a lamb, showing their buttocks and consistently emptying the urine bucket. Okay, okay we get the point. The great writer had a tough childhood, but he overcame it all and now he's rich and famous. Look where he came from! The father is a anti-provider alcoholic, men pass gas, all the villagers are ignorant brutal religious bigots, the mother gets slapped by the son for being a tramp, and everywhere is death. death, death. There is barely a happy THOUGHT to be found in here let alone a happy scene. Someone light a candle in this black room of a movie. I don't rent movies to have a misery festival. I'm sorry you had a rough and miserably poor childhood. I'm sorry that you had to crawl over broken glass for 76 miles to maybe if you're lucky get a three day old bread crumb that fell off a beggar's plate.I'm sorry. I understand that a lot of people have been moved by this book and by this film. To me it's rather self-indulgent. I fail to see what it has to offer me. Besides, I already spent my ten years in Catholic school. I could tell stories about those bad times, but why share? It is a creative film and very well directed and cast. But it's gross and depressing and added nothing to my knowledge. Like I already didn't know that it stinks to be incredibly poor. I didn't need 157 miserable scenes to gather that one in. "},{"Title":"An Irish Cinema Paradiso","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In the same way that we loved the boy in 'Cinema Paradiso' rather than the grown up version, we also loved the boy in 'Angela's Ashes' rather than when he grew up. It was real, earthy, engaging, well acted, but did not present a likeable Robert Carlysle. "},{"Title":"The story is acceptable but the movie is very square","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Alan Parker was once successful with his early movies,such as 'Fame','the Wall', and 'Birdy'. But unfortunately, He failed this one.  It's not easy to picture a desperate story that poverty and class struggles involved.  Bille August is more heartful dealing with hopelessness in his Pelle the Conqueror(1988). "},{"Title":"Beautifully done.  Totally believable.","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was a lovely movie.  Sure it's got a depressing backdrop.  But as the saying goes, the child makes the man.  Perhaps a little patriotic at times.  But it was a delight.  If you've watched The Boxer or Michael Collins, your sure to like this movie.  Or perhaps your an irishman who wishes to relive this time in history and remember what it was like.  It was so well rendered.  It's an emotion filled movie.There's some intermitten comedy as well.  Such as interfereing with one's self.  If that's how you should put it.  But overall, I liked this movie.  It's not for someone waiting for Rambo to become his night and shining armor.  It's more for someone who likes a good movie that tells it more of the Real World. 10/10 "},{"Title":"sad sad sad","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Mum is depressed. Dad is drunk. The colors are bleak blue, and black were is the Irish green? The Grapes of Wrath was a movie about the same time, 1930's.  This is no Grapes of Wrath.  The music is beautiful; the kids were very well directed (those faces!!) Two hours of this and where is the 800 number to send aid to the children?  I did not like this movie save your $7.50.  Two stars flawed has moments. "},{"Title":"Grand Irish epic","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I loved the movie very much and that shocked me, because I usually hate all of Alan Parker's movies.  His direction does not overwhelm the story, and subsequently the movie is never boring, always heartbreaking and the acting, especially by the three actors that played Frank, is noteworthy.  All in all, I would highly recommend it, and I never even read the book.  "},{"Title":"The powerful true story of Frank McCourt","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Following a few years where film adaptions of bestselling novels seemed to be a legion, the pace appears to be slowing slightly in 1999 (John Grisham novel-turned-film are becoming scarcer and scarcer, for example). But here comes the adaption of one of the best and most successful books ever, a true tale of poverty in Ireland. I'd advise everyone to either read the book or see the movie for their lives to be changed. "}{"Title":"Whoa! You don't understand!","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  You have to be from Ireland to understand this movie, sorry but it's the truth! Plus, always read the book before u watch the movie.This was just awful. Plain bad directing, acting everything was just so bad. Emily Watson and Robert Carlyle were terrible. Tell me, why could they not just hire Irish actors??????????? There accents are truly awful, I mean really bad.  Also it paints Frank McCourt as a real hero, which he is not. I mean what was that scene when he threw Mrs.Finucane's ledger into the sea????? Of course, it was complete with him throwing his hands in the air, like he had released Free Willy or something, and of coursethey couldn't leave out the dramatic music.GOD THIS MOVIE WAS BAD. "},{"Title":"Read the book","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Of course, it's an obvious thing to say, but, ugh, this is a classic case of the book was better.The casting, the awful blue-bleak cinematography, the strained, over-the-top attempts at re-creating moments from the book - a sad fate for a great story. "},{"Title":"puts the long in long-suffering","Date":"10 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If you pitched a movie about historically accurate misery and poverty to any Hollywood exec, none would endure it for more than twenty seconds. So how did this get made? Well, when you present the same dreary idea with the words It's based on the best-seller, things tend to get green-lighted. You know, there's a ready audience to extract admission fees from. Without that, this project had no possibility of being made. There are exactly zero people in the world clamoring for a generously long, depressing movie.This movie really needed an adaptation that found (or manufactured) some engrossing throughline in the episodic material. Making it filmic instead of a slavishly, literal depiction of the books imagery would have been just dandy too. But no. Rabid fans tend not to like that. They want the book filmed as if the imagery they supplied while reading it were merely recorded. This is the limp task we ask of filmed novels in this era. It's not compelling. Rarely does a movie survive a books fan base.They must have devised special life-sucking camera filters to make this. Everything is grey and torpid. But if there's one thing this story didn't need is to have it's misery overdetermined by ponderous direction, a ponderous script, ponderous production design, a ponderous poster of a scowling child and that ponderous Misery-Vision camera work. As my Irish relatives might say Oh for f***'s Sake! Didn't a colored piece of broken glass occasionally end up in their hands that didn't get painted grey by the gloom patrol? Even the fruit is grey in McCourts world.When I first heard his reading of the first page or two of this on NPR it made me laugh out loud. I thought it was going to be a moderate view of his bad childhood relieved by a little humor. Instead I discovered the book to be an exercise in troweling misery upon misery without edification, and I never made it; neither could some of my friends who wanted to open a vein after just a few chapters. It was like paddling upstream through oatmeal (grey oatmeal) wearing a blindfold (grey also). I don't know what this book did for the readers who made it a best-seller, nor did I realize that there were such enormous audiences in the entertainment age hoping to feel seriously miserable. By page 50 I was shouting We've got it, Frank! I don't know how I got the tone so wrong from his reading. There's barely a sentence that survives the all-pervading clutch of gloom and death.If this material weren't already exhausted in just two iterations, it could be spoofed perfectly with the figure of death and his scythe gleefully chopping people down mid-sentence every couple of minutes, and extras in the background painting entire fruitstands grey. "},{"Title":"Subtitles for this movie","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" where can i find and hopefully download subtitles for this film. Preferably in different languages? I've tried searches etc but the results are thus far unhelpful. when i tried to post this question it seems I've not got enough lines of text, so I've got to fill out some more by writing this stupid waste of text. Maybe ill just copy n paste the original question. Plus the ANAL RETENTIVES who run this site have it set so even the slightest typing mistake will prevent the message from being posted. WHATY A BUNCH OF IDIOTS. HELLO? This is the INTERNET STUPID! Its normal and acceptable to miss-spell.where can i find and hopefully download subtitles for this film. Preferably in different languages? I've tried searches etc but the results are thus far unhelpful. "},{"Title":"poor movie about poor people","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Describing the movie is rather easy and done in one word poor. Poor in every aspect. The story tries to build up feelings, but the short episodes are hardly enough to get any identification with the characters on the screen. The design is rather ambitious, but the steady gray and endless rain gets on ones nerves very soon. The colorful picture of fabulous America seems to be rather ridiculous before that background. Only the excellent performances of Emily Watson and Robert Carlyle (who seems to be present in every English movie of the last year) save the film from absolute boredom. "},{"Title":"Drink....breed....argue....drink....breed....","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  These people weren't worth the price of the gunpowder it would take to blow them all to hell. I spent almost 2 1/2 hours grinding my teeth in impotent aggravation while viewing the antics of these clueless jerks. Supremely ignorant, unbelievably, grossly stupid, slobbering, wasteful boozers, and rolling in their own filth. Never have I witnessed a more repulsive, trashy, useless group of humans. Couldn't afford to feed, or even keep alive their own offspring, but managed to come up with the necessary cigarettes and liquor. These folks were worse than animals; God made critters that way, these losers made a conscious choice. For my money, poor little Angela was as bad as her worthless husband. She put up with it instead of leaving the area for a better life and more worthwhile companions. I suppose this is what happens when a society bows down to graven images instead of seeking their true master. Go see this film, you won't believe it. "},{"Title":"Welcome to Ireland - please set your watches back 100 years","Date":"29 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'd have more respect for the author if he'd stayed in Ireland and tried to do something positive for his people.Author being the appropriate word as apparently Mr McCourt later admitted to making a significant proportion of Angela's Ashes up. Welcome to Ireland - please set your watches back 100 years as the Aer Lingus cabin crew used to say jokingly to one another. I blame the Brits - I mean why not?You'll never get to heaven if you blame The Pope now will you? However you dress it up,the McCourt's unquestioning acceptance of the Church's teachings and their own position at the absolute bottom of the pile were at least partly to blame for the intense misery of their lives. Set in what is clearly Limerick's rainy season,the movie is an unremitting grind of squalor.Women are merely baby - making machines and if you lose one child you can have another soon enough so you can. In complete contrast to the wonderful The Commitments where the very existence of the group is a two - fingered affront to the perceived roles of its members,Angela's Ashes shows the Irish people to be fearful,superstitious and totally subservient to the Church/State which is a sign of how much the country has developed in the intervening years. Mr R.Carlyle has a fine old time as the drunken wastrel father .Weak,gaunt and haunted,he is too much of a stereotype to engage any sympathy.Miss E.Watson,doomed to eternal pregnancy by her faith is stoic and loving. Angela's Ashes was a huge success as a book because you could put it down,open a nice Merlot,knock up an environmentally friendly sustainable snack then continue to read about some poor sods starving to death in a freezing cold country as you wriggled your toes in your Peruvian Lama wool socks. In the cinema there was no such comfort - hence the movie did rather less well. Misery - it is said - loves company.But apparently only in the privacy of your own home. "},{"Title":"Read the book - Skip the movie","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Angela's Ashes was a great book.  The movie for all the trouble they went to make it true to book just didn't deliver.  The book although depressing lifted your spirits as told through the eyes of a boy.  The movie told the story but without the lift and innocence of youth.  I don't know if such a story could be told on film.  This one didn't.  I rented it on DVD and truned it off after quite a struggle to see it through.  As I said.  Read the book and skip the movie. "},{"Title":"ten minutes is too much","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It is obvious from the opening scenes that this movie is going to be a mind-numbingly boring. It takes 2hrs 40mins to travel 15 years or so from a drab dirty New York tenement to a drabber dirtier Irish tenement. There was no attempt to convey the horror of the lives and times. The characters elicited no sympathy. Their acting was as contrived as the sets. The music is a maudlin tour de force by John Williams. It was only the fact I went to see it with some irish friends that I didn't walk out after about ten minutes. There was a scene about half way through where Frank was in the fever hospital. Oi was so sick I t'ought oi was goin' to die; but oi didn't care he said. Neither do I, I thought.  "},{"Title":"Messy Icky Mystery","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The mystery is - why make the film??? I guess this was to satisfy the curiosity of those who read the book - as to just how dreary and dismal and self-pitying these pitiful people could be??Bodily fluids galore - yum - and one scene after another, hour after hour of people doing nothing good for another human being if they can possibly avoid it (handful of exceptions save it from being a totally demonic piece of sadism)and then blaming everyone else for their plight - the yanks, the brits, the northern irish, the southern irish, Bla BLA BLA - what an onslaught - well photographed and well cushioned musically - but how could emily watson stoop to this level - HELP!!! "}{"Title":"Oh Poor Paddy","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is about poor Irish Catholics. Mom is stalwart, wonderful, warm, generous, supportive, does everything possible to hold the family together; dad drinks away anything he earns; mom and dad can't help having children even when they can't feed themselves; the family slowly starves (the kids literally); it rains; the priests live well and don't help; council lives well and doesn't help; the English are evil. It's the fault of drink, of the priests, Catholicism, the church, Ireland itself, men weakened by drinking, the teachers, the system, dad's Northern accent. It's everyone's fault but their own.What a revelation this story was. I had no idea things were like this for the Irish. Oh, wait, I forgot. I did know. This is the same story we've heard a million times.The difference here is that Angela's family can't make it in NY so they go back to Ireland, where they can't make it.Were they poor and starving; and was it awful? Absolutely. What else was going on in the world in the mid-1930s Nanking massacre (80,000 raped, tortured, killed); massacres in Russia, Spain, Lebanon, Germany, even Switzerland. Folks starving to death everywhere. But oh poor Paddy hand me down clothes; furniture from the council; barely enough for a few pints.Alan Parker has done many great movies but he can't make this pap into anything more than a weak story of rain, poverty, depression.A terrible movie but it's still better than the book. Read Roddy Doyle if you want something that approaches literature. "},{"Title":"Worst movie I've ever seen!","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was terribly depressing, disrespectful and definitely a waste of time.  The writer did not use any logic to develop the plot and food and clothing mysteriously appeared despite the obvious lack of funds.  My dreams are better than this movie!  "},{"Title":"Outhouse drama","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you enjoy spending time sitting in a well-used and ill-keptouthouse, you'll probably enjoy this movie. I didn't need two and ahalf hours of retrospective about growing up poor in  depression-era Ireland to convince me it must have been a roughtime. This picture absolutely bathes itself in just about everydisgusting bit of detail that  the Hollywood of today can't getenough of &#150; urination, masturbation, defecation, fornication,vomiting, brutality&#133; it's all here, folks, overdone for your motionpicture pleasure. My parents grew up dirt poor in depression eraPhiladelphia and I've heard all the stories many times. I don't knowhow they were able to survive, but their's was a terribly stronggeneration. We don't need to witness the depravity over and overagain to get the picture. But then Hollywood would have missedthe opportunity to show more of the urination, masturbation, etc.that they so love.  "}]