[{"Title":"very pleasing","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"55 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sean Connery leads an all star cast in an extraordinary yet odd film. I didn't really understand this film until I reached the end and then all the pieces fell into place. I had to see it twice to really grasp what the plot was all about. The story followed four different couples; married, engaged, dating and cheating. Gillian Anderson and Jon Stewart literally bumped into each other and are about to venture out on a first date. Angelina Jolie is crazy for a guy she met at the club (Ryan Phillipe), Anthony Edwards and Madeline Stowe are cheating on their respective spouses. This makes for an interesting viewing and ending, which was a complete twist, and a pleasant shock. Playing By Heart has a lot of complex story lines that really works.This was a film of epic proportions and showed what it had to take to maintain relationships and what love really is and what it will do if people truly love their spouses. I was impressed with everyone's performance; however, I must point out the most outstanding one, which was by Angelina Jolie. Jolie has finally come out from her father's shadow and created one heck of a resume of films that includes Gia and The Bone Collector among others.I highly recommend this film to everyone.  "},{"Title":"A great romance.","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"48 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Why this film wasn't in wide release is beyond me.  It had a great cast and a great story and even the trailer for it was funny.  And plus, can't Sean Connery sell a movie all by himself?  This is a true hidden gem of a film and it is one that really should be seen by everyone.I won't really get into the details of the film too much because seeing what this film is all about is one of the joys of it.  You watch it and you know there is more to it than the screen play lets on about and it is fun trying to piece clues together to understand what is going on.  It is a mystery in some ways and isn't that what the movie claims to be?  A mystery about love. And as they allude to, love is a mytery anyway.My fave characters are Gillian Anderson's and Jon Stewarts.  Their story hits all the right notes and it is easy to relate to them.  They are both cautious people when delving into love.  Both have been hurt but one of them is just a little more relaxed and willing to learn about love again.  And there is one scene where Gillian jumps all over Stewart about some silly issue and this is the area where most movies go the traditional route and they break up, get back together and live happily ever after.  It is a typical concept and it has been done to death.  But in this movie it takes a fresh approach to solving problems and that is it's strength.This is a great romance and it is also wickedly funny.  And the way everything is summed up at the end is not only perfect but it is heart warming and it leaves you feeling glad to be in love, or at least willing to fall again. "},{"Title":"A very enjoyable surprise","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"46 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I checked this one out on IMDb before watching it I was firstly surprised by the cast how do you get all those well-known actors in a film which seemed very unprepossessing and might be considered a `sleeper', made by a practically unknown director? Apart from a couple of films in the late 80s and a number of films for video with perfectly unappetising titles, Willard Carroll did not seem to be a promise living up to the great cast he assembled for this film.How wrong can you be! An excellent drama with real life issues is presented in a more live theatre style than the heart-tugging overplayed resources of more banal cinema productions. I mean, what bad luck that such a pretentious over-hyped `American Beauty' (qv) for instance, receives an avalanche of undeserved accolades, while this little gem just passes by, relatively unknown. In `Playing by Heart' you have a natural well played-out series of events without any of the overladen bombastics so frequent in American cinema. Excellent interpretations here &#150; among the best I have seen of Sean Connery, and Gena Rowlands is his perfect counterpart. Full marks for interpretation to Gillian Anderson, Jay Mohr, Dennis Quaid, Ellyn Burstyn just wonderful, as is Madeleine Stowe, and Ryan Phillipe; and it is the first film in which Angelina Jolie is not appearing only to show off her indisputable charms, as she is wont, but to play her first really convincing rôle without flashing unnecessarily her anatomy all over the place.So, evidently, full marks to Willard for piecing together all these elements to bring out what is indeed a very enjoyable surprise. Most certainly a film to see again. My only quibble is that perhaps the last ten minutes or so did not quite live up to expectations however I would not say that this factor spoils any of the impressions made during the rest of the film.My vote is a little higher than the IMDb User Rating.  "},{"Title":"Positively Charming . . .","Date":"22 November 2004","Score":"42 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I first came across this movie I was somewhat unconvinced by the blurb given on the back of the DVD. However, I decided to give it a chance any way (mostly due to the excellent ensemble cast) and I found that I was completely surprised - this movie was positively charming ! Granted, it is not without its slightly exaggerated moments but in the end this does nothing but add to its charm ! Angelina Jolie's character, Joan is delightful if somewhat melodramatic and Gillian Anderson does a great job as the relationship-shy Meredith enraptured with, yet afraid to commit to, the charismatic Trent. Sean Connery's performance is effortless and the rest of the cast are all excellent as well. There are light moments and completely heart-breaking moments but all in all - it ends on such a high note of hope that one cannot help but be delighted !Definitely worth your time - 9/10 "},{"Title":"Wonderful in so many ways...","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"34 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are certain movies that grab ahold of you at the first scene, or even the first line, and refuse to let you go until the credits start rolling in. This is one of those movies. And I can go on and on about what makes this movie great, but I can't list all of them, since there's a thousand word limit, so I'll just take the principal two, with a PS. Here they are... Story This is six different stories, woven in to one. As the movie progresses, and we learn more about the different characters, we see more and more of their connection to each other. And that just gives you so much more to enjoy.  Acting There are a lot of talent in this movie, but the two that really steal the movie are Angelina Jolie and Ryan Phillipe. They put on awesome show together. PS Ryan is sexy even with blue hair... "},{"Title":"Short stories","Date":"4 October 2005","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Writer/director Willard Carroll, the director of Playing by Heart, has constructed a multi storied film where different narratives are seen completely without any idea how they are connected until the end. This device has been employed by other directors, notably, Robert Altman. Whereas Mr. Altman interconnects his scenes differently, Mr. Carroll, keeps the stories separate, only to have them come together at the end.The director was exceptionally lucky in amassing this talented cast to appear in his film. Viewers of all ages will identify with the different stories since they resonate with different age groups. Most comments submitted to IMDb seem to be from young viewers who think the best thing in the movie are Joan and Keenan. While this couple do a good job, there are other good moments involving some of the other couples we see in the film.Sean Connery and Gena Rowlands make an excellent couple. Angelina Jolie and Ryan Phillippe do also good work in the film. But Madeleine Stowe and Gillian Anderson have more interesting characters. Same could be said about Dennis Quaid, who makes a mark as Hugh, the tormented man who discovers his wife's infidelity. Anthony Edwards, Ellen Burstyn, Jay Mohr, and a surprising Jon Stewart are among the actors seen in minor roles.The film will delight audiences because the film catches one's imagination from the beginning. "},{"Title":"Endearing","Date":"10 June 2004","Score":"25 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie takes you by surprise from the minute it begins.  The cast is filled with many  beautiful and brilliant actors.  There is never a dull moment in this movie, it makes you  question your relationships and how to make them better without being Hollywood.   Sean Connery is certainly a stand out in this movie as well as Gena Rowlands who by far is an  extraordinary actress with many dimensions to her.  Angelina Jolie and Ryan Phillipee are  sweet and tender in this film...it can make you cry at the emotions that come out of them.  "},{"Title":"Good, but not great","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"26 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Talking about love is like dancing about architecture, claims Angelina Jolie as Joan in Playing By Heart. An ensemble romance that should at least be notable for bringing together such a large and diverse cast, Playing By Heart is an enjoyable romantic tale of eleven people in Los Angeles whose lives are interconnected.Sean Connery and Gena Rowlands play the oldest couple. Dealing with old age, Gena discovers that Sean considered having an affair during their 40 years of marriage. Learning to deal with this 25 years later, Rowlands and Connery are very good as a couple going through changes late in life. Connery is as dashing as ever, and him and Rowlands seem they have been together for 40 years. Their story is convincing and refreshing.Keenan (Ryan Phillippe) and Joan (Angelina Jolie) are the youngest couple, two club kids looking for companionship in a complex world that Connery and Rowlands had never conceived of. Their story is as engaging and believable as that of Hannah and Paul. Jolie is the real star of this movie. No matter how composed she makes Joan out to be, we can always see her insecurities lurking just beneath the surface. Phillippe has little to do but bounce off of Jolie's tour-de-force, but he does it admirably and they make a sexy, believable young couple.John Stewart and Gillian Anderson are also very good. She is a lonely theater director and he is a lonely architect. They have a natural unforced chemistry that you wouldn't expect from these two very different television personalities. Although their relationship in the script seems ill-conceived, their performances almost make up for it.Madeline Stowe and Anthony Edwards are the most unappealing and ridiculous couple in the movie. As a couple cheating on their respective spouses, they have secret rendezvous in a hotel room almost every night from what it would seem. We never know the specifics of anything which is amusing at first, but becomes tired by the end of the film, as do the performances of Edwards and Stowe.Ellen Burstyn and Jay Mohr play a mother and son. Mark is dying of AIDS and his mother rushes to his bedside. Mark and become very close before he dies. Although Burstyn and Mohr are good their story gets little screen time and thus doesn't feel as important as it should be.Finally, Dennis Quaid is a man who spends his evenings in bars telling fantastical stories to anyone who will listen. Why does he do this? I can't give away the film, but the answer isn't truly satisfying, although Quaid gives a very good performance.The stories all manage to come together in the end in a way that's clever and satisfying. While not the best movie, Playing By Heart has its heart in the right places and manages to have some keen insights into love and relationships.GradeB+ "},{"Title":"The entire theater stayed put for about 4 minutes taking in all they had seen.  On a scale of 1-10, 9...","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie twice and liked it better the second time.  If you like love stories and involved dialogue then this is a flick for you.  It is a quadruple love story with a small dose of extra marital affair, a fair look at a husband's search for himself and a sprinkle of mother/son understanding.  Six stories to start and you must follow each of them.  All of these stories come together at the end in a way that really touches your heart.Beware of other comments regarding this movie in this area  - a couple of commenters have told the entire story.  Part of the joy of this movie is to try to figure out how all of these characters connect to each other.  I found it enjoyable to see I was right while I watched it all unravel. There's nothing wrong with predictability especially if you're not really *that* sure if you came to the right conclusions before the end.Angelina Jolie's acting is stunning and her repore with Ryan Phillipe is perfect.  I was surprized to see that Jon Stewart is a natural and Gillian Anderson can do no wrong in my eyes.  If nothing else, see it for Sean Connery who is always at his best.I think that people who don't like this movie don't enjoy the mystery of love.  Talking about love is like Dancing about Architechture.  How is this so hard to fathom?  The story is confusing because love is confusing. That's what this movie is trying to say.  But that's not gonna stop me from trying.  These lines are reiterated in the movie  They're said at the very beginning and then the same scene is shown in its proper order.  It doesn't take a genius to appreciate it. Some have expressed disinterest in a few of the characters, such as the affair between Madeline Stowe and Anthony Edwards.  It's called a family and once the movie is over, we see how they relate at the end.  For Stowe and Edwards, one of these hired the other for a job at a party at the end, and an affair ensued. Stowe's husband, Dennis Quaid, thinks she doesn't like him and does some role playing and soul searching because he's been told he doesn't have much of an imagination.  He's only trying to figure out where the two of them went wrong.  Some have also expressed concern over why the mother/son segments, played by Jay Mohr and Ellen Burstyn, were even needed. This would have only taken some extra attention to the story itself.  Hint to those who have not seen it  they were the next door neighbors to Hannah and Paul making Jay Mohr the 'boy next door.'All in all, all the actors do an incredible job and the story is something to see and LISTEN to.  Both times I saw it, the entire theatre stayed put for at least 4 minutes taking in all they had just seen.  That alone should intrigue you.  On a scale of 1-10 I give it a 9. "},{"Title":"People need to watch movies with their mind as well as their time","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was quite impressed with the entire presentation of the film.  The characters were well developed, individual, and full of potential and humanity.  The relationships were actual and realistic, a wonderful break from the Fantasy of Sleepless in Seattle (or You've Got Mail, pick the title you want).  The presentation of people with problems and realistic responses to these problems and the people who are affected by these problems really makes this movie more than a past-time; it is a gift, showing us what we are and what we can become with some work and maybe a small paradigm shift.Everyone did a wonderful job of presenting real people, Sean Connery found a role which allowed him to be his age but not loose that which he is loved for sinful good looks and flawless composure. Gillian Anderson was so good that by the end I had almost stopped waiting for Molder to arrive. But for me Angelina Jolie was the centerpiece, as she showed the greatest degree of development and growth, epitomizing the struggle that each person was going through.To me, the plot was a lot more complicated than just the feelings that develop from watching the movie, and the depth of perception is honestly presented in the comments of the other reviewers; most seem to have watched the movie with so much intensity that they got up 35 minutes into it to go and tell the popcorn boy to give them a new bag because they had specifically asked for NO butter.  This movie is cognitive to the degree it is affective.  It takes one relationship and divides it up into several stages (seen as the family members' relationships), and in doing so it allows us to see relational development in ways we normally can't, just as we repeatedly see the time of day change against the buildings.It is funny, it is romantic, but it is true. And I am thankful for its gift of sight into life, into death. "}{"Title":"TV-movie sentimentality","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although this movie has its witty moments, and is an excellent showcase for the dazzling Angelina Jolie, who displays a dead-on comic timing equal to her bombshell beauty (think Janeane Garofolo but a shade less dark, perhaps due to her super-model looks and miraculous cleavage), Playing By Heart is handicapped by the following weaknesses  a) Tendency to easy sentiment, featuring two (!) characters with AIDS as cheap ploys to draw audience sympathy (it worked, too, at the showing I went to, judging by the sniffles I heard throughout the theatre (b) An absolutely horrible performance by actor Jon Stewart, ruining poor Gillian Anderson's chances at really shining  (c) Mind-numbingly boring post-coital conversations between Anthony Edwards and the beautiful Madeliene Stowe in the single least effective plot thread in the movie, whose only interesting facet is not revealed until movie's end (d) Increasingly grating drunken histrionics from Dennis Quaid, and, of course,  (e) A desultorily tidy ending that reassures the audience that love has conquered all for each of the 10 or so main characters.Mitigating factor Gena Rowlands was her usual excellent self.  Also, did I mention Angelina Jolie's cleavage? "},{"Title":"Derivative with some original moments","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Taking its structure from Robert Altman's Short Cuts, this movie interweaves the stories of three sisters, their parents, friends and men in their lives.  Meredith (Gillian Anderson) is a theatre director with a serious phobia of commitment and monogamous relationships.  In Trent (John Stewart) she meets her match, as he pursues her with honesty, affection and lots of humour.  Too good to be true?  Joan (Angeline Jolie) is a bar-hopper who can't seem to meet the right man, until she hooks up with Keenan (Ryan Phillippe).  His quiet introspection bruises as it bumps up against her more flamboyant and ebullient style.  But their respective vulnerabilities open up the possibility for a more permanent attachment.  Or do they?  Accused of having no imagination and neglecting his wife, Hugh (Dennis Quaid) is a man who every night reinvents himself by entering a different social establishment and telling lies to unsuspecting patrons.  To what end? Married, but not to each other, Gracie (Madeleine Stowe) and Roger (Anthony Edwards) are having an affair in which each understands the limits of the relationship.  Or do they?  Hannah (Gena Rowlands) and Paul (Sean Connery) are facing the most serious threat to their forty years of marriage - his brain tumor.  Or is it?  And finally, Mark (Jay Mohr) is dying of AIDS while his mother Mildred (Ellen Burstyn) sits vigil at his bedside.  In their last moments together, each reconciles their relationship with the other as well as to their friends and family.  Those are the characters and this is another in a long line of love as a battlefield stories.  In this case, everyone walks away with scars, though some more deadly than others. While I was impressed with the acting and thought the evolution of these relationships was realistic, I was very disappointed in the lack of surprises and the totally predictable dénouement. "},{"Title":"Very happy I finally saw it","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I heard about this movie when it was in pre-production, under another title - Dancing About Architecture, which is much better than the one they gave it.  I enjoyed it very much but do not think its a big deal or particularly memorable. The best parts were with Ryan & Angelina, and it was nice to see them in likable parts and their chemistry was a reason the movie worked. I liked Dennis Quaid and Ellen Burtsyn very much also - he must be the best liar onscreen since Mary Astor in The Maltese Falcon.  "},{"Title":"Terrible, Terrible, Terrible","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I cannot believe what I'm reading. People actually liked this cheesy film???? Not only is the plot horribly contrived, it's entirely too predictable to warrant some of the big-name stars that actually agreed to do this film. The problem is that the characters are stuck with this terrible script and film that takes itself too seriously. Gillian Anderson plays a woman burned in the past by love who is unwilling to try again, and proves repeatedly that she does not deserve someone as dedicated and earnest as Jon Stewart (who does redeem the humor a teeny tiny bit). That's one facet of the story down the drain. Then there's the emo-predecessor Ryan Phillipe who attracts the party girl Angelina Jolie, whose resulting relationship is unbelievable. Then there is Patricia Clarkson who has an affair with a man purely for their sexual compatibility, which is just stupid. Dennis Quiad is one of the more interesting character, showing up at bars with these outrageous stories and being followed by a woman, but as with many other aspects of this film, the buildup is much better than the actual conclusion and denouement (they really let you down). But the very worst are Sean Connery and Gena Rowlands, whose struggling marriage is hard to watch. My point is that after a certain point, the cheesy lines start making you wince with their pure predictability. You could be one of the characters and say the lines. But it all works out in the end (surprise!). "},{"Title":"At best...not bad.","Date":"29 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" No one I know has heard of this movie, and that's a shame. Somewhat. The film's huge cast is similar to the better-known Love Actually, with the eclectic mix of seemingly-unrelated characters who finally congregate together in the end. It's also got a British actor (Sean Connery) to boot, as well as some big stars like Angelina Jolie and surprisingly, Jon Stewart (being a lot more romantic here than on his Daily Show, of course). But Playing by Heart isn't that funny, which may be why it's escaped everyone's ears. It's undoubtedly a well-made film, but it just didn't leave me gushing with praise. The acting was good, and the tribulations and angst the characters felt were real and at times somber (especially the poor man dying of AIDS), but the film left no lasting impression on me. The humor was rare and the drama on the dry, oh well, too bad or (in monotone) wooo, problem solved, happiness for all side. But then, I'm a finicky watcher and I admit, a borderline pretentious critic. Since I didn't dislike the film, it probably means most people will enjoy or even love it, so I give this a 7/10. Just don't watch it expecting to burst into uproarious laughter or a free flowing sob-fest. You'll most likely chuckle here and there (like when discovering John Stewart's bed buddy) and feel sorry for those afflicted with disease, who, for me, are the only truly touching characters in this not-bad, not-contrived, not-unimpressive film. "},{"Title":"Character-driven dramedy with an all-star cast","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Take an all-star cast of Gillian Anderson, Ellen Burstyn, Sean Connery, Anthony Edwards, Angelina Jolie, Jay Mohr, Ryan Phillippe, Dennis Quaid, Gena Rowlands, Jon Stewart, and Madeleine Stowe; add terrific character development, a lot of emotion, and a little plot, and you get Playing by Heart.Hannah and Paul (Rowlands and Connery) are an aging couple trying to work through challenges new and old. Mark (Mohr) is dying of AIDS, and spends his last week on earth in a Chicago hospital talking to his mother (Burstyn). Hugh (Quaid) gets drunk and tells tragic stories to women in bars. Trendy, philosophical Joan (Jolie) tries to date the reclusive, mysterious Keenan (Phillippe), who refuses to date. Meredith (Anderson) has been scalded by so many men that she is afraid to get too close to Trent (Stewart). And Gracie and Roger (Stowe and Edwards) have an affair in an LA hotel; he wants more while she doesn't.The stories seem independent, and I spent the whole movie wondering how they all intertwine. (They all come together in the last 20 minutes.) Not much plot, but the characters are very well developed, the acting is superb, and life's humor and tragedy is well mixed.Rated R for language and mature content, but it probably could have gotten away with a PG13. "},{"Title":"2/5 of a real movie","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a telling of 5 individual stories about 5 different couples that seem to have no link at first but come together at the end.  I found that 2 of the 5 stories were actually watchable.  The other 3 went out on vacation and never came back.Tried to be too real but couldn't shake its fairy-tale feel.  Anjelina Jolie was the most memorable as the annoying girl that grows on you and Gillian Anderson was interesting as Dana Scully with a different name, dark hair and a new love interest.If you MUST watch this because of the marquee names, save your 8 bucks and rent it.  Better yet, wait for cable. "},{"Title":"Woefully Disjointed and Sloppy","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  How did a movie like this ever even get made?  Playing By Heart has a myriad of notable actors meandering through painfully sluggish dialogue as they define, discuss and detail their individual relationships, ad-nauseum .Writer-Director Willard Carroll must know where a body is buried in Hollywood, as it is the only explanation for this mess to ever get poured into a motion picture camera. The film jumps between one unrelated story to the other, giving no time for characters or plot to develop.  To ensure that the viewer stays completely frustrated, many of the characters develop in directions that are never re-addressed by the film,  leading the viewer down several of these meaningless dead-ends.  We get to follow Dennis Quaide as he plays out invented characters in a seemingly endless string of bars, all in the name of his acting class. Beware of those who want to pin this film as Sean Connery's best role. Rent The Untouchables if you have any doubt.  Despite a noble effort by Connery and others, the dialogue and overall sloppy directing will make the viewer hard-pressed to find any real teeth in the characters. Playing By Heart is a complete disappointment. It is neither romantic nor insightful.  It is plentiful in mediocrity. "},{"Title":"wonderful, beautiful and extremly painful","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Starting out as the typical romantic movie about relationships, Playing by heart (In swedish Six lessons about love which I think is a better title) surprised me A LOT. With twists and, in  a way, a heartbreaking ending, you couldn't ask that much more from this movie.Playing by heart is a mix of six different stories of love  a marriage on the verge of ending, the love between a mother and her child, relationships that have just begun and secret, as well as forbidden, passion.I am going to concentrate on the story of Joan (Angelina Jolie) and Keenan (Ryan Philippe). Joan is glamorous, witty, loves acting, loves her cat and never stops talking. Mostly she talks about herself. At a club she spots Keenan, a boy with blue hair and hard eyes. One of the first things he tells her is he doesn't date. Sure thing Joan says But if you want, meet me at the cinema tomorrow. But it wont be a date if you don't want to. And what do you know he actually shows up! But Keenan is a boy with secrets. He won't tell Joan what has happened to him, so she assumes he's been ditched by the girl he loved. She's close to the truth, but she could by no means ever emagine what Keenan has gone thrue.**WARNING SPOILERS!!**My God! The scene where Keenan tells Joan the reason he hardly ever smiles and is persuaded he will never be alowed to love again is one of the strongest scenes in movie history! I cried a lot over this young couple's destiny. I cried because it was so unfair that they, so in love and so happy, were going to be punished for something someone else did. How unfair isn't the world when a young guy like Keenan is given HIV by his unfaithful girlfriend, and is therefor going to be ripped away from the girl he loves. Twice! First his girlfriend dies and then he is going to die and leave Joan alone here to grief. And the s***tiest part of it all is that it happens every day, all over the world!Both Ryan Philippe and Angelina Jolie are magnificent in this movie. Especially Jolie surpasses almost all of her co-stars. She is truly amazing; something I thought I'd never say about her. All in all this is a great movie. I guess that it wants to leave you with a feeling of hope. Hope in life and love and humans, but it actually mostly left me with the feeling of why is this world so unfair?!Watch it if you can. Already have? Then take the time to watch it a second time. Because it's worth it, it really is.  "},{"Title":"Family Drama.","Date":"17 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A dialog based drama about 11 different unrelated characters. A snapshot in their course of life is 'Playing by Heart'. In the end, we realize all characters are related.Mildred is coping with her son who is dieing young of a terminal disease, elderly couple Hannah and Paul having a row over Paul's affair 25 years back, depressed lad Keenan who fears to have a love affair and a girl Joan who tries to bring him into love, drama director Meredith struggles to accept her attraction towards Trent, Gracie thinking her husband does not have imagination, tries to compensate it with a blind date with a guy without sharing any identities and her husband trying to cope up with his imagination problem.Best thing about the movie is the dialogs. Many thoughtful statements and emotional moments. All main characters acted without any hitches. Angelina Jolie and Gena Rowlands are noteworthy actors. I feel If one or two melody songs would have come during the sequence it would have been much better.Watch it only if you like dialogs based drama. "}{"Title":"4.5/10","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not a fan of episode-movies but the ending makes up for that a little bit. as mostly with those movies the story-snippets the audience is presented with are very intensive and thought through. the great cast and it's performance lift this movie a lot. "},{"Title":"Great acting, good plot, well worth watching.","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie opens with one of the characters saying Talking about music is like dancing about architecture. I haven't heard such an inventive statement in a Hollywood movie for ages. It caught me immediately.There are different plots going parallel and they appear not to be connected with each other, until near the end... And, honestly, thats already quite complex for Hollywood. However, I first thought that this is not going to be a too exciting story. Wrong assumption. I admit that the stories are not really new, have seen it all before in numerous movies. At the end however, I felt a good bit of satisfaction because the stories become really touchy, thanks to a well performing cast.Sure, Mr Connery will hardly spoil a movie. He's just great. But others who have been nothing but meaningless movie starlets to me made me throwing this prejudices out of the window. Especially Angelina Jolie delivers an outstanding performance. Her character is bizarre but she manages to make it credible. That's worth a lot! Compliments to Gillian Anderson too.Talking about music is like dancing about about architecture, and the girls reply is Talking about LOVE is like dancing about architecture. Well, this movie proofs her wrong. It is two hours talking about love and it does it very well. "},{"Title":"great ensemble movie","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i was pleasantly surprised by this romantic comedy.  all the individual stories were good in their own right and it was great how they all came together in the end.  by far the best story was the one with angelina jolie and ryan philippe's characters.  they had great chemistry and it was really touching when his situation was revealed.  it was hilarious seeing her character trying to get the guy to like her.  jolie looked great in this movie.  it was also nice seeing gillian anderson in a non x-files role. also jon stewart is a very underrated actor and he's always good in whatever role he gets.  i highly recommend it to people who like romantic movies. this is one of the good ones. "},{"Title":"Talking about this film is like dancing about Architecture","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film at first because I love almost every actor involved with the project. After watching it I wanted to watch again and again and soforth. I can't pick a favorite story because they were all well done and well defined, if I had to pick a least favorite I suppose it would have to be Madeline Stowe's, but that served to provide the one twist at the end of the film i'm sure no one saw coming.After watching this film one has to wonder a couple things. Why isn't Jon Stewart in more movies? Why doesn't Sean Connery do more smaller projects? and why doesn't Angelina Jolie stick to this kind of film? She's magnificent in it.The soundtrack is a very jazzy score (which I loved) and the songs used in the film were well placed. And while some found this film depressing, I found it to be much more satisfying and fulfilling than most so-called romantic comedies on the market today. This is a perfect date movie.I'm also glad that this film was released on an independant and hence small scale instead of being given the big hype campaign. I think playing this movie up on a grand scale would have taken away from how wonderful it ended up being. Every single critic in the world who goes to see all the Star Wars and all the Harry Potter's trying to analyze this film as if it was just another date movie out there would have done nothing but make less people want to see it.Also, on a final note. Where are all the girls out there comparable to Joan (Angelina Jolie), she's wonderful, erotic, sensual, witty, and well versed. Plus she likes going to see The Texas Chainsaw Massacure (late show only of course), do women like that exist?So on a final note. Playing By Heart is a wonderful, touching and damn near perfect independant film. See it as soon as possible. "},{"Title":"Love Boat L.A.","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  John Berry's compositions and Chet Baker's heartfelt and simple improvs (with imitations by Chris Botti) serenade this Willard Carroll-written and directed story of three desperate sisters' search for `meaningful relationships'.  Irrepressible Angelina Jolie gets all the cynical club chick lines.Co-starring Sean Connery, Gena Rowlands (GLORIA, 1980), Ryan Phillippe (54), Ellen Burstyn, Jay Mohr, Gillian Anderson (the novelty of her playing roles other than Agent Scully has worn off by now), and Jon Stewart (host of the new DAILY SHOW on Comedy Central).Songs by many including Moby, Bran Van 3000, Gomez, Fluke, Morcheeba, Cracker, but one good one is `Walk into This Room' by Edward Kowalczyk & Neneh Cherry.Mostly full of itself. "},{"Title":"Mediocre","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found Playing by Heart to be mildly amusing at best. It's one of those films that aspires to profundity but ends up just wallowing in its own triviality. The fault lies largely in Willard Carroll's muddled script, which presents us with far too many characters who have almost nothing new or interesting to say about anything, much less love.The ensemble cast, however, is stellar, particularly Sean Connery, Gena Rowlands, Gillian Anderson, Jon Stewart, and Angelina Jolie (a fiercely talented young actress who gives this film a jolt of energy whenever she is onscreen).I particularly found the scenes between Madeleine Stowe and Anthony Edwards tiresome and pointless. Willard spends so much time jumping back and forth in this circus of under-developed characters that we are not allowed to care for any of them as individuals. And those we do end up caring for we do so only from the artistry of the actors who play them. This is certainly the case for Angelina Jolie's free spirited club girl, as well as Gillian Anderson's tightly wound theatre director.And then, almost like some cheap, last ditch effort to give this muddled mess some form of coherent ending, Carroll throws in a trite plot device that is supposed to make us Ooh and Ahh with glee and wonderment but is just plain insulting. Why? Because anyone who was paying any attention at all during the film could have figured out the ending in a heartbeat.Oh, and another thing. It's almost sacrilege to compare this movie to Robert Altman's scathing but brilliant film, Short Cuts. Short Cuts was a subtle montage of extremely complex characters who were each, in their own way, dealing with inner demons that threatened to destroy them. At the very least, Altman's film was a bold experiment both in storytelling and cinematic minimalism.Playing by Heart, on the other hand, is nothing more than light entertainment that will (and should) be forgotten as soon as the credits roll. "},{"Title":"Self-enamored, facile duets...the characters crack wise while their hearts are breaking","Date":"13 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A slick tapestry of not-so-disparate lives touched by love and death. Willard Carroll writes just like he directs for immediate impact only, without regard to the characters he's spotlighting in a scene or to what follows dramatically thereafter. He panders to an audience's base emotions, which sometimes leaves his follow-through seeming empty or halfhearted. After losing her son to AIDS, grieving Ellen Burstyn is invited to a neighbor's celebration, where she is greeted warmly and then forgotten about. Dennis Quaid improvises a phony life story to an all-seeing, all-knowing drag queen, who calls Quaid out on his lie and then disappears. Carroll isn't interested in his smartest creations--he's mainly after warm hugs and kisses (which we are flooded with near the end). Some may see the writer-director's proverbial third-act ribbon-wrapping as clever and uncanny, but nothing is really accomplished by crisscrossing the paths of these people...it's simply a writer's folly. Aside from the touching Burstyn story, it doesn't wash. ** from **** "},{"Title":"middling","Date":"7 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Angelina Jolie is good (although she seems older than her boyfriend in the film), and Dennis Quaid nearly walks away with it too - they give the most nuanced performances, i'd say, with a script that skims over the surface of necessity, since there are so many vignettes, not giving anything enough time to develop.the scene when the theatrical director throws her new boyfriend out because she is projecting trouble ahead felt very real - it is a playing out of an instinct that some of us may know, and there are true sparks of humor between them, and it's sexier than any other physical relationship going on - but the drawn-out scenario of some of the others just did not ring true or matter the older couple are not focussing on what's really troubling them and fill up the time with discussion of an old love affair - totally tedious! and the actors worked hard to make it real. the relationship between the mother and her AIDs afflicted son was well played out - but i felt they had to rush to get it in - but it was affecting and well played, well written. (it felt like stage dialogue which ordinarily i do not like in a film).middling worthwhile to watch in the end, (although i liked the scene of Trent in bed with a huge dog). altogether not very gripping - surprising that so many great actors were in it, and that the film received so much attention. "},{"Title":"A sleeper worth enjoying","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The relationship between Angelina Jolie and Ryan Phillippe is one of the top 5 best relationships in the last 40 years and carries the film. Mohr and Burnstyn should a special amount of growth in a relationship that has little time.This is a relationship movie, and deals with people needing to accept people for who they are, to be patient and understanding to what has made people the way they are. I enjoyed discovering the about the relationships as the movie went along. Kudos to Dennis Quaid for playing a searching personality that does not come across as the suave macho lead. If you like Jon Stewart this you have fun watching him act. There is something for everyone and everyone may find themselves in one of the characters and hopefully grow from the experience. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite films!","Date":"23 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I bought this film as a PVT without even seeing it. I was sure that it was worth at least ten dollars just based on the cast. Well, I was more than right. This movie is perfectly cast with an interesting plot that draws you in till the end. I cannot see anyone else playing any of these roles, even down to the smaller roles such as Anthony Edwards' character. If you are a fan of Jon Stewart alone, it is worth his performance to see how romantically charming he can be. Fans of the movie Love Actually should also see Playing by Heart, although be warned it is not as light as Love Actually. If you like romantic comedies but are sick of the cheesy ones that have no other well-founded plot, check out Playing by Heart! "}{"Title":"A Very Well-Written Movie That Touched My Heart","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a well-made movie! I liked Playing By Heart. The movie's central theme is-what else-love. And how love can be found in all types and sizes. Okay, call it a bit sappy; call it corny, but also call it VERY GOOD! In a time when there are so many movies where the central themes are violence and indeed at a time when there is so much violence all around us, isn't it NICE to have a little feel-good of a movie once in awhile? Loved all the stories and wonderful dialog.  Very Well written!  Now some people have said there were too many stories in the movie, I thought the writer tied all of the stories together nicely.  GO RENT THE MOVIE IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN IT! It'll leave you feeling good. AND you will laugh hysterically and shed a few tears along the way.  "},{"Title":"AWESOME MOVIE !","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Contains SPOILER! That movie is brilliant for me. I couldn't wait to have a chance to see it. Yesterday i saw it in Polish TV. I am a big fan of Gillian Anderson and Angelina Jolie ... but that movie got a great cast. Since yesterday i saw that movie 3 times. The role playing by Angelina was awesome ... i love her style. She is so lonely and sweet ... mmmmmh. Sorry for my personal feelings. The story was very god but i don't like the sad endings like a death of those young boy. Anyway i really enjoy watching G.Anderson and A.Jolie ... some scenes was brilliant. I love the scene when Gillian cleaning teeths ... or when Ryan Phillippe was so quiet in the disco. There is a lot more great scenes but i don't want to be boring. Sorry for my english and i hope there is somebody who really like that movie as me. "},{"Title":"decent movie","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a pretty decent movie that kept my attention and made me think about past relationships, as well as current ones.  I thought it was touching at times, but also hurried at others.  It was almost too hard to believe that some of these relationships could be developing at such a fast rate.  But in the end you realize it is just a movie, and one that tells a touching, sweet story with a pretty good twist. "},{"Title":"Pure Science fiction of the heart....","Date":"4 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What can only be described as a total fabrication, Playing By Heart is as phony as a 3 dollar bill... Playing pretentiously on the Heart strings of its viewers, this mishmash of junk reeks with phoniness, and a surface skimming attempt of depth ...Wasted efforts by Sean Connery, and others, tries to explore different age levels of relationships, not excluding, Jon Stewart and Gillian Anderson, how it that for Science Fiction !!!Seeing Jon Stewarts SENSITIVE side makes you want to Puke, HEAVYILY ! Not to mention bedroom scenes, makes Cabin Boy  performance look Oscar worthy... All in all, a complete waste of 121 minutes of your life, this film compares on the same level as Dan Akroyd's Nothing But Trouble ! , another get your money back film !!!So, if you have a soft spot in your heart, and not your head, avoid this movie at all costs !!! It gets a 1, because they don't have negative numbers !!! "},{"Title":"Enjoyed all of these interlocking stories especially Angelina Jolie and Ryan Phillippe","Date":"30 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This ensemble romantic comedy is a bit dated now (1998) but still worth watching for the all-star cast attached. Its charming, with clever dialogue and strong performances from all, cutting back and forth between several seemingly unconnected miniplots until they all converge at the end with a couple of big surprises. Actually part of the fun here was guessing how all these stories were going to come together, who was related to who etc.Most of the stories are about finding love; (Gena Rowlands) and her husband (Sean Connery) argue over his brief infidelity 25 years earlier, (Madeline Stowe & Anthony Edwards) are having an affair, (Gillian Anderson & Jon Stewart) take a stab at first dates, (Dennis Quaid) is doing the bar circuit and (Ellen Burstyn) reconnects with her son (Jay Mohr) who is dying of AIDS.I enjoyed all of these interlocking stories but honestly was blown away (and could have watched a whole movie) surrounding volatile club goer (Angelina Jolie) who falls for the mysterious (Ryan Phillippe) storyline. Jolie was fantastic and as a couple they really caught my interest; sexy, mysterious, surprising and sad.In regards to this being dated; Angelina Jolie still has some meat on her bones, a significant amount of Moby is used in the soundtrack, one of the characters works in the Twin Towers and there is a general feeling of AIDS hysteria and very closeted views on gay relationships. -It was interesting to see how far we've come in that respect in 17 years (Yay) 3/29/15 "},{"Title":"Bound to be something for everybody","Date":"25 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Paul (Sean Connery) and Hannah (Gena Rowlands) are doing a TV cooking show as the past comes back to haunt them. Gunshy playwright Meredith (Gillian Anderson) accepts a date from architect Trent (Jon Stewart). Mark (Jay Mohr) is gay and dying of AIDS. His mother Mildred (Ellen Burstyn) comes to his deathbed. Trendy club goer Joan (Angelina Jolie) tries to attract Keenan (Ryan Phillippe). Roger (Anthony Edwards) and Gracie (Madeleine Stowe) are an adulterous couple. Hugh (Dennis Quaid) tells tragic life stories to women (Patricia Clarkson, Kellie Waymire) in bars. The various stories and characters connect as they wind up in one family wedding.Written and directed by Willard Carroll, this is a fragmented movie. There are some great actors working on this film. I really love the wild energy from Angelina Jolie. Some stories are more compelling than others. That's the nature of this kind of movie. It's a constant up and down viewing experience. I'm eager to see a few of the stories, but others drag. A couple of the stories could be cut to make space to expand the other stories. It would also be better for those characters and the emotions to play out more. The connection in the end is nothing but an exercise in writing. With the acting power gathered in this movie, there is bound to be someone in the movie for everybody. "},{"Title":"Burstyn, Rowlands and Connery","Date":"22 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I believe this is the third time I'm watching this movie - haven't seen it in years. If you like movies in the multiple storyline form of Short Cuts and Magnolia, where lots of stories are told in parallel and finally meet, then you're gonna love this movie. Unsurprisingly, the highlights of the movie are the scenes with Ellen Burstyn (made me cry more than once) and Gena Rowlands & Sean Connery, but you can't expect less than fantastic actors like these, given a good script. Dennis Quaid is also good in his role. The Angelina Jolie story was OK - Jolie is overacting but she's OK in her role. I would have cut the entire Gillian Anderson story - I don't know if it's the story that's weak or Gillian Anderson's acting (probably the latter), but something doesn't work for me there. Also, Madeleine Stowe is beautiful, but her story is just minor and not very interesting. "},{"Title":"Game of Hearts","Date":"25 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Willard Carroll's feel-good 'Playing By Heart' is charming and funny. It follows a number of heartbroken characters a mother and her dying son (Ellen Burstyn and Jay Mohr), a married elderly couple (Sean Connery and Gena Rowlands), a childless wife (Madeleine Stowe) having an affair with a minister, a barsurfing man (Dennis Quaid) who fabricates stories, a relationship-burnout designer (Gillian Anderson) forcing herself to resist the charms of an architect (Jon Stewart) and a sassy young woman (Angelina Jolie) and her failed attempts to win the heart of a young man (Ryan Fillipe) with a secret. While it is quite well shot and decently written, it is mainly the acting that stands out. As much of the film is a series of interactions, solid performances are required and all the actors at least do a good job. Connery, Rowlands, Burstyn and Anderson are excellent. They're a delight to watch. Stowe doesn't get much scope unfortunately. Quaid is hilarious. Stewart and Fillipe fit the bill. Jolie is adorable.On the flipside, I felt the ending was a little clichéd and a tad overdone. Overall, Carroll's film makes for a fine rainy day flick. "},{"Title":"Somehow, a connection is made","Date":"19 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have a love affair with ensemble pieces, and this film is no exception. As much a love letter to Los Angeles (which only die-hard Angelinos will appreciate) as a celebration of love, Playing By Heart follows the lives and loves of four couples in the City of Angels. Gillian Anderson does her best to resist Jon Stewart's elegance and charm. Madeleine Stowe, bored with her marriage to Dennis Quaid, seeks danger and excitement in the eyes of a nervous lover (Anthony Edwards). Gregarious Angelina Jolie presses her charms upon Ryan Phillipe, who rebuffs her for painful and personal reasons. Meanwhile, Sean Connery and Gena Rowlands play an old married couple discussing an affair that may or may not have happened when Sean wore a younger man's clothes. Throw in Dennis Quaid's own late-night adventures and a moving B story of a young man dying of AIDS (Jay Mohr, in an impressive departure from his usual smart-guy persona), and you have a rich tapestry of those who live and love in this great American city. In the end, a series of connections between all the characters are revealed, and while some of the tied-up loose ends are a little too pat, the overall theme of human connection itself is sweet and life-affirming. Watch it on movie night with that special someone you'd like to see more of. "},{"Title":"Love And Angst In Modern L.A.","Date":"2 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Several pairs of couples experience love and angst in contemporary Los Angeles. The film's structure is somewhat unusual, in that one pair gets a minute or two of screen time, followed by a second pair, then a third. These short stories rotate, and progress independent of each other. As a result, through much of the film, the overall plot seems disjointed. However, the film's writers do unify these various, seemingly unrelated, plot strands toward the end. The short stories of Joan and Keenan, Paul and Hannah, and Mildred and Mark I found more interesting than the stories of the other characters.As implied by the film's title, human emotions have major import love, anger, disappointment, humor, affection, resentment, and so on. Not surprisingly, there's lots of dialogue; and the dialogue contains significant subtext. The film's pace is slow and methodical; the film has a very laid-back feel to it. At times, you would think you were watching a TV soap opera.The lives of these characters are upscale. As such, the film exudes elegance and refinement, as well as, in the case of Joan and Keenan, youthful hip. Production design is lavish; costumes tend to be chic. Background music is eclectic, with some emphasis on slow, laid-back jazz. Acting ranges from fair to very good. I especially liked the performances of Angelina Jolie, and the always-reliable Gena Rowlands, Sean Connery, and Ellen Burstyn.The film does a nice job of putting these characters' lives within the context of the larger environment in which they all live ... Los Angeles. Many times throughout, we see the L.A. skyline and all those palm trees. It's as if the city itself is a character, with a tacit influence on these people's lives and emotions.I'm not sure that the film really imparts anything new to viewers. All these relationships tend to be rather typical, or contrived, depending on your point of view. Still, as pleasant diversionary fluff, the film is worth a one-time viewing to get the general ambiance. But to really understand the intricacies and subtleties of these characters and their lives, I suggest a second viewing. "}{"Title":"Best act of Angelina","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was the last film I Watched from angelina jolie's films and I watched it in December 31 of 2006 Its a bit late to watch this movie but this was the movie that changed my point of view from angelina jolie and I think that angelina has performed her best act in this film.But its been a little crowded film which reduces the time for actors to perform their best .but it still worth watching and the dialogues are very strong .and recommended for couples . the story lacks excitement but it really mean what is said and romantic .I personally enjoyed the conversation between JOAN and KEENAN.I think the KEENAN character was established very proper "},{"Title":"FastForwarding to some good moments","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film was made up of several mini-plots.  Kind of reminded me of Lantana in some aspects.  Anyway, there seemed to be something for everyone in this little flick; the dying gay son, the jaded/disaffected party girl who meets Mr. Right, the seemingly happy/loving older couple, the cheating wife, etc.  I used the power of my remote's fast forward button to get through the blase' parts.  Occasionally I'd even catch some great acting that kept my interest(Jolie, Stewart, Connery, Anderson).  Overall watchable, as long as you can fastforward to the little plots that you might like.  "},{"Title":"Better than Magnolia... and shorter","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film reminded me very much of Magnolia - it features several apparently separate storylines which all turn out to be linked in some way. It's fair to say that the interlinkages here are much less interesting and believable, and far more cheesy than those of Magnolia, but the film makes up for it by running to a trim 2 hours, and leaving us wanting more of each segment rather than wishing there were less. So, unless you're one of those ultra-patient people who can sit through all 170-something minutes of Magnolia without scratching your ass, then I'd have to say that Playing By Heart is the better film. The cast are all excellent, especially Angelina Jolie, and the film has an overall lighter note to it than its big brother (despite dealing with love affairs, death, terminal illness, one-eyed cats...) I was somewhat surprised to see that the writer/director Willard Carroll has a career based on kids' movies, notably the Brave Little Toaster canon... truly a man of multiple talents ;) "},{"Title":"Well-working mix","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, as is always the case when you have more than one story in a film, some work better than others. But the mixing and ending is good, and this film is one I would definitely want to see again. The Paul and Hannah story is great. Gena Rowlands and Sean Connery are professional as always, and their story is completely credible. Joan and Keenan are wonderful -so skinless, as if every line went right inside their bodies. Hugh is great, too, I like the fact you have no idea what's really happening. Meredith's story is a bit too TV-like, it's good, but not really interesting. Gracie's story never really puts up any psychologic motivation and is the weakest story. Mark and Mildred are good, but the story is lessened by the fact that I don't like death scenes, especially not AIDS ones, they're all destroyed by excesses such as Tom Hanks's.  "},{"Title":"Missed the mark this time, but keep an eye on these guys","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have to say right off that despite the problems with the storyline, I enjoyed this film.  The production quality was great, the acting was very absorbing, and a lot of the dialogue was quite funny.  A wonderful casting job.I really enjoyed seeing Gillian Anderson giving some life and expression to her character.  Maybe it's just that I'm so used to the fairly wooden FBI agent she portrays on The X-Files, but I was quite pleasantly surprised by her performance in what must have been a challenging role.Congratulations to Angelina Jolie for keeping her clothes on and allowing us to focus on her acting, since it's the best part of the film.  I absolutely loved the scenes where she quits drinking and when she hangs up the phone. Her reactions are such a pleasure to watch!Ryan Phillippe was a great counterpoint for Jolie's up-tempo character.  I don't think it would have hurt the film one bit if he had been sharing needles with his girlfriend.  I didn't like his character being portrayed as a complete victim.  His focus on sobriety would have made more sense too.Jon Stewart is still struggling to define himself as an actor/comedian/whatever.  He's talented and funny, I wish he'd stop trying so hard.Dennis Quaid did a good job, but he might as well have been in an entirely different film for all the relevance it had to the plot.  Anthony Edwards and Madeleine Stowe were utterly useless; that whole story line should have been dropped.Connery, Rowlands and Burstyn provided the solid performances one might expect from that lot.  It's two bad Carroll couldn't have cut those last two storylines and allowed them to provide a solid foundation to build up the Jolie/Phillippe and Stewart/Anderson relationships.The scenes with a mother bonding with her dying son were moving, but does it always have to be AIDS?  Gay people get cancer too.  And sometimes even people who aren't gay have trouble connecting with their parents.Even though I disliked Short Cuts because the content was so vile, I do respect it on the basis of artistic expression alone.  I don't know how Carroll thought he was going to pull off so many storylines converging into such a tidy ending without seeming to pale in comparison.And I know that this is trivial, but could Sean Connery and Gena Rowlands possibly have had three white kids that looked less like they are related than those three women?  Phillippe would have been much more believable as their grandson than Jolie was as their daughter.Ok, it could have been better in a lot of ways.  But they really did accomplish a lot.  First, it was upbeat without a sugary Hollywood ex machina ending--no small feat.  It was emotionally moving without making you feel too used, unlike the work of some other directors (paging Mr. Spielberg?).  Carroll had something to say, and although it's not the first movie ever to address love and difficult relationships, I think his heart was in the right place, and I have to give credit for that.I believe that if they had addressed the plot issues this could have been an Oscar-worthy film.  I will certainly look forward to the forthcoming efforts of all those involved. "},{"Title":"so-so","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had mixed feelings about this movie.  It tried so hard that it was difficult to dislike it even when it went horribly wrong.  The best reason to see it is for Angelina Jolie's wonderful performance.  Ryan Phillippe just screamed mediocrity next to her.  I loved every moment she was on screen.  The rest of the movie was only marginally entertaining, with a lot of painfully awkward scenes.  The scenes with Connery and Rowlands, in particular, ground the movie to a halt.  But the ending worked nicely, so I should give it credit for that.  "},{"Title":"Playing by ART (DVD)","Date":"7 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a capsules movie, with a lot of stories tangled together.A precursor of Babel and much more memorable. If the script isn't a revolution, it has at least the quality to be credible and reveals in addition some surprises.If Babel is already behind with this issue, the wonderful cast leaves no more doubt Connery, Jolie and Anderson What a great bunch! It is really a rare movie when you finish a scene with a star, then start a new scene with a second star, and again with a third one! Finally, a simple and direct movie with the first treasure of Hollywood its talents! "},{"Title":"Zapped by heart","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I zapped by this movie and came upon one of the first scenes. I immediately was fascinated, and all those famous actors!?! I never heard of this movie, what's up with that? So i got nailed to the TV-screen. All those people's lives were very recognizable and again strange, it was moving to watch. A big fan of the great Sean, the sexy Angelina, the mysterious 'Scully' and some others i know as good actors, i was almost compelled to watch this. A love story between already married people, a search for love by singles, the love of mother and child. Love contains death also, because we care for each other. And that was so outstanding played in this movie. Even when i'm giving my opinion i'm filled with laughter, thrill and tears. This is one of every actor, whom put so much believable performance in Played by heart, one of their best movies I let out a tear or two and never wanted to forget this most beautiful movie I had ever seen. "},{"Title":"A Great Movie","Date":"5 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was absolutely amazing. It was a beautiful representation of all of the different ways love appears in people's lives the unconditional love between a mother and her son, the enduring love of an aging couple, the fading love of a middle aged couple, and two other couples finding love when they thought it was out of reach.The performances are outstanding. Rowlands and Connery worked amazingly together. Jolie and Phillippe give incredible, heartfelt performances(some of their best work as far as I'm concerned), Dennis Quaid is hilarious, and the rest of the cast is outstanding. Every pairing in the film is terrific. There is a lot of comedy in the film which adds tremendously to it. The presence of love and the stories that unfold in each character are touching.The sacrifices and heartache that come with falling in love as well as the joy it brings are both apparent in the film. This is a movie I won't soon forget and one I would recommend to anyone looking for a feel good film. If anything it will make you remember your first love, appreciate those close to you and realize all the sacrifices you make are worth every moment of happiness you share with your loved ones. "},{"Title":"a great movie","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" thats one of my favorite movies. I'm a great fan of Ryan Phillippe, and this film of his is really good, not to mention all the other stars that are starring there. That's a movie of human feelings and thus it's very touching, mostly because of the pain in some of the characters, but the good thing is that the movie ends in a good light, happily, something I like. I am glad to see that most of the visitors share my opinion as the vote of the movie is very high. The couples in the film were very suitable, Angelina and Ryan were a splendid couple, both very beautiful, and Sean and his wife too. I wish I can see them in more movies like this one, and I wish they look the same in all their other movies as in this one, because here everybody looks great! "}{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" OK..I admit it is a bit of a chick flick. But having said that, I think that this movie shows that the perfect relationship is not always the happy couple with the 2.5 kids. It is the couple who are willing to give themselves 100% without questions to make a relationship work and even if it doesn't last, it was worth the journey. I first saw this movie with my teenage sister and we both laughed and cried until the very end. Plus how can you not get completely swallowed up by these performances. Angie Jolie, Ryan Phillipe, Sean Connery, Dennis Quaid...I purchased it on DVD and have watched it several times and each time I catch some little thing I missed before. OK, gotta go watch it again now!! "},{"Title":"Playing by the Heart - A Critique from a real Critic","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I liked the movie. The movie was completely original and focused primarily on the lives of three women, whom are related. The movie created a unique, fictitious plot that centered in romance, deception, and real feelings of people. I liked the movie because it was very mellow and down-to-earth, yet possessed many great actors and actresses. I think the only downfall of this movie was it didn't attract people who are pessimistic. Also, the movie tended to be rather chronologically complicated. An average person watching this movie, might have found it too confusing yet dramatic for their liking. The movie only attracted a few audiences, rather than quite a few diverse audiences. The movie wasn't super successful due to this. "},{"Title":"Must see a second time.","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the kind of film which will leave you pleased and satisfied as you exit the cinema with a smile. It explores the lives of four seemingly disparate couples, and some singles, moving from one to another in sequence as the story lines develop for each of them. You start to wonder where this is all leading. Then the connections start to be made, and you are hit with small surprises. The ending will come as a delightful surprise to most viewers. You will want to see it again and view it in a new light as a result of knowing the ending. Pity about the over-use of the f-word by one of the characters - her anger could have been conveyed just as well without it. "},{"Title":"Not a comedy!","Date":"17 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A word of warning for those who see the cover of this film - it is not very funny. IMDb has correctly classified this film as a Drama / Romance.Meanwhile, the cover touts it as... Seductively funny! Hilarious! and The sexy comedy with a twist.None of these are true. There are a few funny moments, mostly courtesy Jon Stewart, but don't go into this thinking it's a laugh riot.Why couldn't the marketers just have the guts to try to sell this film as the drama that it is??? "},{"Title":"I highly recommend this film to everyone","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sean Connery leads an all star cast in an extraordinary yet odd film. I didn't really understand this film until I reached the end and then all the pieces fell into place. I had to see it twice to really grasp what the plot was all about. The story followed four different couples; married, engaged, dating and cheating. Gillian Anderson and Jon Stewart literally bumped into each other and are about to venture out on a first date. Angelina Jolie is crazy for a guy she met at the club (Ryan Phillipe), Anthony Edwards and Madeline Stowe are cheating on their respective spouses. This makes for an interesting viewing and ending, which was a complete twist, and a pleasant shock. Playing By Heart has a lot of complex storylines that really works.This was a film of epic proportions and showed what it had to take to maintain relationships and what love really is and what it will do if people truly love their spouses. I was impressed with everyone's performance; however, I must point out the most outstanding one, which was by Angelina Jolie. Jolie has finally come out from her father's shadow and created one heck of a resume of films that includes Gia and The Bone Collector among others.I highly recommend this film to everyone.      "},{"Title":"A huge cast that fills a dramatic and moving movie","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A&E showed this movie and I was flipping around through it the first couple of times because I saw Angelina Jolie.  I'm a huge fan of hers and I would only see her parts.  When it came on at 1 o'clock in the morning, I decided to watch it all the way through.  After seeing all of the subplots with the characters like Joan and Keenan, Merideth and Brock, Gill and Gracie, Hannah and Mark, and the rest of the cast.  The movie's main focus is solely on Joan, Keenan, Hannah and Mark.  The rest of the cast seems to just fill in the gaps to what those previously mentioned characters do not fill.  The story was great though because you really feel for the characters.  You can also see a lot of Angelina's personality in Joan and you're screaming to have Ryan Phillipe's character to just let go and fall in love with her.  In the end though, everything is wrappped up in a neat little package. "},{"Title":"appreciation of subtlety.","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First of all, I was biased when I first saw this movie, considering Gillian Anderson is my favorite actress. Angelina and Madeline would be a close second and third, as well. But that's beside the point; I rented this movie with low expectations. By the time it got to Gillian's first scene (in the theater), I was intrigued. When it got to Angelina's scene in the club, on the phone (where Ryan's grin can be caught after he overhears Angelina arguing over Williams-Sonoma and the Hanging Shoe Sorter) ... I was hooked. This instantly became one of my favorites and I purchased it as soon as possible.The acting alone makes the movie. The dialogue is witty and addictive, the soundtrack both fitting and soothing. Though the movie didn't do very well, and though some may think it lacks, I believe that it reaches to a level of emotion not usually or easily portrayed in film. A strong sense of family, dedication, loss, appreciation, and realization can all be felt when watching 'Playing By Heart.' I truly commend the actors, actresses, & director for this film. I intend to pass the word along to all those who have never seen this overlooked gem. "},{"Title":"Good thing to watch if you're an actor","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Have to say I loved this movie. Great cast, witty dialogue, and real cohesion. Found myself caring about the characters that deserved it and the extra dollop of drama was fine-tuned to the taste of people in the business Show biz. I'm an actor so I'm predisposed to enjoying something with a few extra servings of good melodrama (if those two words coinciding aren't an oxymoron). If you don't mind a flick where you'll be needing tissues, go forth to your Blockbuster with all deliberate speed.   "},{"Title":"not a comedy(you may not be rolling in the aisle), but a touching film about love","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film has been wrongly advertised.  It is NOT hilarious, as it says on the cover, indeed most of the stories have tragic circumstances.I enjoyed it very much, the intertwining of the plot lines may be a bit fabricated, but the stories in themselves were touching, particularly the romance between Angelina Jolie and Ryan Philippe.The tag romantic comedy is misleading, this is a drama, and a pretty good one, I might add. "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  That movie is, by far, one of my favorites.  I think it's smart and NOT on the cheesy side of things.  It's really nice for a change not to see a teenager romance movie. I love how it all comes together, although I was to taken in the story at first to pick up the hints that were dropped all through the movie.  The high number of high profile actors is a testimony to the quality of the film and it's worth being watched for Gillian Anderson's performance alone, she rocks!  In short, it's an awesome movie I've been trying to get everyone to watch. "}{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I only drifted over to the drama section of the video store when I realized that I had thoroughly exhausted the comedy and horror sections. I probably would have left without a movie if I hadn't picked up Playing By Heart and noticed the bizarre cast on the box, consisting of Gillian Anderson, Sean Connery, Jon Stewart (he kicks so much ass, and he's the main reason I actually rented this movie), Angelina Jolie, Ryan Phillipe, Jay Mohr (I was NOT expecting him to show up in this movie, he wasn't on the box), Dennis Quaid, Anthony Edwards, and several other people I didn't recognize. So I basically rented this because I was bored and watched it by myself at 3 am. Those being the circumstances, it's even more amazing that I actually liked this movie. It didn't get melodramatic, most of the dialogue was believable (not Dawson's Creek-type over-eloquence), and the 6 stories going on at once definitely kept it from getting boring. It was kind of like Magnolia only less confusing and half as long. Even if you're not a fan of drama or chick flicks, this movie is worth watching. It's well written and well acted (I wasn't expecting that grade of performance from Jon and Jay. very, very well done). I recommend it to anyone looking for something different but is leery of overly sentimental drivel, which this movie successfully avoids. *** out of *****.  "},{"Title":"Why didn't this get more publicity?","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  How clever for Hollywood to gather such wonderful actors and give them a movie that doesn't make sense until the end.  In Playing by Heart, top actors, and actors you don't normally see in the same movie, are all connected somehow.  This movie was cleverly written with a good script and a fantastic cast to make it worth owning.  Perhaps because it wasn't overwraught with humor or violence or whatever, it fits into a completely different genre all of its own.  This is just a great movie to watch when you are needing a little pick me up.  Overall grade A- "},{"Title":"Lovely","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I saw this on the shelf at the video store where I work, my first thought was that it was another movie about couples and their sex lives. Blah, blah, boring. After putting the movie up several times, I finally broke down and read the back of the box. Surprisingly, the story sounded a bit more fleshed out than I had imagined, and, with the wonderful cast that it boasted, I decided to give it a try.BINGO! This is a beautifully crafted romance, full of interesting and slowly revealed storylines that keep you glued to the tv. The one exception would be the adulterous romance between Gracie (Madeleine Stowe) and Roger (Anthony Edwards), which is boring at best and only serves to tie up a few loose ends with everything else at the end. I particularly enjoyed the roles played by Angelina Jolie and Ryan Phillippe, definitely the most enjoyable and dramatic relationship in the movie, but Gillian Anderson also did an admirable job as the woman who has been burned one too many times.The best part of this movie (besides Jolie and Phillippe) was the way that all the separate stories somehow managed to converge at the end in a manner that only added to the separate tales. I would have liked to have seen more of Jay Mohr's character (he factors in to the final equation, but his lacking screen time dims the effect a bit), but my complaints stop here. Excellent film if you want a good romance with sincere, emotional scenes and very little crap (admit it, lots of movies have tons of unnecessary crap mixed with the good stuff) in between. "},{"Title":"The best movie in the world, ever","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, It's not like me to watch a movie multiple times, but I have seen this movie probably 30 times. It's insane, but I'll be bored one-day maybe and think to myself that I should watch a movie... How about playing by heart? so i watch it. I have it on DVD, and pause and zoom in and all that junk. I don't even know what it is that I love about it so much, maybe It's just preference, or the all star cast (I love Jon Stewart and Gillian Anderson so much!) Angelina Jolie, Ryan Phillipe, Sean Connery, Anthony Edward... it was wild for so many actors and actresses that I love to be in a movie together. So, I would recommend this movie to everyone, if you don't like it, don't blame it on me and my exuberant comments of course if you don't like it I would think that you are insane. (o so go watch it! "},{"Title":"Movie Affected me more than anything else","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie, though made in 1998, was not seen by me until Jan. 2002.  I wanted to see it, but never did. I got bored, and ran down to movie gallery, and now at 1226 AM after watching this movie, I thank God I did. It was not only the best movie I have seen in a long time, but this movie moved me more than anything else eve in my life has.  I was moved when I saw Deep Impact, Object of my Affection, but never as much as this movie. It was a great story, not explaining everything in the beginning, but you have to figure things out. I am not going to tell you what happens, not because I'm not supposed to, but because I would be doing you a great dis-service.  It is a wonderful, loving film, that gave me hope, and made me want to fall in love, and not be afraid when I get hurt.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Love Story","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Playing By Heart , has to have some of the best love stories i have ever watched in a movie. It follows different realtionships in this filmGillian Anderson and Jon Stewart Anderson played a girl who was never really looking for love until she met Stewart's character, Trent. They make a cute couple, but for most of movie Meredith (Anderson) doesn't want to excpect that, but at the end she decides to be with him, because afterall, he is a good match for her.Sean Connery and Gena Rowlands They play the Parents of all the three young girls in the movie Meredith (Anderson), Gracie (Madeline Stowe)and Joan (Angelina Jolie). They are a happy, old, married couple until Paul (Connery) tells Hannah (Rowlands) that he used to be in love with another woman when they were first staring off. Angelina Jolie and Ryan Phillippe These two are the perfect match for each other in the whole film. They are two club kids, who fall in love, but not right way. Phillippe's charcter doesn't want to give into Joan at the beginning, but has a good reason for it. But he tells Joan that he loves her and they get together. They steal the show... actually, Angelina Jolie is really the one that steals the show with ther memorable performance as Joan.The film also stars A mother and son realtionship with Jay Mohr and Ellen Burstyn. The Gay Son has AIDS and the mother is trying to deal with it carefully. The other characters are Gracie, who is cheating  on her husband Hugh (Dennis Quaid) with Anthony Edwards character, Roger.This is a MUST SEE. It was great, especially the plot and the characters ( really meaning Angelina Jolie's character).I Give it ****1/2 stars out of ***** stars.  "},{"Title":"Just a great movie, check it out","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Starts off a little slow but once you get into it you can't stop, Its like a good book, just can't put it down and I loved the ending. I wish I had seen it on the big screen, All the actors were just great. There's a message in it for everyone. It's like what love is all about. "},{"Title":"My Advice Is To Stick With It","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Twenty minutes into this film I was thinking, What the hell is this!. I thought about turning it off more than once but I stuck with it and was pleased I did.The story is about a group of people (pairs) who are dealing with different situations but all have interesting crossovers and other things in common. It takes a while to get going, but when it does it is very good. You start picking the common connections as the movie progresses.There is only one surprise and the end that most won't guess ... Anthony Edwards, you bad boy!Special mention for the parts played by Ryan Phillippe and Angelina Jolie. This was the most interesting (and comical) pair to follow during the movie.Stick with it and you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie has become one of my favorites.  Playing by Heart weaves seemingly unrelated stories of many kinds of love that we as humans experience.  It ranges from a reevaluated relationship between a mother and her son who is dying of AIDS contracted from a long term boyfriend; to a new relationship between a suave, popular, professional man and a woman who has learned to distrust men; to a married couple celebrating its fortieth anniversary despite new knowledge of a tumor in the husband's brain.  Each of the stories presents, at first glance, a typical relationship between people but then the experiences reveal themselves as unique and interesting; each with its own little twist or obstacle to overcome.  This aspect of the movie makes it more than a banal love story. It is more like the unpredictability of real life.   Playing by Heart is structured as a series of few minute long scenes from each of the stories and ends by tying them all together at the end.  This keeps the viewer's interest throughout the whole movie, and makes for a unique and artistic movie.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film was beautifully written. The dialogue struck me as fresh, certainly not the kind of thing we normally see in American film. The joining of the story lines was creative.  Tasty morsels dropped throughout the film - each hinting at the interconnected stories - kept my attention and reminded me of Barbara Kingsolver's style of story telling. "}{"Title":"A movie that truly defies its standing!","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although this movie seemed to get very little attention and next to no awards, it is one of the best movies that I have ever seen. The actors and actresses alone should make the movie a classic, but its superb writing and real-life situations make it truly unique. Anyone who disapproves of this movie either felt it hit too close to home or has never experienced the powerful emotions that the movie invokes. "},{"Title":"talking about love is like dancing about architecture","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked the movie, I think that the best relationship was between Angelina Jolie(Joan) and Ryan Phillippe(Keenan) i mean Angelina was the best actress in the movie and Ryan probably the best actor i think i liked their relationship so much coz it was different than other love stories they loved each other but still had that thing,i mean their personallity´s a young man in a classic heartbroken/angry/in love  situation and a gorgeus open young woman.Yeah maybe not so different when you think about it but there was something about it that love komes before sex thing,you know?.Then the relationship between the ER´s Anthony Edwards and Madeleine Stowe (Roger and Gracie) Two people cheating on theyr significant others,meeting at a hotel. In the beginning she say´s that they are just having sex without any commitments,but in the end i think he falls for her.Now the oldest couple,Sean Connery and Gina Rowlands.She finds out after like 25 yrs.that he was having an affair well not really an affair they didn´t have sex but he really loved the woman,but she gets over it and in the end they renew theyr wedding.Then the story of Jay Mohr and Ellen Burstyn. A young man with AIDS and his mother comes to be with him his last moments they get really close but in the end he dies,a nice story and good acting.Next Dennis Quaid goes bar from bar telling lie stories to anyone that cares to listen mostly women and gets drunk every time in the end he is Gracie´s husband.Then last a story of Meredith(X-files´s Gillian Anderson)and Trent Meredith is a director and Trent an architect their chemistry is obvious right from the moment the bookcase falls on her.Playing by heart is great entertainment and in the end when Sean and Gina get marries again everybody is related Gillian,Angelina and Madeleine are sisters daughters of Sean and Gina and Jay Mohr is Gillian´s old boyfriend and Ellen comes to the wedding.But as Angelina said talking about love is like dancing about architectureAnyway i loved it i give it a 10/a+ "},{"Title":"One of the best love stories I have seen in a long while...","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Playing by Heart is an excellent love story that allows us to see that love is not always how you may have imagined or fantasized.Love comes in a lot of flavours and is never predictable.If you like love stories with a twist, check it out. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, witty, funny and absolutely fabulous, darling!","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A wonderful and very cute date movie!  I would recommend this for anyone who wanted to watch a sweet movie about love, relationships, teens, marriage, death, a dying gay man and a one-eyed cat.  Ryan (from Cruel Intentions) and Angelina (from Gia, Tomb Raider, Gone in 60 seconds and many more) make this movie wonderful.  "},{"Title":"The box claims its hilarious?","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My wife and I found it overly dramatic and depressing.  I found it more tragic than comedic with the only real laughs as enlightened chuckles coming from irony as the plot wrapped.  I cannot think of one laugh from a situation or dialog.  All in all, I felt that the poster sold me a bill of goods.  It wasn't funny enough to make me laugh and wasn't dramatic enough to make me think.  The only emotion it evoked from me was irritation.I give it a 3 out of 10 for its waste of a talented ensemble cast.  Its meatloaf made from filet mignon.  No matter how good the ingredients going into it its still meatloaf.Disappointing. "},{"Title":"A heart wrenching drama with intelligent comedy relief","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Playing by Heart provokes you to both think and feel about love and relationships, skipping the part that says you have to love like everybody else.  A group of stars become character actors in a ten-finger exercise of five duets who are playing it by heart.  The beginning is somewhat disjointed, but this fragmentation is an illusion which disappears in the end, when each story becomes integral.  The cast of characters tips you off beforehand that you're in for a treat. Beautifully acted, imaginatively edited, and competently directed, Playing by Heart will endure in the hearts all lovers who are lucky enough to have seen this movie.     "},{"Title":"A Most Pleasant Surprise","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found this movie on the 'previously viewed' shelf at Blockbuster and bought it on impulse because of the cast and the cheap price.  Several weeks later I unwrapped it and gave it a try.  I was floored to say the least.The twists and turns, the character development via dialogue of all things, and the superbly polished performances turned this after-thought purchase into a surprisingly worthwhile investment.Jon Stewart flips his comic image on its side and reveals his heart. Gillian Anderson resists comfort with rare honesty and subtle fear. Sean Connery embraces a fully exposed command of fear and passion. Gena Rowlands defines grace in twilight in her search for truth. Dennis Quaid storms in and out of himself with a force beyond belief. Angelina Jolie handles her bewitching role with hopeful complexity. Ryan Phillipe is intense, no pretty boy here, his best unseen role yet.Crafted by an almost voyeristic lense, Playing... is a thrill ride for the evolved viewer.   The early, empty images evoked by the Los Angeles backdrop are in sharp contrast to this intimate slice of life portrait. The group is comfortably self-aware, verbally intentional and internally challenged through every sentence uttered.This film means something and it's obscurity in the box office parallels my wishful that it could have been written, scored, acted, lighted, directed, casted, cut and developed with that same obscurity in mind.With some moments lagging and a slight miss on one or two characters' development, this film is very much worthy of the time I have spent immersed in it.  The second and third viewing only proved to minimize it's tiny flaws and magnify it's power.   "},{"Title":"Talking about love is like dancing about architecture.","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  By looking at the cover of the box, you can probably already tell that this is a going to be a great movie.  The whole cast if full of well known actors...Gillian Anderson (My all time fav), Angelina Jolie, Sean Connary, Gena Rolands, Jon Stewart, Madeline Stow, etc., etc., etc.  So it was no suprise to me when I loved the movie.  The plot switches around a lot but the movie is still very enjoyable and everything comes together well at the end.  Paul and Hannah (Sean Connary and Gena Rowlands) are an old, married couple.  Hannah starts talking about the fact that that Paul cheated on her about 25 years ago with a woman named Wendy.  They are very believable and I love seeing Sean romance someone his own age.Roger and Gracie (IMO the worst story here) are two people that hook up every so often in hotel rooms.  They have the most thankless roles, but I hate Madeline Stowe anyway and I have never heard of Anthony Edwards.  They do, however play these roles well.Meredith and Trent are the funniest couples to watch.  They are played wonderfully by Gillian Anderson and Jon Stewart.  It's amazing to see Jon go from 'The Daily Show' to this romantic/comical/dramatic role.  He makes the transition very well.  Gillian Anderson's character is very similar to Agent Scully on 'The X Files' (not that i'm complaining).  She is very good as Meredith, a woman who got out of a bad relationship and just can't let someone in.Joan and Keenan are also very fun to watch.  They have their comical moments, and they have their dramatic moments.  Angelina Jolie is good in whatever she's in.  Ryan Phillippe is actually acting in this movie and not just being another pretty face (a very pretty face...wink wink).  He does a pretty good job, although sometimes during his dramatic parts he seems to be trying too hard.And then there's Hugh.... Hugh is played be Dennis Quiad.  You really don't know what to think of him at first.  But then at the end you find out more about him and WTF he's doing telling all of those stories in those bars.  Some of his stories are hilarious, but he doesn't seem to really fit in with the rest of the characters until the end.This is a very good, enjoyable film with excellent acting.  9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"i laughed, i cried.....","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i rented this movie for the sole reason that my favorite actress GillianAnderson is in it.  i loved the charachter of Meredith,but as the moviegot underway,i began to be more interested in the relationship betweenJoan,and Keenan(Angelina Jolie,and Ryan Phillipe) i think the wholemovie could have been about them and it would still have been great.Sean Connery is also in this flick and he puts in a wonderfulperformance as the typical man, never understanding why his wife is somad at him. he is very funny. i think that this is the only sad moviethat i could watch every day and not be tierd of it. it is very fun, tasteful,and energetic. I give it a 10! "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is, by far, one of the best movies I've ever seen. Although it is not very well known, it is packed with witty, ingenious writing; an extremely talented cast, and characters that will make you both laugh and cry at the same time. If you're looking for a true, funny, romantic, witty movie, Playing By Heart is definitely the one.  "}{"Title":"Wonderful film","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is such a wonderful movie...good character and plot development, excellent dialogue, and some really nice surprises. It reminded me a lot of Magnolia. I don't remember this film playing in the theaters...but I guess it did. When I saw it on TV recently, I couldn't believe I missed it or not even heard about it. How does a movie have such great actors and actresses in it and be so entertaining and not get more publicity? Go figure. "},{"Title":"THE Relationship Movie","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I LOVE this movie. It's the most real and wonderful movie I have ever seen, with perhaps the best ensemble cast I have ever seen. There is so much talent in this cast, from veterans like Sean Connery and Gena Rowlands to the relatively new finds of Angelina Jolie and Ryan Phillippe. Gillian Anderson spreads her acting wings beyond The X-Files, giving a superb performance as Meredith, a love-scarred woman on the verge of a new relationship. Jon Stewart is surprising as her love interest, Trent. He brings surprising tenderness to this role, something I don't think anyone would expect from the host of The Daily Show.I just fell in love with this movie the first time I saw it, which was a fluke that I came upon it while channel surfing. After I saw it the first time, I didn't see it for a while, much to my chagrin. When I saw it was going to be on again about a month later, I couldn't wait to see it. And I loved it even more the second time. The dialogue is very intelligent; it's a dialogue driven movie, which are becoming increasingly rare these days. I can't say enough about it, but I suppose I have to stop sometime. So I'll end with this. If you enjoy movies that make you think as well as entertain you, and if you want to learn something about relationships, watch this movie. You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"I recommend!","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First of all I liked the title the movie had in pre-production Dancing About Architecture  better than Playing by Heart; it is much more catchy and explains the feelings the movie deals with better. Talking about love is like dancing about architecture. Talking will not do any good,  you just have to do it, let go and embark in the journey that has no guarantees. It might be a bad experience or a good one. Sort of like life you know! You just have to live!  The cast is great and the acting also. I was specially impressed with Angelina Jolie I know she won an Oscar and all that, but this is the first movie that I watched her work . About half  through the movie this guy likes her better once he sees her hair in rollers, and that is no a way to go dancing. I like the way the story is told and how everything mergers at the end.  I liked the movie and liked the way the characters developed. Favorites Scenes When they all came together.   Favorite Quotes Keenan This may sound corny, but... you don't want me. I'm damaged goods. Joan So? We're all damaged goods. Meredith I have a hard time trusting men. Trent I'm not men. I'm not a group. I'm just me. Good entertainment.   "},{"Title":"What a lighthearted warm and fuzzy film!","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Before I start I must admit to being a hopeless romantic film lover. This film however really stood out for me. Talking about love is like dancing about architecture, well I think this film did both! It was sweet, funny and a little wacky with a sprinkle of the odd implausibility. With such a stellar cast line up that could do no wrong coupled with some creative writing producing and directing this film really had a lot going for it before it even started.I found this to be an enlightening and varied investigation of sorts into love and all of its catastrophes and triumphs. Following the stories of five individual situations through and then tying it all together in such a neat and clever way I thought was a credit to all involved. Many a film has endeavored a similar approach and failed dismally in the tying up of loose ends.The performances were fantastic on most fronts. Those that stood out particularly for myself were Sean Connery and Angelina Jolie. Both bought wit, humor and passion to their roll, which I feel really stood as a solid backbone for the production. Also Gillian Anderson was notable, her role I felt was played exceptionally with the perfect blend of, I think to a degree, reluctance yet willingness and need. Definitely no Scullyness, which I'm sure, was probably a point she wanted to make. Just as important I felt was Ellen Burstyn's role, which also proved a passionate and likable character, which only came about through the spot on portrayal.I think the movie fell down in that a couple of the stories were; a) not given enough of a part, or b) was useless and given too much time. The balance I felt for two perhaps three of the five could have been played a little differently. The end however had me forget any misgivings I had mustered and I left not only satisfied but also impressed!I'll admit that all in all it is probably corny and a little unrealistic but hey, we all need a little of that! I must say that I was left guessing until the end (well close enough) which is always a pleasure, and The characters were lovely to watch and certainly personable to which the viewer could relate, and believable, all of which for me is what a film is ALL about. I rate 'Playing By Heart' 4/5  "},{"Title":"Good first time, better the second","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have to admit the first time I saw this movies, I thought that it had a great ending, (even though quite predictable and a little bit cliched in the twist...) great acting, pretty good story and writing, but dang, was it slow!The acting by the cast was wonderful, especially Angelina Jolie and Ryan Phillipe's Joan and Keenan; my favourite pair. It was a little bit odd to see Gillian Anderson in a role other than stone-cold Scully, but while odd, it was very refreshing at the same time. Sean Connery and Gena Rowlands were also very good in their roles, and they made Hannah and Paul believable as an aged(not old) married couple.The most confusing part of the movie was Dennis Quaid's characters, who only made some sense at the end. Frankly, I could have done without his part of the story, if not, then at least with more insight into Hugh as Hugh, rather than somebody else.While I do my part in the fight for AIDS, and the scenes between Mark and Meredith were perfection in the reconciliation between a mother and her dying gay son, I felt that maybe Carroll pushed the issue of AIDS  is a hurtful disease too far when he also gave Keenan HIV.All in all, it took quite some time to really get into the movie, but it did make me do some deep thinking about love, life, and yada yada...however, because I enjoyed the movie even more when I turned on the closed-captioning, maybe the story would have faired better as a book, even though I enjoyed the movie very much. "},{"Title":"Well written, witty, and funny.","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is exactly what kind of scripts that film students love. Everyone at my film school loves this movie.  It's a small semi-independent movie that has a cult following, and for good reason; it's a wonderful little film that refreshes our views on love and relationships.This flick is an all dialogue, little action film, but with an A-List cast, and A+ performances from all of them, it definitely holds your interest.So well-written and performed, bravo... bravo.Bottom line You will love this movie. Not good... Great. "},{"Title":"best movie ever!","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  anyone who has not seen this movie should go out and rent it right now. all the characters are amazing especially the always talented and beautiful angelina jolie.  the script is written very well and there is not one loose end at the end of the movie. playing by heart is by far my favourite movie and probably the best romantic comedy ever made. "},{"Title":"A smart, good-hearted movie that I've forced everyone I know to see","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie.  Love love love it.  It's smart without being pretentious, sweet without being sappy, political without being polemical, and absolutely wonderful.  Angelina Jolie is luminous and amazing, as always.  But nearly everyone else in this movie is just as good, if more low-key.  Jolie meets her match in Ryan Philippe, whose deft handling of a difficult role was impressive for an actor so young.  Gena Rowlands and Sean Connery are funny, sharp, and warm as an older couple taking stock of their 40-year marriage.  Gillian Anderson and Jon Stewart do a great job of portraying a couple navigating around her emotional land mines.  Stewart showed real leading man potential, coming off as sexy, smart, and sweet. Ellen Burstyn and Jay Mohr made me cry as a mother reconciling with her son, who's dying of AIDS.  Madeleine Stowe is probably the weakest link here, but even she is adequate as an unsatisfied wife having an affair with a man who wants more from her, played by Anthony Edwards.  Dennis Quaid is astonishing as a man who shows up in a different bar, playing an entirely different character, every night.  Believe it or not, all these story lines come together beautifully at the end.What I love most about this movie is that all the characters seem so genuine.  These are real grown-ups doing their best to solve their problems. It was honest and funny and brave, and at the end of the movie I was both laughing and crying.  An emotional roller coaster that's well worth the ride.   "},{"Title":"A rarity, a Hollywood motion picture for adults.","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An outstanding script provides the armature for excellent performances by a perfect cast of actors.  I can't remember a picture with such an opportunity for female actors to display their depth and range.  The men provide well structured framework to vivid characterizations of women seen from fascinating points of view.  Angeline Jolie fairly well ignites the screen.  An ambitious interweaving plot line is carried out with finesse by the director.   "},{"Title":"Charming","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"    I agree with most of the comments made about this film, namely that it is slightly inconsistent, with three good stories, one okay one, and two slightly ridiculous.  Bad news first Anthony Edwards and Madeline Stowe make a very unconvincing couple.  This isn't any fault in their acting (Stowe is great in a couple of scenes), but the script, which neither develops the relationship and hopes that the audience won't catch on to the contrivances.  No such luck.  The other story that isn't completely satisfying is Dennis Quaid, as a man who goes on an improv spree and tells tall (tragic) tales to strangers that he meets.  This story ultimately leads no where, which is a disappointment.  However, the other four stories more than make up for the above two.  Rowlands and Connery (in two marvelously modulated performances), play a husband and wife coming to terms with his 'affair' that occurred twenty-five years prior.  This story works very well because it is written like a short story or a one act play.  Ellen Burstyn gives a powerhouse performance as a mother just coming to grips with her son's illness (AIDS, as we led to believe).  This story isn't given too much time, which is a shame, but Burstyn and Mohr (as her son) are incredible in their brief scenes.  Gillian Anderson and Jon Stewart are marvelous together.  This is one story where you can tell they act off each other.  Gillian Anderson is a special treat, because we get to see her laugh and we get to see her nervous, which isn't something that Dana Scully reveals too often.  The story is simply two people who try to get together, but her fear of being hurt prevents that.  Jon Stewart also does wonderful work, in a very credible performance  Easily the most surprising of the relationship was the one between Jolie and Phillipe.  With this film, Jolie proved she was a talent to watch, and Phillipe surprised with his convincing turn as an aloof character (without turning uninteresting).  They are combustible together, and heartbreaking when we see how much they are in love.    Similar to the recently released (and ignored) Living Out Loud, this treads the same ground, but treads lightly and well, leaving a generally satisfying film (with a wonderful converging ending).  A charmer, if not perfect. "}{"Title":"Cute and clever romantic comedy","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Playing by the Heart was such a good movie!  I loved how at first, you see all these different couples, or potential couples, and you're wondering how they're all related, and then slowly they give you hints until you figure it all out.  It had a perfect blend of drama and comedy, making you laugh one minute, then crying the next. All the actors in the movie did good, but I think the stand out performances were by Jay Moore, Ryan Phillipe, and Angelina Jolie.  Playing by the Heart was cute and realistic, and I am really glad I saw it. "},{"Title":"Very romantic masterpiece","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  With many well-known stars and good actors, an excellent script and a warm, natural story this sympathetic little movie enters the hearts of the watchers very easily. It is very romantic, very true and very realistic, often tragic, but full of little amusing jokes, I had to laugh very often.The director shows us a small part of the life of around a dozen different people, and knows how to entertain and teach a little bit about life at the same time. We see the conflicts of an old marriage couple, a young girl which tries to get the boy she like, a woman which is lonely, a man which tells sad stories, and so on. All this is narrated in a light and poetical way.This is an exceptional movie, a pearl you shouldn't miss. It is one of those seldom movies which I can watch over and over again. Of course you shouldn't be a teen I don't think they would understand this thing.  "},{"Title":"Makes this grown man cry.","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think this is a wonderful movie, and I wonder why Willard Carroll has only done children's television.  This brilliant ensemble cast works wonders with his script, making the viewer feel every emotion being portrayed.Intertwining several storylines might distract the passive moviegoer, but anyone who appreciates film will be delighted as they are left in suspense and anticipation.  I love this movie, and it truly does make this grown man cry. "},{"Title":"Warmhearted","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It took 2 years to show it in german theaters, and it was definitely worth the wait. After a slow start, the story develops in different ways. The relations between the characters are very well balanced, especially the Jolie/Philippe scenes were wonderful. And Gillian Anderson was so great, I really felt with her. The ending was surprising, how they were related to each other, I didn't see that come. A feel-good-movie. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A most pleasant surprise!","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I haven't watched too many movies lately, but was in the mood for one last night. I was going to watch Election (and I will eventually), but thought I might find something less satiric that my wife and I might enjoy together. What a pleasant surprise finding this film was. It totally held my interest with its, mostly, good acting and excellent writing, especially in the dialogue. How nice to see adults acting like mature, grown-up people for a change.Angelina Jolie is absolutely fascinating, giving a most impressive performance and, much as I enjoy X-Files, I didn't expect such a likeable performance from Gillian Anderson. Unlike some others, I was less impressed by Sean Connery. In my opinion, he plays big very well, but is less than convincing playing intimate. (I always this was a problem with Brando too). Dennis Quaid is rarely very good and he fulfilled my expectations here, too.All in all, though, I really liked this film and am going to tell a lot of people about it.  "},{"Title":"It's been... emotional","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a surprisingly warm, human film to come out of a Los Angeles setting, where the people and environment are usually shown to be shallow and insubstantial. It follows these themes of love, relationships, anger and sadness through the lives of a seemingly disparate groups of people - Paul, Hannah, Meredith, Trent, Gracie, Roger, Hugh, Joan, Kenan, Mark and Mildred.Some of these are in actual couples, some are potential couples, some are related, but each is real. It's not easy to give a complex, believable personality to each of such as large cast in a two-hour film, but writer-director Willard Carroll manages it in the main. Gracie (Madeleine Stowe) and Roger (Anthony Edwards) are too rarely seen outside the bedroom, and the tragic Mark (Jay Mohr) is a little hard done by, but their stories, to be fair, are the least integral.Of the cast, the always-reliable Gena Rowlands and Ellen Burstyn are very good, but notable performances come from actors who aren't often asked to do much acting - Sean Connery, Gillian Anderson and Dennis Quaid in particular. The real star, however, is Angelina Jolie, who starts out by making you genuinely want to smack her, but who proves herself so vulnerable and sweet that she just demands to be hugged, frankly.It's Joan's (Jolie) relationship with Kenan (Ryan Phillippe) which provides the key moments in the film, but Paul and Hannah (Connery and Rowland) hold it together with their own gentle, weary revelations. Eventually all the threads intertwine in a rather predictable manner, but the movie is none the worse for it as pretty much everything you want to happen, happens. Playing By Heart is always engaging and has an emotional resonance that too few films have these days. It's nice to watch grownups do grownup things every now and then. "},{"Title":"Not even a dramedy . . .","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Don't let the box fool you . . . This is soooooo NOT a comedy. Seductively funny?? . . . Hilarious??  . . . Not by a long shot. I guess those scenes were cut . . . Not a bad movie, just a bad drama . . . "},{"Title":"Hilarious?  NOT!","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you are looking for a movie that is billed as a comedy, reviewed as being hilarious and doesn't induce one laugh for the entire movie, then this one is for you.If you are looking for a movie that has 6 different plots that consume 80% of the movie before they come together, each of which is slow paced and boring, then again, this movie is for you.Wait for it to come to TV. At least then you can change the channel. "},{"Title":"Very romantic and sweet, especially Jon Stewart's performance","Date":"14 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Meredith is a young theater director living in the Los Angeles area. Having been scorched, as she says, by past relationships, she is reluctant to go out with the very amicable man she meets at the bookstore. Joan is a theater student who has just kicked her latest boyfriend out of her apartment; he got to keep the Pottery Barn stuff but she keeps the cat. Her romantic eye has fallen on a nice looking gentleman she meets at a hot nightclub. Gracie is cheating on her unimaginative husband, her opinion, even though he shows much creativity to others. Gracie's mother and dad may be having problems, too. Will the girls find happiness or despair? What about the parents, too?This film features a very large cast, all of whom perform wonderfully. The women are lovely to look upon and to listen to, the men in their lives are intriguing, and the older couple (Sean Connery and Gena Rowlands) float through their roles with ease. Jon Stewart gives an especially nice and romantic display of his talent. The Los Angeles setting has been captured to show off the beautiful sights and the costumes are first rate. For those who love love stories, here is a glorious exhibition of four tales in one. Watch, giggle, and cry your way through to the end, feeling a complete contentment all the way. "},{"Title":"Win some; lose some. Romance, love and lust.","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Willard Carroll writes and directs this fragmented story of L.A. couples falling in and out of love. Is it pure lust or just plain old hanky panky? Does real romance win in the end?A terrific ensemble cast is not completely wasted in trying to make this movie interesting. Cheers for Sean Connery, Anthony Edwards, Dennis Quaid, Angelina Jolie, Gillian Anderson, Gena Rowlands, Jon Stewart and Madeleine Stowe.  "}{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A good cast in a waste of a story. Sean Connery and Gena Rowlands, Jon Stewart and Gillian Anderson, Ryan Phillipe and Angelina Jolie, Anthony Edwards and Madeline Stowe are all couples with their own stories, Jay Mohr is a dying son and Ellen Burstyn is his mother, and Dennis Quaid is ?.  These characters and their stories all come together, but it takes so long to get to the narrative's ending that I didn't care less what happened to anybody.  Stewart and Anderson are bright spots, and Jolie is promising.  Mostly though, a waste of time. "},{"Title":"Great Cast; Awful Script; Let Me Tell You Why","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to this movie with every intention of liking it.  Not only is the above-the-title cast amazing, but when I saw Patricia Clarkson appear out of nowhere (in Dennis Quaid's first scene), I was thrilled.  I will also say right off the bat that Anjelina Jolie is an actress whose talent far surpasses her considerable beauty.  But, the script...  It starts off my saying Talking about love is like dancing about architecture, meaning that talking about love is senseless and can't be done with any weight or meaning.  In the end, the film actually congratulates for proving that saying wrong.  In between, we get two hours of people doing very little but talking very openly about how they feel about their relationships.  God forbid any of these people had something to hide or keep private from one another.  There are even two scenes with Madeleine Stowe and Anthony Edwards that are almost identical in their dialogue, which is all about how she likes not having strings and he wants more from their trysts than sex. Gillian Anderson's Meredith is forced by the script to openly say things like (you're) too good to be true and when asked if she's been burned by love, she replied Scalded.  What a first date!  I don't just mean romantically; I mean dramatically.  She can't hide her pain so he can try to find it and overcome it?  The only of the many segments in the film that remotely works is the one between free-spirited Joan (Jolie) and the target of her affections played by Ryan Phillipe.  Her character actually talks about her life and relationships in order TO GET WHAT SHE WANTS from Phillipe's.  Namely, she's opening up, so he will.  (He's the only person in the film with a secret someone else is actively trying to uncover.  Other characters, Quaid's in particular, have secrets, but only the audience is privy to them.  No one else is trying to make any discoveries.)  The film is long-winded, astonishingly self concious amd dull.  Dancing about architecture makes more sense than talking about love -- at least when you're dancing you're actually DOING something. "},{"Title":"The Worst Kind of Hollywood Trash","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I suffered through this trite, poorly written, dog-do of a film, and I'm truly ashamed of myself for consenting to go see it. It should have been titled LA Love Story for all of its fake people, unrealistic story lines, and shameless appeals to sentimentality.Check out Sean Connery's explanation of why he fell in love with another woman earlier in his marriage At that vulnerable point in his life, he still understood why he had fallen in love with his wife, but he had forgotten why she fell in love with him. He needed someone else to love him to validate the fact that he was a teriffic and lovable guy! If I ever attempted to use that twisted logic on my wife, I'd get a swift (and deserved) kick in the groin, followed by a set of divorce papers.This movie is the worst kind of trash that hollywood belches out, and I strongly suggest staying away from this mess of a so-called movie. "},{"Title":"Seldom do they come as annoying as this one","Date":"15 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Romantic Commedies that are tried to be more on the pulse of a dramatic realism can work. This one didn't - at least not for me. It feels like someone is trying to have something to say about the world, no matter what age or social surrounding the characters come from. BS! I couldn't feel a thing personal there. If it helps, my girlfriend at the time liked it (therefor I gave 3 stars instead of one).Oh I just found out, that a comment has to contain at least ten lines. What kind of an idea is that?! OK, well, I guess if I had seen the film just yesterday, I could easily write more and comprehensive comments. Sorry, it has been a while. "},{"Title":"Un-enjoyable","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The lesson I got from the movie Love is caring about someone enough not to burden them with EVERY negative thought that crosses your mind; as seen in the movie. In relationships, you need to Play by Heart. But keep your brain involved too.Some reviewers say the movie was adorable, cute, sweet. More like irritating, juvenile, typical, pathetic, 90's, 'down with men' C-R-A-P. You can spot a movie made in the 90's. I'm glad the decade is over. And I'm not biased. I'm even a fan of some of the actors Jon Stewart, Gillian!(the reason I saw the movie), Sean Connery(this role really reduces him). I didn't like any of their roles. And I have no problem with romance, but this movie is pathetic. It's for people into self pity. All these great reviews mirror our pathetic society. The ending isn't ingenious as someone said - It would have to be your 1st movie to think that. We're simply not told certain things until the end....the interweaving doesn't add to the story...unless I missed something in my uninvolved state. "},{"Title":"An Emotionally Nourishing Multi-Character Drama","Date":"1 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Playing by Heart is a comedy-drama film, which tells the story of several seemingly unconnected characters who are articulate and witty people that are pondering on the meaning of love.The cast ensemble includes Gillian Anderson,Ellen Burstyn,Sean Connery,Anthony Edwards,Angelina Jolie,Jay Mohr,Ryan Phillippe,Dennis Quaid,Gena Rowlands,Jon Stewart and Madeleine Stowe.It was written and directed by Willard Carroll.Carroll focuses his film on four couples, all in one way or another battling with the problems of relationships, ranging from long-marrieds to Gen-X club-hoppers. Ostensibly, part of the film is invested in the mystery of how all these characters are interrelated, but keen viewers will be able to discern the connections among everyone. It's the uniformly excellent performances, though, that make this multi- character drama compulsively watchable. Most striking, surprisingly enough, are Jolie and Phillippe, the youngest members of the cast who reveal heretofore hidden depths of talent. Equally impressive are Gillian Anderson and Jon Stewart, who transcend their yuppie persona's in their awkward enactment of the timeless dating rituals. Other cast members are quite good though saddled with story lines that are occasionally less than compelling. The only complaint you'll have is that once everyone's connections are revealed, you'll wish this cast had more of an opportunity to interact. The journey toward the film's bittersweet end, however, is marvelous in and of itself.But nevertheless,it certainly provides more emotional nourishment than most other mainstream movies generate these days. "},{"Title":"Seriously playing by Skill","Date":"11 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" To my surprise ''Playing by Heart'' was in fact a good movie.I saw it with my wife and we both liked it. Although we have seen the story - or should I say stories - before, but none of it is ever trite or offensive. It's all played out with such grace and nuance that even it's somewhat conventional ending is welcomed. The acting is well-acted and it is almost impossible not to like the long list of characters.Playing By heart is seriously playing by Skill. It is emotional,sensational,funny, and just the right movie for a bad day. A true feel-good film that shows us a sweet (but still realistic) picture about the many sides of love. "},{"Title":"Catch the beauty","Date":"13 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A beautifully written, directed, and acted craft with one exception... Ryan Phillippe seriously disappoints, as usual, being the only star I could not justifiably keep amongst this cast. I didn't believe him for a second. It is not the first time in his career that he has left me wondering if he is acting or simply being himself. That said, it was the second viewing that reminded me that Jolie is a treasure both to behold and to experience. I feel ashamed that I have let her personal, overly tabloid-ed persona cloud my judgment of her unforgiving talent. She manages, so improbably, to make up for Phillippe's lack of commitment. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Altman inspired chick flick","Date":"5 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Essentially a series of short films, Playing By Heart revolves around the love lives of a handful of wealthy, white, articulate, middle class men and women (blame Woody Allen), all of whom are connected in some way. Upon release, Playing by Heart was one of many Short Cuts/Pulp Fiction/John Sayles knock-offs. Today, such inter-connected romantic comedies are even more routine, many released annually by big studios. The film's cinematographer was the legendary Vilmos Zsigmond, who bathes the film in shadows, romantic lights and the muted glow of multicolored bulbs.Many of the film's subplots or short films are mediocre, except one which finds actress Gillian Anderson and actor Jon Stewart as a cute, likable couple. Actress Angelina Jolie, who plays an emotionally naked punk chick, and actor Dennis Quaid, who plays a lonely bar crawler, are also mildly watchable. The film relies heavily on its actors to elevate its poor, contrived material. It ends, as such films do, with a wedding. Some audiences may find the film vomit inducing.7/10 &#x96; IMDb demographics state that women of all ages rate this film much higher than men, except women over the age of 45. Are the jaded 40s the age at which chick flicks stop working on chick flick audiences? "},{"Title":"Good Concept!","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Very interesting concept! Not only that, but very well done! Different people in LA, all going about their usual business, and each dealing with love in a different way.  With movies featuring multiple vignettes, there's always the risk of confusion- didn't happen here! Each vignette is distinct from the other, and each is equally intriguing to watch. The cast was excellent, though Gillian Anderson and Madeleine Stowe's roles should have been flipped around. "}{"Title":"Jolie Shines! Love is Complex!","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This otherwise ordinary, drab film is saved primarily by two things1. Angelina Jolie as Joan, paired with Ryan Phillipe as Keenan make the movie actually mean something. Joan is a tough talker who's really not-so-tough on the inside. This was the only worthwhile story of all of them in this movie. I watched it on video and fast forwarded the rest till I got to a Jolie/Phillipe scene.2. It was good how all of the characters lives were interconnected at the end.  "},{"Title":"gradually becomes interesting-but you have to have patience","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Playing by Heart seems boring through the first three quarters of it, but in the end it delivers an interesting end. However,like I have said in my heading, you have to have the patience to see the entire movie before you get the point and feel the feel of the writer/director (Willard Carroll).This movie is quite touching, and in its own way provides some depth about love in a diverse manner. Likewise, some of the performances are superb as well. I especially like the performance by Angelina Jolie here; I felt like I knew what she'd gone through in the movie when I watched it. Although in the future I hope to see her in roles other than the angry white female character that she mostly plays up to this point of her career.   Meanwhile,there are quite a few areas about this movie that I don't like. For starter, because the movie must jump from one story to another, it felt so scattered, and the pace of those stories, in my opinion, were too slow. Second, some of the stories didn't quite develop as well as the others. For instance, I am not satisfied with the story involving Dennis Quaid, Madeleine Stowe and Anthony Edwards. I also wish there would be a bit more between Jay Mohr and Ellen Burstyn. Overall, this is not a bad movie. In fact I can appreciate the efforts made by Willard Carroll and whoever involved in the production of Playing by Heart. But this movie seems better fit in the TV screen then at a movie theater.  "},{"Title":"Super sweet!","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie rocks. I love the way it twists. Everyone in it did a great job. It wasn't slow at any part in the whole thing, and that's really something. Plus, anything Jon Stewart is in is unquestionably excellent. He's a really great actor and he's really funny. "},{"Title":"Short Cuts lite, but marvellously acted.","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A marvellously acted piece, though some of the relationships dont resonate as well as others.Ellen Burstyn and Jay Mohr are heartbreakingly beautiful as a mother and AIDS inflicted son embracing a new found honesty in his final days. Gillian Anderson is wonderfully world weary and bruised underneath an acidic facade. Her would-be relationship with a suprisingly good Jon Stewart is wryly amusing and touching.  Angelina Jolie steals the show as a pushy motormouth whose aggressive pursuit of withdrawn Ryan Phillipe is the films highlight.Also on the plus side is seeing Phillipe actually act (as opposed to his usual all purpose cool detachment face) and Sean Connery romancing someone his own age, as well a his priceless impersonation of a dog.On the negative side, the Madeleine Stowe/Anthony Edwards subplot is unconvincing and Dennis Quaid is plain annoying for the first half of the film.All in all, it is Short Cuts lite, but still well worth watching. "},{"Title":"**** Wonderful!","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This one doesn't go into uncharted waters upon your initial reaction to its premise (ensemble-charactered assortment of fashionable people looking for fashionable romance), but it's a wonderful viewing experience that's a must-see for those with a desire for real movies about real people (even if they are a little too pretty, but that's why you're paying real money). Three women, Gillian Anderson, Angelina Jolie (my personal favourite) and Madeleine Stowe all have relationship troubles and are currentlly trying to work them out Stowe is having a clandestined sex-only affair with a friend (Anthony Edwards) who's not her husband, Jolie is in love with anti-relationship man Ryan Philippe, and Anderson can't allow herself to like Jon Stewart, even though he's nuts about her and seems to be quite perfect for her as well. Along the lines we also get to watch Gena Rowlands Sean Connery battle it out as a couple re-evaluating their relationship after forty years of marriage, Dennis Quaid trying out improv acting exercises by pretending to be different people in singles bars, and Ellen Burstyn comforting her son (Jay Mohr) in his last days before dying of AIDS. The real cheat is that Burstyn and Mohr's scenes are among the most touching in the film and are seen so sparingly-these guys really deserved more screen time. All these stories tie themselves up beautifully in the end with Altmanesque flair by director Willard Carroll, who shows a huge amount of talent when it comes to giving characters snappy dialogue and genuine feeling. Hopefully you will also be swept away by just how elegant the entire production is the way I was. Watch it again and again and you'll discover new things you never noticed before. "},{"Title":"For the hopeless romantic","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was definitely a film for the hopeless romantic.  Like most people, I found the Gracie/Roger affair dull.  Without a good performance by Dennis Quaid, I wouldn't have cared what happened to Gracie or her marriage.  As far as the Trent and Merideth courtship goes,  Anderson and Stewart played their roles well.  Who knew John Stewart had it in him?  He played the nice guy role better than many well-experienced actors have.  Moving on, I didn't really care too much about Mark's dying or his mother's subsequent anguish. Call me heartless, but other than giving me a chance to hit the bathroom or grab a snack, their scenes didn't contribute much to this film.  Sean Connery's performance showed that he still has great range, and I think it was his dialogue that made the older couple worth watching.  Finally, I have to agree with everyone else...  the movie would have been worth very little were it not for the chemistry between Jolie and Phillipe.  Keenan (Phillipe) contributes very little to conversations with Joan (Jolie), but Phillipe delivers every line appropriately.  Jolie steals the show with her portrayal of Joan as a down-to-earth, emotionally electric beauty with undying faith in love.  She plays the part as if it were in some way an extension of herself, and I'm surprised she didn't get more acclaim for this role.  The only thing that I wondered after seeing this film was whether Keenan had HIV or AIDS, or simply some other STD.  He says that his past love shared one more thing with him before she died and that he is damaged goods, but when he comes to Joan's place to announce that he wants to be with her, he says that the only way he can do so is if they don't have sex, at least for the time being.  What does this mean?  That sex is too much for him now and that later he'll be ready?  That sex would be risky for Joan?  Help me out here.  If he does have HIV or AIDS, I'm surprised it was never more closely focused on.  But anyway, this movie above all reminded me how well ideal love can be portrayed, though often it is not realized as such.  I love this film and would recommend it anyone. "},{"Title":"A delicious movie","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Men and women. The relationships between them. That's what this movie has to offer and some surprises at the end. All stories are treated carefully, sometimes you laugh, sometimes you drop a tear. You should see this movie. It will not bore you because it changes constantly from one story to another, from a character to another. Finally, you will discover the importance of love and you will understand why talking about love is like dancing with architecture. "},{"Title":"A film about love in the real world","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was really sweet.   Angelina Jolie is a very talentedactress, and even though Ryan Phillippe is one of my favorite actors, I don't think he had much of a performance in this movie.    I thought that Gillian Anderson and Jon Stewart's performances were really good and believable. Jay Mohr does a great performance as the AIDs sufferer. It's a really good movie that makes you think twice about everyday things, it is a little slow but things really come together great in the end. "},{"Title":"With a cast like this...","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I see over a hundred films a year, and very rarely do I find one that effects me as strongly as Playing by Heart. A funny film that manages to bring strong enough themes to actually give a cast that has been as lauded as this one something to work with without tripping over each other's egos and conflicting styles. Sean Connery gives his best performance in years (anyone else remember The Avengers?). Gena Rowlands is a perfect opposite to him. Ryan Philippe has a fairly superficial role, but the fact that he manages to share the screen with Angelina Jolie and not end up like a deer in the headlights is accomplishment enough. The least developed of the plots falls to Madeeline Stowe and Anthony Edwards. Is the plot interesting? It could have been. The actors chew scenery at level best, but their story has too many open ended questions, and the script never does much to make them particularly sympathetic or really likeable. I admit that the format is derivative, and some of the themes are by now borderline cliche, and it is definitely not fare for all, but the film manages to take a theme like love and not turn into a cliche itself and that deserves recognition with an apparently random character like Quaid's providing some of the most meaningful scenes. Grade 10 "},{"Title":"sweet and warm-hearted film","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sean Connery leads an all star cast in an extraordinary yet odd film. I didn't really understand this film until I reached the end and then all the pieces fell into place. I had to see it twice to really grasp what the plot was all about. The story followed four different couples; married, engaged, dating and cheating.Gillian Anderson and Jon Stewart literally bumped into each other and are about to venture out on a first date. Angelina Jolie is crazy for a guy she met at the club (Ryan Phillipe), Anthony Edwards and Madeline Stowe are cheating on their respective spouses. This makes for an interesting viewing and the end, which was a complete twist, not only tied everything up, it was a pleasant shock. Playing By Heart has a lot of complex storylines that really works.This was a film of epic proportions and showed what it had to take to maintain relationships and what love really is and what it will do if people truly love their spouses. I was impressed with everyone's performance; however, I must point out the most outstanding one, which was by Angelina Jolie. Jolie has finally come out from her father's (Jon Voight) shadow and has created one heck of a resume of films that includes Gia and The Bone Collector.I really enjoyed this film and I highly recommend this film to everyone. "}{"Title":"A Movie You Will Think About Days Afterward","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I could say this was the best film of '98, but I won't. Not because it wasn't a great film but because I didn't see a lot of movies in 1998. They all looked like mindless drivel to me, but I picked this one up at my local video store. It would be an understatement to say that this film was good. this has been one of the most honest and refreshingly wonderful movies I have seen in a while. The relationships between the characters were sweet, and in some cases bittersweet.The relationship between Hannah and Paul was one of the bittersweet ones that I mentioned. They love each other, they spent their lives together, they have children together, but that doesn't mean the don't have problems. Their relationship was very realistic and very true.The mother/son relationship between Mark and Mildred was the most heart breaking I have ever seen represented in a film. I cried just about everytime they were on-screen together.The relationship between Meredith and Trent was the most believable and the most real. Meredith being a person scorned by love and afraid to open herself up again, and Trent being a lonely divorcee just trying to get Meredith to realize that he's not in this to hurt her. Both of their reactions were realistic.But I'd have to say the most interesting relationship in the film, to me anyway, was the one between Joan and Keenan. They are complete opposites who happen into the company of one another, causing a strong attraction on both sides that eventually evolves into something deeper. I won't give away anything because I'm not one to spoil movies, but Keenan's story was extremely compelling. Joan's reaction was exactly what I expected from her, and the resolution was the absolute sweetest I have ever seen. And I just have to add that Angelina Jolie was amazing in this film. This is Ryan Phillippe at his best, I don't think he has ever been any better in any other movie than what he was in this one.The ending all comes together nicely, making this a great film. Yes there are slow parts, yes some things are a little strange, but all in all this is a very good movie. Rent it, open your mind, and enjoy.  "},{"Title":"A wonderfully touching story","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  ;Playing by Heart; was an excellent film and allows for the audience to relate to at least one of the five stories therein. Not only did this movie have an extraordinary cast, but the plot flowed nicely and drew the watcher in, intrigued them and then carried on, with interest intact. Wild and subdued, dull yet realistic, emotionally explosive, frustratingly beautiful.. This movie had some very powerful themes and dialogue~ 'talking about love is like dancing about architecture' is a favorite of mine. Overall 5 stories of love, relationships, and all the beauty and struggle therein. It is overall a wonderful movie. "},{"Title":"Honest and romantic","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Talking about love is like dancing about architecture. But it ain't gonna stop me from trying, says Angelina Jolie's character Joan. This is how Playing by Heart starts. Then the film starts to show some couples' lives in LA. You don't see any relation between the stories, but from the second half to the ending, you have some clues and everything makes sense.Playing by Heart has so many qualities that we forget its defects (some unconclusioned stories and some flawless moments). It is one of the most honest and romantic films I've ever seen, because it can catch the real feelings of human beings. The screenplay is light, intelligent and keeps the attention. And the acting is just great. The Joan (Angelina Jolie)/ Keenan (Ryan Phillippe) story is my favorite one, and both of them work very well, specially Angelina, beautiful and talented - if you like her see the TV movie Gia. Gillian Anderson is also a very good actress and there's Sean Connery- even that his story is rather boring, he is always convincing.So if you're looking for a romantic film, this is the one. It will make you laugh, cry and think a little bit. Truly one of last year's best, but unfortunately was ignored on the Academy Awards- not a single nomination. "},{"Title":"Underrated romantic tragicomedy with all-star cast","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After seeing this movie and enjoying it very much, I was surprised to read some  of the negative reviews.  It isn't a great movie, but it is a very good one and worth a rental or two.  Several short-storylike episodes sharing a common theme come together in a most satisfying ending, with at least one surprise right out of the blue.  The actors are all  first-rate, but the unchallenged star turns  out to be newcomer Angelina Jolie, whose energy and timing are near-perfect.   "},{"Title":"I gave it an 8 because . . .","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found several places in it quite moving.  I particularly enjoyed the lines and performance of Angelina Jolie -- she was quite good.  All-in-all, the script was intelligent, authentic, and interesting. The performances were solid, and I laughed out-loud in a few places. There were some very nice touches -- including genuine tenderness, and a certain beauty and truth that I found very refreshing.   "},{"Title":"I enjoyed this movie more than any other movie I have ever seen!","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen many, many movies, but of all of them, I enjoyed Playing by Heart the most.  A truly enjoyable film that gets interested in the character's lives and what happens to them.  The film starts out by introducing each character and their little subplots; I guess that word could sum up most of the movie -- sub-plot.  The movie is made up of four or five different sub-plots that follow the lives of the characters and how they view life and love.  From a mother whose son is dying of AIDS to a disillusioned husband who frequents bars and practices his improv. (read lying) skills to a few people who have been burned by love in the past . . . we see a large variety of people who have nothing, and yet everything in common.  A romantic comedy/drama, one of its only flaws is an occasionally weak script; however, this little fact is easily overlooked by the wonderful performances and the touching stories.  When the credits finally rolled, I felt satisfied and happy . . . Playing by Heart definitely has a cathartic ending . . . but that's all I can say . . . to say more would reveal the ending, and that is definitely one of the coolest parts of the movie.  The movie is appropriately rated (R) because of language and implied sex; however, there is no nudity, no real sex scenes (we see the before and after shots, no action shots) so I feel that it is an appropriate movie for parents to take their older (15+) teen-agers to see.  To sum up, and all-star cast, great stories, fine acting and a wonderful ending make this a movie not to be missed . . . rent it tonight! "},{"Title":"Plato has nothing on the dissection of Love","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  From the devotion a mother has for her child to the colorful passion that can blindside us all, this mature comedy/drama runs the gambit of loves many smiles and tears.  It was certainly a welcome treat for my eyes and emotions.  I don't know about you, but I'm one of those people that loves movies that keep you thinking about them days after you've seen it.  Playing By Heart did this in spades for me.  A magnificent display of clever dialog and perfect acting that makes you forget it's even being acted.  It's easy to loose yourself in this whirlpool if you live a less than romantic life.  It's also easy to find yourself if you love to fantasize.Witty, sad, funny and wonderful I would recommend this to anyone with sense enough to count to ten.  Or maybe even one of those smaller numbers if you tried real hard.  It's a movie.  Don't be lazy.  Rent the damn thing.  I promise it won't kill you.  You might even smile before it's over.-Bruce "},{"Title":"I fell in love with Playing by Heart!","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just finished watching this movie not 5 minutes ago and I am still smiling.  It has been the most pleasantly suprising movie I have seen this summer. I was constantly suprised at the cast and acting.  They are superb.  The plot moves at a perfect speed, the writing is clever and the cast is a joy.  Really, I would recommend this movie to anyone!!! I can't wait to tell all of my family and friends to go rent this movie right now.   I must stop writing because I wouldn't dream of spoiling any of the suprises or fun of this movie and I want you all to hurry and see it!!! "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  ok so maybe I don't know anything and well I thought this was one of the best films I've seen in a while its one of those movies that you still think about days later. I loved it!!!! and the scean in the bathroom when shes brushing her teeth, wow my heart jumped! it was such a touching film!  "},{"Title":"nit-picking from south africa. (positive, no spoilers)","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Playing by Heart is a refreshing look at love. I felt that it covered all aspects of love, mature love, young love, hidden love to name but a few.It is well written. I was sceptical at first when I saw the direction the film was taking towards it's climax, but it was well handled.Another reason for my scepticism was Ryan Philipe, but I was most pleasantly surprised with his performance. He's not great, yet, but he looks as though within the coming years, he could really turn into a dominating screen presence.Sean Connery is in a class of his own. The man is one of our screen treasures. Enough said.The dialogue is well crafted and at times hilarious. Everyone can identify with at least one of the characters.Some might say that the movie was about 15-20 mins too long, but the character development is superb and at no time during the screening did I find my mind drifting.Overall, it's a little gem.  "}{"Title":"Well-written, marvelously intelligent, and moving, Playing by Heart tries to talk about love and prevails.","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Definitely, most definitely, talking about love is like dancing about architecture, says the lively and mischievous Joan.  But it ain't going to stop me from trying.Often, when a film endeavors to untangle the complicated and perplexing mystery that is love, it either results in a sappy and maudlin affair that is immediately labeled a chick flick and soon forgotten in a Blockbuster wasteland or a hackneyed and pedestrian story with robotic characters and a predictable happily every after ending.  Playing By Heart is definitely, most definitely, neither. It attempts to answer the much mulled-over question, What *is* love? and does so successfully with admirable wit and charm, standing out in a roomful of romantic- comedies released in the past several years that sorely lack the spirit and soul this ensemble piece has managed to capture.Well-written, marvelously intelligent, and moving, Playing By Heart surrounds the relationships and the mishaps of those relationships of a group of individuals, all wonderfully depicted by their portrayers and each romantic pair providing their own essence to the overall story.  Seasoned acting veterans Sean Connery and Gena Rowlands shine as Hannah and Paul, a couple on the brink of their fortieth anniversary trying to overcome a secret from the past that could easily destroy their marriage.  Their performances are heartfelt and sincere, bringing to the film an indescribable charisma and grace that has unfortunately been missing from cinematic romances of recent times.  Gillian Anderson as reluctant lover Merideth and Jon Stewart as persistent yet lovable Trent (a role that has best shown off his comic ability and undeniable charm) share a remarkable chemistry that some of the movie's most entertaining and humorous moments revolve around. But the twosome that truly steals the film away are rising stars Angelina Jolie and Ryan Phillipe.  Their talent is undeniable; their scenes, poignant; and their banter, engaging.  As the animated and boisterous smart-ass Joan, Jolie not only captures the heart of jaded-about-love loner Keenan, but the hearts of the audience as well.Surprises come about as viewers realize how each of the eleven main characters are connected to one another (the ties are cleverly concealed until the last twenty minutes or so), but the genuine amazement comes from realizing the true extent of Jay Mohr's acting talent.  Phenomenal and unforgettable, he brilliantly embodies the character of Mark, a young man dying from AIDS.  One of the most memorable scenes in the film are that of him saying a final good-bye to his loving mother, Mildred, who is beautifully portrayed by Ellen Burstyn.An extraordinary combination of humor and heart, bringing together some of the best talents that have ever graced Hollywood, Playing By Heart is not one to miss.  Not only will it entertain, but educate and inspire.  It tries to talk about love, and prevails. "},{"Title":"A bit weird, but cool !","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'll confess. At the first half hour of the movie, I thought it would be just more one of those 'nonsense' movies. I was wrong. Let's say, that on the 'first part', we got some separate stories running around, with nothing linking them. Despite of that, the stories became interesting on the 'second part' of the movie. We got a lot of interesting scenes, and the greatest in my opinion were Joan & keenan talking at her car, and after that Keenan looking for her at her house. God that make me think a lot !Well, watch it, and don't try to 'judge' it before the last 15 minutes of it ! From 0 to 10, 9 !  "},{"Title":"An Ensemble Drama/Comedy","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although this is displayed as a comedy,  I'd call it more of a drama. It's a very touching movie,  with a wonderful ensemble cast,  kind of a cross between Grand Canyon and Waiting to Exhale.  Mostly the story takes place in LA,  but some is in Chicago.  It's a story about relationships;  it's that simple.Gillian Anderson (who won my heart in this movie;  I'm not much of a X-filer, OK???) plays Meredith,  a stageplay director who is very,  VERY single.  By means of an accident,  she meets Trent (Jon Stewart),  who promptly asks her out to dinner.  Across town,  we have an attractive, successful older couple  Paul (the charming as ever Sean Connery) and Hannah (the lovely Gena Rowlands),  who have been married 40 years and who are trying to face old age with grace and courage.  Meanwhile,  a willowy brunette named Gracie (Madeline Stowe) is on the downlow with Roger (Anthony Edwards),  and while he is yearning for a deeper relationship with her, she is content to keep it strictly sexual,  no mutual history,  no personal history,  no guilt involved.  In still another part of town,  a man named Hugh (Dennis Quaid) carouses bar after bar,  meeting woman after woman, (or perhaps drag queen?), telling strange and tragic tales to sympathetic ears. In the throbbing club scene,  a blue haired boy named Keenan (Ryan Phillipe) loans his last quarter to Joan,  a girl who is screaming banshee-like at her ex-beau over the phone.  Across the miles in a Chicago hospital room,  a dying young man named Mark (Jay Mohr) and his grief-striken mother Mildred (Ellen Burstyn) open their hearts to one another for the last,  and probably the first,  time.It is like five stories about five relationships within one movie,  but all of the characters are connected,  and most of them are interesting.  I was so able to relate to Meredith (Anderson) because she has been hurt is so afraid of losing control and being vulnerable to the opposite sex.  Trent (Stewart) is very realistic in his reaction to the wall Meredith built around herself.  I am a huge Angelina Jolie fan,  and she once again proved her acting ability as Joan, tough on the outside but tender on the inside. And this is the best acting Ryan Phillippe has ever done.Low points of the movie  I wasn't really sure what was going on with Dennis Quaid's part of the story (although he did a terrific job),  and Madeline Stowe's character seemed to be a selfish,  petty loser.  But the rest of the characters and their stories were facinating.  I cried a lot.  "},{"Title":"lovely","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The only word that comes to mind when I think of this film is lovely.  That's what it was.  I smiled from beginning to end.  I really enjoyed it. The cast in descending order of age are all interconnected by family most notably and acquaintance with that family.  They are dealing with the trials and tribulations of love.  Heading the family is Gena Rowlands pulling it off again, upstaging one of the greatest actors of our time repeatedly.  She really is fabulous.  She sparkles on screen especially as she berates her husband for even thinking of being unfaithful to her.  Her film husband Sean Connery is as dashing and handsome as he was playing James bond, and the impeccable speech along with that voice that could melt an iceberg still bring women young and old to their knees.  Madeline Stowe handles two men in this film, one her unimaginative husband and the other her lover.  Hers is the most far-fetched story, but I was so happy to see Stowe in a film again and acting to her former caliber that I didn't mind at all.  Dennis Quaid, her unimaginative mate, is surprisingly sensational.  Anthony Edwards is playing the same guy he plays in every film.  Gillian Anderson is charming beyond all expectation.  It was a nice change to see her in a romantic role.  There is without doubt life beyond Special Agent Dr. Dana K. Scully, and good for Anderson.  She is proving a solid, capable, nuanced and entertaining actress.  Jon Stewart is adorable.  You'll want to take him home with you.  Angelina Jolie proved herself worthy in Gia, and here she solidifies her status as an actress and not simply a pretty face.  Her performance was intelligent and well thought out.  However, her boyfriend in the film played by Ryan Phillippe is the stand out performance in this couple.  He is handsome, charming and always mysterious.  I fell in love with him.  Rent this movie now.     "},{"Title":"Keep interest trying to figure out where it was going","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Star studded cast perform in this eclectic drama about love and it's entanglements.  A lot of twist.  The movie starts as several unique threads that are ultimately woven together into one by the movies conclusion. Packed with dialogue, no action.  Some moving scenes dealing with aids and infidelity. "},{"Title":"Angelina Jolie makes this movie great!","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I rated this movie 9/10.  I've read praise for it, but many people say that Sean Connery and Gena Rolands carry it.  They were good, but certainly nothing to get excited about.  On the other hand, every time Angelina Jolie smiled it was a magical movie moment!  I've seen two of her other movies, Gia and Pushing Tin, where she was also very good, but in Playing by Heart she really shines.  If anyone has any of her other movies to recommend to me, as a Jolie fan, let me know.  Fox Fire?  Hackers? I'm certainly looking forward to her upcoming roles, such as Girl, Interrupted.Otherwise I found the movie a bit meandering, with such a big ensemble of well-known stars, but by the end of the movie I felt that the many threads had all been brought to interesting resolutions.  Altogether, I would recommend this movie highly to anyone looking for a thoughtful light drama.  "},{"Title":"some great lines but a little slow","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are some great lines in Playing by Heart and it's a good look at life and love.  However, it did seem to drag at times, especially once I had figured out how it was all going to tie together from the clues provided throughout the film.I was a little disappointed with the ending  I would have preferred something more open-ended and/or not necessarily so complete and expected.  But then the enjoyment of this film is not in the conclusion but how it's reached.Overall I gave it 7/10 - worth seeing but don't rush. "},{"Title":"a very funny movie","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one of the best in 98. The cast is very good and the plot is the one everyone can relate to love.The dialog is very strong and funny.Its like story of love on 5 different levels and from 5 different views of life. At the end you see how they all are related to each other.I love the quote in this movie Talking about love is like dancing about architecture.Its very funny and heart worming movie so go see it. "},{"Title":"Hmmm...makes you think","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First I thought it was a film that tells stories about people's lives who don't relate to each other. Until the half of the movie, I realize the plot and the relation. Anyhow it's a great one, and finally a movie with a great cast worth seeing. I personally like the story of Joan and Keenan. Even though that Gillian's character Meredith kinda reminded me of the sceptic Scully in a way, but believe me, it's a good movie... "},{"Title":"why wasn't this movie in wide release?","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw Playing By Heart with a film group to which I belong.  I can not imagine why it did not receive wider release.  It has an imaginative, well written story and a great cast.  The characters were interesting and well acted.  If there is any fault with this film is that there too many good actors and characters for the little over two hours.  I really wish the film had been three hours.  Mr. Carroll has written (also directed) a story that intertwines and connects love and lover(s) in a most entertaining way.  I would not want to say anything more about the premise than that.  This film made me laugh out loud and also cry.  The highlight of the film is the relationship between Joan (Angelina Jolie) and Keenan (Ryan Phillippe). These two are dynamite and look forward to seeing more of both.  Mark (Jay Mohr), a young man dying from AIDS, and his mother, Mildred (Ellen Burstyn), were also excellent.  The other were good as well.  This you MUST see on video if you like romance and comedy.  Three and a half stars!!!  "}{"Title":"Very, Very good!","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie a couple of months ago, but just got around to commenting. In my humble opinion, this movie was awesome!!  As an X-Files fan, I loved seeing Gillian Anderson in a not-so-Scully role.  Jon Stewart and Ryan Phillipe were great, as Sean Connery always is!  Everyone should go see this movie! "},{"Title":"I can't wait until it's out on video!","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just have to add that I think that Gillian Anderson is one talented actress!  I'm a X Files fan and I've seen her In The Mighty.  I can't wait to see what else she'll do!  I enjoyed the other characters as well. I think Sean Connery & Gena Rowlands were excellent!  Angelina Jolie's character was annoying but sweet.  This movie made me look at Jon Stewart in a whole new light!  RENT THIS MOVIE! "},{"Title":"WHAT A PLEASANT SURPRISE","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie which disappeared from the scene much two quickly deserved better.  With some of the Academy Award nominations. being what they were, this one should have at least been nominated. "},{"Title":"A warm heart-felt movie without the script to back it all up","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sure, this is one of those little known movies that comes out of nowhere to surprise everyone into thinking that it is some great movie.  Let me tell you, it may be a little known movie, but it is far from great.  Most of the scenes jump back and forth so much it is hard to remember what is going on with which character.  The whole Anthony Edwards/Madeline Stowe thing was just weird (if you've seen the end, you'll understand).  There were three things that saved the film though.  The characters Meredith and Trent were great in this film.  Don't be confused into thinking that I am saying that the acting was good.  Just the characters.  Sean Connery and Gena Rowlands are good thing number two.  They were magnificent in this film, but it was the characters that seemed to be lacking when compared to the acting talent. Good thing number three is easily the greatest thing in the movie.  Joan, played by the fabulous Angelina Jolie, saved the movie.  She was the best character in the whole movie and Angelina played the part beautifully.  If she really deserves a Golden Globe (she won for Gia), it should have been for this movie.  It was easily her greatest role EVER! "},{"Title":"Great message!","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I LOVE this movie! I saw a preview for it on t.v, and wanted to see it. My friend and I saw it on Siskel and Ebert. They said that they didn't like the movie, and that they didn't learn anything from it. Well, we still saw it anyways because we are really big fans of the X-files, and this has Gillian Anderson in it. We loved it! And not just because of the good looking guys on it. I learned that just because you have had bad experiences in the past, it doesn't mean you should give up on love all together. You can still find that special someone. I give this movie a ten. I recommend it to anyone who like romance. "},{"Title":"Realistic and Does the trick","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie because it was so close to reality on many levels. I could relate to the stories and thought the actors performed above the normal standards. Some movies always go for the bright shiny ending this had serious but simple ending. I recommend it for someone not looking for the perfect romance for we all know they can't turn out that way!!!!  "},{"Title":"Sweet, Sad, and a bit Quirky... but I loved it!","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie forgets about all the old movie formulas and invites you into the lives of several real people. They're not perfect and they don't do everything you'd expect them to do, but that's makes this movie so satisfying. Don't worry if you can't figure out all the twists or how everything fits together... just sit back and enjoy the ride. "},{"Title":"The entire theatre stayed put at the ending credits taking in all they had just seen.  On a scale of 1-10, I give it a 9.","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie twice  once with a friend and the 2nd time with my husband.  It was better the second time around and I would definitely recommend it.  There's nothing to tell without completely giving the story away (and if you don't want to know anything about it, be careful of reading other comments regarding this movie in this area, because so far 2 people tell the entire story which just blows the whole concept).If you don't enjoy love stories, then this is not a movie for you.  It's a quadruple love story with a little mother/son understanding and a dose of spouse doing some soul searching  6 different stories going on at once. Everyone meets up at the end, and if you pay attention you can enjoy trying to figure out how they all relate during the movie. But don't talk too much trying to figure it out, or you will miss vital parts of the conversations. You will also miss some incredible acting by Angelina Jolie (Voight), who has most of the dialogue and Ryan Phillipe, who has a perfect rapport with her.  John Stewart surprized me in his natural ability to act along with Gillian Anderson, who in my eyes can do no wrong.  The rest of the cast does a great job also.  If nothing else, go for Sean Connery who is always at his best.I believe that certain people don't like this movie because there are too many words for them to follow.  Again, I would recommend it.  Both times that I saw it, the entire theatre stayed put at the ending credits for at least 3 minutes while taking in all they had just seen.  That in itself should show you that this is something special.  Watch and see if that happens when it ends for you.  On a scale of 1-10 I give it a 9. "},{"Title":"Great film, great acting!!!","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really loved this movie!  Not only was the dialogue witty and amusing but the acting was absolutely wonderful.  Jon Stewart and Jay Mohr really impressed me.  Stewart was extremely funny yet charming and Mohr was so surprising.  Go see this movie.......  "},{"Title":"WOW!","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really loved this movie. Especially Gillian Anderson and Jon Stewart. The toothpaste scene was my favorite part. This movie is about people, and that is the plot. Some people don't get that. It was creatively done and it's great how everyone fits together.I recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys romantic films, Gillian, Jon, Sean Connery or a just plain excellent movie.  "}{"Title":"Lessons in loving - meanings of companionship and being together - a delightful mix","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's literally a stellar cast and very interesting pairings 1) Sean Connery and Gena Rowlands, 2) Angelina Jolie and Ryan Phillippe, 3) Gillian Anderson and Jon Stewart, 4) Anthony Edwards and Madeleine Stowe with Dennis Quaid, and 5) Ellen Burstyn and Jay Mohr.You kinda have to be patient with this movie, especially if you have no affinity with words after words &#150; there are ongoing talking, conversations, and seemingly rationalizing exchanges. About two-thirds into the movie is when the story starts to come together full circle, and it is satisfying to realize how clever the storytelling unfolds before us. Juggling and intercutting five pairs of relationship is no easy task, yet it sure seems so seamlessly one piece.It's like watching the weaving of a tapestry the various details woven first and in the end we see all the elements (pairings) wonderfully interwoven together. As the camera pulls away -- with the help of a high angle shot shooting down -- I kinda felt that God was looking down and was pleased with the work of the guardian angels on the hearts of these earthlings which can be tamed.Along the lines of taming of the hearts and lessons in relationships, two movies come to mind 1) The very creative script and well-directed surprise from Alan Jacobs' Nina Takes a Lover 1994 - Laura San Giacomo and Paul Rhys with Fisher Stevens; 2) The heartfelt beyond charm of a movie from Glenn Gordon Caron's Picture Perfect - Jennifer Aniston and Jay Mohr with Kevin Bacon.   "},{"Title":"True to life lessons of the heart.....","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Playing By Heart will play your heartstrings sweetly, honestly, angrily, and sadly. I was so reminded of several real life lessons, and could relate well to each character. I have been waiting for a movie to have big name stars who could all unite for such a plausible, and riveting story. It was almost a 7 degrees type of movie, with a wonderful wind up for the ending. I cannot be more explicit regarding the characters, without revealing a plot that must be experienced at the theater. I wholeheartedly reccommend this movie for ages 13 thru eternity. "},{"Title":"things that make you go Hmmmm..","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  lousy editing, predictable plot points, quite a bit of overacting...why did I enjoy this movie so much?  I really did! "},{"Title":"very sweet, A must for a date Movie","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie shows who got the talent in the x-files family. It was Sweet, it made me think of my life and love, and lack of therefor. I loved the way it did not tell you the Relationship  between the People, and at the end how it all just mushed together. Gillian Anderson was really good, She really played someone who was not Dana from x files. Also remember The Mighty when She Played the White trash Person. Ryan Phillippe, who would have known he had acting ability in that body of his. I now expect greatness from him now. Sean Connery was a great surprise, from his flop in Avengers. I really liked this movie. A great date film, or if you Think Love stinks go see this, and you know that its there and great!  "},{"Title":"Very sweet, funny, touching movie","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was overall very pleasing.  The dialogue was very entertaining although somewhat contrived (I never met anyone who really talks like that).  Definitely the best storyline was Angelina Jolie and Ryan Phillipe's.   Sean Connery and Gena Rowlands were good.  The other stories were OK but not as interesting.  I didn't think the mother/son-dying-of-AIDS storyline was necessary, and it didn't really fit in (too depressing).  They could have dropped that and fleshed out the other stories.  I'm glad most of the critics did not reveal the secrets and plot twists, because that was what kept you interested, wondering what was going to happen and what these people had in common.  The ending was almost too perfect, but I like fairy-tale endings, anyway.  Not recommended for cynics.   "},{"Title":"Best Film I have seen this year!","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Excellent, Excellent, Excellent! Great story, awesome cast(Angelina Jolie should get an Oscar for her multi-layered and superb performance!) and great direction. Along with The Thin Red Line it is one of the best films I have seen since Quiz Show! A must see!  "},{"Title":"A great movie to start off 1999!!","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie! The cast, the dialogue, and the chemistry was perfect. I fell in love with Angelina Jolie's character who was wittingly funny. Gena Rowlands and Sean Connery were wonderful as usual, and Gillian Anderson was good to see in something besides the X Files. Jon Stewart was very good as well. See this movie with someone you love, this is not a movie for singles and pay attention to the dialogue, there are hidden messages all around. Keep movies like this coming!!   "},{"Title":"Romance of young & old","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boring first thirty minutes, after which plot takes off. Excellent portrayal of love, loss of loved ones, adjustments to life in order to have companionship with mate. Disorganized at first, later coming together to make this one of the best of the year. Involves all types and ages in their seeking of happiness. "},{"Title":"Stellar cast shines in Playing by Heart","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie benefits from the talents of the stellar cast and the excellent cinematography -- with respect to the latter, Los Angeles actually looked inviting!The best performances belong to Angelina Jolie, Dennis Quaid and Jon Stewart. Runners-up include Gillian Anderson, Gena Rowlands and Ellen Burstyn. The one brief scene between the two latter performers was genuinely moving -- no dialogue, just a shared look of understanding and empathy between two women that managed to speak volumes about motherhood, grief and friendship.Jolie is the stand-out of the considerable cast. Her character's exuberance and wealth of hope are infectious, and the wit and kindness of Joan were charming and entertaining. Quaid's ability to shift from one sad sack personality to another, only to seemingly shrink into the true sadness of his actual personality and emotional life was astounding. My feelings for his character Hugh shifted from amused disgust to genuine pity by the movie's climax. As for Stewart, he does a fine job as Anderson's suitor, a kind and emotionally-centered fellow who's willing to put his feelings on the line for a woman who's afraid to love again.Anderson does well with the character of Meredith. I have a feeling that her performance could have benefitted from stronger direction, but she acquits herself nicely with what she is given. Her interaction with Stewart is funny and has genuine spark; I could see these two characters as a couple. Rowlands does marvelously as a strong-willed woman who is struggling with feelings of anger and betrayal, but you never lose sight of the fact that she feels much love for her husband, played by Sean Connery.Last but not least, Ellen Burstyn gives a fine performance as a woman facing the impending death of her son, who is afflicted by AIDS. There are nuances to her work that are rare to see, and it's a shame that we don't get to see much of her in the film (or other films).I urge people to watch Playing by Heart -- it isn't the best film that I've seen, but the price of admission is more than earned by the pleasure of watching such a skilled cast.   "},{"Title":"Great film, great cast, interesting little quirks","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first read reviews about this movie, all said that the script basically failed in interest and the cast held everything up. I personally thought that the script was excellent. It was funny, heartbreaking, heartwarming and surprising in all the right places. The cast is very good and all actors do a great job. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes an  irony-romance/comedy film. "}{"Title":"Saw it two times in two days -- it was that good!","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An excellent, emotional treatment. The music is haunting; the acting is superior. The chemistry between Gena Rolands and Sean Connery is very real. John Stewart is a natural. I think I have fallen hopelessly in love with Angelina Jolie.I had tears in my eyes -- and a lump in my throat -- during the last 15 minutes of the film -- both times I saw it.  "},{"Title":"Phillipe and Jolie were excellent!","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Even though the stars were pretty good I was somewhat disappointed with this film. After seeing the trailers I think I expected too much. I really enjoyed the relationships between Gillian Anderson and Jon Stewart (the reason I went to see the movie) and Ryan Phillipe and Angelina Jolie (their scenes were my favourite). The rest were okay, but I really didn't care what happened to most of them.I enjoyed the movie and will most likely buy it when it comes out on video. If for nothing else than Ryan Phillipe and Angelina Jolie's scenes. I would recommend this to my friends as a renter, but not necessarily as a must see.  "},{"Title":"great acting and message","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  We saw a sneak preview of this movie having only seen the trailer. My husband and I loved it.  For once a movie with a lot of name actors is actually worth seeing.  All the acting is very good and I enjoyed the story and what the movie had to say.  I would highly recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys a love story.  "},{"Title":"If you didn't like Short Cuts, you probably won't like this.","Date":"10 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While I'll agree that this is a fine cast, I cannot say I enjoyed this film. The dialogue was painful, for the most part. I don't know if the writer was trying to make these people sound sophisticated or what, they just came off as priggish and unbelievable. Like Short Cuts - which I liked even less than this film - the story cuts between different groups of people who don't really interact with each other as a whole. This makes it hard to get to know the characters or feel involved in their lives. I never really got to care about them nor do I feel that some were even necessary. It is utterly predictable and it drags - it's only two hours long, but it seemed like 5. I'll have to admit that there were a few nice moments and some good laughs scattered in, but I don't think I would recommend this movie to anyone I respect.  "},{"Title":"A starry cast shines in an ambitious drama","Date":"12 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The cast assembled for Dancing About Architecture is certainly a fine one, and the material with which they work is very much worthy.  Willard Carroll wrote and directed this ambitious film that owes much to Robert Altman in terms of structure.  Here several different stories and dramatic situations come together in unexpected ways in the end of the complex, melancholly, emotionally draining, and, on occasion, profound movie.  To summarize these many stories would be impossible and would give away too much.  Carroll is very good at setting up a potentially silly and cliched situation, and then turning it on its head with a surprise that makes it all seem real.  The only thing that disappoints is the very ending, which seems a bit rushed and perfect for its own good.  But the getting there is enough of a reward. Performances all around are worthy of praise, with Gena Rowlands, Sean Connery, Ellen Burstyn, Angelina Jolie, Gillian Anderson, and--oddly--Jay Mohr standing out above the very good rest. "},{"Title":"Great Cast - Almost Really Bad Film","Date":"14 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I found this DVD whilst I was trying to find something cheap to make up the full price of my Father's Day present - a gift voucher on Amazon. I had never heard of the movie, and it would not have mattered if I had continued in my ignorance! A frightfully over emotional 'American' movie that presumably felt it could follow the TV success of a show like '30 Somethings' and do the multi-strand jump cutting of 'Babel' with everything coming together at the end. Well, it didn't work. You assemble a great cast of pros - the Weinsteins looking for a left field hit that might pick up some Oscar traction - and make an auteur film about love that is supposed to make you feel better!! Uh, no, I was depressed fairly soon in - what with the ridiculous Dennis Quaid strand talking about running over his wife and child (yes!), and a young man dying, a la 'Philadelphia' of AIDS!! Talk about cheap shots and sentimentality that would have made John Ford blush in shame! The storyline is of various couples of various ages ( and quickly it becomes clear are all part of one family) talking about love, trying to find love, and actually having affairs. I'm afraid it loses credibility because several of the actresses post-coital have very carefully wrapped sheets or duvets around themselves demonstrating a complete lack of spontaneity (although that is the point I suppose, as the film is all too much talk and cod philosophising about love to be really credible. There is interest in the Ryan Phillippe/Angelina Jolie and Sean Connery/Gena Rowlands elements, but because of the too many strands, even these are rushed, overwrought and concluded far too quickly. A pity because they might have made a half decent movie. But ultimately the film is crushed by its own sense of po-faced theatricality and verbiage - yet again Americans taking themselves too seriously. The tagline called it a romantic comedy with a twist - yes, the twist was it was not very funny at all (the guy with Aids dies in his mother's arms on full screen - ho, ho!). Hoiw did this ever get made???? "},{"Title":"What a nice surprise !!!","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Sometimes its a nice surprise to find a hidden gem. I didn't know anything about this film and just looking at the cover i was amused to find such a good cast. I randomly picked up this film from the store and boy i was surprised. Great cast and amazing performance and its one of those movies which you can go through again without getting bored. I am not surprised very few people have heard about this film,including me of course. The performance of all the actors is noteworthy and i specially liked Sean Connery, Ryan Phillip and Angelina Jolie. It sure is going to my personal collection. Definitely underrated and highly recommended. "},{"Title":"I love the movie","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" *Read what spoilers are, so I put'em behind the /* jwfwkj */ signs* (So, if you do not want to spoil your first view of this picture, do not read between /* maybe-the-spoiler */ mark. But if you are interested in my opinion, go ahead...)I've seen this movie for the second time now (just now, 6a.m., I should be sleeping not typing my first comment ever), and, only thing I can say is Oh boy. Oh girl. Uh. Beautiful. A wonderful, delightful appearance of Angelina Jolie (as a comment from Sweden said for Ryan Ph., I say for her she is amazing, and NOT sexy as she is stunning, wonderfully acting. Well, I'm still under impression of that movie, so let then say that their story is most strucking, tragic ->/*(even more than the mother&her dying son because this has not ended end is yet unpredictable - he is to die, but when, how will their love last; the mystery does it - we optimists imagine it our way,and the other can do it on their own), and full of emotions. */I love this movie, so I will put another comment in a couple of years when I see it again (even if it means opening another nickname). And now to wait for the mail to register properly, and finally post& */Bye for now. To be read again soon!P.S. I Don't Understand what spoilers are?!? Dirty words or something else. I think this comment did not have any, so I'll see if I am to be on a black list from now... "},{"Title":"A Charming Romance That Has You Really Rooting for These Couples","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I may be a sucker for most age-appropriate couples romantic movies, but I did like Playing By Heart. The audience was really rooting for all but one of the couples - people actually gasped and groaned when it looked like one or the other weren't going to make it.The ending isn't a 100% surprise as cues are foreshadowed throughout, but it's very clever and all but the one unsympathetic couple are acted very well.That Angeline Jolie (I first saw her in Hackers; so surprising that she's laconic Jon Voight's daughter) is a ball of fire- she could breathe life into the dead, and does here, as I, too, fell in love with Ryan Phillippe. They wouldn't need resuscitators in E.R. with her around.So nice to see Gillian Anderson get to be something other than Scully (no we don't get to see much more of her for all you fans than kissing). And I do like that her relationship-phobia isn't neuroses but is based on the school of hard knocks that's demonstrated. Dennis Quaid doesn't use his million watt smile, but Jon Stewart is a pleasant surprise.Gina Rowlands is up there with our leading mature actresses who don't get enough good roles. Nice use of music for each's courtship, though I missed who was doing the duet over the end credits, though I thought I caught that the guy who wrote it was the lead guy from Live, so maybe that's who was singing.The original title is referred to in the dialog.(originally written 1/24/99) "},{"Title":"GOOD ROMANTIC MOVIE, BUT NOT HILARIOUS","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SOME SPOILERSIt was a nice romantic story and how all the plots and the couples were related. But this movie is not funny, besides a few witty comments or jokes, it was not funny at all. I am a fan of Gillian Anderson and she did a good job in this movie, but sorta was wasted a little. They should of shown more of everyone besides 2 minutes on this couple and their story or 1 minute on that couple and their story. But overall I think it was a pretty good move. I would rate it 6.5/10 "}{"Title":"Good thing to watch if you're an actor","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Have to say I loved this movie. Great cast, witty dialogue, and real cohesion. Found myself caring about the characters that deserved it and the extra dollop of drama was fine-tuned to the taste of people in the business Show biz. I'm an actor so I'm predisposed to enjoying something with a few extra servings of good melodrama (if those two words coinciding aren't an oxymoron). If you don't mind a flick where you'll be needing tissues, go forth to your Blockbuster with all deliberate speed.   "},{"Title":"Great writing","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It takes a great mind to be able to create a puzzle-like structure with characters that span generations and make it all believable. Thank-you to the actors as well for the great portrayals.It's amazing the film was not more recognized for its greatness. I highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Twist?","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was disappointed by this film, a greater waste of assembled talent than the Redskins.  As with many other reviewers, I found it neither particularly funny nor romantic.   The characters were not developed, and the so-called brilliance of the film seemed to revolve around a couple cultural barbs against Ikea, Heather Locklear, etc.The writers flatter themselves by considering their story twist-y.  I could find nothing at the end of the film even remotely resembling a twist. Perhaps they confuse a single plot development with a twist.   Or maybe the twist was not having a twist.  A twist is the destruction of a fundamental assumptions of the film, cf. Sixth Sense and Usual Suspects.  The only fundamental assumption destroyed here was that the movie would be worth a free viewing.Maybe 5/10.  "},{"Title":"One of the few films I clicked off after twenty minutes.","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I checked your other viewer comments, and was shocked how many loved this excursion into the current dating scene, complete with stereotypical couples, all of whom were a total bore - the sort of people I don't even want to know. A couple of viewers did confess it was hard going for the first hour, which is an understatement. After about twenty minutes I pressed the STOP button and began rewinding the tape, totally turned off by a scene in an unmercifully noisy nightclub where one of the characters is cussing out her boyfriend over the phone. Oh, dear...This is entertainment?  Excuse me...! This film only underscores my growing disenchantment with too many of today's films (and a lot of today's younger people, too!)      "},{"Title":"I don't remember seeing so many people leaving a movie theatre","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ... and the movie hadn't even reached its first half. I have to >admit I was tempted to follow their example. Need I say more? Some performances were good though. Angelina Jolie, Jay Mohr, >Ellen Burstyn, Jon Stewart, and Ryan Philippe did a pretty good >job (Madeline Stowe was a big miscast here) but the plot really >sucks! Funny? Hilarious????? No, not even close. .  "},{"Title":"Simply stated tasteful chick flick","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Simply put, however after a dry and almost painfully boring 30-40 mins, this movie somehow came to life and shared some warm moments and pleasant experiences... All in all not my type of movie but, tastefully done... "},{"Title":"One of the Worst of 1998","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having driven nearly twenty miles to see this film, and after viewing the previews (which whetted my appetite for the film), I was majorly disappointed by what appeared to be a movie made with no coherence.  The only time the film came together was at the end!  Sean Connery must need money badly to appear in Playing by Heart, and Gillian Anderson's talents, (and I am using the word loosely), are limited to stone-faced emotionless scenes.  I went with three other people, one of whom was wearing a watch that lit up the time, (definitely a necessity with this film), and from now on this watch will be known as the The Interminable Movie Watching watch!  "},{"Title":"I'm glad I saw it, but I wouldn't recommend it too strongly.","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a pretty good movie, mostly as a showcase for the actors.  I don't think it had anything fresh or particularly insightful to say about love or the human condition.  Willard Carroll is no Robert Altman, although the movie begs comparison to Altman films, like Short Cuts, which follow the stories of various people in one city.  But, I thought there was at least one too many story lines.  The one with Jay Mohr and Ellen Burstyn was certainly moving and they were both excellent, but it really doesn't belong in this particular piece.  I would have liked to have seen Mr. Carroll leave their story out, and beef up a couple of the story lines that didn't play out very well.  The acting was very good, though, particularly by Angelina Jolie.  I'm glad I saw it, but I wouldn't recommend it too strongly. "},{"Title":"An excruciatingly bland two hours","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't mind slow movies, first of all. And I certainly like romantic comedies, but this movie was just unbearable. I came in expecting something decent at least, considering the 7+ rating here, but geez was I ever wrong. How a movie this tepid and uninteresting got such a high rating is beyond me. I can only assume that the incredible star power involved skewed the ratings.A quote from the movie was that talking about love was like dancing about architecture. I think it should have been changed to making a movie about love is like talking about architecture, with this movie being a prime example. Someone give me my 2 hours back. "},{"Title":"Nothing much of a film, but a gem for talent scouts","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Oddly enough it are the &#145;yougsters' who steal the show in this film. I mean with three actors and actresses that have six nominations and two statues between them, you'd expect them to carry the film, but they don't. Sean Connery is easily the best &#145;oldie' and he does not have that much of a character or good lines to really stand out in this film (neither does any other &#145;oldie' in this film), with Ellen Burstyn (Mark's mom) probably having the best potential role of any &#145;oldie'. Now on to the three people who steal the show here Ryan Philippe, Jay Mohr and Angelina Jolie. As for Ryan Phillippe I think it is a real pity that he's only known for youngsters for his roles in I know what you did last summer and Cruel Intentions (in which he was great anyway). He has got real potential and I'd like him to get more challenging roles and see him as a leading man in a good drama. He shows here that he's more than the press make him to be and I think he's way better than his wife (Witherspoon) a an acting professional. It is a real pity that he's not yet made a name for himself as an actor, which maybe not entirely his fault (hint at directors and casting agencies). The same sort of goes for Jay Mohr, who is more famous for Saturday Night Live and comedy films, than his dramatic acting talent. Maybe that's what he likes, but maybe he ought to try drama or serious films more often, I think he can handle it. Angelina Jolie, well there's nothing much to say about her. I mean she has become the most famous one of the four (globally that is) as Tomb Raider Lara Croft and of course as an Oscar Winner (Girl, Interrupted). I really admire that. She saw her talent as a good (and not only as an entertaining) actress and made the best of it. Whether acclaimed or not, whether awarded or not those three can really act and Playing by Heart is the proof.6 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Very absorbing, if not great, film.","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERS - This film has an all-star cast, and I won't list them here, but Sean Connery and gena Rowlands play the couple, married almost 40 years.  The film cuts often among many characters and we are required to watch closely to begin to figure things out. Turns out the three younger female characters are the three children of Connery/Rowlands. Each has her own issues in love and/or marriage. Dennis Quaid is a boring husband who is in acting class, and goes to bars pretending he is something else as practice. The film covers infidelity, aids, etc. It is all brought together at the climax, the 40th wedding anniversary of the parents and their renewal of mariage vows.Not a great film, but a good film, gets you to think. One thing I particularly didn't like was having a minister, played by Anthony Edwards, be the casual sex partner of Stowe's character, especially since both were married.  "},{"Title":"Good fodder for couch potatoes.","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Playing by Heart involves five (sort of) short stories, each broken down into a series of situations and shuffled together like a deck of cards. Five stories in two hours averages to about 24 minutes per story. If films could captive, entertain, and satisfy the audience in 24 minutes all films would be 24 minutes long. However, they can't. In fact, Playing... doesn't give the viewer sufficient time to get over the fact they're looking at that goofy guy on The Daily Show who upstages his guests or that old guy you've seen play James Bond a hundred times or the boob job that chick from Hackers got or whatever. To pump up this loosing concept the film makers use compelling situations, exaggerated characters, snappy dialogue, and some bigtime acting talent. Bottom line...Playing... is a bad idea and good fodder for couch potatoes. BTW, what exactly is an anger ball?  "},{"Title":"A good drama","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film had a lot of romantic drama, but it was also enjoyable.  Sure there were many characters, but that made it more interesting.  The cast includes Sean Connery, Gena Rowlands, Ryan Phillipe, Angelina Jolie, Dennis Quaid, Ellen Burstyn, Jon Stewart, Gillian Anderson and in a surprising dramatic role, Jay Mohr as a dying AIDS patient.  Pretty nice. but kinda long.  Great performances though.  B+ "},{"Title":"A couple of good couples!!","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I honestly think that this movie could have relied solely on the Joan/Keenan couple and the Meredith/Trent couple!!  I'm sure some people would disagree with me, saying that I didn't understand the basis of love and whatnot. But I suppose that's just me being my immature 16 yr. old self.  I didn't really care what happened to the older couple, the Gracie/Hugh/Roger trio, or the mother and son couple.  When I saw Playing By Heart for the first time I cried the whole way through whenever Joan and Keenan where the car AND when they were in her apartment for the second time.  But when Gracie had a tear roll down her eye at the end I was like get Joan and Keenan on the screen NOW!!!  I know that some people really do like Sean Connery but I've never seen a movie with him in it (besides this one).  Actually, the only time I have ever seen anything about him is on Saturday Night Live when they make fun of him!  And being the big X-Files fan that I am, I was thrilled to death to see SOMETHING with Gillian Anderson in (even though Meredith and Scully seemed to have the same phobia of men and relationships).  I feel that the Meredith/Trent couple was the most real of them all!  I think that I could probably relate more to Meredith than any other character though. I thought that the toothpaste scene was gonna make me throw up though b/c Iknew she had to have swallowed all that toothpaste/tooth gunk and I knew that Trent had to have gotten some of that in his mouth.  I was like just spit it out and wash your mouth out before you give him that kiss!!!  I thought that the whole relationship between the women characters was predictable, I knew that there had to be something there.  Although it took me awhile to figure out what the heck Hugh was doing!!  I also didn't know why they gave all the best lines to Jolie!  I think that if they would have given a good script to all of the characters it would have been a REALLY good movie!!  I watched it three times when I rented it b/c it was so good!! It's one of those movies that you get stuck on, and I wasn't really looking forward to taking it back.  I think for sure I'm gonna buy this movie though!!  All in all I would have to give it an 8/10 b/c I liked those two couples that I mentioned earlier the best and they were the only ones I really cared about anyway.   "},{"Title":"sum is less than the parts","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Aside from a wonderful performance from Angelique Jolie, Playing By Heart is mostly a waste.  Saying things about love that have been said (better) before, the film interconnects several different stories, most of which would not make a good half hour sitcom.  Only the Jolie storyline is consistently surprising and entertaining. "},{"Title":"Could have been better.","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I loved the the character Angelina Jolie played. I didn't care for the way the movie switched back and forth. Mom and I just skipped to the scenes with her in it and watched only them. I just think the whole movie its self could have been better. I also wish that it would have shown her ex. Also her apartment more. I am obsessed with Angelina Jolie. So any movie that she plays in I like for her to be one of the main characters or I am not satisfied. Anyone know where I can buy the movie Foxfire? Every time I look for it I get some older movie about an old women in the mountains. It is a depressing movie. If anyone knows where I can buy it I would be very grateful. Also Where I can get the soundtrack. "},{"Title":"A series of mostly low-energy acting classes in blandly pretty locations","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Pretty poor collection of fragments, especially given the amazing cast, with each episode merely going through flat on-again off-again kinds of moves. Quaid's spinning a series of lying stories in bars has the most twisted potential (never fulfilled); Jolie has the most joie de vivre and lifts her segments despite Phillippe's utterly anaemic counterplaying; Connery and Rowlands have to cope with a particularly banal series of arguments about a dalliance of his 25 years ago. The premise is that talking about love is	like dancing about architecture, and yet not communication is exalted, and the strands all have to get past some unburdening or facing of weakness - Anderson needs the courage to take a chance; Quaid and Stowe have to start talking to each other. The movie has little visual distinction - the occasional shots of LA transitioning from day to night (it pretty much all happens at night until the light-drenched happy ending) aren't very evocative of anything, and it just ends up seeming like a series of mostly low-energy acting classes in blandly pretty locations. "},{"Title":"terrible film; excellent actors","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" i don't know who this screenwriter is but it is such a shame when a very talented cast gets done in by such a bad script.I can only guess that the director is a very good salesman and that all of the actors regret the result.A really bad 'Magnolia'-like format; it follows 5 couples and their attempts to get or stay together.The main problem is the pacing.Each couple is given 1- 2 minute sound- bite scenes, in succession- like a pre-programmed roulette wheel. And the delivery is, in general, more wooden than you would have ever not hoped-for.Anjelina Jolie is quite amazing but, looking back sometime in the future, that's about all I may remember from this film.What a disappointment. Rare for me to disagree so much with the IMDb median. I gave it a 3. "},{"Title":"surprisingly disappointing.","Date":"21 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I was 18 I saw this movie for the first time, and was completely overwhelmed by the range of emotions this story made me feel. At the time I was a big x-file fan, but I thought Gillian Anderson should never play a different role any more than the kind she has in Playing by Heart, or should start an affair with Mulder. I never saw Sean Connery without a gun before, but I loved this new character and after seeing this movie I was in love with Angelina Jolie for at least a year.Six years later however, after looking hard for a copy (in Holland it was almost impossible to find) when I watched it for a second time I was very disappointed to my own surprise. The dialog now seems shallow to me and very powerless and the way the movie is shot and the story is told makes me feel like I am watching a soap series (soft-tone lenses, uninspired editing, predictable plot, loaded with clichés). Only one thing went trough my mind watching the entire film; why on earth did I like this before?It probably has to do with the state of mind you're in when watching this (or any movie), on the other hand American Beauty or Magnolia for example I can watch over and over and never be bored. "},{"Title":"Shallow film lifted by good performances","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A lot of critics compared this to Robert Altman or Alan Rudolph films; I think Carroll is really aiming for James L. Brooks doing Altman or Rudolph.  A lot of the lines are trying for that snappy Brooks dialogue(like when Keenan(Ryan Phillipe) tells Joan(Angelina Jolie) I don't date, to which she responds, I've never heard that one before.), and trying to mix comedy and drama as well as he does.  The problem is while Carroll is trying at least for grand things - talking about love, death, family - he misses in how to do it.  It's clever when it wants to be insightful, and shallow when it wants to be truthful.  And while there are supposed to be surprises at the end, only one of them really was(which I won't reveal).On the other hand, this can't easily be dismissed, because all of the performers are appealing(even though Anthony Edwards, Dennis Quaid, and Madeline Stowe get stuck with ridiculous subplots, they're always nice to watch).  Even Phillipe, who I normally don't like, comes across pretty well here.  The ones who register the most are Anderson, Connery, Jolie, Rowlands, and Stewart.  Stewart and Anderson feel like a real couple, and they nicely underplay their dialogue, which makes it play even better(especially when Stewart first meets Anderson's dog; Suddenly I feel inadequate may seem like a sitcom line(even though it IS a huge dog), but he makes it seem real).  Jolie clearly relates to these types of roles, and gives all of her lines an extra snap to them.  She's also very expressive here with her face.  Connery and Rowlands also feel like a real couple, and it's nice to see him acting with someone his own age for a change.  Some have questioned whether it's realistic what they would be arguing about, but since she wants to talk about something else and can't, this is her way of getting it out, so I had no problem with that.Overall, it's one of those films saved by good acting, but if Carroll is aspiring to the level of a James L. Brooks, he needs to go deeper. "}{"Title":"It's worth a rent","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's definitely not one of the better ones...at all. It's not the cast's fault though, they're all phenomenal actors/actresses who have all done marvelous work before in other films. It's simply a poorly written film. It's interesting to see such a large group of big names all thrown together, and that in itself is a reason to see it. I will say that the story of Joan and Keenan is probably the sweetest, most sensational romance I've witnessed in a long time and for that greatness did not deserve to be thrown in that movie. Jolie and Phillipe's chemistry deserve a film of their own. My advice-Rent it just to watch Keenan and Joan. They are nothing short of fantastic. "},{"Title":"What a great interwoven collection of absolutely nothing I care about.","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Angelina Jolie uses such intellegent phrasing as cliche and banal to describe her many problematic suitors.  Kudos to the screenwriter for using her many complaints to set the tone of this film.  Once I stood  for several hours staring at my own ass in the mirror, my ass is neither attractive, nor tight but wasting my time examining its basic curvature seemed more fulfilling than the hour and a half I threw away viewing this film.  How this movie got great actors like Dennis Quaid, Sean Connery, and Jon Stewart I'll never know (Though I predict Gillian Anderson who believed a great deal in this film gave each actor an angerball, a combination of tantric sex and beastiality only to be beleived when examined first hand, to each actor multiple times, except Ryan Phillepe who was shat on by Jay Mohr...multiple times) This may surprise you, the reader, but I do reccomend this film. For one reason and one reason only.  At the end a cameo by Steve Buscemi and Clint Howard both dressed in Easter Bunny outfits is heartfelt and gratifying.  Clint and Steve are made for each other and when they embrace, both singing various tracks from Garth Brooks' Magnum Opus album entitled Don't fuck with an elderly womans vagina you drunken British child named Daniel Gatsby the viewer feels as if he truly has been transported back in time to DaVince's 1957 Europe, complete with flying cars and three headed lesbians.  This cameo lasted only 7 minutes but truly tied the movie together as Clint and Steve both stare into the camera and say Jewish People ROCK!  Because they do.  All of them except Richard Lewis...who is horrible.  I give this movie 4 out of 5 stars, I took one away only because my hatred for Richard Lewis causes me to be cynical and aloof. "},{"Title":"Don't understand the complaints about this movie","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was surprised to find so many negative reviews right at the beginning of IMDb's User Comments section.  Obviously a movie that rates a 7.8 out of 10 in the user rating system can't be THAT bad.  I liked this movie a lot.  It was funny, sensitive, had something to say about people.  What's not to like?  Those of you who didn't  maybe you just don't get it?  Better stick with those action and Ernest goes to... flicks. "},{"Title":"fuggedabout it","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A measure of the impact that this movie made on me is that I saw it only a month or so ago and can barely recall anything about the people in it except that they were tiresome and boring, like the story itself. The cute plot device at the end that ties together the story of the three women and the older couple is, well, a cute plot device. Sean Connery wastes himself here, as he did in 'Entrapment'.  Both Sliding Doors and Next Stop, Wonderland are better romantic comedies than this. Oh yeah, that reminds me; it's not funny either. "}]