[{"Title":"Darker than your average action film","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"68 out of 76 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Hyped to the heavens when it first came out as Schwarzenegger's comeback movie, this 1999 film steers the Governor away from his attempts at comedy and collaborations with Danny Devito and back into the sort of action packed carnage that made his name in the first place. However, where the likes of Commando had him portraying invincible supermen with a neat array of guns and one liners to hand, End of Days is considerably darker.Set in New York on the eve of Millennium, the film shows a version of the Austrian Oak previously never witnessed. He plays Jericho Cane, an alcoholic ex-Cop in charge of a security squad who finds himself embroiled in a battle to save a young girl (Robin Tunney) from being raped by the devil (a sadly, rather ineffective Gabriel Byrne) and bringing about Armageddon. As you do.Cane himself is not the best sort of man for saving all creation either. He is mired in deep depression, has abandoned any faith in God he may have once had and when we first see him, is contemplating suicide. However, saving the girl gives him a drive and determination even when faced with some conflicting views from the Catholic Church about how best to go about this. All of this takes place in a very grim and gritty vision of New York where the rain never stops falling, urban decay is rife and pillars of steam rise from manhole covers. It is a fitting location for the end of all creation to begin and cast a dark veil over the flick.Of course, that isn't to say the film is all doom and gloom as there are a few glimpses of just how seriously the makers weren't taking their project (the argument between Arnold and Kevin Pollack in the former's apartment is hilarious). Plus, while the story and characters are all developed to match the atmosphere of impending dread during the first hour and a half, the last twenty minutes are made up of the kind of explosive action that strangely doesn't jar against the grimmer nature of the rest of the film, though the CGI devil at the climax is pushing it a little.All in all, an enjoyable romp for fans of the Governator before his attention was diverted by a political career. It compares well to his classic eighties work by trying to do something different and while it may not gel properly in places, for a good 80% of the running time it does a very entertaining job. "},{"Title":"Arnie vs. Satan","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"56 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Arnold peaked at the end of the '90s, I guess. He's battled Terminators, Greek gods, bears, alligators, planes, and macho men in fish net clothing. The only choice left is, of course, Satan. So they put together a movie about Satan and gave Arnie the lead.I think everyone working on this thought it would be much better than it actually is. The script was in development for years and Arnie fought to get it made. It's kind of unfortunate because Arnold gives a fairly decent performance in a film muddled with clichés. Of course, it's hard enough to buy a guy with a body like Arnold being a slob who drinks beer and pizza smoothees for breakfast. Getting someone like Jim Belushi might have seemed more realistic.Apart from the physicality, Arnold's performance is fine. He cries. He does the emotion scenes well enough - at least well enough to find bearable.It's the direction that ruins this movie. Peter Hyams is a terrible director and has ruined some very unique films in the past (his most notorious butchering in my opinion was of a 1983 Michael Douglas film called The Star Chamber - great premise, awful directing).End of Days is like Exorcist meets every supernatural thriller ever made. On top of that, Gabriel Byrne should be more menacing. Robin Tunney should be less butch-looking. The direction shouldn't feel like some low-grade TV commercial - all style, no substance.Is the movie terrible? No. It's not as bad as everyone made it out to be. But it's pretty much the definition of mediocre. Do I own it on DVD? Hell yeah. It's an Arnold movie - it's an automatic must-buy. But if you're not a fan of Arnie, I wouldn't recommend it - at all. It pretty much feels like any average made-for-TV scary-flick - with even worse direction.The only other good aspect of this film was that it brought Axl Rose out of seclusion to record his first original song in seven years with a new incarnation of Guns N' Roses. The song, Oh My God, didn't do too well with the critics. A bit of a shame, really. I dug it. It also fits the industrial, edgy tone of the film. "},{"Title":"Jumps back and forth from logic-free concepts to formulaic action. **1/2 (out of four)","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"38 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  END OF DAYS / (1999) **1/2 (out of four)By Blake French	End of Days is the first movie to seriously argue that 666 the numerical sign of the devil, is actually a 999 upside-down. Since the film was first released in 1999, the movie could not resist to throw in that little contrivance. What can you expect from a movie when its premise is based on the concept that once every thousand years if Satan impregnates a woman during the hour from 11 p.m. to 12 a.m. on the last day of the millennium, she will give birth to the anti-Christ who will bring the world to an end? I am already thinking that the movie is vulnerable to logic (is the time given in Eastern Standard?) and it will make its own limitations at the convenience of plot. End of Days is particularly graphic in its use of violence, but never really scares us, even with such a horrifying premise like the end of humanity. 	Arnold Schwarzenegger has not made a good movie in a long time. First Jingle all the Way, then Batman & Robin, now we have a movie that bounces back and forth between action and concept. There are the standard action movie scenes, where a person sways from a helicopter in mid air, where a chase scene takes place at incredible heights, where someone grasps to a high window ledge, where a subway train crashes, where a massive fire erupts in Manhattan, and so on. There are also the false shocko moments followed with a sudden burst of loud, startling music the its just a cat scene, its just another cop scene, its just a dream scene, its just your imagination scene, he's not really dead scene, and its just maggots suddenly growing out of an apple scene. The movie is also bound by philosophy. The action is focused towards Schwarzenegger saving the world, but he cannot do that all by himself, can he? Sure he can, if he can stop Satan (Gabriel Bryne), from impregnating Christine (Robin Tunney), who was born under the religious sign of a passing comet -- and based on her birth twenty years earlier during the sighting of that comet &#150; is the chosen mother of Satan's child. 	End of Days begins with an intriguing, although plausible, premise. The bizarre events that transpire a few days before the end of the millennium immediately inspire our curiosity. The action sequences are also fine, intensified by thrilling music and a fast paced style. The movie opens on a good note, and the remainder of the action sequences are also quite exciting. The scenes also inspire a few questions. Satan kills many people in this movie, people just like the hero, so why doesn't he just finish Arnold Schwarzenegger off like he does with so many other characters. On the other side, Schwarzenegger shoots the devil, who pulls his shirt up so we can see the bullet holes immediately healing. When using a machine-gun, the ammunition flings the Prince of Darkness backward and puts him down before he attacks again. There are simply no rules to abide by here. 	End of Days does not have a whole lot of explanation; it plays sort of like your run of the mill action picture with the gimmick of the week. There just is not a lot of true involvement or engagement after the premise. We do care about Arnold Swarzzenegger's character, and Gabrial Bryne is an especially convincing Satan. He is devilish, with fiendish appeal, proving that tranquillity is the most terrifying evil. Al Pachino did an equally diabolical job in The Devils Advocate, but Bryne is even more terrifying. Robin Tunney has nothing to do but exchange shameless subtext with Schwarzenegger's character. (You're better than everyone else, just remember that. I don't want to be better or worse, I just want to be normal.) She is more of a plot device than an actual character.	Excellent convincing set designs appear frequently, especially near the end where the characters wander through dark chambers and dim hallways. Cinematography also adds a nice touch to the suspenseful, mysterious atmosphere, all done by the movie's director, Peter Hyams (The Relic). It is too bad such good filmmaking does not have a story fit enough to back it up. One more thing I just have to mention Why do the cops always show up at the end of the movie, after the action is over. I am getting very tired of that. "},{"Title":"One Of Arnold's Most Entertaining Movies","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"36 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Despite the hokey theology and overdone action, I still enjoyed this film and found it to be astounding in certain parts, thanks to some incredible special- effects, at least when it came out in 1999. They still look pretty cool. I also enjoyed the nice visuals and excellent sound.You just can't take the story seriously, but how many films can you, especially Arnold's wild movies? They are just there to be enjoyed, to get a couple of hours of escapism entertainment. Among the baloney, however, are a few profound statements of truth. Rod Steiger provides them as a priest in the film. Unfortunately, the devil (Gabriel Byrne) has some, too!Overall, the story is very involving, so much so that it that at 125 minutes it can wear you. About 15 minutes of less action would have been best. One of Arnold's most entertaining movies. "},{"Title":"What God Wins? The Movie Must Go!","Date":"9 May 2015","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Spoilers AheadYes Arnie is a dreadful actor that is why I took 2 off right off the bat. Also a little of Kevin Pollack goes a very long way. Hyams is a gifted director OUTLAND answers any questions of whether he is up for suspense or not. First let's talk about the real reason it is hated. All the other devil flicks God loses or is on vacation apparently.THE DEVIL'S ADVOCATE THE OMEN THE EXORCIST NEEDFUL THINGS God loses in all these films prayers fail; the devil is all powerful. Without delving into theology suffice to say boys and girls if you are going into metaphysics stealing deities it would be nice if you knew who was who and their respective histories. HELLO READ THE BIBLE Satan LOSES. These fat new age decadents are so hilarious they want to steal the devil because they have the same moral system NONE. Yet they go together dear you cannot have Satan without God. Usually God is on vacation the Devil runs rampant prayers are useless. What someone made a film where God defeats the Devil? A man prays God shows him Michael's sword the weapon he sent Satan into hell with and the man is saved sees his child and wife before he dies? OUT WITH IT! In another time another zeitgeist this film would have been canonized. If Cecil B DeMille lived today THE TEN COMMANDMENTS would never have been made. He would be unemployed or making the vile trash like SIN CITY if he wished to eat and pay his bills. I love the earlier reviews cloaking the underlying real reason; it is suspenseful, has many pop out scares the effects are still impressive. The devil is presented as the lying double dealing murderous misanthropic monster he is. I love when he holds arnie over the street,you see those insignificant dots down there that is what you are to me.'' No he is not bringing the light or thinking happy thoughts. The ending models nobility and true love giving of yourself even to death. Yes Sin City is a much better film for the kiddies. The moral system is why they hate Christianity so much by the way. I am a theistic existentialist yet it annoys even me. They must have their films ethics free like where superman wipes out Metropolis but saves Lois and a token family in Man Of Steel. The same in Star Crap Descent Into Moral Darkness. The man kills 60 people but saves his precious baby; seeing a pattern here? Yes, atavistic narcissism that cares only for itself others lives mean nothing. Yes the acting is sub par; have you seen Man of Steel? It is better than Henry Cavill. I recommend this film strongly yes it has the usual few Catholic scenes of their visionaries, I know, just go get some popcorn come back. Rod Steiger gives an excellent performance; Byrne portrays the Devil well and theologically correctly. Cold and full of hate for God and hello Man also. He is not your friend. Any film where God wins, faith is rewarded, nobility is modeled and love shown for what it truly is New Age denuded; SACRIFICE. Parents the film is quite violent with a graphic sex scene not for kids. The cable censored version would be a better choice. Also the language. I love the non PC scene where Satan says to the pedophile cop,the scent of all those boys is on you remember who you serve. Enough said, you get my point guess the real reason the film is calumniated to death. Not a mystery "},{"Title":"Arnold's Last Great Movie","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"27 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After End Of Days Arnold had not really made a hit. The 6th Day was a decent SCFI movie, but was a little too corny. Collateral Damage was also just a decent action movie, that suffered from some bad writing. Finally Terminator 3 Rise of the Machines was a pretty big letdown with way too much humor that just felt so forced.End of Days is for sure his last great movie. End of Days takes place right around when 1999 was coming to an end and many people thought the world was too. Well in the film the Devil(Well played by Gabriel Byrne)must mate with a chosen woman who could bring the earth to an end. So, it's up to burned out cop Arnold to stop this plot from happening.The movie has a very goofy story only teenagers would find brilliant, but the movie does have lots of big loud action,great performances,and is well directed by Peter Hyams(Sudden Death,A Sound Of Thunder). "},{"Title":"End of Intelligence","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"36 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Arnold fans will holler in joy, fans of brainless action will holler in astonishment, and Catholics will just holler.Illogically written by Andrew W. Marlowe and ham-handedly directed by Peter Hyams, *End of Days* gets The Terminator out of his open-backed hospital gown (Arnold Schwarzenegger's return to the big screen after his heart operation), whilst blowing things up in Mysterious Ways and blaspheming Biblical verse to give Catholics something more to whine about.It is 1999 and doom-sayers the world over live in trepidation of their computers going fritz and losing their downloaded porn. Even as the technological stank of Y2K muttons the New York streets, ex-cop turned alcoholic security guard, Jericho Cane (Schwarzenegger, with the perfunctory dead-wife-and-kid back-story for Loose Cannon effect), must brave theological waters to save 20-year-old virgin Christine (Robin Tunney) from being conscripted as &#150; wait for it &#150; The Bride of Satan. Dun dah daaaarrrh! Stupidity ensues.For every anti-hero, there is his anti-Christ. Gabriel Byrne is the devil here &#150; and he's out to party like it's 1999, on a mission to impregnate Christine with the Anti-Christ between 11 pm and 12 midnight, December 31, 1999 &#150; ironically, in the hour that all porn will be lost &#150; thereby bringing about the End of Days. Being able to read minds, conjure hallucinations and employ limitless magic, it doesn't occur to Satan to expedite the impregnation process by appearing months in advance and courting Christine as a teen model and then closing the panty raid easily at the appointed time; instead, he appears on December 28th like a Keyser Soze Terminator and wonders why she doesn't welcome him with open thighs&#133; (See above comment re stupidity.) Here is a movie where nothing makes sense the moment it is uttered, let alone after contemplating its veracity or mythology. A priest (Rod Steiger) tells Jericho that '666' is really '999' upside down with a '1' in front of it. So wait - *Prince* is the Anti-Christ?Satan Soze pursues Jericho and Christine (J and C &#150; get it?) around town, at no point doing anything which would actually precipitate their capture. In one scene, Satan recreates Jericho's wife and child to tempt him into revealing where he hid Christine. But if he can see so deeply into Jericho's mind in recreating his family with enough nuance to inspire nostalgia, why can't he see where Jericho hid Christine not ten minutes ago? Satan can make an assassin talk without a tongue, yet he can't make that assassin unjam a semi-automatic weapon. And when Jericho shoots Satan at point blank range, Satan is courteous enough to open his shirt to reveal the wounds closing, so Jericho won't worry unduly about Satan's health - not sanitary to go about with open bullet wounds&#133; Matter of fact, instead of simply possessing Jericho himself to get close to Christine and rape her, Satan expends so much unnecessary energy on side-projects (crucifying the tongue-less guy, blowing up Jericho's partner (Kevin Pollak) and then saving him, and then blowing him up again, ridiculously battling Jericho when he could snuff him out with the effort of thought) that we wonder whether a more efficient assassin/lover shouldn't be put on the case &#150; say, Antonio Banderas.What I find most precious about *End of Days* is Arnold's valiant attempts at The Method sad means scrunching up his eyes and not blurting out anything in a foreign accent; depressed means raising a bottle to his lips and not blurting out anything in a foreign accent; deathly scared means widening his eyes and not blurting out anything in a foreign accent. There's definitely a pattern here, if we could only decipher it.In the end, the devil is dispatched not by the holy men whom Catholics pray to for deliverance from apocalypses such as these, but from the atheist Jericho. While the timid men of an impotent god exhort faith and quiver in their cells doing nothing about Satan actually walking amongst them, the Prince of Darkness is thwarted by a nullifidian with a big gun and a foreign accent. Which clearly says something that Catholics blindly refuse to hear that even if the Devil were to exist, those who have been indoctrinated to unconditionally and irrationally fear him would be unable to conjure a belief in his downfall, let alone act towards it. Further, they might not truly WANT him defeated, for only through his contrary polarity does their god's existence become tenable.For it is written in the Book of Revelations And the Prince of Darkness shall descendeth upon the Earth without any solid game plan, and impregnate a virgin on a date which won't have any significance until the Gregorian Calendar of the 1500s adopts the day numbering which will put it in sync with the equinoxes and the Anno Domine syntax which will annoy sensible people for millennia, by which time, Christians will have forgotten Christ's actual birth date and appropriated the pagan Saturnalia festival in its stead. And the Prince shall effect a Revolution through tight purple pants and ambiguously-lesbian band members&#133; I can believe the people being drained of blood and crucified, and the alcoholic built like a Mr. Universe; I can believe that a giant, supernatural monster can't kill a guy armed only with a foreign accent; I can even believe that the devil needs to perform some hokey thirteenth century Celtic Druid ritual as foreplay - but what I cannot believe is the 20-year-old virgin in New York City in 1999.Especially around Prince... "},{"Title":"It Depends On Your Perspective","Date":"4 June 2009","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" End of Days gets a bad rap, but I think a great deal of this is due to its initial premise. It's extremely 'cool' to be anti-religion these days, so big-budget movies with a core religious theme tend to get unnecessarily slammed. I'm not religious myself, but I do often enjoy supernatural and religiously themed stories, due to the themes and issues they frequently explore. So its success all hinges on whether you can accept a plot guided by supernatural religious elements or not. If you can, and you enjoy action movies occasionally, you'll probably enjoy End of Days.Arnold plays a depressed ex-cop turned high-level body guard with a suitably tragic back-story. Some people will enjoy his performance, others won't. Again, it depends on how you come to this. If you are expecting a versatile actor who changes personality with every performance, then you won't enjoy it. If you like Arnold, because he is exactly what he is, Arnold, then you'll probably have a ball. After all, who ever hired Charlton Heston or Humphrey Bogart or Christopher Walken to play a part in any way other than the specific way they do? You don't hire such actors because of their chameleon-like acting abilities, you hire them because their sheer screen presence is such that they stand out from the crowd and you enjoy seeing THEM in the role. As such, you either relish those actors in their parts, or you you dismiss them as wooden or bland. It depends on the viewer.The director, Peter Hyams (2010, Outland, Timecop, The Relic), has a tendency to enjoy very dark cinematography, and in this case it suits things perfectly. There are lots of scenes lit primarily by flames or torchlight, that set the tone. Meanwhile, John Debney's (Cutthroat Island, Passion of the Christ) score is also one of his best, and probably one the most effective 'demonic' soundtracks since Goldsmith's Omen trilogy. I would be remiss not to mention the effects work as well. Having watched the DVD special features, I was extremely impressed with how much old-style artistry and craftsmanship went into many of the effects. There was a great deal of miniature work involved, which is too often sidelined for less effective CGI these days. End of Days used a careful blend, only really using CGI where necessary.End of Days is a great roller-coaster ride of a movie, entirely suited to the date it was made for, and has a surprising amount of depth. Under the action and excitement, it's really a story about the main character's redemption, finding himself again, and discovering a meaning to his life after all he thought he had lost. It's also a classic good versus evil tale. To top it all off, we get a surprisingly touching and moving finale, which perhaps left a lot of people on too much of a downer, yet I found it the perfect conclusion to the story.All in all, End of Days is either a love-it or hate-it movie. It's not perfect, but I thought it was an excellent film, and one of Arnold's most interesting characters. If you don't mind religious themes, enjoy larger-than-life characters and adrenaline pounding action, then chances are you'll probably have a fantastic ride. "},{"Title":"I Wonder What The Story Behind The Production Is ?","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"29 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Watching END OF DAYS I got the distinct impression this movie had problems in the early production stage . The story as revealed at the start of the film involves two sets of the clergy , one of which is trying to protect a young virgin from the clutches of Satan while the other set is trying to murder her so he won`t mate with her . So far so good , so why include the character of Jerico Cane , a burned out suicidal cop ? After all the story could have worked without his inclusion even though it may have been too similar to  THE FINAL CONFLICT in feel and execution , but I still feel Cane didn`t have to be included while the role of the hero could easily have gone to a good guy priest . Worse still Jerico Cane is played by big Arnie which means through box office necessity ( ie box office bucks ) instead of END OF DAYS being a haunting supernatural drama it ends up being a supernatural action/adventure movie that doesn`t work . It should also be pointed out that Arnie doesn`t have the acting range to play a burned out sucidal cop . How about this as a casting premise Anthony Hopkins plays a disillusioned priest trying to save Christine York from Satan . Doesn`t that sound a whole lot better ? Not to be too negative the story is interesting in places , and I`m sure the first draft of the script was very moody and atmospheric until the screenplay was re-written to death . Gabriel Byrne plays Satan with the exact right mixture of charm and menace which leads me to believe he`d be the perfect choice as The Master if Hollywood ever make a big budget screen version of DOCTOR WHO . Peter Hyams direction while not perfect is far better than much of his work in recent years and does manage to inject a fair amount of mood into his work . But at the end of the day ( Pun intended ) this movie would have worked a lot better if we had an acting star instead of an action star as the hero     "},{"Title":"Good Action movie that doesn't deserve to be trashed","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arnold does some good work in this movie. I liked his role as a suicidal/alcoholic/wiseass. I think some people were shocked to hear Arnold speak more than one line at a time in an action movie. ..But for the one-liner lovers you get some good ones like -- Arnie(to the devil)You're a *bleep*ing CHOIRBOY compare TO ME!! ...and... Arnie(to his best friend) Stop being such a P*SSY!Also, a good performance was put in by the guy who played Satan. The way he blew up the van....very creative.The only thing i didn't really like about this movie was the ending. I would have liked to see Arnold win in a different way.Overall and 8/10. Didn't deserve the bad press it got. There are other action movies like this one that are so much better received for some reason. Religion's a very sensitive subject, so maybe that's where the negative stuff came from.  "}{"Title":"Surprisingly effective horror action","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Peter Hyams' End of Days stars Arnold Schwarzenegger as a fired and alcoholic police officer, who is on the edge of sanity and tries to commit suicide very often. He is now private security guard and traps a mysterious sniper who tried to kill one of his clients. Soon he learns that there are some very bad things going on in the city, and the new millennium is very close..It is the last days of December, 1999.I really liked the scare department in this demonic little horror thriller from this talented director and director of photography, Peter Hyams. This film is full of effective and very ominous images and scenery and the film is very dark. I appreciate perhaps most the shots above the city and the twisted use of camera up there. That really creates a feeling of evil and that something very powerful and wicked is above the city and is about to get power. Hyams once again shows his talent as he has been the director of photography many times earlier in his own films. End of Days reminded me occasionally of Alex de la Iglesia's great horror film El Dia de la Bestia (Day of the Beast), a brilliant mix of black comedy and VERY dark imagery and atmosphere. As incredible as it sounds, this mainstream produced film is that effective, thanks to the talented men behind the camera.There are some flaws, too, and the most irritating things is perhaps the cliche ending, which I definitely won't spoil here, but is without a doubt there only to satisfy the audience and create the safe and familiar Happy Ending. If this was made 20 years ago, the ending would definitely have been different; it would've been how the director wanted to, not hot the audience wanted to. That tones the otherwise great and exciting finale a little bit down, but fortunately it is not as syrupy as possible. Another negative thing that I can tell is the editing which is very fast, unstylishly and ineffectively fast and restless. Fast edits can be great elements if used right and with skill, but in this film, they are in my opinion gratuitously fast and too plenty. Just watch the action scenes and count how many edits there are in one minute. The editors should have realized that sometimes - and in this case - less is more. These flaws are still tolerable especially when I keep in mind how many positive points there are in this film.End of Days is also very exciting and fast paced. The train segment is great and especially the clock ticking finale when the millennium is about to change, is very skillfully created and hold my full attention. The finale is pretty similar to the finale in Kathryn Bigelow's own millennium related film, a paranoid and effective thriller Strange Days (1995). In End of Days, there are also couple of genuinely frightening, scary, sudden and loud shocks that require a movie theatre to fully work. The nightmare sequences are also chillingly original and brought to my mind the great horror classics that even Hollywood sometimes produced. The demon which Christine sees in her dreams is very scary and almost as frightening as the similar character in David Lynch's masterwork Lost Highway.As a horror film, End of Days works fine and creates an atmosphere that is so rare in mainstream films nowadays. I didn't have any expectations when I placed the VHS in my VCR, and so I was pleasantly surprised of what I saw and experienced. If we stay in the 90's, I could say that End of Days is kind of tamer version of Day of the Beast and without its comic elements. There are comic elements in End of Days, too, but those are not, fortunately, the usual Hollywood one-liners and stupid bits of dialogue. Gabriel Byrne over-acts occasionally little, but many guys who play devils seem to have this problem! He is almost as cool and modern devil as Al Pacino in Taylor Hackford's Devil's Advocate, a film which also has great atmosphere but is more restrained and drama oriented.End of Days gets 7/10 from me. Great work again Peter! "},{"Title":"Rosemarys mediocre ancestor","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Governeur of California plays an ex-cop who happens to become part of a Satan-is-about-to-return-and- there's-nothing-you-can-do-against-it-plot. As usually, it's not exactly 'nothing'. At first, and not surprisingly, various signs and symbols point at the threat but no one can put the pieces together &#x96; that is, until Schwarzenegger and his sidekick Kevin Pollak manage to find the answers to the question marks. What basically happens here is a cocktail of 'Lost Souls', 'Devils Advocate' and 'Rosemarys Baby'. The final battle (spoiler!) involves some archetypal elements such as the ever-famous change of character (and the expectable sentence 'fight against it') and the sacrifice of the Good in order to triumph over the Evil. For Arnold fans, there is even a little bit of a helicopter pursuit and a sub-train chase.Even considered it's nature as a fantasy-horror-mix-up, this films storyline has some plot holes. On the other hand, some scenes are surprisingly funny, but were presumably not intended to be (for instance Jerichos fight with Christine stepmother). On the other hand, for a blockbuster (and especially a film starring A.S.) this one also has some uneasy moments. Byrne isn't so bad as the Devil, a role that demands comparison which him playing a priest in the not much later filmed 'Stigmata'. As for Arnie, he's again playing the same character of most of his films, this time with a slice of negative attitude. Who would have thought that he'd ever receive a crucifixion on screen? John Debney wrote a musical score that is not bad, but he has done much better elsewhere. And so has the director. In all, this film, probably the most ambitious one Peter Hyams has ever made, fails exactly because of that It wants to be bigger than it's story can be. It makes an entertaining video session for once or twice, but it's not something you'd take with you on an abandoned island. "},{"Title":"One-Time Watch!","Date":"12 April 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Peter Hyams 'End Of Days' is an average Horror flick, that begins superbly, but ends up ordinarily. However, A highly energetic Arnold Schwarzenegger, gives his best shot.'End Of Days' takes place in 1999. And during the end of the century, Satan visits New York in search of a bride. And now, It's up to an ex-cop who now runs an elite security outfit to stop him.The idea is interesting, and considering it's a Horror, you expect to get chills down your spine. Andrew W. Marlowe's writing in the first hour manages to hold your attention. However, the writing falls in the second hour. It begins to lack the bite, and the culmination, though well-shot, doesn't meet the expectations. Peter Hyams directs this tale nicely. Cinematography & Editing deserve a mention.Performance-Wise Schwarzenegger gives his best shot, and tries his best to hold your attention, even when the writing gets weak. Gabriel Byrne as Satan, is passable. Robin Tunney does a sincere job. Kevin Pollak, CCH Pounder & Derrick O'Connor are able.On the whole, A One-Time Watch. "},{"Title":"Arnie's back and the Devil's got him.","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  End of Days is the first movie Arnold Schwarzenegger had made since his heart surgery and he seems fine. You may have heard rumors that the big man tries acting this time out, but not to worry; his moments of soul searching and introspection are kept to a minimum. He does get crucified, however, which requires a bit of a stretch. Lots of firepower, violence, special effects and action deliver just what fans of the star want from a movie. As such, it is a relatively painless watch and delivers some goods. A few days before the millennium, earthquakes and subterranean fires hit New York. Relax...it's just the Devil arriving. He has come to town to meet his bride and to conceive a child, the antichrist. Biblical prophesies have warned that if the Devil has his way with a certain virgin between 11pm and midnight on New Year's Eve it will bring about the so-called End of Days. Satan will be able to take control of the Universe away from God for the next thousand years. Jericho Cane, an alcoholic ex-cop now working in security, seems to be the only person in the tri-state area capable of saving mankind. Where is Mayor Giuliani when you need him? With Arnold on the case, who needs elected officials? Robin Tunney plays the spunky virgin in question who has been destined for this unholy union since birth. Kevin Pollack, as Jericho's mouthy sidekick, gets most of the funny lines. Gabriel Byrne adds a touch of class playing The Man who has devilishly taken over the body of a Wall Street banker. Great disguise, Lucifer! My favorite scene was the knock-down, drag-out fight Arnie has with rotund little Miriam Margolyes who plays one of the Devil's minions. Oh yea, and that awesome dinner scene when Lucifer grabs that womans..um&#133;well, you'll see.  Director Peter Hyams gets the big action set-pieces right and does his darndest to pass Los Angeles off as New York. That is actually the Times Square celebration of 1998/99 that we see at the moment of climax. No matter how hard they tried, downtown Los Angeles is not NYC. "},{"Title":"10/10 for action, 0/10 for Bible-bludgeoning the audience","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Warning probably contains spoilers (just exactly what is a spoiler anyway?)While viewing this movie, I couldn't believe what I seemed to be seeing (or hearing).  Arnie had become a born-again Christian!  Yes, this movie (which, I must admit, performed superbly in the action stakes; despite what his detractors may say, Arnie still has it) rams the good ol' hellfire and brimstone religion down your throat like you wouldn't believe.  Basing itself on the Book of Revelation (what else?), this film has that funny old fellow Satan attempting to bring about the end of the world by finding some unsuspecting woman, bonking her, and impregnating her with his vile seed (or something).  Naturally, Arnie must stop this, and the film revolves around his (extremely violent) attempts to do so.  None of the characters are terribly appealing and the whole movie is incredibly depressing; you get the impression that most of humanity is going to end up burning forever in Hell (which, incidentally, Satan merely has the misfortune to live in; he didn't make the rotten place, God did).  Psychotic priests attempt to kill Satan's bride-to-be (a rather apt metaphor, I felt, for the way that the good guys in the film were just as scary as the bad ones) while a bunch of other priests wring their hands annoyingly and vomit forth great torrents of verbal diarrhoea about the importance of faith.  Arnie is portrayed as being bad because he has no faith (preferring to rely instead on his impressive arsenal of guns), yet in the movie, HIS GUNS SAVE THE DAY!!!!  HA HA HA. God, on the other hand, does bugger all!  He just lets the human characters sort everything out by themselves (even Arnie's final triumph over Satan is entirely the result of his own efforts), and presumably takes full credit for it at the end.  What a crock.   "},{"Title":"Not Arnie's Best...","Date":"9 May 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was actually convinced that I was going to like this firm. I love Arnie's work, and Robin Tunney is an actress I have high regard for (though she's massively underrated). Plus, the premise seemed intriguing enough.But... sadly... this movie wasn't enjoyable at all. Not to me at least. I thought it was done in poor taste, and there was something seriously wrong with it.I was bored within the first 20 minutes, and following the film became a chore.Arnie's character in this movie isn't very likable, and neither is Tunney's. The two leads that leave you indifferent (slightly irritated even) -- not a good sign. The Devil was not particularly remarkable, either; pretty lame, to be quite frank.There were some seriously cheesy lines, too. Well, Arnie movies tend to have those, and I've never had a problem with that, but this was a bit much for my taste. It wasn't even cheesy; it was ridiculous. The movie is infested with clichés.Basically, if you've seen ANY other Good vs. Evil movie, there's nothing new here. The movie is utterly predictable and a rehash of all the other movies with the same theme.All in all... pretty disappointing. Don't get me wrong, though -- this movie is not SO bad that I'd refer to it as unwatchable, but I wouldn't want to sit through it again, and wouldn't recommend it if someone asked me for a DECENT movie in this sub-genre. "},{"Title":"One of the best...","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arnold Schwarzenegger's comeback film, 'End of Days' absolutely made an impact on film that year. While watching it, I kept seeing images that stood out, and that I remembered (The Man (Gabriel Byrne) looking at Christine (Robin Tunney) in the car, Jericho (Schwarzenegger) looking around the reverend's home). This film is one of Arnold's most serious, most dramatic, and most dark. He plays the character of Jericho Cane extremely well (crying over his daughter's music box for eg.), and keeps his performance constant throughout. The ending of the film, *POSSIBLE SPOILER* where Jericho drops his weapon in favor of faith is hugely powerful, accompanied by the haunting choir music that is the film's background. *END SPOILER*Kevin Pollack's character, Chicago, acts as light comic relief, but also gives some of the great lines in the film (It's official. I'm never sleeping again). He also provides a great performance in the more dark, serious parts of the film.Robin Tunney is perfect as Christine York, with the character having a very vulnerable edge, and the relationship between her and Jericho forming an almost father-daughter relationship.Finally, Gabriel Byrne's portrayal of the man is amazing. He gives the character a certain edge, which makes Satan seem almost accessible at times, but can quickly become terrifying in an instant.The script is strong, and the special and visual effects are amazingly impressive.9/10 "},{"Title":"I need to know, were there two prints of this film?","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Because I cannot see how people are giving this turkey anything more than two or three stars unless they saw a different version of the film than I did! Are people just overly nostalgic for the good old days when Arnold made good movies? This laughable plot has more holes than a championship golf course and some of the most wretched dialogue in cinematic history. Even as an action movie it has no legs to stand on, it is riddled with cliches. As I suffered through this sad excuse for a movie two questions sprung to mind Is the action movie as a genre a fruitless field? (I can't remember the last one that was any good) and Will I ever bother to see another Arnold Schwarzenegger movie? This once proud hero of the screen has phoned it in one too many times for my liking. "},{"Title":"Oh Dear!","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  End of days was ridiculous.  I expected to see a thought provoking and somewhat controversial film, instead I saw a rather weak action movie. The best thing that I can say about this movie is that it had potential as a comedy (think Naked Gun 2 1/2), but somehow I don't think that was the aim of this particular production. "},{"Title":"Sympathy for the Devil","Date":"16 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" You've got to feel sorry for poor old Lucifer. I mean, what are the chances? The Prophecy says that he can rule the world IF he can find a woman in a three hours window on New Year's Eve 1999. Then, when the moment finally arrives, Arnold Schwarzenegger shows up and kills the mood for his supernatural love-fest.Basically, it's Arnie vs the Devil. Let's face it, deep down, we all know who's going to come out on top in that one, but, hey, let's go along for the ride anyway.Arnie plays an alcoholic cop who... oh, forget it. Arnie plays Arnie. He beats up bad guys and he's damn good at it. You must know what to expect from him by now? As I've said, in this case he's got his sights set on the high prince of darkness. Along the way he uses big guns, many stunts, lots of grunting and more explosions than Wile E Coyote has seen in his life.If you like the sound of that, you'll probably enjoy End of Days. If you don't, don't rent this - you'll only complain about the CGI and pick plot holes.Two bonus points Gabriel Byrne is cool as the Devil and, if you ever saw Blackadder II, you may remember 'Lady Whiteadder.' Well, imagine her kicking the hell out of Schwarzenegger. Seriously, she does. If that doesn't make it worth the watch then I don't know what does.http//thewrongtreemoviereviews.blogspot.co.uk/ "}{"Title":"Action Packed and Also Very Frightening,","Date":"29 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" End of Days is a good movie with a very different storyline and a good cast,with a very strong performance from the always brilliant Arnold Schwarzenegger.I expected this movie to be an action packed movie with an Armageddon type of theme to it,and I wasn't disappointed,but I really didn't expect it to be scary,there are actually some very frightening scenes in this movie,mainly any of Gabriel Byrne's scenes,and its a lot scarier than some of the ridiculous horror movie you would see today that aren't at all frightening.The movie is very unpredictable,and I was surprised it got such bad reviews,I really enjoyed it,it certainly wasn't perfect,but it didn't deserve any Razzie nominations.Arnold Schwarzenegger did a fantastic performance,Gabriel Byrne was very creepy and believable,and Peter Hyams did a great job directing this movie,it looked beautiful,none of them deserved Razzie nominations.Its certainly not Arnold Schwarzenegger's finest film,but fans of the actor will get a great kick out of this movie.As the world reaches the year 2000,the Devil (Gabriel Byrne) is in search of Christine York (Robin Tunney) to make her his bride,its not up to police officer Jericho Cane (Arnold Schwarzengger) to keep her safe. "},{"Title":"Guilty Pleasure......I don't do guilt...Satan","Date":"13 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gory, lurid, and ludicrous, this is a dark Action/Horror flick that delivers the goodies with bad taste and that's the way it should be. Were dealing with the Devil here not human scum. This has a very downbeat delivery. Is it possible to have Satan's return and the end of the world as we know it in any other way?Sure it is rough and raunchy. Sure it is dark and dank. But it has a lot of gusto and gives all its got to make it a God-awful combination of Religious rantings and Spiritual significance. There is some dark humor and the cast is holding its own against an onslaught of high-tech special effects and low-brow belief systems.Gabriel Byrne steals the show with the best lines and sinister behavior. The action is non-stop and it takes itself rather seriously, because this isn't Monty Python, it is Arnold action and millennial madness, through Biblical prophecy and for that it is a guilty pleasure of over-the-top revelatory ridiculousness. "},{"Title":"Ahnuld in top form!","Date":"28 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I don't know about other people, but I rather enjoyed End of Days just because of the ridiculous concept.End of Days did impress me with its dark and ominous atmosphere. The mood was decidedly creepy and on occasion gets rather disturbing. Hyams conjures up some pretty evil and demented scenes, although not as disturbing if you've seen the recent pictures with similar undertones. The action is orchestrated with style and vigor, especially the whole subway-bit and the scene with Arnold dangling from a police helicopter. Byrne's performance as Ole Nick himself is very understated, but one gaze conveys as much evil as Pacino did with a whole monologue. Who said less is more? Kudos to Stan The Man Winston for the icky demon at the end, although it could have done with some more screen time.End of Days does however suffer because of the premise of merging action with heavy religious themes. The broody atmosphere suffers when the action kicks in and Arnold starts blasting away with his machine gun. This was kind of distracting and at some times seemed rather ludicrous as well. Also, poor Arnold has to do away with evil all by himself, action-hero style, which somehow conveys the wrong message to me. End of Days is also pretty derivative and the whole Satan takes a bride-premise has been done much better before, even when it was delivered as a comedy aka The Witches of Eastwick (Jack is still to date the best Devil...). But since End of Days is such a dramatic departure for Arnold, the movie shouldn't be compared to classics like The Omen and The Ninth gate at all. Instead, enjoy it for what it is well-produced escapism. Lots of action, gore and some shivers-up-your-spine imagery. Thanks, Arnold, you did it again!!! "},{"Title":"Few highlights in this movie","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I can't add much more than what's already been written. I thought Arnold did look bored at times, but he can still be imposing when needed. Gabriel Byrne was very good as Lucifer. I especially liked the scene when he planted one helluva kiss on an attractive woman at a restaurant. Sort of had the feeling that he was making up for lost time, that Satan doesn't get many chances to swap spit with an attractive babe very often down in Hades. Moments later, he snaps his finger and the place is destroyed by a huge fireball. A memorable scene. .. Also was surprised to see Satan resemble a huge dragon when he/it burst through the church floor. Kinda cool effects. Of course, Arnold triumphs in the end. The world will not see Satan's little kid running around New York City. And all is well. Not a great movie, but not an awful rental on a boring night. "},{"Title":"666 is probably the number of times I've mentioned End of Days","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I personally found End of Days to be a mediocre movie. The audience hadn't seen Arnold Schwarzenegger do a movie in 2 years and I bet they were looking for a heroic and super come back.The movie begins in Vatican City during the year 1979 where the Pope is explaining to his people how the unborn female child of the New Year will grow up to carry Satans child. He also explains to them that she must live and not be harmed. Then, the movie cuts to 6 hours later in New York City where a woman is having her child in the hospital. Now what freaked me out about that scene was that the nurse who delivered the baby works for Satan. When she claimed that she was going to clean the baby up, she actually takes it downstairs to the basement and has a Satanic priest do a ritual by cutting a rattle snake open and using its blood to expose the child to evil. I found that to be in poor taste.20 years later in New York, just a few days before New Years Eve, there is a brief sequence where Satan rises from the sewers of the city and posesses a man (Gabrielle Byrne) and his body. Next, the unexpected happened. We see Arnold for the first time in a long time. He plays a stressed out security guard who's wife and daughter were killed on Christmas Eve. He and his partner (Kevin Pollack) arrest a former priest who has a cut out tounge. He claims that the end of days will occur on New Years. He also tells them about a GIRL named Christine York (Robin Tunney) who is Satans chosen one, the priest says that if Arnold and Kevin don't protect her, she will cause the destruction of earth.I think I've said enough about this movie and I think that they should have made Arnold's character more heroic and stronger than what they did. I would give End of Days ** out of **** . "},{"Title":"Arnold can do much better!","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The movie with they year´s coolest title turn out to be a bit of disappointment for us Arnold-fans, and not the big comeback I hoped for. Here he plays an ex-N.Y. cop on the verge of going insane, after a terrible incident some time ago, when his family was brutally murdered. Against his own will he is dragged into a problem that contains a thing as simple as the end of days. The Devil comes to N.Y. at New Year´s Eve 1999 to find his bride, and if he succeeds with impregnating here before the new millennium arrives, the world will go under. Why? I don´t know, the movie didn´t really explain that part.The critics weren´t really nice to Schwarzenegger and his movie when it came out, but it´s not all bad. It contains some decent effects, lots of action and a rather good performance by Arnold. It´s a very dark film, in the same spirit as Se7en for example, when the whole world seem to be going downhill. Is it really worth saving? Unfortunately, the movie doesn´t really treat this subject that much, because Arnold´s character doesn´t really want to save the world since he is so depressed himself. The Devil reminded me a bit about Arnold´s nemesis in Terminator 2.  He is impossible to kill and just keeps on going, even if you shoot him numerous times. The difference is that the Devil and Gabriel Byrne aren´t half as cool as T-1000 and Robert Patrick were in T2. It feels a bit like Arnold´s trying to repeat the successful formula that was T2. But End of Days is nowhere near the classic James Cameron-epic. Schwarzenegger tried to make his comeback with the science fiction 6th Day instead, and once again he didn´t succeed. Even if that movie is definitely underrated and far better than this, but that´s not the case here.End of Days is okay, but not more. Arnold can do much better!* * ½  "},{"Title":"Admit that you're curious...","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The sole idea of Schwarzenegger battling the Devil sounds dumb, and this movie reminds you of it at every minute by having downright silly stuff going on... the way Arnie figures out the girl's name is just PREPOSTEROUS! And I won't even mention the physically impossible jump between two moving subway cars.Still, despite the silly antics, this movie accomplishes its primary goal entertain. Arnie isn't the world's best actor, but he manages himself nicely here and makes up for Batman & Robin. Gabriel Byrne totally rocks as the Devil and everyone else is window dressing.Fun and brainless, and the scene where Arnie gets the crap kicked out of him by a dwarfish old lady is an instant classic. "},{"Title":"Not too bad a flick...","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ...mainly due to Gabriel Byrne, who does a decent Satan without the Pacino-like overacting. Ahnald is so-so no, he can't carry the dramatic character-conveying moments, but it's basically an action flick and he doesn't too bad at the broader character-moments.Byrne is a delight, though, particularly in the temptation scene in Jericho's apartment. Kevin Pollak has a decent role although he never gets to try out his killer Shatner impersonation. Robin Tunney is pretty much wasted, as her character is only given a chance to get tough once or twice (and gets a bit of gratuitous nudity that's so short you wonder why they bothered).  Rod Steiger gives a curiously subdued but not-to-bad performance.The main problem is just that there really isn't much...there. Satan flies around in Predator-mode until he can take over a body (Byrne's), and then spends the movie tracking down Christine. Like any good Lord of Evil (or bad movie villain), he straps up Jericho for torture rather than kill him. How thrilling. The Holy See (Knights Templar) are trying to kill Christine. Unfortunately, the irony of this is never really pointed out as we jump to another action sequence.Generally entertaining in a big-budget summer-flick kind of way, but check your brain at the door. "},{"Title":"End of Arnie's Acting Days","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Oh dear. An Apocalyptic movie. End of the World is nigh - run! RUN! The Devil is loose and only Arnie, as Jericho Cane, can stop the devil (in the form of Gabriel Byrne) from consummating with Christine York (Robin Tunney) and bringing about `the end of days'. Ho-hum.Acting. It's Arnie. Here he's not quite trying to be the cardboard-cut out action hero. Instead Cane is the washed-out alcoholic-dead-family cop, lifted from the book of Character Clichés. He's not all that sympathetic, and I ended up not caring all that matter if the world was over-taken by Satan. Arnie uses all his power to invest something into a character with more dimension than his typical role and he succeeds. well actually he doesn't really. He's Arnie, and couldn't act his way out of a wet paper bag. Who cares though, we didn't expect the loveable lug to succeed. Better is Gabriel Byrne, playing the calm and collected devil whispering sweet temptations into Arnie's ears. It's a melodramatic, and reminiscent of Pacino in `The Devil's Advocate' but Byrne seems to be having a bit of fun with the Satanic persona, and it's a laugh to watch. Tunney deserves mention only for the fact she appeared in a movie and did very little with her flat, weak, portrayal of the devil's bride. She's very forgettable.Plot wise the story is a bit of a joke. It rambles and mutters about the forthcoming end in a cryptic manner. It tries to pass of an act of obfuscation as hiding something more intelligent than is actually there. The truth is that there's a weak mess of contrived coincidences, pointless plot devices, and clammy characterisation being desperately sold off as eerie and creepy. Sorry, showing some religious iconography and blathering about mystical conjunctions doesn't create substance and only thinly disguises the lack of meat beneath. Later on in the movie things happen with even less-of-a-reason, with greater and more momentous events flung about in an attempt to give a sense of scale. It doesn't quite work because the whole thing does not gel well together, and you're left feeling that people are milling about the place, waiting for the final showdown (which is reasonably entertaining).The directing isn't up to much. The lighting is too murky at times and, in one scene, dreadfully confusing. This is further hampered by some overly-zealous editor, who tries to spice up some fights by cutting every few seconds. Thus the film seems disjointed at times, confusing not in plot, but visually. Sure we need darkness and religious paraphernalia dotted all over the place. but do we need such an abundance of them? Is there a need for a million candles? It's not like they're used as effectively as a lighting source as they were in `Barry Lyndon' now.`End of Days' is not a disaster. It's just not very good. Arnie's acting is laughable, and the movie is not nearly as cohesive as it should be. The action scenes, due to some poor directing, are never exciting and I didn't really care too much about the characters. There are some fun moments, but in a cheap-forgettable sense. A 3/10 seems more than fair. Don't push yourself to catch this one. "},{"Title":"One of the worst pieces of shlock I have ever seen!","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There are a couple of spoilers in this review, so don't proceed if you have not seen it!  I don't know why you would bother, but I thought I would warn you!This is the most contrived piece of crap I have ever seen!  Every scene in the movie is perfectly set up so that Arnold magically figures everything out without even having to try.  How did he manage to guess that Christ in New York actually meant Christine York, and that this managed to be the right person!?  In addition, how convenient is it that at the exact moment Arnold and his partner are walking past her apartment, a chair comes flying out the window!?  Every one of these scenes is completely ridiculous.  The scene where Arnold is crying as he stares at the image of Jesus is particularly irritating.If you want to see a plain old action movie, then by all means see this movie.  I happen to like Devil movies, and while Gabriel Byrne makes a good Satan, the whole movie is a complete letdown. "}{"Title":"Great!","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film grasps by perfect game of the favourite actors - Arnold Schwarzenegger  and Gabriel Byrne  - and unordinary script. Eternal problems of struggle of Goods and Evil, antagonism with dark side of man's soul, finding Faith and rescue of soul in complete sense of this word force again to reflect and  to rise above vanity The thin interlacing of a reality and mysticism, magnificent shootings (and here of special effects is possible and is smaller!), the bright images of heroes impress! Perfect!!! I recommend! "},{"Title":"An average action movie that could have been more","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ex-cop Jericho Cane now works with a private security firm.  When a powerful business man employs the company to protect him, Jericho is immediately forced to protect him from an assassination attempt.  However when the assassin turns out to be a deranged priest things become less clear.  Jericho investigates the connection of the priest to a young woman, Christine York, and uncovers some sort of conspiracy involving the church, a satanic cult and the Devil himself which will bring the world to the end on the eve of the new millennium.Although I wasn't overly bothered about seeing this film it had enough of a draw for me that I gave it a go on low price dvd.  Watching it I was taken by how silly the whole film was, I won't rip into the concept because it is too easy, but at times it is hard to totally accept the goings on.  Outside of this weakness I was hoping the action would carry the film and keep me interested, however most of the action is fairly run of the mill with only a few exciting moments in the whole thing.  The climax is weak because the reliance on special effects is a reliance on weak ground.  The biggest weakness in the action is again down to acceptance of the plot &#150; I never really felt that the devil was trying and that Arnie and co were not in that much danger.The cast showed promise but it is a shame that none of them really do anything close to a good job.  Arnie is fairly good as he isn't stretched that much.  His `down on his luck drunk' act is fairly clichéd but is passable.  The biggest let down for me was Byrne.  I felt he played it too cool and he wasn't as OTT as he should have been.  One of his speeches in the film reminded me of Pacino in Devils Advocate, but Pacino played it much better &#150; Bryne was a real disappointment.  Pollak made up part of a big Usual Suspects connection (including the bit where Bryne drops his cigarette and the line `the greatest trick') but doesn't have much else to do.  Tunney runs around screaming while extras do much the same.  I pass no judgement on Steiger's performance out of respect.Overall this is still an OK movie to pass the time but it is never better than average at any point.  The silly plot isn't helped at all by some very ordinary performances from good actors, effects that don't cut it and action that is rarely exciting or dramatic. "},{"Title":"A muddled mess of a movie.","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  *1/2 out of ****An under-written, over-produced, muddled mess of a movie. This is first and foremost an action movie, much like most of Arnold Schwarzenegger's movies, with the story taking a backseat to the action, but in a movie that has its hands in christianity, satanism, the end of the world, and where the devil himself is one of the key characters, that probably shouldn't be the case. At first, the story seems as though it might be somewhat ambitious or interesting, but it's not. It's pointless, unbelievable, and I imagine very insulting to some religious circles. As far as the action is concerned though, it's pretty good and is probably the only reason to sit through this movie for two hours. There are some decent performances. Arnold gives it his all, but is severely out of place in this sort of movie and Gabriel Byrne brings some life to the movie, but, for the most part, none of the actors are convincing enough to make us buy what is happening. I'd recommend it to fans of Arnold and 1970's Charlton Heston films. "},{"Title":"Worthless and tiring","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A complete wastage of an action hero like Arnold Schwarzenegger who acted in movies like Twins, Commando, Kindergarten Cop, Running man, Total Recall and series of both funny and hardcore action roles. This movie has a stupid storyline and cinematography that failed to bring it anywhere close to being eerie, made it rather foolish so to say. Robin Tunney is a constant pain to our eye. Some brutal displays of violence and imposed connections to the church, priest etc made it more annoying. It's not worth to spend time watching this movie. One thing I have really been wondering about for quite a while now, why Arnold practically never gets a glamorous heroine, he always gets those actresses whom nobody even wants to look at, can anyone enlighten me? I would rate this movie 0 out of 10. "},{"Title":"As bad a Hollywood project as you're likely to see","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  To the filmmakerWe get it. The millennium is scary, Satanists are bad, and the Catholic Church is loaded with cabals of misguided soldiers of faith. Did you really have to make a movie about these rather obvious topics?Poorly written (Did the screenwriters even bother to read the Bible, or just a few lines of Revelations?), embarrassingly acted, and ineptly directed, End of Days is one of the worst films of the decade. Schwarzenegger, whose appeal I've never truly understood, delivers one of the least compelling performances of what was never exactly a brilliant career. Rod Steiger (another mystery to me) proves, with his one-note delivery, that A) his best days are WELL behind him (Like, 1966), and B) he really needs the money.I'm trying desperately to think of anything appealing about End of Days, and I am just plain drawing a blank. It now stands tied with Mystery Men for the worst flick of the year.  "},{"Title":"End of Ideas","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Throw money at a ham-handed director, add a lousy script, mix in ludicrous acting and ho-hum special effects and you get End of Days.  I never thought I'd leave a film missing Tom Arnold, but after enduring a lifeless Kevin Pollak as Arnold's sidekick, I sure did.  Gabriel Byrne was even worse, playing Satan with a palooka NY accent.  Someone should teach his agent the word No. And poor Rod Steiger!  His decline continues with another bald caricature role.  Has it really been 35 years since The Pawnbroker was released?Arnold is, well, Arnold.  Without competent direction and a decent story, he's just a pumped-up Austrian peasant lost in the big city.  You get what you pay for with Arnold, but you'd better make sure the vehicle can carry his weight, or he'll collapse with everything around him as he did here.I don't usually draw far-reaching conclusions from films, either good ones or lousy ones, but End of Days is clear evidence that something's rotten in Hollywood.  Everyone involved in this monstrosity should be ashamed of themselves.  "},{"Title":"Where's Charlton Heston?","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  First, let me just say that I'm a huge Arnold fan from way back; I even liked Eraser and Junior(well, I found some redeeming qualities about them, at least).  I was excited about this film, despite a lackluster trailer, because it used fancy technology called a website to engender a feeling of fear and interest within me.  Now I understand, this movie really DOES signal the end...of quality filmmaking. Where should I begin?Was it Peter Hyams, performing far, far below par, even for him?  Peter Hyams has always been a talented hack ('Capricorn One','Outland','2010','Timecop','Sudden Death'), but this time out it appears he was in the grip of a malaise not felt by a studio director since Irwin Allen barfed out 'The Swarm'.  I mean, this film LOOKS like it was made in the seventies, with big fake pieces of fake cement wall falling down, a big fake looking miniature subway train blowing up in a totally fake Japanese monster movie way, and big fake burning window panes straight out of an episode of 'The Big Valley'. Imagine the big fake falling rocks from 'Earthquake', cross it with the sets (the very SAME sets) from 'Soylent Green', and then imagine that every 10 minutes or so the budget included an crappy-looking cgi effect.  I refuse to believe that it cost 100 million.  Fake fake fake!  What good is an idiotic action movie when it doesn't even deliver the carnage?Or was it the script?  Obviously written with 10 year old white boys in mind, and adults with similar mentalities.  All I'm gonna say is that I wouldn't be surprised if the Christian Coalition had co-funded this movie. The amount of strange, intolerant messages sent by this film as actually quite frightening.The soundtrack should be discussed, since it refused to be ignored!  It's as if the filmmakers said 'Ahem, this is really boring and fake, how can we make it seem important?  I know, a loud soundtrack with unwarranted menacing horn bursts!'Or how about Arnold himself?  I can't believe him, taking part in this film. I used to love him!  It was okay that he was kind of a bully, because he seemed so tongue-in-cheek.  All it tells me is that he has no idea of what quality is, and that he just lucked out previously.Ah, What's the point?  It sucks, hugely.  WWF fans will flock to it anyway.In short overbearing, intrusive soundtrack+very fake stuntwork+terrible script+poor effects+ awful finale+extra wooden hero= sadness inducing waste of time. "},{"Title":"A perfect turkey on the day before Thanksgiving","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I just returned from the theater and had to resist several urges to get up and walk out on this film before it finished.  Quite possibly the worst film I have seen this year.  Million dollar actor, million dollar effects but the movie just doesn't work.  Arnold struggles through his lines and the action sequences are generic and over-reliant on explosions, gun play, and computer generated effects.  The plot is silly and rehashes the trite and much over used cinematic story line of God versus Satan.  If this film is playing at your local theater - keep driving; when it comes on cable - change the channel; and when it shows up at the video store - pass by and don't stop at go. "},{"Title":"The only beautiful thing about this movie was a water pitcher.","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Oh my. Oh my. It hurt to watch this film. I sat in disbelief and was embarrassed for the friend who decided to inflict this movie upon us. We both struggled to find one glimmer of insight or creativity and then we saw (after a token nude scene) a beautiful and creative water pitcher. Oh no, not just mere part of the set, but the only true good thing in the movie. I could feel a portion of the audience sigh as some caught a glimpse of it - this creative and elegant water picture. Seeing it was like taking a sip of a really good beer or wine in the midst of an awful meal - it cleansed that palette. Unfortunately the movie didn't end there and we had to suffer through the next course of Satanist massacre (who thought of this plot?). I warn you all who have not seen this movie to beware of the void and waste that is this film. Unless you are looking for glassware gift ideas stay clear of it. "},{"Title":"Flawed but enjoyable","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arnie really has had a problematic career lately, but End of Days isn't too bad, but not great. In the 80s, Arnie had great lines and had style, but now all this has gone because he doesn't get decent scripts and can't deliver the lines like he use to. Arnie is no great actor, but I love a lot of his stuff because he is fun to watch.End of Days has an interesting story but the script is very average at times, very contrived.The direction is nice, but the film takes too long to climax, and when it does end, the film leaves you unsatisfied.The acting by Bryne is disappointing, he didn't have anything special to show. His lines were bad.End of Days had potential but it lacked a concise story and strong script. The sex sequence was pointless, it was not needed! It seemed so cliche! The film doesn't try new things!Saying that, Arnie does his thing and it's quite enjoyable. "}{"Title":"Just too dark","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  My roommate rented this movie on DVD and I agreed to view it even though I wouldn't have picked it up for myself. This movie seemed a bit to evil for my taste from what I could see in the previews. The movie was a definite good verses evil movie and anyone could tell who was the good guy and who was bad. The movie is self explanatory in the title. Schwarzenegger saves the world from eternal damnation, who would have thought? The things I found distasteful about this flick are the fact that Satan had way too much power than should have been portrayed. It seemed to me that only Jericho (Schwarzenegger's character) could defeat Satan and God had the power only through Jericho. It seems to me that if Satan is who he is and Jericho is only a man the odds of Jericho winning were much less than the movie portrayed. The special effects on the other hand were quite good and the detail of the story as well as religious background and information were interesting to contemplate although most were false. The character that Arnold played was good for him and it showed a little more of the inside of his character rather than his usual `muscle-bound-brute'. Arnold's character had his own personal problems in this movie that made him seem more real. This was the first time I had seen Gabriel Byrne in a movie since `The Man in the Iron Mask.' Byrne is the girl that is the main supporting actress in the movie but I won't let you know what part she plays for viewing sake. Needless to say her role in `End of Days' was a bit more dramatic. "},{"Title":"End Of Arnie","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This really is not a good film. I know Arnie's never gonna win an oscar, but in this movie his acting was sooo wooden, I was left picking  splinters from my screen hours after. As for Gabrielle Burne (who you kinda expect more from) he coasted along on auto-pilot (You're playing the Devil for God sake liven up!!) The script was banal even by 'action' film standards, for example - some bloke You look like you've been hit by a truck  Arnie The truck missed  WHAT?? surely Arnie relies on one liners to get him through a movie (not this one I'm afraid). Anyone still wondering wether to see this movie take note watching it is like being made to live in purgatory. It really is one HELL of a bad movie. "},{"Title":"Should have been called Please End The Cliches.","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Here's 112 minutes you'll never get back.  It's too late for me, but save yourself.This movie was so bad, and so cliche ....Ex-cop who lost his faith when his wife and daughter were killed as a result of a case he was working on.  You know the plot.  An assortment of lines the caliber of There are things going on here that are beyond your comprehension.  We're the good guys.  I want to know what's going on here, and I want to know right now.  And of course ...God is the greatest under achiever of all time, He just has a good publicist.The only moderately redeeming quality about this movie was Gabriel Byrne as Satan.  "},{"Title":"Stupid and on the verge of blasphemy","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Everyone can see that this movie is a remake of terminator 2 but now satan replaces the liquid metal robot. and again some evil force wants to find and do something with a chosen one, and again arnie has to save that person. (remember the scenes where a gun-shot wounds are self-healed?) I dont want to use the word blasphemy but portraying satan as some comics supervillain is getting there, what's next? the archangel gabriel and superman against the green goblin and dracula? The angel of death against Yoda? I expected a more serious handling of the fight between good and evil; something like the exorcist or the omen and not a comic book starring satan.furthermore, the acting is terrible especially byren's which proves that the term overqualified is true byren is an excellent actor but , I assume, after seeing what an illogical and horrible film it was, just said the lines and took the money.Also there are so many plot holes that it's impossible to name them all but i'll name 2 1.pretty amazing recovery after a crucifixion (even Conan took much more time than he to recover) 2. Just kill him ! again ,like in all the stupid movies, the villain kills (without any second thought) anything that movesbut somehow becomes an old softy when it comes to the hero.I could add a lot of reasons why it is a terrible movie but this movie doesn't even worth that. "},{"Title":"from Fringe Video Fanzine Issue #002","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  End of Days has been compared to both the brilliantly written Sixth Sense (1999), and edge of your seat sci-fi thriller Alien (1979), but it doesn't even come close to being played in the same theater as those two films. Director Peter Hyams (The Relic (1996)) tackles two big names, Arnold Schwarzenegger and Satan, in probably the stupidest plot Hollywood has come up with in a very long time. The film mix's both typical action, and the occult horror genres to reach a wider target market, yet ends up alienating true fans. Very dark and moody visuals work well with the subject matter, and as typical, the computer effects are truly amazing. The DVD comes loaded with extras including rock videos by Everlast and Rob Zombie and a piece on The Book of Revelation. "},{"Title":"Inept and laughable","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  End of Days is one of the worst big-budget action movies I've ever seen. Muddling direction, meandering script loaded with lame dialogues and gaping plot holes, rapid-fire MTV-style editing and poor acting all the way.That's not to say End of Days isn't watchable. The movie kept me interested because I found Ah-nuld's latest action flick laughably stupid for being so inept and silly when it comes to logic. Without the sense of logic the movie dies quicker, which is why End of Days deserved a huge drop of box office reception in its second week after the opening in the U.S.I won't go into the details explaining why End of Days violates the law of movie logic, but here are several problems with this movie(SPOILER)After the Devil walks out, the restaurant explodes without any trace as to how he did it. No snapping finger, no tampered energy gas to ignite the fire, nothing. How could this happen?Arnold and his annoying sidekick Kevin Pollack somehow magically comes up with the name Christine York after examining the phrase Christ in New York carved on a victim's body, runs the database on the computer and, viola, Christine York, the only person with the exact name in all of New York City! Beyond my suspension of disbelief. How did the characters who have come in contact with Arnold's character turn against him later in the movie? I laughed out loud when I recognized the good-stepmother-turned-evil-stepmother is the same actress who played a nanny in William Shakespeare's Romeo + Juliet. Her ironic transition from that film to this was absolutely hilarious if you can imagine.All the mindlessly huge explosions and gunfires. What did you expect in the Arnold Schwarzenegger vehicle?The Devil took a man's body comprising of flesh and blood, yet he's invisible to bullets and explosions by healing through that body. Logically, this is impossible.As the Devil demostrates the illusion in the apartment, Arnold's character runs into the solid Christmas tree that supposedly is an illusion and *falls on it* physically.The Devil is capable of punching the person's brains out and twisting a victim's head 180 degree, yet he could not kill Arnold's character as he always intends to.How the Devil's object of desire's parents died and why evil New Yorkers run after Arnold and the object of desire were never explained at all.In the sequence that's a rip-off of Speed, Arnold and the Devil's object of desire manage to escape the subway train wreck by the short distance inside unscathed. This is beyond my comprehension, since the force would be enough to throw Arnold and the object of desire around violently and die from fatal wounds seconds after impact.Arnold suffers the brutal beating from the mob sanctioned by the Devil and put him on the cross to hang against the wall, yet the Devil forgot to take the time and opportunity to kill him for convenience's sake.At the beginning of the movie, after the Devil took over a man's body, all of a sudden Arnold is his bodyguard??? Is this a coincidence or just an example of bad editing?Arnold's recital of cringe-inducing dialogues in the particularly laughable scenes like YOU ARE A CHOIRBOY COMPARED TO ME! are the perfect fodder for MST3K, just as Eraser did with the classic line You're the luggage!.The whole theory about 666/1999 is downright ludicrous. So are the pseudo-religious babble about the Christian theology involving the end of the world at precisely midnight and the fanatic killers who know the location of the Devil's object of desire. (END SPOILERS)It is highly ironic that End of Days uses the scattered profanities abusing the deity while rambling about Christian theories. The level of violence in the film is excessive and gruesome, and is therefore unnecessary to serve the plot. The director's indulgence of excess is a factor here. He surely doesn't know how to make a coherent action movie from the screenwriter of Air Force One who was only obliged to write the script just for a big sum of money.Hence, End of Days is a worthless film with no redeeming value except for campiness -- Arnold's worst since Hercules in New York.      "},{"Title":"End of Arnold's Daze","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This picture was made as another try by Arnie to convince us that he is a smart guy. He's been going down the list with attempts, comedy, drama... In the Last Action Hero, he tried something -- self-reference -- that was intellectually ambitious, and clearly beyond his reach.Here he tries religion, but hedges his bet by wrapping it in action. He hires a very artsy director, and a couple accomplished actors, perhaps thinking they will lift his boat. But no chance. This film is dumb, and so is Arnie, and the stuff that is done well just amplifies that fact.The DVD commentary is a hoot, with every third comment being a compliment on Arnie's intelligence, his acting skills, his commitment as an artist. "},{"Title":"At least it tried...","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Throughout watching End of Days, I got the sense that the film makers were perhaps trying to make this unique to the average Hollywood action film. They failed, of course, but you have to give them credit for trying. Peter Hyams actually tried directing this time, instead of just churning out another flat action film.  He attempted to inject atmosphere into the movie by darkening the lights and adding tons of blood.  This method can work if used correctly (see Se7en) but here it just feels like a cheap trick to try and scare us. Hyams is a decent action director, and offers nothing more here than basic shoot outs and fight scenes, except for the lackluster, sub par f/x end battle. As a photographer, Hyams demonstrates actual ability, displaying some good frame work and movement, but it is nothing above solid work.Screenwriter Andrew Marlowe is the film's greatest enemy.  At parts, the script actually shows the makings of good religious thriller, and at times it even shows some quasi-intellectual thought (the Temptation scene between Arnold and Gabriel Byrne), but these small pluses are choked out by a river of negatives.  Generic dialogue/characters, gapping plot holes, and convenient plot points that just happen to point all the characters in the right direction are just a few of the standard Hollywood black holes Marlowe's screenplay falls into.  The shadow of the good movie it could have been faded very quickly.The film surprisingly has a good cast.  Arnold, still possessing that larger than life attitude, tries to play a depressed, on the edge cop with no more than average results.  Stick to be the invincible hero Arnie, it's what your good at.  Gabriel Byrne is the strong point of the ensemble, bringing a nice air of cynicism to the role of Satan.  In a villainous role ripe for overacting, Byrne restrains himself and it adds a bit more menace to the character.  Kevin Pollak, as normal, is able to bring at least a few chuckles to the movie, but he's done better.  Also look for a stellar small role from Rod Steiger.Hyams looked like he was trying to separate this from the faceless mass of Hollywood action films.  He was heading in the right direction, but had neither the script or originality to take it there.4/10 "},{"Title":"it's the end of the world as we know it and Schwarzenegger doesn't feel fine!","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  During the year 1999, it was nearly inevitable that cinema devotes a movie which the action would take place in the very last few days before 2000 and this movie would be a connection with Christian religion, more precisely the Apocalypse caused by the Devil. The result was end of days.I was told that it was a laughable movie, I probably agree with that. It's especially true at the level of the dialogs which contain several times the childish terms, nice guys and bad guys to qualify the characters. Otherwise, I think that the movie's got nothing great, neither is it a really bad movie. End of Days is just a dull and lacklustre movie. The screenplay works like a common detective story without any major surprises and it contains a quite important number of unlikelinesses. For example, the devil isn't supposed to enter the church (God's house) and however he succeeds in! Moreover, the film-maker Peter Hyams didn't skimp on the bloody effects.Besides, I was astonished by discovering that Peter Hyams made this movie. Twenty one years ago, he made an original and brilliant science-fiction movie called Capricorn one. So, when you think about this, you can say that he must have lost his gift with the passing years.End of days isn't really a suspense film because we guess the devil's grim intentions from the start of the movie. As far as Schwarzenegger is concerned, he looks exhausted and doesn't seem imposing as he was, in the past. Hyams gave him a picture of a cop tormented by the death of his family and a strong taste for alcohol, probably to get him rid of his picture of bold and invincible hero. At least, it's better to see Schwarzy in an action movie rather than in a comedy where he's nearly always pitiful.A remark end of days is the second movie featuring Arnold Schwarzenegger in the main role to include a Guns N'Roses song in the original soundtrack. The first one was Terminator 2 and the name of the song was you could be mine. Here, the song's called Oh! My God. Oh! My God, how right you are Axl Rose!  "},{"Title":"Below Par","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" End of Days, starts off pretty well, Arnie plays a down and out cop (a very similar character to Riggs in Lethal weapon) and the story looks like a kind of serial killer action thriller that will be good entertainment.Sadly it fails to deliver, Arnie is as good as we we have come to expect, but as for Gabriel Byrne i expect him to chose his roles more carefully than this. cast as the devil; this is probably the weakest portrayal of the lord of darkness ever.This movie gets a little too daft for me, and the end sequence, aside from being very weak, is visually one of the worst i've seen in recent years, CGI is have been better than this since the early nineties.Quite simply not good enough. 4/10 (Watch it if you have too, but don't expect too much, cause it won't deliver) "}{"Title":"Arnold Christ, Superstar","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  All that enter the cinema to watch End Of Days expecting  Arnie s triumphant return to form after stinkers like Jingle All The Way or Batman And Robin - abandon all hope ! Laughable instead of scary(a Vatican Killer Commando indeed !), embarrassing instead of exciting (with Arnie literally getting crucified!), you just sit there and can t help thinking how great films like The Omen or Rosemary s Baby were. In those days, film makers knew that characters are much more important than silly special effects. I never dreamt of saying it, but here I go  Come back, Last Action Hero, everything is forgiven ! "},{"Title":"End This Film.","Date":"26 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" End of Days (1999) Dir Peter Hyams / Cast Arnold Schwarzenegger, Gabriel Byrne, Robin Tunney, Kevin Pollack, Udo Kier Title bears no spiritual truth and the story lacks total understanding of the Biblical account in Revelations. Lame plot has the devil coming to earth possessing a human body and searching for a twenty year old woman who is suppose to be his bride. One could say that a mail order bride is out of the question. Arnold Schwarzenegger plays a cop who stumbles across the case and attempts to protect her. He questions his own faith after his wife and son were murdered. Several religious groups try to kill the woman before it gets sidetracked into silliness. It uses action and special effects in an attempt to cover up its pathetic excuse for a plot. Directed by Peter Hyams previously made two laughable Jean-Claude Van Damme action flicks in Sudden Death and Time Cop. With Schwarzenegger grunting and groaning as if constipated, it would appear that a higher profile action star isn't working out for Hyams either. This easily ranks as one of the all-time worst films for either star or director. Gabriel Byrne is laughable as Satan. Robin Tunney plays the dense bride. Kevin Pollack plays Schwarzenegger's partner so that the star's name isn't the only one scarred by this nonsense. With absolutely no clue to its religious rants, this film becomes pointless junk at its overproduced worst. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"Underrated Sci-Fi Thriller","Date":"13 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film is so underrated probably the best film ever made that we get to see Man fighting the Devil and his design was amazing. Schwarzenegger was so great in this film and the whole rest of the cast did a good job as well Gabriel Byrne tho was kinda 50/50 for me his performance was great at moments and really crappy at others that scene when he pees and throws some weird lines are really weird and crappy i think the real problem with it it was the director if someone else was directing this film it would probably got a better rating but still is not as bad as people might tell you trust me there are worse horror movies out there. The film has good effects, some scary moments and Arnold going against the Devil in order to save mankind and Christine. A Pretty great film loved it!!! "},{"Title":"Poor film that had potential...","Date":"3 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Jericho Kane finds himself caught in a battle against Satan who has came to Earth to find himself a mother for his son. As the clock winds down toward the fulfillment of a prophecy that would usher in the end of the world. Jericho must protect the girl and save the world from Armageddon.This film starred Arnold Schwarzenegger, Gabriel Byrne & Robin Tunney.END OF DAYS was released in 1999. This is a really bad film in my opinion. I hated this film. Arnie was disgraceful playing a role that he has played a couple of times, a person who works in the emergency services and his family is killed when he can't do anything about it. I'm talking about this film and COLLATERAL DAMAGE. I really don't recommend this film it is a stupid action/horror/thriller whatever this film is. It had potential and blew it all away with stupid acting performances.*/***** Awful. "},{"Title":"Solid action/horror with Arnie","Date":"4 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Released at the end of November, 1999, End of Days is about the devil (Gabriel Byrne) coming to earth to impregnate a chosen female (Robin Tunney) during the last hour of the second millennium to bring about the end of the world. The hope of humanity falls on an atheist ex-cop, Jericho Cane (Arnold Schwarzeneggar), and his partner (Kevin Pollak). Rod Steiger is also on hand as a no-nonsense Catholic priest.End of Days is a comic book action flick with horror/fantasy elements. It's not meant to be an accurate depiction of biblical eschatology. As such, it's useless to pick it apart on these grounds; just go with it and enjoy the ride. That said, there are some real-life subtexts and accurate biblical aspects. For instance, disillusionment due to the unjust death of a loved one (or any number of other tragedies) happens all the time.The movie is R-rated not just for the violence and cussing, but because the filmmakers try to convey the devil's filthy lawlessness, like a threesome with a mother & daughter in a brief dream sequence (which may be reality, but it's hard to tell). Byrne has fun with the role of Satan.As a holiday action blockbuster with Schwarzenegger End of Days delivers the requisite thrills where there's a massive explosion about every 12 minutes. These types of movies only work if the story and the characters pull you into their world and the film accomplishes this just enough. It's no where near as good as the first two Terminator flicks, but it's close to being on par with the third one. Of course, End of Days is its own animal due to the dark, religious subject matter. On that note, the palette the filmmakers use is fittingly dark. The entire film takes place at night, mostly in the urban labyrinths of New York City with additional sequences in Gothic churches, shadowy subterranean rooms and eerie woods.The film runs 121 minutes and was shot in New York City and the Los Angeles area.GRADE B "},{"Title":"Dark gritty Arnold but still a minor failure","Date":"5 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The church has searched for Christine York (Robin Tunney) since her birth but the forces of evil have controlled her from the start. It's December 28th, 1999, Satan takes possession of Gabriel Byrne's body in NYC. Jericho Cane (Arnold Schwarzenegger) is a tired ex-cop drunk haunted by the deaths of his wife and daughter. He is part of a security team hired to protect a wall street scum that turns out to be Satan. As he and Bobby Chicago (Kevin Pollak) investigate an attempt on Satan by a priest, it's closing in on the new millennium and they follow the leads to Christine.Director Peter Hyams is trying to bring a dark apocalyptic drama with some gritty hard-boiled style. I think he has potential to be something good. There is a definite 'Se7en' vibe to this movie. But then he's also trying for ridiculous over the top action. I wish he forgets about this being a Schwarzeneggar movie, and concentrate on making this dark.I do have a minor problem. I'd probably keep Jericho as a cop. It would be more logical for him and his partner to keep investigating if they are cops. If they are the security, why would Satan be walking around by himself? And it would solve the problem of Jericho having to work for Satan.The bigger problem is Arnold going up against Satan. The idea of the ticking clock is obviously hokey to begin with. Then the question becomes how would Arnold defeat Satan. The mismatch seems overwhelming. And it isn't particularly clever how the movie resolved the problem. The climatic scene on the altar is just awkward. "},{"Title":"Lame","Date":"20 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" At the end of the century, Satan (Gabriel Byrne) visits New York in search of a bride (Robin Tunney). It is up to an ex-cop (Arnold Schwarzenegger) who now runs an elite security outfit to stop him.Sam Raimi and Guillermo del Toro were originally offered to direct End of Days, but both turned it down as they were busy with other projects. Marcus Nispel was set to helm the movie, but he left due to problems with both the budget and the script, and Peter Hyams immediately replaced him. I think this film would have been better in the hands of any of these other three men than with Hyams.The plot and themes are really good and often the imagery is quite striking. But there are enough what the heck moments to really make the picture fall flat. Naming the characters Jericho Cane and Christine York was the first big blunder.Roger Ebert correctly pointed out that 'End of Days' involves a head-on collision between the ludicrous and the absurd, with the only really decent thing about it being the involvement of Udo Kier and Stan Winston. "},{"Title":"Not perfect, but a fun Arnie flick. Nothing more.","Date":"6 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie tries to combine religion mixed with an Arnold action film, but the two don't mix. They just don't. An Arnold movie is supposed to be full of one liners, action scenes and Arnold being Arnold. A religious film is supposed to be clever. We have really stupid dialogue and clichéd action scenes. Satan himself is incredibly stupid. He knows about the guard being a pedophile and Jerico's wife and daughter being killed, yet he does not know the location of where Christine is.Well, if he did, we wouldn't have a movie would we? And for some stupid reason, he doesn't kill Jerico when he crucifies him. He doesn't even hammer nails through his wrists and feet.But he can't do that, cos you can't kill Arnold. He's the hero. He has to save the world.We have some pretty bad special effects. The scene where the Albino smashes into pieces looks like a PS1 game and the scene where Satan makes love to the woman and her daughter and they morph together like a Bosch painting looks unconvincing. However, Satan himself looks okay and the scene where the Church is being destroys looks good. I actually thought they built a giant church set and destroyed it all, but it was a miniature. Fooled me.Gabriel Byrne struggles with his New York accent, to the point where he gives up and does his own Dublin accent. By the way, the scene where Satan takes over Gabriel's body, he walks out of the toilet, kisses a woman and then leaves the restaurant. We then cut to inside the restaurant where we have the woman reacting to something. We then cut to outside the restaurant as it explodes. What, did Satan put an explosive inside the woman when he kissed her? Although full of flaws, I actually liked the film. I thought it was fun. I liked Arnold being Arnold, Gabriel Byrne has fun as Satan and the scene where Miriam Margoyles kicks Arnold's ass was funny.I loved the finale in the church. I thought that scene was really effective. This film came out the same year as Stigmata which also starred Gabriel Byrne. And this film features a scene with Stigmata in it. This film also came out the same year as Dogma, which although was a silly comedy, it was actually quite clever. Kevin Smith is a religious nut and it shows in his dialogue. Between those three films, I prefer Dogma. At least it knew how to be clever in it's religion topics. The whole The number of the Beast is not 666. When viewed upside down it is 999, like in 1999, the year of his return was just..........................., I'm no expert on religion, but................... really? I know you have to come with a reason for the world ending in the year 2000, but...... I dunno. I heard that Satan comes back every 999 years. I dunno. But then again, as stupid as it sounds, it IS only a movie after all. If you're expecting a clever religious film, look elsewhere. But if you're looking for Arnold fighting the devil, this is it. "},{"Title":"Devilish fun.","Date":"6 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The end of the 90s saw the human race suffering from a collective case of pre-millennium jitters, people convinced that the dawning of the year 2000 would be the beginning of the end. Some thought that technology would fail us, plunging humanity back into the dark-ages; others predicted cataclysmic natural disasters; overzealous religious types either looked forward to The Rapture or feared the oncoming of The Antichrist.Biblical horror/action hybrid End of Days uses this last idea as the basis for its plot Arnie Schwarzenegger stars as suicidal ex-cop Jericho Cane, who finds a new lease of life when he is pitted against none other than the devil himself (Gabriel Byrne), who is in New York searching for the woman with whom he will spawn a son. Robin Tunney plays the unfortunate young lady destined to bear the devil's offspring unless Jericho can keep her safe till midnight, New Year's Eve.The hackneyed plot for this theological tosh feels almost as old as the 'good book' itself, clichéd and predictable throughout, right down to the trite 'cat scare', the Satanic aides, and the tragic central character having lost his faith due to the tragic murder of his wife and child. Arnie is as wooden as ever (not great when his character demands an emotional tour de force), Gabriel Byrne does a poor impression of Pacino from The Devil's Advocate, and Robin Tunney is forgettable. However, despite the over-familiarity of the material and the shocking acting, End of Days actually proves to be quite a bit of fun&#x85;Hyams is an unexceptional but dependable director and he once again delivers a slick Hollywood product, ensuring more than enough overblown action and gratuitous violence to please the average Arnie fan. Memorable moments include Arnie chasing a gunman suspended from a helicopter, the star being beaten up by Margolyes of all people, the Devil punching a man right through the chest, and a spectacular train crash. The film also dares to do the unthinkable by offing Arnie at the very end, but only after he's pumped the devil full of high explosives and sent him back to Hell with his tail between his legs!Such silliness isn't going to win any awards (not even Razzies, although it was nominated for several), but it's an enjoyable enough way to kill some time. "},{"Title":"Now I Know Why","Date":"1 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Always been one of my favorite Schwartz movies and I've always wondered why. At best, it's a piece of meaningless fluff adding nothing to the cannon of any of it's genres (action, horror, Satan looking for an excuse for some fun). And, in many ways, it doesn't really make a lot of sense.Nor should it - it's an action movie. Except for their internal logic, no action movies make sense. The point is to get on the roller coaster and enjoy the ride.And that's where I finally figured it out - for me, at least, this is an iconic roller coaster ride. Just watched it on MAX and was a little shocked at how good an action movie it is; everything just worked, even the most ridiculous bends in physical reality (which, after all, are signature to the genre).For me, the movie just flowed, beginning to end, aided by one feature that it does not share with many movies, regardless of genre. It uses dialog only when absolutely necessary. For me, this is what raises it to the level of 'favorite'. I've always regarded film as a visual media and The End of Days tells it story visually, the script is secondary. This, by itself, endears me.All movies require some degree of Suspension of Disbelief and The End of Days is no exception but, given the usual Suspension given to action movies, it becomes a virtually flawless example of its kind and a hell of a good roller coaster ride.Likes and dislikes being what they are and being tied exclusively to the individual doing the liking or disliking, I'd simply recommend 'give it a try' within the parameters demanded by its genre. You might be surprised. "}{"Title":"Love it, or don't","Date":"8 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I can't say I enjoyed any A.S film since T2 till this film came. I bought the DVD without knowing anything about it when it was released. I didn't expect much, still had the taste of Batman & Robin (this sounds weird) in my mouth. I was pleasantly surprised. The film is very dark and far from optimistic. There are some moments you can smile or even laugh, but this is not a comedy. An ex cop and a bodyguard for hire, A.S. gets into a plot which if it fully succeeds it will bring the End of Days (sorry). Yes, far fetched, but, very well acted from everyone. You just know they enjoyed making this film. There is lots of violence, some creepy sexual acts, bad language and depressing themes. Visually beautiful and audio that manages to be perfect for the film. Special effects were at the time it was released amazing and even now most of them look almost as good as then. Combined with the quality of production, it makes for a superb entertaining film to watch. It brought me memories of the first Terminator film. Is the story far fetched? Well, it's about the end of days, what do you think? Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Jericho Cane's empty life as a NYC ex-cop presently is about to get a whole lot more apocalyptic as Satan comes to town to find the birth mother to the Antichrist!","Date":"21 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" End of Days is very good wholesome family fun, if you're the Addams Family. If not so, then End of Days is sadistic, scary, grisly, wretched, appalling, but very good. The well-budgeted, well-written End of Days has an excellent focal story with great editing. It isn't the typical Arnold lead Schwarzenegger action movie, nothing at all like that. It's one of the few Schwarzenegger films that doesn't revolve around his manly pecs and bulging biceps. Arnold takes a backseat to the story this time round, the movie's really good for it, not saying Arnold's ever bad, no, I'm saying that the movie's so good it was inevitable. Schwarzenegger is actually very good in End of Days, one of his stronger depictions. End of Days is a mainstream action movie with an excellently impregnated non-mainstream plot. It's in part a really good horror movie. It has a great cast, although it doesn't have great standout stars, what it does have is performers who are established and very well cast. I love Robin Tunney in this role. Her and Arnold have great chemistry, a strength of the movie that may often be overlooked. Tunney is great. Gabriel Byrne is great. Byrne was born to play Satan. Kevin Pollack is good too at playing the sidekick. End of Days is very good. It's very creepy, very chilling. It's very original. I'm very fond of it, even as it's very death-stricken. "},{"Title":"i'll be back","Date":"5 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I think this was the last movie Arnold made before becoming governor of California, someone please correct me if i'm wrong, at first yea this movie takes a little patience with,, first you have to understand the basics,, the millennium is coming to an end, and Satan wants to mate, Arnold's character has to find a way to stop the all knowing and powerful,, Gabrille Bryn.. aka Satan.. All poor Arnold wants to do is stop Satan and go home, that's it, but of course Satan has other plans.. and he comes at it with a vengeance only seen from down below. he stalks his prey, coming and going as he pleases. this movie was released right at the millennium so It did kinda make the whole picture more viable and believable to me, because there were a lot of crazy things going on at the end of the 20th century,, this wasn't Arnold's greatest picture,, and not his worth,, it was worth my time to see this movie. "},{"Title":"Not Bad Horror Flick!","Date":"13 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Arnold Schwarzenegger, Gabriel Byrne, Robin Tunney, Kevin Pollack and Rod Steiger star in this 1999 horror film. This takes place on the last 2 days of the 20th century where we meet ex-cop, Jericho Cane (Schwarzenegger) who has lost his faith after his wife and daughter are murdered. He gets an assignment with his partner, Bobby Chicago (Pollack) to protect a Wall Street businessman (Byrne) who gets possessed by Satan and intends on finding young woman, Christine York (Tunney) to bear his evil child bringing the end of the world. Soon, Jericho discovers what's happening and tries to protect her from him. Steiger plays priest, Father Kovak who explains everything to Jericho. This isn't a bad horror flick and Arnold and Gabriel are great as usual. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"Here is one time that I hoped the bad guy would win. Quickly.","Date":"20 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It is 28th December 1999. New York City.3 days before the New Year. Three days before the New Millennium.3 days before Y2K&#x85; Well 3 days before the New Millennium at least.A newborn child is taken immediately after delivery and in a ritual held within the hospital is fed snake's blood and chanted at&#x85; Massive explosions fill the streets with no plausible reason forthcoming, and no-one seems to give a toss Gabriel Byrne is taken from behind by a blurry apparition in a men's restroom, and emerges a different man altogether&#x85; Does New York know how to party or what!?! New York City gives End of Days a nice backdrop, it is perpetually gloomy and menacing and filled with oddballs and men and women that could quite suddenly 'do you wrong'.Unfortunately any semblance of suspense or a slow build towards a satisfying conclusion is ignored in favour of a second half that swiftly devolves into silliness, histrionics and laughable &#x96; and obviously telegraphed &#x96; twists &#x96; with a film that in retrospect rips unashamedly from the 80s action-comedy The Golden Child.()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()()() Arnold Schwarzenegger is Jericho Cane, a burly ex-cop with what you might think is a dumb, poorly chosen Hollywood name. That is until we meet his partner BOBBY CHICAGO!!! (Kevin Pollack).The pair form part of a team of rent-a-heavies who perform protection and bodyguard work for high rollers and low lives with money. After they foil a brazen hit on an unnamed guy (Gabriel Byrne) that occurs in broad daylight, they quickly discover that they should have turned a blind eye, which would have meant a shorter film but saved me from wasting another 90 minutes.The core plot involves the usual pap of an evil guy &#x96; in this case likely THE evil guy himself &#x96; coming to Earth to mate/takeover/kill a chosen human before a pre-determined deadline. Wait what was coming up in three days? This time the target is the snake-blood chickie Christine York, now alls growneds ups, suitably cute, vulnerable and just innocent enough to not understand what is going on for around an hour despite much evidence and alarm bells going off all around her, in what turns out to be a vast 2 decade conspiracy permeating many levels of society, (and almost every non-Arnold & Christine character in the cast).I can't say what the Man has in store for young Chrissy, but whatever it is it will inevitably be sticky&#x85; Cane and Chicago make breakthrough after breakthrough in the case yet constantly remain a step behind the Man, until the film dictates that it is time for them to come together in a sh*tstorm of noise, over the top stunts and shoddy CGI effects.End of Days grows increasingly stupid the longer it goes, and at over two hours that's a whole lotta stupid. The plot developments rapidly go from inching along to ludicrous and annoying, and even mocking Arnold's thick accent tires quickly without the macho dialogue of his big-dumb-action flicks to clumsily mimic.What is perhaps worse is that Gabriel Byrne twigged early in proceedings that this wasn't going to end with an Oscar and positively snoozes his way through the film, his 'Evil guy' is so generic and lackluster that he is out-acted by Arnold Schwarzenegger!, (who really only has his bug-eyed look and jutted jaw of defiance in his arsenal in the first place).I have said it many times before, I am a sucker for thrillers, dramas and horror films with theological elements and backdrops. I find even an average effort entertaining and engrossing if they somehow inject religious and spiritual themes into proceedings.But I have my limits.Final Rating &#x96; 4.5 / 10. There are numerous films where the primary threat is the end of the known universe, here was one time I was hoping the bad guy would win. "},{"Title":"Choirboy.......","Date":"8 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In 1979, an innocent newborn girl is secretly patronised by Satanists. Twenty years later, she has developed into a young woman, who is haunted by dreams about one strange man.Meanwhile, private security guard Jericho takes down an old and homeless priest, who tried to shoot Jericho's customer, a successful Wall Street Banker.What Jericho does not know is that Satan himself roams the Streets of New York in order to mate with the chosen girl.If he fails to do so in the last hour before the next millennium, his only chance to get out of his eternal prison is gone and he has to wait another thousand years.Now it is up to atheist Jericho to find the girl before Satan does and protect her from harm. But Jericho does not have a clue who he's up against...Now for a comeback movie, Arnold versus Satan is a very interesting proposition, but unlike his other movies, this is a very dark movie, and his Jericho is a haunted character from the word go.So if you are looking for the one liner spouting Arnold from True Lies and T2, you maybe a little disappointed.The stands on his own merits, despite the fact that it's 'an Arnie movie'. The story is good and carries the narrative well, and Byrne is fantastically straight as the man himself. He could have gone all out over the top, but keeps it thankfully straight.Arnold is Arnold, just a little more depressed, and the film has a very glum feel to it, despite it being set in NY in probably the most important date event in our lifetime.And this is the films problem, the film was outdated more or less as soon as it was released, but it does a great job of playing on our 'pre millennial tensions' throughout.A good movie, one of those films that is fun to watch every now and again. "},{"Title":"The ending is very special","Date":"5 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The film plods along with the usual stuff that we have come to expect from such a story line. But, the ending of this film is very special. It is one of the few films of the genre that comes close to the nature of prayer and man being made in Gods image. Arnold prays to the effigy of Jesus for salvation but nothing happens. He realises that only his actions, killing himself (and hence the devil), would bring salvation. Only he could answer his prayers. This profound realisation is something that some religions fail to appreciate. I have many times recalled the ending of this film when trying to explain the nature of prayer. For this alone the film is worthy of merit. "},{"Title":"I am the answer to your prayers!","Date":"1 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There's just so much that's laughably bad about this picture that finding a place to start this review is somewhat difficult. Now I could forgive a bad film if the elements used to tell the story had some kind of internal consistency, but this one is just all over the place. Think about it - the forces of evil are unleashed on Earth and Satan himself is scouring the streets of New York looking for the virginal bride that will plunge the entire world into chaos and eternal hell fire. So an alcoholic ex-cop with a nine millimeter Glock handgun is going to stop him? Seriously, how much thought was put into this? Now I never saw this film until today, kind of appropriate I think because it's New Year's Day 2012, and later this year we'll have to get ready for the end of the world again when the Mayan Calendar runs it's course. Thoroughly familiar with the '666' Sign of the Beast concept, I just about doubled over when Rod Steiger came up with that '999' business - how could the film makers have ever foreseen Herman Cain's ill-fated economic plan an entire decade ago? I guess that's just one of the unintended bonuses of waiting until just the right time to watch an action flick in which the devil takes center stage.Now I'll give credit where credit is due. The rattlesnake blood baptism of the newborn Christine was an intriguingly creative element, but if demonic forces were already at work at the tail end of 1979, why let the kid grow up in New York City and allow the Governator to get involved? The ceiling crucifixion of the visionary assassin priest was noteworthy, as well as the creepy subway guy who shattered into pieces - both were cool effects that might have carried more weight in a better story. The same goes for the underground ancient guy with his eyelids sewn shut.But in the final analysis, none of this matters at all. I tried holding it together until the epic final battle between the forces of good and evil, when all of a sudden Arnie broke my concentration by yelling to Christine as they entered St. John's - We must lock the doors! Seriously, wasn't he paying attention earlier? "},{"Title":"Had potential it never reached","Date":"8 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I realize my review is likely going to p off Arnie fans, but hear me out. I happen to like AS, but this review isn't about him, or even the movie, but the story. While there were some gaping holes in the logic, both theological and rational, the essence of the story had real potential. Envision this story with another lead - Willem Defoe just as a possible example - and tone down the wild effects, extremes and fire power - the essentials of the story would still make great - or at least semi-great- story telling! If you are a fan of powerful emotional fantasy with lots of room for theological yearning, this tale has enormous potential that it just missed achieving. I gave it an 8 out of 10 for striving without achieving. YMMV "},{"Title":"not Arnie's best...","Date":"25 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I really wanted this film to be good, I like Arnie and during the 90's he truly was the ultimate action star. Unfortunately this film will only really be for the die hard Arnie fan's to enjoy. The film is set at the turn of the millennium, hence the end of the world story that ensues. The plot is full of weaknesses, as if the creation of this film was birthed by someone somewhere realising that they could make a film that combined the threat of the end of the world with Swcharzenegger taking on Satan. On paper this does sound an exciting prospect, full of potential, but the film takes itself too seriously. With a slightly more lighthearted approach the film would have resulted in more of an adventure, something more entertaining. Instead End of Days has a dark horror feel, and apart from a few trademarks Arnie quips (and even these aren't great), it is also not much fun. Bryne's Satan is quite good but a underused, and the special effects are of a poor standard considering in the same year The Matrix was also released.The finale is more than a little predictable and when the film ends it felt to me like a missed opportunity, especially as it was one of Arnie's final action films. "}{"Title":"Somewhat flawed but still highly enjoyable","Date":"12 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" While attempting to solve a banker's attempted murder, a disgraced cop gradually learns that he is becoming involved in a ploy by the Devil to conceive his child in an Earth-bound woman and usher forth the Armageddon.This one was surprisingly a lot of fun. One of the main interests in this one is the fact that it comes off so much like a normal Action movie rather than a straight-up Horror film. From the assassination attempt and the chasing of the shooter over rooftops and into the sewers to a fantastic fireball-filled assault on his friends in a parked van, to other big action scenes with the mind-controlled minions with shoot-outs, brawls and racing to escape big explosions and things blowing up that make for a lot of fun overall. This is helped along by a fairly interesting plot line that allows for such high-energy action scenes to come forth, not that it's original or anything but it has more than enough applications to allow for quality moments to barrel forth, never once dragging despite it's rather long running time or allow for repeats of scenes, with the first half employed as a chase to get to her first while the second half is all about the protection she needs, with both him and the priests getting involved and generating some really good times. The extreme religious nature of such a story might turn some off, as the endless parade of Bible quotes in the middle and reapplications of faith do grow tiresome due to the quantity of such scenes, and the finale with a hokily-conceived CGI Devil isn't anywhere near convincing. Overall, this one comes across better-than-expected, though it's more for Action fans than Horror fanatics.Rated R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language, intense religious themes, Brief Nudity and a Mild Sex Scene "},{"Title":"End of Arnie's daze","Date":"18 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Arnold Schwarzenegger plays Arnold Schwarzenegger in End of Days, a film which finds Arnold Schwarzenegger playing Arnold Schwarzenegger.The film was one of Arnie's many attempts to regain his clout as an action movie star, but times had changed. Action heroes were now more effeminate, lithe and dweeby, and so Arnie's days of lug-headed, muscular, macho heroism were swiftly brought to an end.The film pandered to Y2K and millennial fears, but this horror all comes across as being camp today. The film pitted Schwarzenegger against Satan (Arnold tells Satan F*** you!, then throws him off a skyscraper. Genius.), but was played too straight and low key for the idea to be fully milked. What this film needed was Ahnuld to be dressed as Conan the Barbarian and Satan to be the size of the Stay Puft Marshmallow Man from Ghost Busters. Throw in some Al Pacino, Clint Eastwood, giant octopuses and rocket launchers, and you might have had an interesting Arnie vs Antichrist movie. As it is, End of Days is mostly a mess. Too gloomy and self-important.Still, the film has some good comedy value, several unintentionally hilarious scenes finding Arnie wrestling with his faith (Why Gahd!? Whyah?). Imagine Arnie in a Bergman movie. I'd pay to see that. I'd pay more to unsee End of Days.5/10 - Worth no viewings. "},{"Title":"End of Days (1999)","Date":"8 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" They relax me. You want one?No thanks. I drink.This is the story of how the world ended. Almost. It is the story of people coming together in unlikely circumstances, joined in a fight to stay alive and sane (even if for some of them it may be too late).The movie starts with the main character pondering whether he should do what the title says, right there. That would have been original! And probably would have satisfied a lot of the people who didn't like the movie one bit. At all.The start is fast paced, full of characters, it is thrilling and intriguing, strange things are happening everywhere. Strange things that almost go unnoticed, in all the commotion that surrounds one of the most important events in recent history the beginning of the new millennium.The actors do a great job, in my opinion. I mean... it's Arnie... what did you expect, Shakespeare? And he is good, actually. Very good. Gabriel Byrne is convincing, without being too obvious, Robin Tunney is good, and Kevin Pollak is annoying.The visual effects are great, there are real fires and real explosions (and there are a lot of them). The music is a mix of church music and hard rock (or something), a bit repetitive, maybe.The direction is good, all actors do what they're supposed to, in order to create a full picture. On the downside, the camera work is not all that mind blowing, but it has it's moments. The lighting is good and the sets are big. No complaints there.The story is a bit strange and a lot of people complain for it being childish, but I found it entertaining. I only hated that they eliminated one of the characters very quickly, taking away one dimension that was important for the entire feel of the movie. Plus they couldn't decide if this was a horror movie or not. There is some gore, but very light, and there are no scary moment.End of days. A good action movie. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Schwarzenegger post Batman & Robin (spoilers)","Date":"27 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When I heard the tag line for this movie, Schwarzenegger vs The Devil I was hooked. I'm an Arnold fan, and the concept sounded goofy enough that it could be fun. Also no matter how bad it could be, it could never be any worse then the abomination Batman & Robin. I rented this on VHS about a week after it came out at Blockbuster. I heard the mixed reviews, but it's a Schwarzenegger film, they're never Oscar gold worthy. So I popped some popcorn and sat down to watch it.To my surprise, it was actually good. Better then the average Schwarzenegger film. Sure it didn't have all the typical Schwarzenegger quirks, and gimmicks, because for once it tried to be more then just a Schwarzenegger film. For that I respected it. However it still wasn't perfect, you had plot holes, you had some bad dialog, some bad acting(Robin Tunney), and they pulled their punches at times and didn't push it further. However it was still entertaining.The original script for End of Days was darker, and more graphic. Also the film was to originally be directed by Marcus Nispel, who directed the remakes for Texas Chainsaw Massacre, Friday the 13th, and Conan. I can just imagine how much more graphic, longer, and inappropriate the mother/daughter threesome with The Devil would have been. However that version would have starred Tom Cruise in the title role of Jericho Cane, Udo Kier as the Devil, and Kate Winslet as Christine York. With Robert Englund as The Satanic Priest, and actresses Shannon Tweed, and Christina Hendricks rumored for the roles of the Satanic Priest's Wife, and Daughter. Ah what could have been.In the end it was still a decently entertaining film. However I'll admit when I'm in the mood for a Schwarzenegger fix I'll pop in Predator, or Terminator 2 before this. "},{"Title":"Unusual action thriller","Date":"22 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One of the final films of the action hero phase of Schwarzenegger's career, End Of Days features him as a depressive, washed-up cop (following the death of his wife and daughter) who finds a route to personal redemption through trying to safeguard Christine (Robin Tunney) who has been reared to be the bride of the Devil (Gabriel Byrne). This bride business apparently requires to be consummated before 1999 becomes 2000, so there is a bit of suspense going on, too.This sheer hokum is quite good fun. Schwarzenegger acquits himself well in a role which stretches him a bit, Robin Tunney screams nicely. and Gabriel Byrne thoroughly enjoys himself as a smooth but undeniably nasty Devil.There are some decent action sequences, especially the final sequence (which is typical Schwarzeneggerian spectacle) and, notwithstanding its rather oppressive tone, there is much to be enjoyed. As long as you don't expect it to make much sense. "},{"Title":"A film of two extremes","Date":"24 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This very loud mish-mash of dodgy demonic rituals, stodgily strung together set-pieces and gross over-length, lies under the premise that the turn of the Millennium (this was released, of course in 1999) will be the Big END for ALL.Cashing in? No doubt, but it does have Arnie, as usual looking both bemused and orgasmic, often in the same shot. Saving Saviour, himself and Mankind. (Not sure which order, though). And a 'Girl', gotta save a girl, naturally.Gabriel (apt name, eh?) Byrne playing - I think - the devil himself, is typically snarly and menacing and a few Brits such as Miriam Margoyles add extra interest to us over here.If it were two films, the first half - boring, inconsequential nonsense, would score 3/10. The other, which has some truly great and memorable special effects, some of them recognisable from Terminator and Predator films and some big explosions and 'stuff' would get 8/10.Director Peter Hyams should have, at least, cut a third out. It still wouldn't be a good film but maybe a passable one to those are easily pleased and think it more 'worthy' by it being vaguely 'religious' (which it isn't!) "},{"Title":"Smackdown - Schwarzenegger vs Satan","Date":"9 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Arnold Schwarzenegger is without a doubt one of the most easily recognizable action film stars of all all time. His relatively straight-forward to film have created a sort of Arnold Formula. From being a barbarian warrior to an evil robot assassin from the future all the way to playing a Soviet Police Officer and then a good robot protector from the future all the while fighting a variety of enemies Schwarzenegger's movie have not always been good, but he sure does have a taste for variety. That's probably what has kept him making big movies while other action stars have faded out by playing the same role over and over again. Here Schwarzenegger fights what just might be his toughest opponent Satan, the devil himself!However, that is also where some potential problems begin to arise. For one Arnold, in his best movies, was an action hero with a smile on his face. The exception to that being the Terminator movies. End of Days is much more dark than your typical Arnold movie, but then again that might be appropriate since he fighting the prince of Darkness. Though, this dark edge is largely confined to bloody violence and menacing explosions. Any sort of dark horror atmosphere or a really scary film about one of the stories of ultimate evil surfacing on Earth are put second. But does that matter? Not really. Schwarzenegger has been serving up mayhem since the 70s and he continues to do here in decent form. It is bound to please fans of the star, but others will find it just as silly as most of his other movies.And this movie is quite silly beyond its violent facade. For one, is it really that hard for Satan to find a woman to sleep with during the biggest party of the year? He goes about stalking her, killing people and blowing up cars. I get it, he's evil, but given his goal in this movie, couldn't he try a more charming approach? Just an observation, it's not THAT important. --- 6/10BsCDb Classification 16+ --- violence "},{"Title":"Almost, but not quite","Date":"22 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie could have been better than it was. For the first ¾ it was a good picture, depending more on drama than action. But the last third it decided to become 'Die Hard &#150; with a Vengeance 2. If they had shortened this some what it would have stayed a very good picture. I guess the film makers felt they had to go BIG because we were, after all, fighting the Devil. Unfortunately, this was their undoing. It became just too much too graphic, too violent. And this was unnecessary because they had done a good job of establishing the evil of Satan previously. Turning Schwarzenegger into a Christ figure was a stretch, to say the least. The profanity, such as it was, added nothing to drama, character, or conflict. It, too, was unnecessary. Also, if you know anything about theology, well, let's just say you'll do a little squirming in your seat. But then, Hollywood has never been too interested in theology&#133;.. just utility.Lastly, although a good idea, Jericho's story of struggle, redemption and salvation didn't quite work &#150; too dramatic. Some very good themes here. Good solid writing, especially, the one liners. The film makers almost made it, but, they just went a little bit over the top &#150; and dropped the ball.Still, a good picture worth watching, just disappointing because, with a little restraint, it could have been much better. "},{"Title":"Not a Buyable Plot!","Date":"4 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The media hyped this movie far too much. It said that Arnold, after facing all kinds of enemies in his reel life, was now ready to face his greatest enemy ever - the Satan himself. This media report did manage to create interest in the movie. One would really begin to wonder how it would be to see Arnold in a movie involving the Satan himself. And my God, is the movie shallow. The movie just fails to engross you completely. At no point of time, are we convinced about the plot and the concept. In fact, there is nothing new to this movie in the form of a story. You have a chosen one, a lady chosen by the Satan himself to bear the child that would reign hell on Earth. And then you have a guy who is capable to fighting with his heart. In the form of a Satan, you get somebody who can urinate and light a fire, someone who has sex with whoever he wants. And then you have Arnold who can fight. Look what the Devil's Advocate did to the character of the Satan. We could buy him, understand him. There is no such thing here. Heck, even Lucifer in the Constantine movie was a likable character. The Satan here fails to impress. He neither makes us feel amused nor scared. Overall, the plot of the movie is not tight. The screenplay is slow. The action is meager. Arnold simply does not fit the bill to be the one who can stand up against the Satan. You would not be losing much if you managed to not see the movie, honestly. There is nothing much here. All in all, it could have been a better movie had it not gone for its own interpretation of the coming of the Satan on earth concept. A bit more depth, perhaps, a couple of sincere references to the Satan concept and the movie could have been more appealing. All in all, not a great movie to watch. "},{"Title":"Arnie still had it in him","Date":"27 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Well I am an ardent fan of muscles on screen and obviously i loved the movies like rocky, commando, terminator (though not much of muscles)... and especially Arnold being the muscle icon of the silver screen I was absolutely sure this movie would be worth the money, and sure it was.A modern good vs evil tale with Arnie being a non believer and Satan being free on the eve of the new millennium, he gets his beliefs straight before he kicks b*** in this action packed thriller. He looks older (which obviously he has grown older), but still doesn't stop him from playing that hard character with full satisfaction.If you are an Arnie fan this is a no miss for you... "}{"Title":"We can't prevent evil by doing evil!","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After a Van Damme double feature, one wants a little dessert. What better than a dose of AHNULD Vs. Satan.One cannot help but inject a dose of politics into this film, as the Catholic Church has a right-wing hit squad trying to kill Satan's target before he gets her. The good priest (presumably one that doesn't do little boys) cautions that We can't prevent evil by doing evil! Like the Bush administration, he is ignored. But our hero the Terminator, ends their schemes. Too bad, we can't have the Terminator help us, but we do have the Barackinator that will hopefully save us from the forces of evil and send Stan to hell for another 1000 years.Whew! This is supposed to be an action film, but it is so full of parallels that they cannot be ignored. There is great sound and lots of super fireworks to this silly story of a man who lost his faith and regains it at the crucial moment.Gabriel Byrne (Jindabyne, Stigmata, Enemy of the State) give a good performance as Satan, but one wonders how you can be a priest and the devil in two movies the same years.Robin Tunney (Paparazzi, Hollywoodland) is very good as the object of Satan's affections.Great support from Kevin Pollak, CCH Pounder, and Rod Steiger.Schwarzenegger is the man! "},{"Title":"A decent flick","Date":"28 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" We all remember how disappointed we were when the year 2000 rolled around and nothing interesting happened. No devastating Y2K virus, no second coming of Jesus. No Satan returning to rule/destroy the world. This movie explains why; because when the Devil did show up, Arnold fought him off with a collection of machine guns and rocket launchers.That's the premise of this film, anyway, and it depicts the Devil escaping Hell per a prophecy that says he will be free at the end of 1000 years. Satan inhabits the body of actor Gabriel Byrne, a good choice because the man is indeed talented and plays the character with a certain smugness that I imagine the Devil would have. The cast overall is very good, including Arnold as the stereotypical lost his faith cop and Robin Tunney as Satan's virgin sacrifice.The movie never really makes clear what will happen if Gabriel Byrne manages to 'consumate' his relationship with Robin Tunney; just a few vague references to a lot of people dying and what the Devil calls a 'New Beginning.' Needless to say, this is not a movie you should see for the plot.If you do see it, see it to watch some reasonably entertaining good-versus-evil action with Arnold in full action hero mode; if you take it as that and not too much else you're in for a good enough time. "},{"Title":"Hell'z a popping'","Date":"10 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" My Take Definitely one on my guilty pleasures list. Silly, improbable and unashamedly mindless. Arnold Schwarzenegger may be the only man ever to be crucified twice. The first time was in CONAN THE BARBARIAN. He lived, now he goes through this ordeal once more in END OF DAYS, Schwarzenegger's first film after a two year absence. Starring in the millennium-end movie of 1999 is perhaps the great place for Arny to restart up his action movie career, left behind by his roles in comedies like JUNIOR and TWINS. Like other of Arny's one man army B-actioners, END OF DAYS has a helicopter chase, fist-with-fist fights, gun-play and a massive dosage of explosions. But it also includes stuff you've never seen before in Arny's films (or in any film put together). We have Arnold getting his ass kicked by an old woman, a crucifixion, his emotional side(!), and his fight in what seems to be the only foe Arnold has never fought before, The Devil himself.Of course, all this is very silly (Ayee! his emotional side!), but that's just one of the shameless guilty pleasures of this Apocalyptic thriller spearheaded with DIE HARD. The plot concerns Satan's return to Earth, seeking a bride to be the mother of the Antichrist to bring about the title event, something that the film's pseudo-religious mysticism says that he does every hundred years or so. Crazy ain't it not, but that's just one of the few pseudo-religious myths this film introduces (666 as 999, with a 1?). But accepting it exactly as what it is may help. It's a dark, and often very silly, thriller, which doesn't mean it ain't fun. Both action-packed and potentially silly, summing it up into one cheesy yet crazily fun night at the movies. It isn't in the tongue-in-cheek comedy form like Kevin Smith's DOGMA, which takes these religion hokum for jokes, END OF DAYS doesn't take the audiences will not take it seriously, and it does know how to make fun of itself.Arny plays a Chicago ex-cop Jericho Cane (take a look at those initials!), who's still in guilt of the loss of his wife and daughter, wishing that his new job, preventing assassinations, would do finish him off. If you don't buy an alcoholic New Yorker as the sole savior, then you'd better stop right here. This is not the movie for you. But Arny does get his chance at saving the world, as he is thrust to protect the 21-year old Christine York (Robin Tunney), the next broad chosen to be Satan's mistress. Satan here, first appears as a translucent floating, uh, thing which later takes the bodily form of a Wall Street Banker (Gabriel Byrne). At this time, I was asking myself why a wall street banker? Then again, why not? Kevin Pollack, Rod Steiger and Miriam Margolyes offer supporting performances.END OF DAYS is not brilliant, original or the least bit intellectual in any way. The plot gets into a derivative approach, taking a little of THE OMEN here, a bit of THE EXORCIST there, with a few dashes of ROSEMARY'S BABY and DIE HARD thrown in. Of the acting, Byrne isn't the only good actor in the film, but still the only one that doesn't give the impression of sleepwalking his role of the Devil. Director Peter Hyams, also serving as cinematographer, shakes and moves the camera off and on focus. Sometimes it's stylish, often its dizzy. Rookie screenwriter Andrew W. Marlowe, who penned what may just be the best action film in long time, AIR FORCE ONE, plays with his pen and paper this time around, making what is one crazy hybrid of religion and pure Schwarzenegger-ed action fare. Silliness come at an abundance. This not the place to forage any brain food, but as is any movie of the summer. Judging as a brainless summer fodder, END OF DAYS is decent summer affair, camp and class in a package. It's fun once you know it doesn't take itself seriously. You didn't think they did this in a straight face do you? Rating *** out of 5. "},{"Title":"I watched it yesterday..missed a bit but soon picked up","Date":"11 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Yes, so I like to start off saying that no one has actually said why they disliked this film? apart from the ultra-'Hollywood' glitchy picky lets make everything like 300 2nd version personnel. I hate that stuff...Folks...I like you to come to a journey when films had no money and the budget was low of supernatural Sci-Fi...yes, this is a film of fast passed, shooting, violence...blood, gore and exciting religious blasphemous Ideas! I actually was intensified by how the film panned out...but i did miss the first five minutes, dam that snack...anyways I got into it and it's the same old Arnie here, with the same old screamy girlie to help...But its rather good as I have now repeated for the last four times.It's for those people who don't have to enjoy a film by it's money and powerful computer edited effects, this is raw. This is Sci-Fi. "},{"Title":"Arnold Versus Satan Is Largely Second-Rate Stuff","Date":"18 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Devil tries to make Arnold Schwarzenegger do it in director Peter Hyams' exciting but unsavory apocalyptic chiller End of Days, where our rock-jawed hero must stop Satan from siring the Anti-Christ on New Year's Eve and destroying the world. Die-hard Arnie fans will defend End of Days as 'a different kind of Arnold,' but even they will exit the theatre feeling disillusioned by this uneven synthesis of a Schwarzenegger epic and a supernatural nail-biter. The humor that punctuates the usual Schwarzenegger shenanigans lacks the wit and sparkle of True Lies, Total Recall, and the Terminator movies, not even wise-acre Kevin Pollack can salvage a decent line as Arnie's partner.End of Days gets off to spooky enough start. At Vatican City in Rome, a priest witnesses a celestial spectacle called the 'eye of God.' This dreaded sighting foretells the birth of a baby marked to be the bride of Beelzebub. Instead of aborting the infant, the Pope decides to protect her. Meantime, in a New York hospital, a mother struggles to give birth. Moments after her delivery, an evil nurse carts the kid off to the morgue where a group of satanic worshippers await her. They butcher a live rattlesnake, baptize the baby with its blood, and pray over her in Latin.Twenty years zips past, and the year is now 1999. The baby girl, Christine (Robin Tunney of Vertical Limit), has become an orphan and grown up. Terrible nightmares about Old Nick haunt Christine. Satan himself sneaks into the Big Apple looking like Arnie's old nemesis from Predator. Old Nick takes over the body of an innocent man (Gabriel Byrne of The Usual Suspects), in a classy Manhattan restaurant, and then fireballs the diner to cover his trial.Enter Jericho Cane (Arnold Schwarzenegger of Conan the Barbarian), a suicidal, guilt-ridden, alcoholic ex-cop who works for a corporate security firm as a hired bodyguard for its elite clientele. Is Arnold trying to change his image? His Jericho Cane borrows heavily from Mel Gibson's Martin Riggs in Lethal Weapon. Cane is guarding the Man (Byrne), Satan posing as a Wall Street wizard, when an insane old priest tries to ice him. Jericho pursues the elusive assassin across the rooftops of Manhattan in a lively chase while suspended from a helicopter. Finally, he corners his quarry in the subway. Before they blast it out, the priest warns Jericho that the Devil is in town to find a woman to spawn his child.Jericho locates the priest's hideout and finds some mysterious Omen style 666 Biblical scripture scrawled in blood on the wall. Andrew J. Marlowe's script really embarrasses itself when we learn that 666 should be read not only backwards but also upside down. Add a thousand to it, and the story stipulates that Satan must walk the Earth in a human body and impregnate a virgin. Obviously, Lucifer overlooked the test tube pregnancy route. Later, he learns that Lucifer wants to mate with a virgin to have his child. Cane and Satan aren't the only ones on Christine's trail. A radical sect of priests vows to slay her before Lucifer can procreate with her. Predictably, Jericho arrives in time to rescue Christine.Director Peter Hyams lenses most of his own movies, and he photographs End of Days as if he were imitating David Fincher'sSeven. New York City emerges as dark, medieval, and ominous, and pessimism haunts the world of End of Days. Hyams is a veteran Hollywood helmer whose credits include Time Cop, Sudden Death, Busting, and The Relic. Consistently, he cranks out entertaining, above-average movies, but his films usually fall short in some respect. So far his classics have been the Billy Crystal & Gregory Hines police buddy picture Running Scared, the respectable 2010, and the grungy Sean Connery sci-fi adventure Outland. Indeed, Days has some memorable moments, but not nearly enough to redeem this 158 minute action fable.The subway scenes between Jericho, Christine, and Old Nick crackle with electricity. Occasionally, End of Days wallows in exposition that retards the plot. Hyams struggles to offset this flaw with some dazzling shoot-outs and breathless chases. The film is a dark, fiendish thriller with buckets of blood and gore. Hyams wastes little time on the film's silly theology and pours on the testosterone. The result is a muddled millennial melodrama that resembles Terminator 2 cross-bred with The Exorcist. Scenarist Andrew J. Marlowe's tedious script duplicates few of the thrills and chills that distinguished his first script, the Harrison Ford thriller Air Force One. The plot amounts to a predictable as well as obtuse puzzle that Arnie must unravel by resorting to the King James scripture. End of Days mimics The Omen and The Devil's Advocate, but it cannot overcome its formulaic origins. Action heroes that attract bullets like flies but survive the shelling because they've got on their bulletproof vest has been done to death; it no longer has shock value! End of Days qualifies at best as 'fair' were it not for several spectacular high octane action scenes and some genuinely scary moments. The cat flying out of the fridge is the best of the cheap shocks in this moody religious thriller. The offbeat casting of Arnie as a troubled bodyguard wrestling with his own demons; atmospheric cinematography and settings, and director Peter Hyams' visceral staging of the action cannot overcome the second-rate script with its pretentious religious mumbo-jumbo. Stan Winston's special effects demons would have been more at home in a Ghostbusters sequel. In End of Days, they appear not only ridiculous but obligatory. Ultimately, Schwarzenegger gets to stretch himself as an actor, but only Arnie's die-hard army of fans may feel like they haven't done a stretch. "},{"Title":"Razzie's nominations are not fair for this one","Date":"5 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Hyams delivered us End of Days as some sort of smart action movie and it actually holds water for some time, but gets lost in some scenes where you ask yourself how is this possible (like how did Steiger's character stayed alive when Satan killed everyone in that church or how it is possible to stay alive under the train). But lets put that aside. We've got a solid story and a try to make this kind of movie different from others. My favorite scene is conversation between Jericho and Satan in Jericho's flat and the whole perception of God in Jericho's life. Also, great thing was when Satan tests Jericho and when he says that he can bring his family back to life (just like when Satan tests Jesus in desert). Maybe this movie should stick more on that kind of topics, although it gives us plenty things to think about. And Schwarzenegger (great acting if you compare it to Commando) and Byrne (great in some scenes as Satan) put really solid performances that doesn't deserve Razzie nomination. Although the whole movie isn't something special, it represents solid story and acting, with good ending, cause you cannot save the whole world without sacrifice (Jericho). "},{"Title":"Couldn't they just give her an anti-conceptional pill?","Date":"5 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Rather than trying to kill the devil's bride-to-be, they could just put her on anti-conceptional...End of days is a sort of enjoyable action movie with some good acting, a few good thoughts, and lots of loopholes. Other user comments go more into details; I would just like to complain that Hollywood should really learn again to put more effort into the stories and less into stunts and special effects. Even if the latter are not bad, they are not a surrogate for hollow plots, and would profit from clever ideas at the basis of a movie. Terminator and Predator are Schwarzenegger action/special effects movies with such ideas underneath, End of days much less so. "},{"Title":"Typical non-terminator Arnie.","Date":"21 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'd seen this film already, but that was when it was just released back in 1999.It was fun watching it again, and not just because Robin Tunney gets naked, though that did presumably play a huge part in some subconscious fashion.It's not really an extraordinary movie, but an entertaining one to watch from the get-go. Arnold plays a down on his luck and somewhat miserable guy who really misses his murdered family (this guy's family dies in half of his movies) and basically sleepwalks through life.Arnold beats up the devil, shoots tons of people, things explode and other stuff gets beaten and there's lots of blood. Your typical Arnold-is-not-playing-the-terminator-movie. "},{"Title":"Arnold VS. the Devil","Date":"17 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" End of Days was one of the many, many thrillers made about the upcoming apocalypse in the change of the millennium. what a bummer, that the world didn't end. Bummer for those thrillers that is.EOD differs from the flock of films by having Arnold Schwarzenegger (Jericho Cane), who does actually quite good part as a alcoholic ex-cop, as a hero.In the last days of the old millennium the Satan (Gabriel Byrne) comes to earth in solid mind of convincing a child with Christine Yourk (Robin Tunney) who has been chosen, without her knowledge of course, to this task. She's been raised by this cult, who want it to happen. So it's up to Arnold to kick some devil ash.EOD actually is okay action flick, despite of the clichéd religious mumbo jumbo. Movie has couple of very effective scenes in it, but the over all atmosphere is bit too serious for it to work solely as an action film and it's the thriller part which doesn't work as well as it should, even though there are couple of good scene in that area as well.Not Arnold's best film, but I'm sure at least biggest Arnold fans will get kicks out of this. "},{"Title":"Arnie vs. Satan... for all the marbles!!!!","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Arnie vs. Satan... for all the marbles!!!! This is easily one of Arnie's worst films. Satan threatens to take over the Earth at the stroke of midnight on New Year's Eve on the Millennium. (Which wasn't really the millennium, that didn't start until 2001, but that's another story. I guess Satan couldn't wait another year before bringing hell to Earth) So, it's up to a jaded cop to save the world from Satan, who is a f**king choirboy compared to him!! (Say in an Arnie accent for maximum effect!! That's one of the few redeeming features about this film, Arnie's accent and one liners!!! I'm struggling to find reasons to watch this film again. But hey, there's some cool effects and explosions! "}{"Title":"It was OK.","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This was Arnold Schwarzeneggars first movie after his heart surgery back in 1998. It is hella a lot better than Batman and Robin, but not as good as his other films before that movie. The movie suffers from poor direction from a man who can't direct a movie if his life depended on it. His other movies are also bad, but this is his closest movie to being good. Arnold does good with the role he has, and brings some much needed excitement to the movie. The action scenes are good, and the Exorcist tone help save this from being a total disaster. Gabriel Bryne was mediocre as Satan. Some of his scenes were good, and others he puts very little effort into and drags. This is not a bad movie, and certainly not Arnolds worst film, but it definitely is not his best. "},{"Title":"A good attempt, but too many special effects and action scenes","Date":"30 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I don't know if this was meant as a horror movie, an action movie, or a mix of both, but I think it just drowns in way too many explosions and special effects. I hadn't expected a masterpiece when I found out that Arnold Schwarzenegger was playing the lead, but considering the material, it should have been at least a little better. I've never been that much into Christianity, or religiousness, but the story did interest me a fair bit, and I think it's unfortunate that they had to put in so many unneeded action scenes and showy special effects to impress the mainstream audience. It could have been a very intelligent movie, had it not been for that. Oh well. I guess it's fine as it is. The plot is pretty good, but moves slowly at too many points in the movie. The acting is a notch better than average, so don't expect Oscar material. The characters seemed reasonably well-written and credible. The special effects are pretty impressive, it's just that there are far too many of them, and it distracts the viewer from the plot. All in all, a fairly good action horror mystery thriller. I just wish they'd have eliminated a few of the pointless scenes, in order to also give the film a more suitable length, as near the end, it just seems like it's been going on for far too long, and you just want it to end quickly. I recommend this to people who are interested in the topic and basic idea of the movie, and people who enjoy a fairly good action/horror piece with good special effects. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Well-done, Arnold","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arnold Schwarzenegger and Gabriel Byrne are one of the best combination of actors put together in the same movie together following previous film duos such as Paul Newman and Robert Redford.Byrne is such a fine actor in this role, he reminded me a lot of Al Pacino's cunning and convincing role as the devil in The Devil's Advocate. I was impressed with the way that Byrne carried himself throughout the film.There must be a good villain to have a better good guy. This cliche is only half accurate because while Arnold is the best at what he does, Byrne upstages him a lot in this film.Adding to this underrated and spectacular film are the performances of Robin Tunney, Kevin Pollak and Rod Steiger along with unbelievable special effects.The special effects were spectacular and eye opening at wonderful and convincing the sequences were. In addition, the plot equaled the effects in that they went together perfectly and very convincing all the way around.  "},{"Title":"Best Arnie flick?","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  While it is true that in most cases with an Arnie movie you know what you get, End of Days is unquestionably his most intelligent movie and contains a good plot to go along with the usual violence and mayhem. It's about the ultimate adversary, Satan himself, and of course who's the one man who can take him on? Arnie of course (!)He plays an ex-cop Jericho Cane (Decidedly subtle name I'm sure you'll agree) who's a transporter/protector for a security firm. After a routine operation goes wrong, clues lead to Cane finding himself searching for a mystery girl who seems to hold the key to the end of days as prophesised in the bible.And playing everyone's favourite bad guy is Gabriel Byrne (Yet *another* subtle name, I'm sure you'll agree - quite ironic of course in light of his role here.), who has a whale of a time as Hades, the lord of the underworld. Not quite Al Pacino (Devil's Advocate), he still manages to be pretty charismatic and believable as hell's finest.The aspect which sets this apart from most Arnie movies is that while the violence is still in evidence, you find yourself as much intruigued by the actual story as you do by how many guys he can kill. And this is this first movie Arnie's decidedly vulnerable in, and it works extremely well.The religious over and undertones won't suit everyone, but given the natue of the story you wouldn't be offended if you watched this of your own free will.  And the truth is while they're prominent, it's still a highly enjoyable story without them.The last pleasing aspect of this is that for the first time, Arnie proves he can act. Well, better than previously. He's not at all bad here, as a man haunted by his demons of the past, and scared by what he's got into, yet brave enough to keep on trying. It's definitely his best performance as a human being (He was great in T2 and T3 but the role required slightly less of him).Overall a fine movie, and without doubt a worthy addition to your collection.  "},{"Title":"You shall bear witness to the end of days.","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  End of Days had potential, but it doesn't know what kind of movie it wants to be.  I see two movies here.  One is a low key supernatural thriller in the vein of Rosemary's Baby and The Omen.  The other is a big budget, effects laden, Arnold action vehicle.  As an action film, it's action packed.  As a horror film, it doesn't hold up.  Helicopter chases, gunfights, and subway explosions--it's just too much.  We also have to believe that Satan (played well by Mr. Gabriel Byrne), with his infinite power, can't find one girl.  Also, Kevin Pollak, Rod Steiger, CCH Pounder, and Udo Kier are all pretty much playing wasted roles.  I'll be fair, I did like the movie, but it's nothing special.  This is simply not an Arnold movie.  I can't picture Mr. Universe as a down-on-his-luck alcoholic, even with the scruff.  Sorry, it just ain't happening.  Not to say he doesn't turn in a good performance, the role is just too unbelievable for him.  I don't think Arny has had a good role since True Lies (and it looks as if he won't be getting one in a good while due to politics).  It's a shame too because he's such a tremendous Hollywood talent.  If it's action you want, give End of Days a try.  Horror fans shouldn't bother with it. "},{"Title":"Ending made a change.(Warning spoilers)","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is surely one of those rare films where the 'Hero' dies at the end. All to often in action films the hero lives to fight another day and or gets the girl. Well for a change not this time.I think Arnold did a great job taking on this film. For various reasons He dies in the end. How many other big box office stars would agree to that? He has a sidekick instead of being the 'lone gunman' all the time. It had the temptation to bring back his deceased family scene, which I thought, was well handled. Iloved the scene where the sidekick burns after not fulfilling his part of the bargain.I think Gabriel Byrne was well cast as Satan. An ordinary looking guy but pure evil. Rod Steiger made a good priest. Miriam Margoyles was superb as the nurse / adoptive mother figure.Yes the film has its flaws but that doesn't make it a bad film. The scenes that I personally think just went to far were Arnold being beaten up by the mob and surviving and him continuing after having his hands cut to ribbons in the window scene.Someone else in one of the other posts commented that if Arnold's character had wanted to outwit Satan then he should have made love to the girl. Sounds a bit like the Andy Warhol film 'Blood for Dracula' where the hero makes love to the girl to defeat Dracula.  "},{"Title":"It's one hell of a ride","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Well, here it is. When everyone was worried about Y2K, Satan just came for a visit to end the world. Interesting. The film itself is alright. Arnold though, he's getting too old for this. I mean you can tell that he is stressed. After flicks like the terminator and commando, you gotta stop somewhere. Gabriel is an incrediable actor. He put a lot of passion into his charactor. He's the only thing that saved the movie that was about to come to the END.6/10 "},{"Title":"Too far, too little, Goodbye.","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Schwarzeneggar is big and bad, there's no disputing that, but to imply that he's bad enough to take on the Lord of Darkness, former most powerful angel who fell from heaven for thinking he was more powerful than God? That would be like Luke catching the DeathStar's blast in the palm of his hand, or Frodo killing Sauron by urinating on him. I don't ask for too much in the name of believability (especially from a Schwazeneggar film), but there is a point where I draw the line.Though I have to say, only Al Pacino from Devil's Advocate can give Gabriel Byrne a run for his money in the 'best actor to portray Satan' category of the Oscars . . . if they had one. He plays the role with a particular menace and suaveness one would expect from mankind's number one antagonist; if the script were good, I could easily take him seriously as Satan. On the flip side of the coin we have Kevin Pollak as Chicago, a wise-cracking cop who gives desperately needed comic relief to a film that would otherwise be a waste of very good talent. Arnold delivers the usual serving you'd expect from one of his action films; jumps, chases, explosions, all are good and fun to watch I guess . . . I would've greatly preferred an inch or two more believability though. I mean, I can buy into the Terminator films more readily than I can to End of Days. "},{"Title":"Loser!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Following coronarial problems and the unmitigated crap that was JINGLE ALL THE WAY and BATMAN & ROBIN (The low point of his and everyone ELSE's career) Schwarzenegger needed a major boost after several years off screen.  This absurd updated OMEN for dummies was not it!Totally acted off the screen by Gabriel Byrne as 666 himself  (sorry, they made it 999 to coincide with the year!) Schwarzenegger tried to dredge up sympathy with his first screen tears - like anyone is gonna accept CONAN or Colonel Matrix blubbering their eyes out! Just plain idiotic...a few million bucks tossed into the action sequence budget ain't gonna make a good flick as the over-hyped Wachowski's found with MATRIX RELOADED.END OF DAYS strives for professionalism and even realism at times...Hyams has a few inspired moments admittedly but blows his wad and credibility with the laugh-out-loud final sequence in the church as Satan runs out of patience with his own script most likely! Robin Tunney makes little impression either as the object of Satan's lust. She has the charismatic presence of Marie Osmond!Skip this, go rent out THE RUNNING MAN or TOTAL RECALL instead...they WERE kosher Schwarzenegger!  "},{"Title":"I use this one as a revenge weapon.","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is so bad, that it's actually good for punishments and revenges. Every time I get mad at someone, I trick'em to see this movie, telling them that this is the first serious movie of Arnold. It's very funny to act like you're liking this garbage, telling your friends that it's your favorite movie of all times, and watching their amazed faces.-Spoilers ahead- I really wouldn't want to talk about the script of this movie, but there's a line that is above the rest on stupidity; A corpse has carved in the signs Christ in N.Y., and, just by reading that, Superior mind Schwarzenegger could figure out that the girl they were looking for is named Christine York. The lines are kinda like this Christ in New York....Christin N. York..... Christine York, that's the name of the girl!  Owww, come on, at least if Arnold's character had some kind of special mind powers or something, but it didn't. It actually lacked any kind of mind at all. How could a depressed mind blowing cop be so smart and talk like a damaged gorilla?  That part was so insulting that made me angry, and I was happy when his character died at the end of the movie. I only wished it had died it sooner, then maybe the movie could have had any chance.Well, what else can I say, when you see movies like End of Days, you really start wondering if maybe is the end of days of Hollywood, for allowing things like these to get to theatres! "}{"Title":"More of slapstick than anything else.","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When 'End of Days' was shown on one of our local movie channels it was placed under the 'horror' genre.I watched it as I am a fan of Gabriel Byrne and what can I say? It was hilarious! I kept laughing most of the time and kept wondering why Byrne would do it. Arnie has proved that his acting ability is practically negligible.The plot is senseless with way too many cliches.Gabriel Byrne is to some extent the light at the end of the tunnel,but seems to struggle to come to terms with the predictable script.On the positive side, Byrne looks devilishly handsome.So it all boils down to being a pathetic cut and paste effort; and is plain slapstick.So don't take this one too seriously. "},{"Title":"Great film!","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Hey, I'd have to agree that this is a great film, Gabriel Burne plays the best devil, the plot is good, the special effects are good - nice thriller. It has it's minor flaws though ; I found some of the plot hard to follow because of distractions provided in the movie (if you get what I'm saying), kind of a corny ending, could have been done a bit better, but what it does have manages to keep it out of the s**t. 8 out of ten. "},{"Title":"Bloodthirsty action movie with horror asides.","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  End of Days takes its cue from the rather silly prophecies that the world was destined to end on New Year's Eve in 1999. It's hard to believe that so-called intelligent people started ranting and raving about the apocalypse being nigh back in the final days of 1999, but they did, and because of them we've had to endure a batch of films of this ilk. But while Strange Days took the metaphorical route of exploring society in freefall, End of Days follows a more literal interpretation of the end. Indeed, in this one, the Devil himself is unleashed upon the world and plans to destroy mankind once and for all on the eve of the new millenium.Gabriel Byrne plays Satan. He's in New York on Millenium Eve in search of a virgin who can bear his children. The unlucky lady chosen for this diabolical task is Robin Tunney. However, messed up cop Arnold Schwarzenegger has latched onto the impending threat, and takes it upon himself to protect Tunney from the hellish forces allied against her.The blood flows very freely in this movie. However, the horror side of the film is compromised because it slips too often into action movie mode. Perhaps the star and the director are too closely associated with the action genre for their own good, as they can't seem to play this one as a straight horror movie, when that is clearly how it needs to be approached in order to work. It also comes apart by giving us such a bitter and unsympathetic hero. Arnie's character is so far descended into alcoholism and despair that it becomes virtually impossible to root for him. On the positive side, there are a couple of imaginative murder scenes (the priest who is crucified to the ceiling is particularly unique, not to mention grisly) and the visual effects are very impressive. Byrne has a certain wicked flair as the Devil too.  "},{"Title":"Way better than the rating lets you understand","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I don't quite understand how it's possible for this movie to have a rating of 5.4 as I am writing this. The movie is more or less entertaining from the beginning, and the only really negative thing I can say about the flick is that the ending is a bit lame - I for one would have preferred the bazooka-solution )The movie has a fair amount of action, Arnold is as good/bad as he has always been, and the plot, while not very imaginative, serves it's purpose. Hey, it even has a few decent jokes in it. One of the better newish Arnold flicks, no matter what the rating says. "},{"Title":"Oh dear.","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There's certainly not much more to be said about this film than has already been summarised by the comments another Satan's child film and the likes of relying on ArnieViolence tm. It can be said that this film has decided to rely heavily on those meaningful-out-of-the-meaningless numbers, such as 1999. I remember the arbitrary calculation performed in the film that gives the excuse for the appearance of Satan in 1999. Great. So the years 666, 999, 1333 and 1666 were all exempt because of what mathematical insignificance?Furthermore, yet again we have this dark and sinister branch of the Roman Catholic church scrapping their faith and running in guns blazing, not so dissimilar from the events in Stigmata as I remember. However, at least Stigmata vaguely attempted to maintain some plausibility.And finally, where does all this supernatural force come from that unleashes devastating power in the cityscape? In the context of the film, if the Guy downstairs could do this he'd be romping about every five minutes. Fortunately for us he's stuck behind the mathematical conundrum. But seriously, consider some physical and spiritual realism. If the devil comes from the supernatural and kills someone, where do they go? If they go anywhere. Or is that a paradox?Anyway, there is a future for this story line. The year 2999, on the eve of the 31st century, the loop-hole caused by the mathematical jiggery pokery rears its undecipherable head and off we go again... Terrible. "},{"Title":"not really that good","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Honestly I thought this movie is pretty trashy. It wasn't a very good movie at all. Gabriel Byrne played a very good satan, and the special effects were pretty good too. But thats about it. Now there were some moments that were pretty cool.But not too many. Arnold was pretty good too. It did have a lot of action though. I thought the plot sucked. I really didn't care for this movie but I will recommend this movie to anyone who likes Arnold or action movies. "},{"Title":"so-so Schwarznegger","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"     End of Days is not the comeback Arnold was hoping for I'm afraid. It's a routine satanic horror movie/action film. Arnie is actually pretty decent as the suicidal ex-cop turned bodyguard who becomes the reluctant savior of humanity. Kevin Pollack makes way too many wisecracks as Arnie's sarcastic partner and buddy. Robin Tunney is ok as the potential mother of Lucifer's child,yet the role doesn't require her to do much but look scared and confused. Ah yes,Lucifer,that role is played by Gabriel Byrne who is a fine actor but isn't very effective here. He seems to be a combination of Al Pacino in The Devil's Advocate and Robert De Niro in Angel Heart but is nowhere near as good as either. There are lots of big scale action scenes and visual effects but they are wasted on the routine and formulaic story. It's too bad about Arnold,he used to be the king of action but he lost his way somewhere down the line. I really hope he will again make movies as good as the Terminator films,Predator,Total Recall,etc. End of Days doesn't match up to Arnie's eighties heyday. "},{"Title":"Rosemary's Baby meets Terminator II","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  They just took the scripts for Rosemary's Baby and Terminator II, shook them up a bit, and out came this predictable yarn. OK, it does have the requisite a Glock is a boy's best friend theme, and the let's see just how much firepower you can pack on one person for the final conflict, but we saw those movies a hundred times before. So, in summary, stolen scripts and nothing new. "},{"Title":"Nice eye candy, but doesn't deliver","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  In the great pantheon of Ahh-nold films, End of Days is ultimately a whimper.  A really crummy (and I mean bad beyond belief) script doesn't help this film any, and so it turns out to be little more than 2 hours of eye candy (and the scenes in between an exercise in tedium).  Even for hardcore Schwarzenegger fans, this one could be skipped and nothing much missed; OK for weekend viewing when the brain can be decisively switched off, and there are other distractions available during the boring parts.  Everything here has been done before, and a whole lot better.If you're looking for something in the 'millennium angst' genre, I'd recommend the highly underrated Strange Days (1995).  If you want devils and such, there are a million others available, but try 1987's great Angel Heart starring Robert DeNiro, or even Fallen (1998).For fun special effects and not much else (oh, and to hear Ahhnold actually say 'God, help me' (LOL)) -- 5/10. "},{"Title":"What else do you want?","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'm sick to death of people badmouthing great action/adventure films. End of Days is a perfect example. This was a great movie that had something for everyone Arnold, explosions, a millennium scare, sinning priests, Satan, a couple quick boob shots, and a cool looking cult. Moreover, it had a great plot, with a lot of action and nice looking special effects (great soundtrack too). In a world where ALL the *sophisticated* foreign movies get so much praise (only because critics don't want to look uneducated) a movie like this gets shunned - I can only ask you stinking people - What else do you want?  "}{"Title":"Ah-nold in a Daze...","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Here you see Ah-nold once again trying for a genuine change of pace. Well, the intent surely is there, but I don't think that the end results live up to expectations. The whole scenario has been done to death ala 'Rosemary's Baby' or 'the Omen', in fact better. If you plan on bringing Lucifer back to power, don't you think you could somehow present it in a better form than a series of subway chases, shoot-outs, mass explosions and the like? I know I would.I liked Gabriel Byrne as Satan, but as others have complained-there doesn't seem to be any kind of consistent rules regarding the extent of Lucifer's powers. He gets driven away with machine gun fire, sent flying by a grenade launcher(?) on the subway, piledriven by same subway into another, etc. yet keeps on coming back. But you'd swear Satan could simply stop the subway cold, dodge the bullets, read Ah-nold's mind to find the girl, Something. But no.Some Spoilers Below too!!I Liked the Temptation scene-where Byrne tries to tempt him into servitude by showing him his long-dead family, ala Christ and the 40 days in the Wilderness. Some here thought Ah-nold's reaction was poorly acted. I don't think so-he was simply being himself.  But I did have a problem with Ah-nold being able to fling the Archfiend from the window to the streets 200 feet below like that. What? Catching Satan by surprise? HUH?!I liked Lucifer-as-Balrog by the way in the church towards the end-but they just Couldn't have him fighting the Dragon eh? The way Ah-nold winds up being a Sword Loser at the very end was a little goofy too. Dir. Pete Hyams tried hard to wring some pathos outta it, with Ah-nold's gurgled 'Run!' to the girl as he is being possessed, and then when he sees the souls of his Beloved and Departed....I wanted to enjoy the moment, but considering the gore, the explosions and etc preceding it was kinda hard.Some other things Rod Steiger as a priest? Ahhhh, no. And what was with the 'Stigmata of the Week' type side-show below Steiger's Church? Was this something just screaming for Python, Mad or MSTK3 treatment or what? This flick just veered all over the place-sometimes you wanna cringe, others you bought.Action good but still-toned down from Commando or not, it's still over the top Ah-nold stuff esp the Subway shenanigans.It is not a bad flick out and out, but sure has it's severe streaks of KooKooness in all the wrong places.** outta ****, Ah-nold shanks. "},{"Title":"extreme gothic carnage","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie with the hype on 27th december 1999 and loved the what if plotline. Brilliant visual effects and a welcome comebackaction movie for Arnie. Director Peter Hyams does Arnold justice with this collaboration after disappointing flops like Sudden Death and The Relic. So i highly recommend this new age action thriller for old and new Arnold fans alike! "},{"Title":"Surprised","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"      I was pleasantly surprised with End of Days. After reading a bunch of reviews and with past experiences with Arnold, I was not expecting much, but I really enjoyed this movie. I was a big fan of Arnold when I was a kid but in the past 10 years or so I have gotten tired of his movies with the exception of Terminator and Predator. Until now, I really think he did a good job in End of Days.     I thought the story was pretty good, above average, the acting was ok with the exception of Gabriel Byrne who I thought was excellent. What I most liked about this movie was the cinematography and the action scenes. I really liked the shots of New York city. Put all this together and I thought this was a very entertaining movie, I was completely into it. I also believe this is a spiritual movie at least for me, it really had me thinking about religion. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, but...","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  End of Days with good old Arnie was terrific.  The plot was typical I admit, however the way the director made the movie made it stand out from the other Apocalyptic films.  I won't give anything away but the suspense a successful film needs was there and all the rest, ie. the horror.  But Schwarznegger's ability to act was unused although his usual action was there. Robin Tunney's character was really great, although she needed to be more emotional when she finds out whom wants her.Basically the movie could have been really great if it was 'trimmed a bit more'.I say watch this movie because you're losing out if you don't-seriously! "},{"Title":"What's the point, it's bad","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I really don't know why I'm writting this.  I think most people agree that this movie is bad.  Well, let me say thisWhen I first get done watching some movies, I like them.  Then as time goes on, my opinion changes about the movie.  this happened with End of Days. I liked it the first time I saw it.  I thought it was entertaining.  But, a few weeks later, my opinion has changed.  So, to resolve this, I watched it again at a friends house.  Well, it's bad.I'm a logic person.  If I see a logic hole in a movie, I try to ignore it. If I see two, then I start to get annoyed.  More than two and I'm p***ed off.  End of Days made me p***ed off after my second viewing.First off, the movie is a bit depressing.  Everything about it is sad. Everything from Arnold's acting to the movie's colors.  But dark looking movies don't bother me, but some thing else did...If Satan can regenerate his wounds, how can you possible kill him in his mortal form?  If you shoot him, his skin grows back.  If you cut off his head, a new one should pop back up.  So question  what's the point of even trying to kill him?  I'll tell you why because this is a stupid movie that has a recycled villain.  This isn't the devil my friends.  This is a human being reminescent of those Bond villains who give away there entire scheme to the hero.Like I said it's worth a look, but don't see it twice, because it's crap. "},{"Title":"Will be entertained if one can overlook the flaws","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Recently watched this film on DVD.I found the movie interesting and entertaining. Arnold and the rest of cast performed well in their roles and the special effects were excellent as well. What prevents this movie from being a great movie was its flaws...(Somewhat of a spoiler in the next paragraph)Flaw I find it unconvincing that Jericho and Chicago would jump in to save Christine even though they have the slightly clue of who she is and what the situation is about at the beginning...Aside, I think audiences will find the movie quite entertaining, for the casts' performance and the amazing special effects.The DVD contains a great featurette on the movie and a documentary on the special effects. "},{"Title":"Exquisitely Awful","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Quite possibly the worst big-budget action movie ever made... Bad acting, cheap special effects, and a ludicrous plot (Satan needs a bodyguard?) make this one a Must-See for bad movie fans. How did this ever get made? Deadly... "},{"Title":"A bad movie","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The supernatural part was ridiculous. The action part was dull. It was a big mistake to combine these two elements in a single movie. In addition there was nothing original in the screenplay. The antichrist/child theme was from the Omen. The possessed self-sacrificed hero ending was from the Exorcist. The demonic followers scenes were taken from the Mummy. The action scenes were the same as in Eraser, Total Recall etc.BUT I liked the opening titles. Wonderful work. The only good moments in the film.  "},{"Title":"Gabriel never looked hotter and Arnold looked ok too.","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  End Of Days was a fantastic movie. Gabriel Byrne never looked better and the rest of the cast were equally awesome. Major come back for Arnold. Peter Hymas directed the movie brilliantly and Andrew Marlow wrote a terrific script. "},{"Title":"Very Good and FUN","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Rose above expectations. Was fun and entertaining. Worth watching. Arnold was good, and the devil was also pretty cool. Some good special effects. It was fast paced.  I like Arnold, and this beats alot of his movies. But this one was more about the religious good vs evil story than focussing on just Arnold.Check it out. "}{"Title":"So-so","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Is it just me, or does this film feel like an end-of-the-world remix of Devil's Advocate in some ways?  If you had to describe this film in one word, it would be blah. Overall the movie is somewhat slow and incoherent.  The first part of the film drags too much, while the second half moves too quickly. As a horror film, this film isn't too successful.  Most of the horror scenes have all been done before, so the element of surprise is pretty much wasted. As an end of the world film, we need not even comment how bad End Of Days is (the scene where Schwarzenegger ponders whether he has until 1200 in general or Eastern Time till the world goes to hell says it all.) As an action movie, End of Days does even worse. For an Arnold Schwarzenegger film, its somewhat surprising that the action isn't as intense or crammed with the classic overkill factor that most viewers have come to expect.  Not to sound sarcastic, but when Arnold is on the loose, you almost expect the bad guys to show off how 'bad' they really are, only to be surprised a second later when Arnold shows up in an AV-8B jump jet guns ablazin. (Just think about how bad Arnold messed the Predator and imagine what he could have done in End of Days.) Instead, no overkill in this movie...the best that Arnold gets to ripping the bad guys a new one is him walking around with an 9mm x 19 Parabellum MP5 submachine gun equipped with an underslung M203 grenade launcher (and a glock for close encounters, respectively).Granted, I went into this movie expecting it to have a mediocre storyline and plot, but I expected more action for my money's worth. Well, guess you can't win 'em all.  "},{"Title":"Best Bad Movie Since Plan 9 from Outer Space!!!!","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I haven't laughed so hard at a movie in ages. Then I saw some of the imdb reviews and laughed harder. Another movie based on the Bible... Ha ha ha. I took this flick seriously for about 10 minutes then realized I was really watching a comedy masterpiece. Arnold was so funny trying to really ACT in this! The dialogue was priceless. We'll be quoting lines from this for decades to come. The quick-cut/skip-time editing made it look like a keystone kops reel. As for the 'special effects,' does the image of 'pie tin on fire' ring any bells? I'm not kidding, you will laugh your patootie off. I'm rating it a 9 in honor of the best bad movie of all time...Ed Wood's Plan 9... "},{"Title":"Need less drama from Arnold...","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Some of the moments in the movie were great, if not a bit freaky, and it all involved the villain in the movie. The orgy scene between him and a mother and daughter and the way he toys with Arnold's character by recreating the murder scene where Arnold's family gets butchered; very graphic, and convincingly evil. Gabriel Byrne plays this villain, a subtle but violent when necessary Satan. Arnold plays a special unit cop with an overused storyline. Without telling to much, he's a widower now living in the dark recesses of his apartment brooding everyday and contemplating suicide. Unfortunately for Arnold, he needs to get his head back together fast enough so he can shoot and blow up whatever supernatural sh** he just got himself into. The problems I had in this film were Robin Tunney's character and Arnold trying a tad to hard to act drama. For Arnold, some moments when he goes into a lapse and flashes back to his family  I had to shake my head and turn away not in tears but in annoyance. I know what he can do. He COULD have done it with less physical emotion. I asked myself that whenever Arnold breaks down. He cranks out some good one-liners, classic, e.g. all to Satan I want you to go to hell. You son-of-a-b****!, but it's just those moments of drama that spoils it. Robin Tunney could have done more for what she was given, and it wasn't much besides playing a complete damsel in complete distress. Some of the lines she spouts were without conviction. I didn't believe her until way later in the end but by that time I couldn't care less for her character.I wouldn't rate this as high as some of Arnold's previous action films, but it's certainly better than Last Action Hero. The story isn't all too intelligent. How else do you fix a problem besides bigger guns?Regardless, I'll see a new Arnold film simply because Arnold is in it. And as long as it doesn't involve him dressing up in a comic book get-up or doing family comedy, he's got my money even if it turns out mediocre like End of Days. "},{"Title":"very Arnold","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  SpoilerA fresh change for Arnold over predictable, seen this done this, action flicks.  Arnold plays a character never seen before; a suicidal, depressed person who does not want to go on in life.  Driven by anger, and his job he becomes involved in a duel with the devil.  His character has no faith until the end when he sees the light.  Arnold battles the Devil in the only way he would, with a machine gun, if you like his movies this one will not disappoint. "},{"Title":"Arnie, what in the h...**..**!!! are you doing?","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"     I'm an Arnold fan from way back , but this one really disappointed me. Arnold can definately do better! This was a lot of  entirely staged phony action that seemed to be forced into a couple of hours of bad acting and bad taste. And Arnold, if you're listening, do not ever do a movie with Rod Steiger....da   3 pts.  "},{"Title":"Cool, one of Arnie's Best","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this film on it's opening weekend, and I thought that it was awesome. It was good to see Arnie back in action after his heart surgery. In this movie, the devil (played oh so cool by Gabriel Byrne) has to ahem do the nasty with this one girl. If he does then the End of Days will come about. Now only one man can save us. Arnie! Actually for a schwarzenegger movie, the plot is pretty good. Arnie doesn't just use guns this time around. I don't really see why everyone ripped on this movie. Many people say that the plot was bad, but Ii thought that it was cool. Anyway, who sees a schwarzenegger movie for the intricate plot. Try to watch this movie on DVD. I personally think that it sounded even better than at the show. GET THIS MOVIE ON DVD. It has so many cool extras on the disc. If you don't, just see the movie. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Uhhhhghh...","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Coulda, shoulda, woulda been a good action movie. Instead its dry and empty. Satan takes the form of Gabriel Byrne and runs around killing people most of the time. What he actually wants is poor Robin Tunney, so they can do the horizontal polka and destroy the world. Arnold to the rescue. Oh well...*1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Very good supernatural thriller.","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I must admit , i was not sure what to expect from end of days as i had heard some poor reviews of it but i was pleasantly suprised. This is a very good  action thriller which is a little different from the usual Arnie Flick, it had a good story! Gabriel Byrne plays the devil who comes back at the millenniam to impregnate the chosen one in order to sporn the anti-christ. Arnie is the guy to stop him. The special affects are brilliant and the whole film is grippping.The only faults i found with this film was it was never clear what Job Arnie did , was he a security guard or a cop ? which leads me on to the other annoying aspect, why does Arnie have to try and shoot his way through every movie he makes? It was obvious that he could not kill the Devil with guns but it didnt stop him trying throughout the movie. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"what an action movie!","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arnie is my favourite action star, quite simply because he can do things that Keanu Reeves and the rest of them can't d.  He acts so cool without even trying hard, fair enough his acting skills are oscar winning but just because an actors acting capabilities are brilliant does not make him any less a grade of an actor.    Arnie is just one of them actors that I love to see up on the screen.    End of Days is a fantastic comeback and for those of you that didn't enjoy this movie, lighten up, its just an action movie and Arnie truely is the KING of action! "},{"Title":"*Yawn* This is An Arnold Flick?","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was waiting to welcome Arnold Schwarzeneger's return to action after the dismal movies he'd made after Eraser.  End of Days, however, can be added to the dismal films he's had the misfortune of appearing in.End of Days starts well with a  gripping action sequence, yet quickly becomes a bore, taking the focus off action and suspense and instead concentrating on the investigation of demonic happenings and the quickly approaching millenium (read Doomsday).  Performances are stale, special effects so-so, and gore plentiful.  Considering myself a die-hard Schwarzenegger fan, I couldn't believe I didn't like this film, but with such an awful, lame script, what could Arnie have done, besides passed on this turkey?3 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Don't Even Bother","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  To sum it all up, skip End of Days and watch rent Roman Polanski's The Ninth Gate instead. This movie is the perfect stereotypical American movie vs Ninth Gate being the perfect stereotypical European movie.Ninth Gate Noir-ish, intelligent, nicely scored, atmospheric, excellent acting (Johnny Depp, esp), beautiful scenery, good cinematography, funny one-liners, intellectual, minimal foul language, thought-provoking. The only fault is it that a few people didn't understand the open-ended ending and said the movie was crappy because of that and there were a couple of questionable scenes.End of Days Overly violent, liberal use of foul language, NO musical score except for a poor attempt at a commercial soundtrack that was only heard when Gabriel Byrne stalked around NYC as Satan (but all you could pick out was Korn's Jonathan Davis unintelligible screaming), sex that had nothing to do with the plot, violence, incredibly predictable, violence, and did I mention lots more violence? I guess some of the special effects were good but that's about it.Well, maybe I'm wrong but I thought Ninth Gate was far more interesting, quirky, original, and intelligent. But maybe Americans don't need need that. *dripping with cynicism* Even though I am an American, sometimes I wonder. "},{"Title":"Stupidly Entertaining.","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I did not expect End of Days to be a very good film at all, and it definitely wasn't a good film. It was just one that entertains you for a couple of hours, you know? I'm not really into Arnold myself, but I have to say, this movie gave me chills and I enjoyed watching most of it. But, there is more to dislike about this movie than there is to like, it is a very lame idea, I mean, Arnie takes on the Devil? In your dreams...Overall, End of Days is a just a stupidely entertaining movie. But that is as far as it goes.Rating 6  "},{"Title":"If you like films and don't fancy watching anything good, check this out and play the plagiary game.","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  IMDB has an if you liked this, check out that section.  This has amused me ever since it recommended The railway children in connection with The war zone - Tim Roth's bleak if brilliant account of incestuous child abuse. (They were both set in Dorset?). With regard to End of days the list could be endless.Firstly the changeling-newborn-Antichrist theme screams The Omen and Rosemary's baby from the start and it hardly tries to cover its tracks with the investigation in the barking priest's apartment scene.Combine this with the millennial gothic Seven cinematography, spooky subways à la Jacob's ladder and even a cat for the false-start shock moments (Alien anyone?) and we are truly in compilation movie land.However, the prize for most blatant steal is yet to come.As if casting Gabriel Byrne and Kevin Pollack together was not hint enough, as if invoking the dropped match onto flammable liquid in slow-mo cliché was just skirting the issue of blatancy, Peter Hyams actually allowed the paraphrase, The cleverest thing the devil ever did was convince the world he didn't exist, to be lifted from The Usual Suspects. HELLO?! What is this?  Stars in their eyes? Tonight, Matthew, I'm going to be all my favourite movies in one . . . and not as good as any of them. I'm not even going to get onto the Satan bows to enough firepower line. And as for the Redemption Chic, don't get me started . . .Christ in e-york, my a**e.  Almost as bad as DaEMON Thorn.Oh, and I almost forgot Rod Steiger playing an impotent priest.  Do the words, GET OUT ring any bells, Rod? Watch this film, it's hilarious.  I'm no film buff, but I spent the whole movie playing I-spy. You're bound to find even more funny things that I was laughing so hard I missed. And according to my fellow reviewers Schwarznegger's started acting. Think I missed that bit . . . "},{"Title":"This is a bad one","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  One of the worst Arnold movies I've seen.  Special effects were terrible. Script was horrible.  Hopefully his next movie will be much better like T2, Total Recall, True Lies and Eraser(not as good as the rest).  Watch Stigmata if you want to see an apocalyptic future movie.  It's much better. "},{"Title":"In the name of the father, the son, and the star of Junior","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After a long wait he's back (Schwartzenegger, not Steiger). And who cares? By now, Schwartzenegger is a dinosaur, and his heart clearly isn't in it. The proof is on show he wants to diversify. While it isn't such a drastic change of pace as Stallone doing comedy (and it's nearly impossible to be THAT bad), the big man is clearly out of his depth.END OF DAYS is funnier than STOP OR MY MOM WILL SHOOT (a line you will not see on the poster). Unfortunately, the producers have decided that any INTENDED humour had to go, because of the `serious' subject matter.Instead, they've stolen the premise of LETHAL WEAPON, and tied it to the funny-the-first-time hook of DEVILS ADVOCATE. As if to prove he really is concerned about the effects of screen violence on his children, Arnie seems to have removed all the action as well. And what the children are led to surmise from the pompous ending - suggesting symmetry between Schwartzenegger and Jesus Christ - is anyone's guess.No doubt he'll keep making them as long as he can trade on the name - particularly in foreign markets. He always made as many bad films as good ones, but END OF DAYS is almost like TERMINATOR 2 never happened.  "},{"Title":"It's the end of something all right...","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The plot of this boils down to Ah-nuld versus Satan, and what I remember most about the movie is a lot of explosions, gunfire, blood, noise, and let's not forget that flammable satanic urine. The story is nonsensical, utterly predictable, and so full of holes I couldn't take a bit of it seriously. Stick to Rosemary's Baby or The Exorcist if you want to see a really good devil movie and....um, well, I can't think of any good Action movies at the moment (probably because they're so far-and-few-between), so you're on your own in that category. This flick does get a 3 out of 10 rating from me for its camp value, and for a pretty-good performance by Gabriel Byrne as that old debbil Satan! "},{"Title":"Arnie's back, and he's better than ever!","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Okay, this is mainly an Arnie comeback vehicle, but forgetting that for the moment, it's a great film, with a stunning performance from Gabriel Byrnes as the bad guy. High action, humour, and a truly falable Arnie, who acts really well, make for great entertainment. The only fault I found was the Hey look at what's about to happen moment near the end, apart from that it's Arnie at his best. The scene where Rod Steiger as the Priest is explaining the religious parts of the story, and Arnie is totally disbelieving is so good, with a classic line to boot. Let's see more of Byrnes in blockbusters, he's fabulous. "},{"Title":"Good Stuff from Both Worlds","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  First off, a disclaimer to dig this film, you must find value in both the action and apocalyptic/horror/Satan-come-to-earth genres.  Not that you have to love every film these specialties yield--they tend to produce some stinkers.  But connoisseurs of these genres should be satisfied with End of Days, which combines a decent devil story with Ah-nold. The theology doesn't get in your face or trip the film up.  Gabriel Byrne makes up for his role in Stigmata by playing a ruthless Lord of the Flies, with shades of his brutal character in The Usual Suspects.  And as the trailers suggested, while Schwarzenegger is prominent from the outset, it only becomes an action pic in the last 20 minutes or so.  By then, we're almost ready for exploding subway stations.  (And I think there's only one parting shot line by Arnold.)The mood is just right for a Lucifer-kicking-butt movie you never know what kind of creepy weirdness is coming next.   "},{"Title":"Unnecessary graphic violence, some poor acting, but interesting story and some good segments","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I've never really been a fan of Schwarzenegger, and End of Days doesn't really change my opinion.  Arnold plays Jericho Cane, a present-day New York security agent who's family has been murdered and lust for life has been squandered.  One day he is doing a routine security job for a wealthy Wall Street banker (Gabriel Byrne), when all of the sudden, a man starts shooting at the banker from a fire escape.  The assassin turns out to be a tongue-less, crazy priest, desperate to get away from the security agents.  He later turns out to be a semi-good guy who was trying to rid the world of the Antichrist, who'd infected the body of the banker.  Now this scene doesn't make sense for several reasons, in that, even if the priest had shot the banker, he wouldn't have died, because he can't be killed by any weapon, even holy objects.  Also, why would a simple Wall Street banker have gun-toting security agents clearing the way for him like he was the President?  Anyway, Saten is back on Earth for a few days, right before the turn of the Millennium, to find a woman to impregnate and bear his child.  This would mean the end of the world as we know it, and that's why the priests don't want this.  Jericho finds this chosen woman before Saten does, and he tries to protect her.  The movie leads up into about fifty different climaxes at the end and left me feeling rather bored, not exhilarated.  Anyway, the movie is predictable, violent, graphic, and unintelligent, but for a Schwarzenegger film, it wasn't half bad.  I gave it a five out of ten for some decent scenes and a somewhat interesting plot.     "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arnie can act, the action is buzzing and the story line is quality. The action scenes are mind blowing, the way they have been captures and the visual effects can not be beaten( apart from the matrix) If you like action or clever horrors like Devils advocate give this one a try. Arnie takes a role that hopefully will push him in to more clever action flicks. I'd like to see him in a John Woo film. **** out of ***** "}{"Title":"What a let down!","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  All the hype!  All the adds!  I was bummed that I missed this on the big screen.  Where this film worked was in the little details.  In EVERYTHING else it failed.  Arnold has done so many better performances in the past few years.  I thought the days of Commando and Last Action Hero were gone from our lives.  Sadly this film panders to the lowest common denominator and reduces Arnold to a bellowing, grunting, face contorting muscle that just knows how to shoot guns and blow things up.  In a cliche last moment (and at one other time), that was predictable from the start, we see a glimmer of the actor that has proven he is more than what he got paid for early in his career.  I was unimpressed with the film as it never broke new ground or went anywhere but where you expected it to. "},{"Title":"Basic Hollywood action. (spoiler!!!)","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  === !!! SPOILER WARNING !!! ==> Spoiler warning.. hehe, I knew how this is going to end from the beginning..As the summary says it, so basic Hollywood action movie, with the old good vs. evil story thrown on it, but in this it is just so shallow. And of course, it was so, so predictible. good wins (as always..) and everything is all right again.. Arnold sacrifices himself for the girl.. AAAARRGGH! ..and by the way, this is not horror movie, there's no blood, no gore what so ever.. no violence or anything. "},{"Title":"Commando meets Predator (with horns)","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The core issues at play (God & Satan / Good & Evil) can be & should be tremendously compelling (as demonstrated through thousands of works of art/music/literature/film).  End of Days, unfortunately, is nothing but a 2Dimensional Cartoon.  Byrne's acting ability stands so obviously in sharp contrast to Arnold's corresponding lack of ability and is further underlined by a plot filled with nothing but stereotypes.The single compelling scene occurs at the very beginning with the transformation of the Gabriel Byrne character and his subsequent interaction with his wife? girlfriend?  It is both erotically charged & repellent -- modernizing the vampirish themes, the seductive power of evil.  "},{"Title":"Good film, but no words","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arnold-movie... Arnold is good actor and he has great muscles, but this is not a movie where he can show his abilities. I didn't like director's or writer's view. There was too much 16 frame-shots. Too much 16 frame shots after another 16 frame shots. It is very hard to enjoy movie, if there is no longer shots. When Arnold did a shake, that was very bad scene. Too much different and short shots. And in the end of that film, there was explosives and action...too short shots again!And the Idea of film 666 = 999 = 1999...that wasn't good idea.. And that idea God not save us, we do. God just helps us to save ourselves... That is good thing to make happy viewers, but the Bible says something else...So, that is an american movie. Movie, which tries to make viewers happy... They tried to make new Jesus...There wasn't any reason why Satan crusifies Arnold...But..they wanted to do that...Okay...Good film, but no words "},{"Title":"Scares you from the beginning to the end...","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  End Of Days scares you from the beginning of the movie to the end, I believe this is Arnolds first film where he is completely human, but that doesnt make the movie totaly realistic because he has to fight the devil played by Gabriel Byrne. Arnold really shows how good he´s acting has become here. A must see. "},{"Title":"Wonderful....if it hadn't been for Die Hard, Devil's Advocate, Predator","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Many people don't get the point of this movie, it's not a movie at all !! Arnold is just using this as a money machine for his comeback. You may think i'm against this for exposing it, but oh no, I'm the biggest Arnold fan. I want him to do better stuff than this of course but he wouldn't be able to unless he made a little more money to show he's still the Terminator. So he slapped together some pretty good actors (Byrne-very good) and rehashed his Dutch character, and Bruce Willis' McClane, then threw in a little Pacino from advocate and wala, we have End of Days. Also Beginning of the New Arnold. I can't wait until he plays a nazi sargeant in a Spielberg film for little or no pay and wins some awards. "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ah... this movie didn't deserve the ratings it got from critics.  I found the movie very intriguing and it held my attention throughout.  I believe there are two reasons this movie didn't receive the reviews it deserves are 1) It stars Arnold Schwarzenegger and 2) It dealt with religion and we all know how the media hates that. Anyways, I would recommend this movie to anyone who wants to see an intriguing and exciting movie. Just don't expect to much, enjoy it for what it is. An action movie. "},{"Title":"thank god for gabriel byrne","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What a great idea! What a cool casting choice of Gabriel Byrne to play Lucifer! What a horrible script! See Rod Steiger mop up the floor with Arnold--poor Arnie never had a chance. If this is a sign of what's to come from the former Mr. Universe, count me out; he's better when he's trying to be funny. More 'Kindergarten Cop', please! And Mr Hyams best movie to date is still 'Timecop.' "},{"Title":"I bought this before I'd even seen it","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Woah! I bought this film before I'd even seen it (potentially stupid),  and when I saw the average review I thought I'd be in for a major disappointment. Thankfully I was not!The movie is fairly slow to start with - some tame action and lots of talking and religious nonsense - but halfway through, the momentum really starts to roll.Arnies acting ability is much better than any of his previous efforts, and he certainly chose a good movie to make his comeback. Although, bizarrely, he never once says I'll be back.There are eventually some stunning action sequences, and lots of cools FX, and ultimately this is a very satisfying film. Great stuff. "},{"Title":"I bought this before I'd even seen it","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Woah! I bought this film before I'd even seen it (potentially stupid),  and when I saw the average review I thought I'd be in for a major disappointment. Thankfully I was not!The movie is fairly slow to start with - some tame action and lots of talking and religious nonsense - but halfway through, the momentum really starts to roll.Arnies acting ability is much better than any of his previous efforts, and he certainly chose a good movie to make his comeback. Although, bizarrely, he never once says I'll be back.There are eventually some stunning action sequences, and lots of cools FX, and ultimately this is a very satisfying film. Great stuff. "}{"Title":"the best action movie of 99","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was an awesome action movie.  Yes, I know a lot of people dumped on it but they either took it too seriously or have an illogical hatred of Schwarzenegger.  Sure, the plot wasn't that great, but it's an action movie you're not supposed to focus on the plot.  And yes, Schwarzenegger can't act, but neither can Keanu Reeves yet he has attained a statues akin to a demi-god among American movie watchers (I don't get it).  Anyways, I enjoyed End of Days. "},{"Title":"Schwarzenegger is finally back in a role that suits him","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arnold Schwarzenegger isn`t known for his acting abilities, but for his ultraviolent actionmovies.   End Of Days provides us with plenty of action and a great villian, even though the plot is well bizarre even for a Schwarzenegger movie.  The year is 1999 and Satan is coming back to take over the planet, and only one man can stop him.  Have we heard this story before?  No, never. Sadly, Schwarzenegger is beginning to show his age now (53), but he still manages to do his stuff almost as before. Plot problems aside, End Of Days proves to be an okay actionmovie, but at the end of the day, this isn`t in the same league as The Terminator movies. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A masterpiece...","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ... of unequaled parity.  Arnie's performance is Brando-esque, I just can't wait for the next academy awards and I know he'll walk off with the statue. In-between the brief naps I was able to enjoy while watching this superb, moving, cinematic tour-de-force, I was most touched by the amazing pyrotechnics that were a dominant force throughout the picture.  Fire everywhere, all the time - fire, flames of burning people, subways and stray animals.  This film is no place for marshmellows and Mr. Schwarzenegger proves that in every single scene whether he is taking on the devil himself (Gabriel Byrne)or slapping about the complacent Rod Stieger playing Father Kovak.  I imagine that Steiger was so impressed with Arnie's incredible skills that he was speechless in his presence both on and off screen.Is it not enough that we have endured Schwarzenegger films for what seems like the past 50 years - when will this guy lose the Austrian accent?  He mumbles through the entire film and always seems lost in front of a camera.However, Gabriel Byrne as The Man (the devil) is very, very good and is the only reason to rent this bomb. "},{"Title":"Much better than Stigmata!","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'm not usually a fan of religious/apocalyptic-type movies, but this one was a great blend of action and symbolism. Arnold does his usual acceptable job of being the hero, but I was surprised at his final solution. I liked the fact that Satan was portrayed as a con man instead of an in-your-face demon...and the confrontation between him and the skateboarder made me laugh out loud. Definitely a good Saturday night film for a group. "},{"Title":"what's the point?","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What's the point of making yet another Satan's child movie, painstakingly weaving a travesty, shot by shot, scene by scene, from the multitude of other just as faceless and ephemeral films? Whatever it is, it is not an artistic one. And I wasn't expecting much, just a good action flick with some originality and humor. But they couldn't accomplish even that. Ah, as a guy once said, what's the use... Memorable moment Arnold is fighting an elderly Italian woman. "},{"Title":"atrocious in every way - but funny funny funny!","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I've gotten to the point at which there are certain things that I would like to be explained to me with Arnold Schwarzenegger in his films.  I am confused by the way that he looks.  He is almost always a policeman or an ex-policeman, a soldier or an ex-soldier (green beret or commando or special forces or black ops whatever that is) - twice he was a research scientist, twice a bodyguard or something, twice an ordinary father, and once he was jungle boy that had a twisted little dwarf as his brother.  Twice, of course, he was a robot and that actually makes sense with how he looks, robots can look and sound as ridiculous as they want to (Robin Williams has now been a robot case closed), the same goes with the two times he was a pre-Christian barbarian.  But more often than not, Arnie is a human being that happens to move and look like a pre-kiln slab of river clay.  There is never an explanation as to why he sounds as he does nor of how he finds the three or four hours a day to work out.  Just once I'd like an explanation of how a boy raised in New York, third generation Irish cop, would sound like he just rolled down a mountainside after bugling through a giant horn.Thus we are introduced to Arnie in End of Days.  He is Jericho Cane (I guess Golgotha Christ was too much of a mouthful) - and he is sitting in his giant New York apartment, holding a gun to his head.  Again - how do these out of work losers afford the $5000.00/month rent in these places?  First thought in my mind is that this was a pretty good introduction to a cop (or ex-cop in this case) the first time I saw it when it was called Lethal Weapon. Immediately, you know that his wife has been killed, his kid has been killed, or he's accidentally shot a child in the line of duty (both his wife and child were killed, incidentally).  Soon his pithy partner, the increasingly unwatchable Kevin Pollack, shows up, looks concerned at the gun on the coffee table, makes appropriately gaggy faces when Arnie slams a mixer concoction of chinese takeout and pepto bismol, and gamely does his best Tom Arnold impersonation for the remainder of the film.What's this movie about, though?  It's one of the many films that opened near the end of 1999 to capitalize on the sudden interest in the apocalypse shared by Hollywood and about 1000 cult members in Uganda.  It's about the return of Satan to New York city where he hopes to impregnate THE CHOSEN ONE by the stroke of midnight, Eastern standard time, and hasten the, ready? End of days.  It's about young Christine York (Christ-in-new York - get it? No, me neither), who is born with a sorority tattoo, baptised in rattlesnake blood, and raised by Udo Kier and another unattractive servant of Satan in an upscale Brownstone at Central Park West.  Really, though, the movie is about Arnold shooting 10,000 rounds into Satan and here's the punchline, actually slowing Him down.Satan is played by the terminally dull Gabriel Byrne.  Byrne is some sort of investment banker or something that is possessed by Satan three days before the turn of the century.  As Satan, he seems to have the ability to blow up tony New York cafes with a smoldering glance, to p**s gasoline, and to survive falls of ten stories and more.  He does not seem to be able to move faster than the comically lugubriously uncoordinated Arnold.  We assume that it's important that it be Byrne's investment banker sperm that finds its way into Christine York, thus lending some kind of explanation as to why Satan is so enamored with that particular body rather than jumping around from body to body like the demon in Fallen.  This doesn't seem to be the case, however, because, and I don't feel like I'm giving much away here, Satan jumps into Arnold when Gabriel Byrne's body's been trashed.  Arnold, I mean Satan (mercy, it's all so very confusing!), then proceeds to try to rape Christine York with only 9 seconds remaining in 1999.  While I'm sure that Arnold can rip one off in 9 seconds, what boggles the mind is that he tries to get a nice kiss first.  That's charmingly old fashioned, don't you think? Like swabbing Sean Penn's arm with alcohol in Dead Man Walking before injecting him with potassium sulfate.There's also the bit about a Vatican priest-turned-assassin named Thomas Aquinas that unsuccessfully tries to shoot Gabriel Byrne in the beginning of the film.  He apparently believes, as Charlton Heston believes, that the best way to combat a manifestation of evil is with a good gun at his side. What kills me is that no one seems to have a moment of frission with the name Thomas Aquinas.   I don't claim to be an expert in theology, but the name rings a bell.  It does not ring a bell with the cast (and nor does it ring the bells of the myriad fans of this film, I venture).Who's the guy in the hospital? Thomas AquinasThat's a bizarre conversation.  I kept waiting to hear this oneWho's the guy in the hospital? John the BaptistIt's appropriate in both instances that someone take note of strangeness. Taking note of strangeness is a very important function in film.  If the film doesn't know that it sucks, there are certain irritating people in the audience (like myself) that will.  And it does.  Suck, I mean.End of Days is that most unforgivable of films.  It is the kind of film that urges us to leave our brains at the door and hold on for the ride - to remember when we were eight years old again.  In other words, it asks us to be mentally challenged, emotionally immature, and so beaten by the onward marching tide of culture that we are wholly incapable of not liking something that cost 100 million dollars.  How Schwarzenegger remains a top box office draw is an uneasy combination of the vast foreign box office that think that Arnold somehow embodies the U.S. and (heck, he does) capitalism, and the gleaming hope for a third installment in the Terminator series. It certainly can't be for such triumphs as Jingle All the Way, Eraser, Batman & Robin, Junior and Last Action Hero.At its best, End of Days joyfully invites heckling and flabbergasted looks - at its worst, End of Days is almost as aggressively condesending as Phantom Menace.  Still and all, when excretia such as this earns its studio a tidy profit and truly wonderful films like Wonder Boys spends a quick two month run at the multi-plex, we deserve what we get.  "},{"Title":"One of Schwarzenegger's best.","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is very basic  predictable story, predictable characters, awesome special effects and good action scenes.  That means you should watch this for the action.  It has a good ending too.  Schwarzenegger gives one of his best performances.  Director/cinematographer Peter Hyams should be commended.  The film's technical aspect is superb.  All in all this isn't a classic, but it's good supernatural action where you can do a lot worse.   "},{"Title":"an average flick....","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It was good to see Arnie back in another action film but End of Days really over-stepped the mark. The plot seemed all over the place.Arnold's acting was okay, some of the lines were bad though. Gabriel Bryne, Kevin Pollack and Robin Tunney were good in their subsequent roles. I was surprised to see Rod Stieger in this film, his character seemed to have no purpose. This film to me was a dismal cross between the Omens, Seven and Eraser....it was so hard to take seriously especially with Arnie as the lead. I think the film was kind of just riding on the hype of the whole millennium thing, which makes it kind of obsolete in a few years. I preferred the excellent Strange Days as an action flick involving the millennium new year!I'm still a big Arnold fan, and End of Days was nowhere near as bad as Batman and Robin or Junior. See it and leave your brain out the door!** out of *****! "},{"Title":"Satan is...an Investment Banker","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Satan is...an Investment Banker.  Great concept!  But unfortunately, this is another Ah-nold film that can't make up its mind which direction it's going to go in.  Instead this movie is half-baked and indecisive - when it could have been much scarier or much funnier.  The script was the weakest part of the film, especially the plot.  Not that Ah-nold's films tend to be that believable to begin with&#133;especially when his accent seems noticeably thicker - but this action for the sake of action in his films has compromised the films.  In an Ah-nold film - it's not good when the acting is better than the plot and the script.  I mean there was no tension in the film because there was nothing believable to begin with - just weak action and cheap one-liners.  It's okay to entertain&#133;just make a better product.For example, the Helicopter scene was a pointless&#133;especially when Ah-nold and Kevin Pollack's characters are supposed to be protecting The Investment Banker &#150; whoopsie!   End of Days was somewhat disappointing but the second half of the movie was much better than the first part - mostly because it was funnier.  The best that I could say about End of Days is that it was both more enjoyable and funnier than the two worst movies of 1999 - THE PHANTOM MENACE and WILD WILD WEST.  I guess that the main reason I was disappointed is because I got this movie to go as a double bill with Paris, Texas because I needed a more upbeat `bleak' film.     "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Although not the worst movie I have ever seen, it is undoubtedly the worst I have seen in the last two or three years and maybe the worst ever for such a top box office draw.  The movie has lots of potential; big name action star (Arnold), a credible sidekick (Kevin Pollack), a beautiful young damsel in distress (Robin Tunney), decent special effects, and an intriguing plot.  The movie has elements of being an action movie and elements of being a horror movie. Unfortunately, it fails at both.  The movie had just enough going for it to keep my attention.  However, at the end of the movie, I was scratching my head in bewilderment.  This is the type of movie you rent (DO NOT BUY--SAVE YOUR MONEY) to kill a few hours on a Friday or Saturday night.  "}{"Title":"The great movie that could have been","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Before you listen to all the critics say that this movie sucked and nothing good came out of it, you should really have a look at it. It's true that the movie was pretty bad, but not necessarely because of Arnold. True it's not his kind of movie, but he wasen't all that bad in it. What was bad is that they modified the movie so that it still has the Arnold feel to it. If they would have signed Kianu, Pitt or even Willis, the outcome would have been much better. I do beleive that the movie had some serious potential. "},{"Title":"Lots of explosions, violence, gore, stupidity, dumb action, and plotholes.","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  While Arnold Schwarzenegger knows how to astonish (Terminator, True Lies, Total Recall), he also knows how to dis-astonish (Junior, Jingle all the way, Hercules goes to New York).EOD falls in between those two capabilities. It has Arnie saving the world, but not in style. Maybe if the plot wasn't about Arnie stopping the devil who has to get laid by midnight or else the world ends. Still, we only see this type of movie to see Arnie succeed. And at least EOD can do that.The best thing about EOD is the Usual Suspects stars Kevin Pollak and Gabriel Byrne. Kevin Pollak plays a great wisecracking Arnie sidekick, and Byrne is hilarious as the horny devil. Oh, it has some great spooky music during the opening credits.However, it's time that satan should get off the screen.PLOT 2 DIRECTION 5 SCRIPT 3 ACTING 5 FX 7OVERALL 4.5 "},{"Title":"Movie C  DVD  B","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  End of Days		C/B				5.25.00		2.351/5.1 	First Viewing		169 EnhancedA decent idea for a film, but not well executed.  The film makers spent an incredible amount of time (and money) creating special effects but as is often the case, left gapping holes in the plot.  The 5.1 mix sounds incredible, but I was bothered my how dark most of the scenes were and how little detail was available in those scenes.  The disc contains a lot of info on how the special effect scenes were created.  "},{"Title":"awesome","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arnolds big comeback is one of his best yet, because he doesn't play your typical super cop or super tough guy we are all used to seeing him play gabriel burn gets a 10 in my book with his evil stares i was convinced he was the man "},{"Title":"1999's worst film, maybe the decade's","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The only movie I actually had to fast forward through to get to the trailers.  There wasn't one scene that didn't seem as if the actors weren't reading from a teleprompter.  AWFUL!!!  When I was a kid I'd lay awake watching every movie put across the television, thinking that a studio wouldn't make a film if it was a waste of time, or didn't have some kernel of worth, so I watched every one of them hoping to get an education I may have over-looked.  I now stand corrected.  How could any one every back Arnold again?  How could anyone produce such drivel and then market it? Didn't the executives sit and screen this first? I checked and it wasn't listed in the Bottom 100...why not?  The only movie worse than this is Baby Geniuses. -8 "},{"Title":"Muddled & confused special effects mess","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The idea must have looked really good on paper, but it just didn't seem to come together on the big screen.  It had great special effects, but the story was somewhat muddled. I'm sure it seemed like a great idea to combine supernatural themes with action, but it seemed to fail on both of these levels.  If you want a supernatural theme you are far better off seeing Stigmata, and as for action any of the older Arnie movies would be far better.  It all seemed a little pointless, and Arnie didn't have the emotional power necessary as an actor to pull off his part effectively.  Gabrile Byrne was good as the devil and Robin Tunney was excellent as the 'chosen girl', but it was all a massive disappointment as a film. "},{"Title":"A flop if there ever was one....","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Disappointing movie by Arnold.  I thought that it might actually be good but, I found myself bored with End of Days.  The script(as others have noted) was all over the place.  The devil had inconsistent powers.  The ending was almost anticlimactic.  There were a couple of sequences that briefly held interest, but they were few--and fleeting.  Don't waste your time renting, wait until it hits premium cable and then watch it--only if there is nothing better showing on another channel at the same time.  5/10 stars "},{"Title":"Better than average Schwarzenegger flick...","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ...but that's not saying much.  Very generic and predictable action film, but what more can you expect from this genre?  The only thing saving this movie from a lower rating are the special effects, some of which are amazing. "},{"Title":"Bombed!!!","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I had heard that this movie was terrible but I had to watch it anyway.  I was very disappointed in this movie considering the fact that it was supposed to be Arnolds comeback movie.  And he came back to a movie like this one?  I cannot see Arnold in this kind of a role and when I see him in it acting serious in a movie like this, it makes me want to laugh.  The movie plot about the devil child is bad as well as the phony props and special effects that are just as lame.  Arnold could have come back to a better movie than this one.  He should stick with being a villain instead.  I give it a 2. "},{"Title":"* 1/2 stars Arnold really needs acting lessons!!","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  End of Days should have been a better end of the world movie but you just waste your time knowing the outcome. Arnold is such a bad actor in this, no wonder he is so good in the Terminator movies- he doesn't have to act that much. The movie is just to show more violence and blowing up things.PLOT The Devil comes to the Earth every 1000 years to plant his seed in a chosen woman to give birth to the anti-christ. Arnold is a cop who must stop Satan before he can impregnate the girl and destroy the world.VIEWS Just an overall bad movie. Arnold has been in such better movies than this. The script was dull and the outcome could have been guessed without seeing the movie. Gabriel Byrn as the Devil is good in it, but looked kind of bored, probably wondering what he was doing in this movie in the first place. If you really want to see a movie about the Anti- Christ that will give you the willies, see Damien- 1, 2 or 3SCENES TO WATCH FOR Not worth mentioning. ugh "}{"Title":"Arnie struggles in a serious role.","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Months before the UK release of End of Days, my friend and I agreed that one of Arnie's puns (of which he has had so many throughout his illustrious film career) would be to tell Satan to go to Hell. After such abominable failures as Jingle All The Way and Junior (remember - I don't know if it is a boy or a girl, so I will just call it Junior!), Schwarzenegger marks a brilliant return to form, albeit without the lame jokes and the bulging biceps. He seems to have made an about-turn in his approach to making films, although to some extent it is sad to see the Arnie of old leaving - he seems incapable of handling serious roles because of his inane stupidity and sheer size. Still, in the short-term, this particular film was pretty good - SFX were startling in places, Gabriel Bryne was brilliantly casted as the Devil, and the whole set up was consequently infinitely better than Arnie's last incarnation, Eraser. "},{"Title":"The usual Arnold film...","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arnold Schwarzenegger is back to show his biceps...and this time, his christianity...and believe me, the result is pathetic. Arnold is not so bad in this film, and Gabriel Byrne is good most of the times...he's not bad in End Of Days. The story was pretty stupid, and we didn't have any explanation of the religious rites in the church...and the action was so lame that I was laughing. The film is about a baby that is chosen to be the devil's wife...and later, Arnold meets the young woman the baby became...but the girl doesn't want to be his wife...so they fight the devil...Peter Hyams is not a very good director, and he proved that status by making Timecop and End Of Days and other films I don't know the title...Even action fans will probably be disappointed. And can I ask you why so many people said it was violent? Maybe they should see Braindead (also known as Dead Alive, don't worry, I said it, Funky A )) and see what violent means. Even the special effects were not good at all...I hated this film, and I don't understand a VERY IMPORTANT part of the ending...Bad, stupid, lame, cheesy, crappy...that's what End Of Days is. A TRUE WASTE OF TIME...AND MONEY. Maybe it should have been at the Razzies fest.. I give it 39%. "},{"Title":"Satan foiled, but only temporarily!","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I had the preconception of Arnie beats Satan, give me a break!  But the story works, although there's lots of holes as you might expect in an action film.  View this film with no expectations except being entertained by the acting, effects, and of course Arnie's one-liners, and you will be entertained.  Go to see this film expecting something deeper, a tight story, a good simulation, then you'll be severely disappointed.And, by the way, Arnie doesn't kill Satan - he only delays him for 1,000 years.  That may seem a lot to you, but to an immortal I expect its just a hiccup.Gabriel Byrne is excellent in this film, which I gave 8/10 "},{"Title":"Expertly crafted action powerhouse","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This powerhouse is an expertly crafted supernatural action flick.  It is the story of Satan's attempt to rise and destroy the world as we know it by mating with a woman and producing an offspring.  We see the birth of the chosen baby girl as the pope and cardinals, who have read the signs, plan to find her and protect her from Satan.  The film jumps to the present and we are introduced to Jericho Cane (Arnold Schwarzenegger) and an adult Christine York (Robin Tunney), Satan's intended.  The devil takes control of an investment banker's body (Gabriel Byrne) and with the aid of his sycophantic followers proceeds to stalk Christine for the mating ritual.  Meanwhile Jericho finds Christine and assigns himself as her protector.  The rest of the film is one big chase scene, as Jericho and Christine run from Satan as well as the clerics who want to kill her to prevent the union.The story is pretty flimsy.  It is really nothing more than a vehicle for Arnold to strap on some firepower and wreak mayhem in his return to the action genre.  In the featurette included on the DVD, writer Andrew Marlowe states flat out that he wrote this script specifically for Arnold.  But WOW, as vehicles go, this was a supercharged nitro burning dragster of a movie.Peter Hyams puts together some of the best action footage I can remember.  Overall, his photography was fantastically potent.  The technique, camera angles, lighting and use of filters to create various effects were all terrific.  But more importantly, his pace was excellent.  This film never lets up.  There are rest stops from the action, but no real lulls.  The visual effects in this movie were outstanding.  There were pyrotechnics, digitally created creatures, and exploding models that were so realistic that I didn't pick up they were models until I checked out the bonus features on the DVD (The bonus pack was great.  It included a fascinating section on how all the visual effects were produced).  The sound design was also excellent (though a bit overly loud at times) and made full use of all five speakers.Schwarzenegger returns to top form as undisputed king of the action genre.  There was much speculation that, after his heart surgery, if he acted at all it he would be relegated to nothing more strenuous than roles like &#145;Kindergarten Cop'.  This film completely removes all doubt.  Arnold is pumped back up and takes on his biggest challenge yet, in a physically demanding role fighting a foe that can't be killed.  That doesn't mean he doesn't try, pouring out projectiles like a fountainhead of fire.  This part was written in a way that made Arnold's character a lot more human; actually fighting off despair.  He handled this nuance extremely well.This is probably Robin Tunney's biggest part in a feature film and she does a nice job.  Her character didn't have a lot of range; just look scared, upset and helpless and make Arnold look strong.  She did this well, helped considerably by how petite she is compared to Arnold.I thought Gabriel Byrne took the wrong approach to his character.  He is a terrific actor, but he played this role a bit too flippantly, like a sardonic wise guy rather than the evil prince of darkness.  Also, his New York accent was an awful attempt to hide his charming Irish brogue.Viewers should use discretion before seeing this film.  Anyone who is put off by gratuitous graphic violence, gore, nudity, profanity and sexual situations should avoid this film.  But this film is a must see for action fans and especially for Arnold fans.  I rated it an 8/10 in spite of a weak story. "},{"Title":"Another Arnold Blow 'em Up","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The opening of the movie has a cultish feel to it which lingers throughout the movie.  Arnold plays the same old unstoppable good guy that has almost become cliche for him.  After the opening the movie plays like Lethal Weapon with hints of Ghostbusters & Die Hard.  It then turns to a Silence of the Lambs and ends almost exactly like Resident Evil 2 for the Playstation.  Over all I feel like Byrne played the devil to near perfection.  Tunney takes her top off for the role, but it doesn't add anything to the movie.  The only reason to get this movie is if there is NOTHING left to watch or you've already seen every movie at the video store.  "},{"Title":"Fun and wicked","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Andrew W. Marlowe wrote a very good script about a girl named Christine York (played by excellent as always Robin Tunney), whowas born when the stars were in a particular allignment that meant she was the woman who would bring about the End of Days when satan came to earth on the eve of the new millennium to impregnant her with his son. Of course, because of this, all the religious freaks are out to kill her - not with cop Jericho Cane (Ahnuld) on the case. He protects her, guarding her and even keeping her hidden when he is being tortured by Satan himself, played with cunning sharpness by Gabriel Byrne, who has had a great year with religious thrillers (the stunning 'Stigmata' with Patricia Arquette, and this). A favorite scene of mine is early on, when Gabriel goes to the bathroom in a restaurant to go to the bathroom, then washes up, only to be thrown around and posessed by the Beast. With Satan now in him, Gabriel walks out to his table, where his colleagues await him, and he grabs ahold of the woman's breast, plants a hard passionate kiss on her lips, then walks outside -- the whole place EXPLODES behind him as he walks off with a smirk on his face. That's Satan for you! I appreciated the color schemes used in this film, and loved the eerie cinematography - great use of angles in the hospital room after Satan has crucified priest Thomas to the ceiling, using medical scissors. Some look at this film as a simple Ahnuld action flick. They're missing the whole point. "},{"Title":"A little different for Arnold","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  For years I have been an Arnold fan of just about everyone of his films. I am not saying that they were all great, but I liked the action he provided for a movie.The story line seemed a little too typical for this type of movie. You have an ex-cop who lost his family to a bunch of bad cops. He wants to die. He is a heavy drinker. Now working as a security agent, he somehow gets wrapped up in an investigation that deals with the protection a girl from Satan. Anyone in their right mind would know how this movie was going to end.This was a very different direction for the type of work Arnold has previously done, which in a sense is good. Rather than doing all his films as someone who is always so sure of himself. He takes the part of a drunken ex-cop, who is angry at the world and would rather die than go on. Could this mean that we will start to see a more serious side to Arnold? Maybe a drama with out any guns involved? Don't know about that, but you never know. "},{"Title":"Just barely okay for an Arnie fan","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have liked most of Arnold's films for their action and stunts. I even liked last action hero. EOD, however, did not give me what I want in an Arnold movie. Most of the action seemed to be merely explosions. The movie suffers from the major plot hole of all movies with the Devil as an antagonist. He is all powerful, raining death and destruction everywhere, yet can't seem to rid himself of Arnie. "},{"Title":"Arnold's best since T2.","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was da bomb sh#t.It's one of of my favorites of all time,great acting by everyone phat special effects.It was what it promised to be a creepy action film and the action didn't disappoint.Great musical score eerie and haunting.Some things were disturbing though especially the baby being baptized in snakes blood. "},{"Title":"Another movie based on the words of the bible...Arnold is the only good part.","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If i wasn't an arnold fan this movie wouldn't have made my top 10,000 list. it's just another movie based on the words of the bible.  special effects were good, acting was good, storyline was ok at best.  the way the clues were stumbled upon were pathetic.  it really makes the whole movie no good because of the nonrealism it presents.  they really could have came up with better ways to find the girl and the problem.  near the end when arnold is taken down from the cross and goes to find the girl and satan again, he uses a computer to find the plate number and somehow there must be a homing device or something on the car because with just that plate number he is able to find the exact location of where the car's parked.  i mean come on. that's just one incident.  it's worth checking out if you're an arnold fan, but otherwise don't waste your time. "}{"Title":"Arnold's back on top of the action scene","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arnold Schwarzenegger and Gabriel Byrne are one of the best combination of actors to be put in the same movie together following the likes of Newman and Redford.Byrne is such a fine actor in this role, he reminded me a lot of Al Pacino's cunning and convincing role as the devil in The Devil's Advocate. I was impressed with the way that Byrne carried himself throughout the film.There has to be a good villain to have a better good guy. This cliche is only half accurate because while Arnold is the best at what he does, Byrne upstages him a lot in this film.Adding to this underrated and spectacular film are the performances of Robin Tunney, Kevin Pollak and Rod Steiger along with unbelievable special effects.The special effects were spectacular and eye opening at wonderful and convincing the sequences were. In addition, the plot equaled the effects in that they went together perfectly and very convincing all the way around.  "},{"Title":"Arnold still looks good","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  As you would expect, there is plenty of great action in this film.  Arnold doing what he does so well.  I found plenty of humor in End of Days as well and that was great.  Just a little too sappy for my taste.  It seemed to be trying to be all things to all people. The special effects were pretty good and the suppporting cast, especially Gabriel Byrne were believable. But the story line is weak and I felt the writers took the easy way out.  I wanted to know, for instance, where all the other religions of the world were while the catholics were trying to save us all from the devil.  Weak.  I found lots of other weaknesses in the story but to comment on them might be considered spoiling.I rated this film 5 - for Arnold, Kevin Pollach, Gabriel Byrne and the special effects crew.  It's an actioner and the action was great!  Most Arnold fans will like it.  Just dont expect it to answer any of you questions about.... Well, you'll see.  "},{"Title":"Great movie ruined by bad acting Ahhhnold","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  (Spoiler included perhaps)I kinda liked this movie, but more because Gabriel Byrne is such a great actor, however Arnold is as stupid as ever.  Portraying himself just as badly as he did in Last Action Hero.  He's one guy I just wish would go away.  Kinda like how some people claim to want Kevin Costner and Demi Moore to go away (though the movies those two have done are usually done better) Heck Demi Moore's movie The Seventh Sign is so much better than this movie.  Oh sure they used computer anime to describe a three way sex scene that fused into one.  That was a rather weird scene anyway.  The comment that this movie is scarier or more haunting than The Exorcist is hardly apt.  Meaning, if End of Days was scary, then The Exorcist must been a comedy.  While I do like Gab, who does a great job playing the man downstairs (you don't think the devil has a sex???) I do find that this good thought as a movie was ruined by Arnolds talentless shuffle.  Going so far as to pull the Terminators weapons and put them in this movie...  That part was so laughable.  I'll give this movie a 5 out of 10. Better movies on this subject I like would be either Stigmata, The Seventh Sign or The Devil's Advocate. "},{"Title":"A fine addition to your Ah-nuld library","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After having read mixed reviews of End of Days I wasn't too sure what to expect.  I've always been an Arnold fan and looked forward to his return to the big screen.  The subject matter and story-line are not your usual action fare so there will be some that may be disappointed, but for those that enjoy a detour from the accepted formula, you're in for a real treat. Visually the film is excellent.  It's dark but this film needs to be dark. As for the sound, I would have liked a bit more punch in some areas but it is still very good.  I was pleased that Arnold's character was flawed and had emotional and spiritual issues that he struggled to deal with.  This created a deeper and more interesting hero.  Gabriel Byrne puts in a wonderful performance and pretty much steals the show - he IS evil.  The special effects are another show stopper as well.  While there are your standard explosions and gunplay, there are also scenes that will have you wondering how the heck did they DO that!  There are some I saw that coming moments but they don't detract from the story unless that's a pet peeve of yours.  For parents there are some brief sexual scenes and a bit of sexually oriented language so this is not one for the kiddies.  Certain religious scenes may also be confusing (and possibly disturbing) to younger viewers as well.  It is rated R for a reason.  Bottom line this is absolutely worth a look, rent it and decide for yourself.  You'll either love it or hate it - personally I bought it the next day. "},{"Title":"Decent action flick, except for one thing Arnold vs. God just don't work.","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  You've seenArnold vs. bodybuildersArnold vs. alienArnold vs. Arab terroristsArnold vs. barbariansArnold vs. robotsArnold vs. the RussiansArnold vs. kindergartenersand even Arnold vs. the Martian atmosphere.Here at long last is the ultimate - Arnold vs. God! Sort of. Maybe it's really Arnold vs. the devil. Arnold vs. Religion!?!  Maybe it's my Christian upbringing clouding my judgement, but if the Bible says, there will be (fill-in-the-blank), there ain't much that can be done about it, pumped up or not.What you have here is actually a decent little action/mystery flick except it plays with a subject that usually can't be played with -  THE END OF THE WORLD as prophesied in the bible. OK, so the writer(s) wrote in a little loop-hole (IF and only IF the devil consummates his marriage the end will begin) that gives Arnold a chance, but still....it bothered me that there was even any attempt made to change what's supposed to be inevitable, loop-hole aside.Ignoring the religious aspect, if you can, End of Days is a decent flick, which is why I give it a 6. "},{"Title":"Cliche, cliche, cliche, EXPLOSION, cliche...","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  To sum it up  Bad dialog, huge plot holes, underdeveloped, cliche ridden characters, and a totally predictable ending.  If you like to watch things blow up(seemingly at random), you will like this movie.  Otherwise, stay away. "},{"Title":"I'll be back and this might be it!","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arnold Schwarzenegger is on the right track with this one.  I had only seen the previews on the TV and wanted to see it when it first came out, but missed it at the box office. Its just been released on VHS and DVD and I took the chance to buy on DVD.  I enjoyed watching it and did not get the feeling that I had been there and done that.  I had read some of the other reviews here at IMDB and everyone has a right to their own opinion, but if there is anything that could be said against the movie is, that the character of the Devil is watered down.  At times, watching the character was like seeing a Vampire horror movie and none of the blood suckers had fangs. I do not blame Gabriel Byrne for this, he is a fine actor and i'm sure he did the best he could with what the script would allow. Arnold is still one of my favorites and with this movie, he shows me why. "},{"Title":"Commando meets Rosemary's Baby, ughhhh.","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Who talked Arnie into this one? Forget about his limited acting ability, the script alone sank this one from the start. This movie is so bad, it makes Raw Deal, Red Heat, and Commando look like good cinema. The screenwriter managed to rip off an impressive number of past plot devices yet he still couldn't even maintain continuity within his own cannabalized story.(How come Satan's regenerative powers stop working towards the end?) This movie has absolutely no redeeming qualities whatsover,even the gratuitous nude scene with Tunney left me irritated because while there was no need for it whatsoever, they shot it like they didn't want it to seem exploitative.(Maybe that was the actress's idea.)Stay away from this pathetic waste of Hollywood millions.  "},{"Title":"Okay, I liked it.","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I really like this movie.  I am not sure why but I think it has to do with the whole religion genre.  Arnold Schwarzenegger, who is supposed to play an alcoholic, does an okay job of acting.  However, because Arnold is soo in shape, I found it difficult to believe that he is an alcoholic (no bear gut, he was just not clean shaven, this does not make me believe alcoholic, it makes me think. . .gee this guy doesn't like to shave).  Gabriel Byrne the handsome Irish man does a Magnificent job, as usual!  What an interesting move to go from a priest in Stigamata to the Devil in End Of Days!  He plays both parts with amazing belief.  Although, I do wish they had decided to have Mr. Byrne play Lucifer with a thick Irish accent emphasis on thick. No one would every think the Devil would be Irish.  American, yeah but not Irish!  I was on the edge of my seat on several occasions, so I am going to have to say that this movie was good entertaining fun! "},{"Title":"Great action film","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Why has this film gotten a bad rep, I just rented it on DVD and I enjoyed the film.  People need to learn how to just enjoy a film.  Satan is protected by body guards because he knows people will be trying to take his life because there are rules to this remember this isn't the after life any more but the real world so if he gets shot than Satan can't live in his body that he took in the first place. Again if Arnie doesn't protect the girl Satan will impregnate her thus giving life to the anti-christ so now tell me where's the motivation to protect the girl somebody has to do it.The film is great if people just actually watch it and actually think for once in their pitiful lives instead of being like mindless zombies. The use of set colors, lighting, and textures did give the movie a wonderful appearance especially the score music which was wonderfully done. Also for once he played a down and out cop trying to commit suicide because he lost his loved ones, where's the harm in that premise. So the big guy shows feelings thats typically what humans do. It's only a movie so try to think how someone might feel if you had went through what Arnie had by losing your family they had loved, wouldn't you too try to reconnect with your loved ones by touching some of their personal items.Bottom line a good action flick with lots of explosions just like any other Arnie flick but thats what is great about his action films and throw in the supernatural and you've got a fun film, 3 out of 5! "}{"Title":"Overblown Stupidity","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  End of Days(1999) is one of the worst action/horror movies that I've ever seen.  First, it relies too much on special effects and less on stuff like style and atmosphere.  Second, it is an attempt to replicate Rosemary's Baby without that's film's implicit and psychological horror.  Third, the horror scenes are not that scary and definitely not creepy.  This is the worst movie of Arnold Schwarzenegger's career. "},{"Title":"Overblown Stupidity","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  End of Days(1999) is one of the worst action/horror movies that I've ever seen.  First, it relies too much on special effects and less on stuff like style and atmosphere.  Second, it is an attempt to replicate Rosemary's Baby without that's film's implicit and psychological horror.  Third, the horror scenes are not that scary and definitely not creepy.  This is the worst movie of Arnold Schwarzenegger's career. "},{"Title":"Arnold plays a human being for once....fine action film. SPOILERS","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  END OF DAYS was about a private security specialist who stumbles onto a roman catholic plot to kill a man who has been possessed by the devil in December of 1999. The devil wants to soil his loins so to speak, so he can produce the....well, er, antichrist. The object of his affections isn't exactly thrilled by the prospect (no it's not Arnold!). The woman who lives in fear of the devil and his wayward glance is a young college student. Gradually, arnold gets enlisted to help protect her from the devil, his cult fanatics, and the evil UDO KERR. The end of this film is rather deep and is a commentary on the human condition. In the end, the devil is bodiless and decides to fulfill his evil scheme using arnolds body. Ultimately, the final battle is WITHIN arnold. Let's call this sequence the last temptation of arnold. Arnold must battle his own inner wants and needs when the devil hijacks his psyche. Everyday people decide whether to do good or evil....sometimes it's as simple as deciding whether to shoplift a item from a story....many other times it's profoundly worse. Arnold comes to a resolution that combines the biblical parables of he who lives by the sword dies by it and greater love hath no man than to lay his life down for a friend. The end is really deep and I was suprised to get such depth from a awnold movie. Overall,  the film is entertaining fluff....one more note, there is a scene in which the devil tempts Arnold that is absolute genius. "},{"Title":"Underrated Arnie flick","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Sure it's not the best action movie, but director Peter Hyams packs in all the high kinetic action he's known for.  Arnold soars as a burnt out hired gun who takes a gig to protect&#133; Satan!  When he finds out his boss' identity, the tension builds as he trades blows with the forces of darkness.The violence in this one is pretty intense, as previous Hyams films have proven to be.  Gabriel Byrne is awesome as the devil incarnate, and Schwarzenegger is again at the top of his game.  If films where demons blow up cars with their urine or attack people in churches is not your cup of tea, try something else. "},{"Title":"A nothin' film","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of many films which cost heaps of money to make, have one or two well known actors in it, and rely largely on action scenes and special effects. The problem is, the special effects are not brilliant, so audiences just go, Yeah, so a restaurant blew up- I've seen it before. Films such as 'Titanic' and 'The Matrix' astound people, and can somewhat justify the exorbitant costs that go into making their special effects. This is simply another action flick which few can muster up the energy to get involved in. Especially when the plot is so crappy. The only commendable aspect of this film is Gabriel Byrne's portrayal of the devil, but still, the script he has to work with is so poor, that he cannot save this waste of money. And what about the climax of the film, when Satan has about 15 seconds left to impregnate the girl. The audience is supposed to be on the edge of their seats, wondering if he'll do it, but all they're thinking about is how on earth Satan is going to root her in 15 seconds. They would have had to speed the film up to Benny Hill pace. That actually would have added to this outstandingly mediocre film.  "},{"Title":"Oh well...","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I must admit that I felt a twinge of excitement at the prospect of a film that combined three of my favourite things; Catholic apocalyptical, the Y2K scare, and Arnold Schwarzenegger.  I have always had a soft spot for Arnold and action films and so I waited in rapt anticipation of the opening of End of Days.  I was not expecting Shakespeare mind you, just a solid supernatural/action/thriller.  Instead, I got this film.I don't actually know when this film went wrong.  I think it was probably at the level of screen-writing, but I can't say that the directing was all that good either.  This film was painful to watch almost from the beginning; it never built to anything... just one scene after another with no conception of flow or even continuity.  Where were the massive crowd scenes (like in Strange Days), where were the scary parts, maybe even some gore, or some moralising (this was, after all, a film based on Christian mythology).  The best way that I can describe this film is that it contained a bunch of interesting elements, but never bothered to work them together in a satisfying way.  None of the ideas ever seem to touch each other, and Arnold is left in the middle holding the bag.Also, as a side note (and I am NOT one of those sticklers who feels the need  to criticise films for their lack of historical accuracy; I don't care if they use the right type of sword in Braveheart, as long as the film is good)  Why do movie makers find the need to make films about Christian Apocolyptical and then IGNORE the actual Christian ideas?  A film based on actual Christian mythology (like The Excorcist) would have been far more interesting than what  they made up for End of Days.  Christian mythology is FULL of all kinds of neat story ideas that never seem to get plumbed by the people who make these movies.... oh, well. "},{"Title":"Classic Arnold","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  First and foremost this is not a great movie, nor is it a good movie, however if you are an Arnie fan and recognise the Schwarzenegger films are a genre all of their own and you make exceptions for a lot of the over the top situations this is a really entertaining movie. During his 2 year absence I was in denial for some real mindless action it was so bad that I even watched Batman and Robin a couple times (and enjoyed it) just to see Arnie. But enough about him, considering that you are a Schwarzenegger fan and thoroughly enjoy movies like Eraser EOD is everything you would expect with some surprises but is very cheesy especially coming down to the finale. Gabriel Byrne is the most charismatic Satan I have ever seen he is just wicked in this movie and Udo Kier is his creepy self.  "},{"Title":"Exactly what you would expect from Arnold.","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I don't see why so many people gave this film such a bad rap.  It is exactly what one should expect from an Arnold film.  I liked the fast paced action even if it was a bit predictable.  Gabriel Byrne was excellent as the Devil as well.  I highly recommend this film to anyone who just wants a good ride. "},{"Title":"Arnold's darkest and most challenging role","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I watched End of Days last night with my son, and it left me conflicted and yet satisfied.  Having survived the millennium intact, probably eliminated a little of the mystery of this film.  There was a lot of madness leading up to that event, and this movie was certainly taking advantage of that mentality.  But nothing really happened on that night, and so all the movies about the possible tragedies of the millennium seem almost silly.This was by far Arnold's darkest movie.  The scenes in the home of the crazy priest who was trying to kill the Satan character were right out of Seven, or even Summer of Sam.  Dark, dank and very ugly places that you wouldn't wish on a heroin addict, let alone a priest portrayed as the hand of God.  There was a relentless darkness to this part of the movie.The chase scenes seemed to wear me out.  Maybe I prefer watching chases in San Francisco.  They are always very exciting.  This was by far Arnold's most challenging role.  He took on the role of anti-hero, an area usually ruled by Bruce Willis.  Arnold was an alcoholic, bitter man, who tried to turn it all around throughout the movie.  Arnold pulled it off for my dollar.  The ending was uplifting, even agonizing.This was a difficult movie to put my finger on.  I got all of the action that I normally expect from Arnold, but just a little too dark for my taste.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing....to say the least.","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When I saw the teaser poster for this film in the middle of July '99, I could hardly contain my excitement.  There was something about the mood created in the artwork that told me that this would not only be Arnie's triumphant return to cinema, but a breakout role for him as well.  BOY, WAS I WRONG!!!!  What I had hoped this film would be was an insightful journey into the mind of a man who's lost his faith in God, and must fight Satan, evil incarnate, at the same time.  I was hoping that after the guns didn't work, Jericho would turn inward and find something within himself that could defeat the Devil.  Sadly, throughout the entire film, we find Arnie in his A Bazooka Solves Everything mode as he goes after the girl, armed to the teeth and ready to blow the head off of any malevolent deities that get in his way.  YAWN.  The climax of the film is the most disappointing of all. The depiction of the Satan creature was trite and cliched, and the way Arnie defeats him was SOOOOO lame.  The suspense was minimal, and even the one-liners were hard to swallow.  Honestly, Gabriel Byrne's performance is the only thing that saved this film, in my opinion.   "}{"Title":"a very good movie","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arnold is back & this time he battles the worst intity-Satan. I was hoping he would do a movie like this & my wish came true. This is very good. It has cool 1-liners like--2 me, u r nothing but a choir boy.I loved the gore here. The skateboard kid had it coming. The cruxifictions. The ending was good but kind of sad in a way. Its worth seeing & having 4 any Arnold fans. Those who liked his stupid comedies should stay away. I warn u. "},{"Title":"Better not listen to the dialogue","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I hate it when Arnie tries to act deep and mournful. He can't do it, it's as simple as that. There's way too much of it in this movie to even take it as one should take it as an action-comedy.This film was a bit a of a disappointment. Arnie hadn't acted in a good action movie since Eraser, and I was looking forward to some great fun. But this film took itself too seriously.Other than that, it is extremely well made, with a light and an ambiance that reminds me of Seven and other, creepy movies. Well done. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This has to be one of Arnold's best movies. It contains scenes of intense on the edge of your seat action and some very tense scenes, but these are always broken by Arnold's hilarious one liners (e.g When the priest tells him that if the devil can't have sex with the girl by midnight, he is banished for another 1000 years, and Arnold breaks the seriousness with the comment of Is that Eastern Standard Time?) now that is what i meant by hilarious. Over the past 10 or so years Arnold has come out with some shocking movies but this makes up for most of them, except for maybe The last action hero anyway i hope that this means that he is on his way back up the hollywood corporate ladder and will be churning out some other great movies.  "},{"Title":"Schwarznegger explores dramatic acting and things blow up.","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  'End of Days' is an incredible return to the industry for an icon of the action film genre.'End of Days' features an incredible score, lots of explosions, and Arnold's first faltering steps in the field of drama. Arnold plays an anti-hero with surprisingly human failings and relationships, shattered by the death of his family and actively suicidal.I applaud the industry for allowing him to break out of the mold cast for him. "},{"Title":"Arnold is back with a great movie","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  End of Days is one of the best movies I've seen this year. After the release of this film many people thought that it was a failure because it was based on a script that wasn't original. I must admit that I went to this movie with a heavy heart but after I saw it I was completely surprised. In MHO the special effects, the way in which the actors played their parts, especially Arnold, and the ending are the strong points of this movie. My favourite part is the ending, a very emotional ending, which I think is even better then the ending of Terminator 2. In two words End of Days is an exceptional movie.      "},{"Title":"Just awful!","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Just to warn you, I may be a bit harsh, but this is how I felt.I did not want to see this film in the first place, but my fiance insisted on it. So off we went. We were shocked how bad the film was. Here are what's wrong with the film. 1) No plot-the main point is simple, the girl has to get away from the satan. Not much else of interest to the story. No twist, no surprise. 2) Weak characters - no one interesting. Arnie holding a music box and crying was just silly. Satan didn't seem very overwhelming for a satan. Don't get me wrong, I like Arnie. And the guy who did Satan as well. But they had no chance to develop their character at all throughout the film. Other characters are hard to remember. The girl was nothing very special either. 3) No development - things just happen. There is little struggle for the girl, considering that she just found out how horrible her situation was. There is no reason at all why Arnie had to risk so much to save this girl. None. The relationships between characters never develop either. 4) No scripts - no good lines, nothing witty. All there really was, lots of explosions and running around. Nothing else. This film was waste of money and resources. Don't bother to check it out. "},{"Title":"First of all...I liked it.","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  First of all...I liked it. End of Days brings forth an end to those days of wondering where has Arnold Schwarzenegger been. Well, Arnold's back. This movie is about the end of 1999 and the behind the scenes struggle taking place between good and evil. While we are all worried about bank cards not working or wondering if they'll have gas at McDonald's so we can still get a burger...others (at like the Pope's level) are worried about the devil getting loose and wrecking havoc for the next 1000 years. While watching this film, I kept thinking where are all the records? Someone had to have taken notes of what happened the night 999 ended (I suggest we look for them near old Y1k compliant stickers). However Arnold is neither of the above, he doesn't care about his bankcard nor does he seem to worry about good vs evil. He just wants to have a few drinks, break a few heads, and make some cash. That is until he meets the devil. The devil has the nerve to get a bit arrogant with Arnold (imagine the gall) and in the process ticks him off. If the devil thought the Pope was gonna be tough New Years Eve, he couldn't begin to imagine what Arnold was going to do. This film is pretty good, but obviously some connecting scenes must have ended up on the cutting room floor...for example, we initally see a very visible local priest (played by Rod Steiger) who literally disappears from view by the film's end and we don't know why? Bottom line...End of Days is an action thriller that will keep your attention throughout....however, I think it may die out at the box office earlier than January 1st.  "},{"Title":"Arnie?","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is definitely NOT a typical Schwarzennegger movie, everything probably more resembles Bruce Willis or somebody else. Arnie doesn't play a can't-miss hero, and he isn't invincible. Overall, the movie isn't bad, but the problem is, it doesn't offer anything new. The plot has already been seen, Satan very much reminds me of T1000, and the effects aren't exactly ground-breaking. Come on, Arnie, make something splashy already!! "},{"Title":"It's not THAT bad...","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Okay, so this is not a master-piece. There are some good performances in it though, Gabriel (irony?) Byrne as Satan being the best one. The premise of the movie is not wrong. Arnold Schwarzenegger is cast as a drunk, who has all but given up on life. This may seem trite -- down-and-out man saves the world, but in my opinion this is entirely valid. Look at the world today. Schwarzenegger's character becomes the archetype of the fin de siecle human -- the person who is in a very dark place, because he/she can't see why things are how they are. In this version, the person finds his answer in faith, because this is a spiritual movie, action and F/X aside. The movie is in fact a powerful message Don't give up! "},{"Title":"No Miltonian epic","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Nothing could seem more black and white, more good versus evil than Arnold Schwarzenegger battling Satan. Alas, End of Days is anything but a simple straightforward action flick.   Confused, chaotic, and too complicated by half, you could say it's a very holely movie.Playing on our since-subdued millennial angst, End of Days is about Satan rising from the depths of hell to trigger the apocalypse just as the crystal ball in New York's Times Square hits bottom to mark the transition from 1999 to 2000.But the story centres on an alcoholic ex-cop turned body guard, played by the Austrian Oak, who, having lost his family to a gang of thugs, has abandoned all hope, all faith in humanity and in God,and is on the verge of suicide.Just as he's about to put a bullet in his noggin, his partner and side-kick knocks on the apartment door, not only inadvertently prolonging his life but putting him on a new assignment, to protect a slimy stock broker from some enemies he's made.Little do they know that said stockbroker is actually Satan, played by Gabriel Byrne, who is bent on impregnating the `chosen woman' and thereby open the gates of hell. Why a being so powerful as the Prince of Darkness needs bodyguards, let alone the body of a stockbroker to have sex, are just a few of the many head-scratchers.Leaps in logic aside, what's truly sinful is the lack of action -- both the good guy and the bad guy are surprisingly wimpy. What's a loser boozer doing taking on the Angel of Darkness? And why does it take no more than a few high-powered weapons to put ol' Beelzebub out of commission and resorting to plan B, which, strangely enough, is to coerce our hero to do the nasty on his behalf?The whole idea, the whole premise, is wrong, wrong, wrong.Instead of some maudlin and meandering search for the inner-Arnold, those behind this fiasco should have stuck with what Schwarzenegger does best -- action. Rather than casting him as a messed up drunk, why not as God's super-angel, sent down from the heavens to do battle with the forces of darkness? And instead of using New York as the setting, how about a location a little more synonymous with the End Time, say...Armageddon? (It's a real-live place, after all).In true Miltonian fashion, Arnold and his fellow guardians would wage epic war against the rebellious Beelzebub and his Army of Darkness, while we mortals huddle in our hiding places, peaking out every once in awhile to see who's smoting who with their flaming swords.Better yet, why not just forget the whole idea altogether and work on a sequel to Total Recall? "}{"Title":"Classic Arnold","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This might not have been Arnold's best movie but it was a great comeback for him.  It had great action but it falls behind Arnold's other movies like T2, Predator, and True Lies when it comes to the script.  However, End of Days had the all time best one liner of all Arnold movies.  When Arnold tells the devil that he is not scared of him and that he is a choirboy compared to him.  What a line!!! "},{"Title":"Arnold's Back","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Man is Arnold back in End of Days!  Sure this isn't the serious role that Arnold promised, nor is it a particularly well written film but in terms of wild action, great stunts and wicked FX, End of Days hits the mark. Essentially, it's a big budget, professional horror movie with Arnold going head to head with the prince of darkness (played with over the top relish by Gabriel Byrne), and not letting anyone stand in his way.  The film also stands as a personal triumph for Arnold, this being his first film after his heart surgery, well, he shows no signs of fatigue, this is the big guy we all know and love.  End of Days is his welcome return to the genre he helped create! "},{"Title":"Pretty good movie for Arnold's comeback.","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was entertaining it had explosions,gore etc. it's a pretty good movie for Arnold.I'm guessing this is first movie since Batman And Robin but.I liked Gabriel Byrne as the bad guy the only thing that bothered me is that they could have written it alittle better then it would be a masterpiece.End Of Days gets a B. "},{"Title":"Arnold Schwarzenegger's Best Movie Since True Lies!","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  End of Days was very good and without a doubt the best movie Arnold has made since True Lies. Schwarzenegger stars as Jericho Cane, an ex-cop, turned alcoholic who now works as a bodyguard for high priced lawyers. But after a priest tries to kill one of his clients, played by Gabriel Byrne, Jericho and his partner Chicago, played by Kevin Pollack, find themselves investigating a series of puzzling events.This leads them to believe that Satan has come back to Earth and intends to bring about the end of days by mating with a young woman named Christine York, played by Robin Tunney.The special effects were great, and the action scenes are very well done. The entire cast gave great performances. Schwarzenegger did a fine job with his role, and Gabriel Byrne was a very good Satan. On a scale from 1 to 10, End of Days gets a solid 10/10. So check it out while its still in theatres. "},{"Title":"An easy comedy for a nice evening.","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It was a surprise, indeed it was. I was expecting if not triumphant, but at least worthy comeback of Arnold Schwarzenegger. But his acting was disappointing, just as most of the crew's. The photographer's hand was quite relaxed, neither did the composer trouble himself with much work on this movie. Although the screenwriter obviously had much fun with it. I'd say movie's pieces were held together by Gabriel Byrne's brilliant acting. He really made it. "},{"Title":"Another Antichrist based Movie","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Well, I want to say that I´m very disappointed with this movie. I expect more about the script. It´s just another movie about the antichrist, with very spectacular fx but I have seen  The omen, parts 1,2 & 3 and this End of Days its about the same story. It´s not original. Besides the Satan interpreted by Gabriel Byrne could easily kill Schwarzenegger with his powers but, he always failed (I am talking about the subway scenes, when he killed at once the subway driver, but he always failed to kill Arnold). Just get away from this film . It is not worth to see it. "},{"Title":"A return to the good old days...?","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It would seem Arnie has finally come back with a film that people will actually want to see at the cinema, rather than waiting for the video.Although this is not that original a plot, broken hero saves World and soul at the same time, it is an interesting view of this premise, and quite happily delves into the darker side of human nature, and how easy it is to be swayed by a seemingly attractive proposition with no regard for how it may affect others, as one character puts it, It's amazing what you'll agree to when you're on fire, or words to that effect.One thing that always annoys me slightly about this type of film, is that the Devil always puts in an appearance, and strides the world with impunity, and yet Him Upstairs never seems to be on hand to do battle in person (I don't know, maybe Charlton Heston was busy...).However, if that was the case, there would be no film, and Arnie plays the part of saviour with a remarkable degree of dignity and intensity, with a very good supporting cast, especially Gabriel Byrne, who get's the mixture of charm and evil just right.Even if you're not an Arnie fan, or even an action movie fan, this film is worth seeing as it makes a worthy attempt to portray the battle between good and evil without overt displays of morality. I especially liked the end, although I won't spoil it by telling you about it!Nice one Arnie. "},{"Title":"A very thick Christian theme","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As a Christian who recently converted from Atheism, I would say that Non-Christians or Non-spiritual beings or physical/material beings would find this movie mediocre.I found this movie to be a nice blend of Hollywood cgi commercialism and somewhat holier-than-thou condescension.This movie can help those budding young Christians to forge their faith and visualize what they think about Christianity.What is noteworthy is the fact that in France it is R-12, while in New Zealand, R-18.  New Zealand seems quite conservative in rating a movie.  I would think this movie is okay for a 12-year-old.  Since the scenes are more of a Christian imagination, it would not adversely affect younger minds.If you are Christian or religious or spiritually minded, please do not miss this one.If you are none of the above, but still you like Arnie, again please do not miss this one.If you don't like Arnie, please do not bother to buy a ticket for this movie.Ciao. "},{"Title":"A wasted potential.  Tsk!","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This could have easily been a very good Arnie film, but I, like my friends, felt that the film's potential was wasted with very poor direction.  End of Days plays itself as a truly serious film yet the plot and its development doesn't allow us to take it seriously.  The characters are all not very developed.  I couldn't care Robin Tunney's situation of living for the past 20 years dreaming of making love with Satan.  Arnold plays the kind of broken hero that usually suits Bruce Willis, and he plays it well, too bad the script degenerates and doesn't allow further exploration.  The writers could have played up the Faustian deal some more by not making Arnie's character, who's supposed to have a lost faith in God, into a totally determined say no guy from the beginning.  Instead some silly stuffs have to crop up and taken seriously (and executed ineffectively) like the truth about 666.  Also plot developments happen and then never explained especially how is it that Thomas Aquinas could talk without his tongue.  The climax is obviously shoe-horned so that it is faith that will eventually defeat the devil.  Earlier in the movie, it is mentioned that the devil will choose a particular mortal to take over and only that mortal can impregnate Robin Tunney.  The movie Armageddon also had huge gaping plotholes, but at least the movie was fun.Gabriel Byrne's performance of Satan having a talk with Arnie is one of the highlights of the film.  It was a good scene although it begs comparison with a similar (and better) scene found in The Devil's Advocate. The verdict 2 of 5 stars.  I can't believe I enjoyed this less than Wild Wild West. "},{"Title":"Ex-cop protects young woman from Satan with pre-millennium procreation urges","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When remorseful, alcoholic, ex-cop turned security guard, Jericho Cain (Arnold Schwarzenegger) foils an attempted sniper attack on his super wealthy New York client, all hell, literally breaks loose.The assailant is a visionary ex-priest who believes Satan, in  Arnie's client's human guise, has returned to impregnate a young woman before midnight, December 31, 1999, to fulfill an apocolypse-related Biblical prophesy.Arnie kills the ex-priest but the subsequent investigation leads him on an extraordinary roller coaster ride - and race against time - into the supernatural and occult.* * *The premise at first is promising, but turns ludicrous and laughable as Arnie goes toe to toe with the Devil. At one point, Arnie spits, Compared to me, you're a choir boy!  End of Days follows the familiar format of movies such as The Prophesy and The Seventh Seal. While mostly entertaining it is ultimately overblown with gore and pointlessly, graphic violence.Everything is here in this dark Peter Hyams directed effort, but plausibility.5/10 "}{"Title":"Average movie, inspiring  other moviemakers","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There was a big hassle here around our Claude Lelouch's last movie, UNE POUR TOUTES, which starts exactly at the moment END OF DAYS ends (12/31/99, OO;OO), bug-permitting and no Devil around. I wonder who copied on whom? CL on Peter Hyams, or vice-versa? Anyway, END OF DAYS is another parabole involving Belzebooth, and it is amazing to see how the subject is mesmerizing the masses since the beginning of the cinema. More than 160 comments were dedicated to this one, so mine matters little good or bad, such movies always make money. Claude Lelouch grossed 150,000 entries in Paris, on its  3 first days.I wonder how much END OF DAYS rings on the cash register. henry caraso "},{"Title":"This film is dead.","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  End of Days is one of the most unsatisfying, underwritten, lifeless special effects films I have seen in years!  I expected some scares of sorts, but they never came.  I expected some occasional attention grabbers, but they too were nowhere to be found.  And it's sad to know that this is Arnie's attempt at resurrecting his film career.  It's not that this film is terrible, far from it.  It just had no life.  All the events in the film passed by me, without evoking some emotion or depth of feeling within me. It was as if I were watching inconsequential events pass me by.  I didn't hate End of Days, but I didn't necessarily like it either.  The idea of evil wanting to take over the world is not a new one.  The idea of Arnold battling a formidable foe is not original either.  Basically, End of Days is a movie made from 100% recycled scripts and films from the past.  What scared me about the film was that I didn't find myself caring about the characters.  I could totally give a s**t about the woman who is the chosen one.  I tried to feel something for Arnold, but I'll I felt was deep sadness that he couldn't have starred in a better film.  This film isn't even good enough to be considered an Arnold movie!  The religious/sacrilegious hogwash doesn't make the film any more interesting or shocking.  They already tried that with Stigmata, which was, I must say, a much worse film than this. That film was the purest essence of dried up dogshit!  What's weird about End of Days is that Satan is played by Gabriel Byrne, who played a priest in Stigmata trying to protect a woman from Satan.  Strange shifting of characters.  Anyway, this film left me totally unsatisfied and unhappy, especially the ending.  Not that it was bad, but merely, I got a feeling like, That's it?.  After all the buildup of an impending kick-ass confrontation between Arnold and Satan, the buildup never paid off.  There wasn't a real confrontation at all.  Regardless of all the special effects and colorful images splashed upon the screen, I felt like I was literally watching a rotting corpse.  A dead, decomposing film that dies out the more people see it.  Sad to say, End of Days may be the end of Arnold's career.  "},{"Title":"A very Good ARNOLD movie","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After reading all the reviews that said this movie sucked and Arnold is a terrible actor and blah, blah blah I knew I had to see it on the big screen. It did not disappoint me or anyone else there that I could tell. One note, for those people that go to an Arnold movie expecting to see acting at the level of Braveheart , GET A CLUE!!!!! That is not what Arnold does.What he does is KICK A** and throw out one liners and blow stuff up. This is a good action movie that will not let down any of Arnold's fans, did the people out there that did not like this think that Commando was unrealistic??Great effects, passable script, a very good Satan by Gabriel and Arnold doing what he does best make this a movie to see on the big screen. Solid 8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"This is an absolutely terrible movie","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was expecting End of Days to be a decent movie, what could have been an interesting movie turned into a typical action flick which has Arnie using lots of guns. Gabrielle was the only thing that saved this from total trash. 1/4 of the way through this movie I felt like leaving because at this point it was slow paced and had your typical chase/gunfight scenes. 2/10 (because of Gabrielle) "},{"Title":"Good for us this didn't happen!","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  In this movie, we find the classic action features, fun situations and Schwarzenegger playing the tough guy the way he knows very well how to do it. But this isn't everything about this film, besides, it contains some horror and suspense items that make it definitely a great entertainment. We have such a good actor like Gabriel Byrne playing the Devil, reminding me sometimes of Al Pacino on The Devil's Advocate, only that Byrne didn't develop the character that much, he just did whate he had to do and very well. Peter Hyams is on charge of directing and cinematography (as usual) making a good job, specially dealing with all those special effects. Acting in general isn't such a great thing, but anyway, the movie is a great entertainment and I recommend it for that. Believe me, it has some truly scary moments, and once again, thank God this didn't happen at all! "},{"Title":"Too much hype; not enough substance.","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was in the mood for an action flick as I saw the trailer a while back and it set great expectations for me. Mr. Schwarzenegger's visit to Australia in early December 1999 just added fuel to the interest level, as did all the hype about changing the plot to appease certain religious circles. Overall I thought that Mr. Schwarzenegger didn't exhibit the passion (i.e. the hunger) he presented in his earlier films and the acting of the other players was wanting; Mr. Gabriel Byrne has been much better is his other flicks like The Usual Suspects. Mr. Kevin Pollak saved the day however on the acting front. The screenplay and direction were below par; the special effects were OK. Given that the film was released a week or so ago, the size of the audience at the theatre was disappointing. I really hope that Mr. Schwarzenegger's next films will be better and I looking forward to seeing Total Recall 2 when it is released. "},{"Title":"How about buying a good script before you start?","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have to say that I went to this movie with fairly low expectations and unfortunately I was not wrong. Yes, the special effects are good as usual but if the producers had spent just a fraction of that money on a good script, this could have been something above average. I personally think that Arnold is wrong for this story. It requires a strong (i.e. charismatic NOT physically strong) actor to drag the main character into the story, and in my humble opinion he just doesn't pull it off. The rest of the cast is doing a good job.  Kevin Pollak (as the cynical partner) add a little extra to a roll that I personally would have liked to see expanded. Robin Tunney, C.C.H Pounder, Rod Steiger and Udo Kier all make good performances and Gabriel Bryne is excellent as the devil (when he is allowed to act the roll).Thus you have a (generally) good cast and a big budget so why doesn't this movie lift off? In my opinion it's because the story (and maybe the producers) doesn't dare to show things in more colors than Black vs. White. There is no gray scales whatsoever. Why is it that American films so often seem to think that Evil must be portrayed as an absolute evil? Bryne's roll should have been so much more convincing if he had been allowed to play it more dark gray. By giving the devil more of a human character you will actually be more scared of him since he will be less predictable and more like yourself.  There is an attempt to do this with the White side but unfortunately it fails, still that intention was good. (What could have made this even more interesting would have been to include a few atheists in some of the scenes, completely unaffected by the whole thing since it is based on faith...)So, if you feel that you have some spare money and like to see good special effects then maybe this movie is for you. However don't expect to be told a good story.  "},{"Title":"Arnold and Gabriel excellent combination","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you liked Stigmata you are gonna love End of Days Arnold is back and definitely for good the special effects and sound is expectacular as well as the performances; Gabriel Byrne is Satan and ARnold is a cop that lost his wife and daughter and has a dead wish, so he doesn´t believe in god anymore and Satan must have a babie with a chosen girl before midnight on December 31 1999 and Arnold will protect her for this not to happen; the movie is really serious and if you are an Arnold fan then you must see it, thank you for reading this and goodbye. "},{"Title":"The story is there but the acting isn't","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The movies plot was an interesting one. Especially coming up to the new millennium it really got viewers (including me) minds thinking. The whole story is about the devil coming to earth 3 days before the end of 1999. He then takes over the body of a new Yorker (Gabriel Byrne) and goes in search of his bride.Arnie somehow gets caught up in the action and is out trying to save this so-called bride from her end. Although he finds it hard and challenging I'm sure you all can figure out what happens in the end.So as you can see the movie does have the potential to go somewhere. But unfortunately the acting was terrible. Arnold Schwarzenegger tried his best but I think that this role was too much of an emotional role for Arnold to play. Kevin Pollack played Arnolds sort of sidekick in the movie, he was preety good at it due to him being able to put some humor into his role.Gabriel Byrne was by far the worst I have ever seen him. Not that I've even seen him in anything before. He didn't scare me for a second and I always thought that Satan was a dark scary character but in this he was a sex-freaked gambler.Overall I think it is just worth seeing but don't expect too much. If you are an extremely religious person then I warn you not to see it due to many people being hung by holes in both their feet and hands. In the end I gave 'End Of Days' a 6/10   "},{"Title":"Amazing But","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I Think That This film is great and amazing,especially the graphical design,but i wonder why to display erotic views. i hope to see such great films and i wonder how did the film team design the devil.and what about the End Of Days in real life?!!. "}{"Title":"The end of expectations","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  End of DaysThis is one of those movies that could have been one of the best pictures of this decade, but is instead a disappointment. And a big one. Arnold Schwarzenegger chose another fine script, and his acting, together with Tunney´s, is what keeps this picture from falling completely into the abyss. The Austrian Oak is now becoming a very good actor, at last. He has been improving enormously since he shot Eraser. He´s now showing other facial capabilities and does not rely so heavily on his physique anymore. As for the movie and its story... We´ve seen similar stories before, and some of those stories (particularly one with Demi Moore and Jurgen Prochnow, The SEventh Seal(??)) are very good, very effective.This one mixes two genres the religious mistery and the action thriller. Some may think these genres do not mix, but I think they can mesh perfectly if the director pays attention to details. That´s the problem with End of Days. A matter of details.ATTENTION THE FOLLOWING MAY CONSTITUTE SPOILERS...A matter of details. Yes. We can never believe this story is about the devil (who takes on a human body and has super-powers (absorbing bullets, going through seas of flames unarmed, surviving falls from 20 stories buildings) if the devil, and its human form, with its super-powers, cannot survive a train crash, or cannot avoid a fall from am high window...Sometimes he is superpowered, at other times he is not. It´s ilogic, and removes all credibility from the story.The director (Peter Hyams) chose a path dictated perhaps by merchandising or today´s trends bang-bang, noise-noise, non-stop physical action. He chose to shock viewers, to awe them, instead of making them think and climb to their seats in fear. The Devil pisses oil or gasoline, wow, he smashes heads with a single strike...he knows everybody´s thoughts but cannot foresee or know the location of the girl - he has to beat Arnold´s character up or has to lure him into a sentimental trap in order to get that information.Maybe it´s just me, but someone in Hollywood thinks we (the viewers) are not up to the task of understanding complex ideas in a movie, so that very powerful someone shoots us with shallow scripts and movies.The motiv of this picture is great, the beggining is also great...but all these things become of little importance when all the shooting begins and the Devil´s followers turn into an enormous mob out of the blue.Robin Tunney is very good in her part; Gabriel Byrne is an average devil (compare his intensity with Pacino´s in The Devil´s Advocate) - he is an outstanding actor - and the rest of the cast performs well.Special effects - solid, but normal.The soundtrack is very good and adds interest to the movie.The one thing that redeems the movie is the last scene Jericho fighting the devil the only way he can...The ending is superb, unlike the happy ending so common in Arnold´s movies.I rate it a 6 out 10. "},{"Title":"GABRIEL BYRNE STEALS THE SHOW!!","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arnold Schwarzenegger vs. Satan had the potential for so more. The movie was filled with false scares and the characters tried to be funny at times. The movie isn't that good but it isn't bad. Gabriel Byrne gives a stand out performance as the devil and many of his speeches were very true and thought provoking. The story is Arnold is Jericho Cane, an ex-cop trying to deal with the passing of his wife and daughter when he is called on to protect a girl who Satan needs to complete his evil plan when the clock ticks over to the year 2000. Big Budget film with lots of special effects used to get your attention. AN action packed movie Arnie fans will love this. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie, but not for everyone","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  One of the best action films I've seen in a long while. I can see however that the movie would not be everybody's cup of tea. The movie obviously has some heavy religious involvement (a fight with Satan! - what do you expect) but is a very intense movie. There are very few moments in the movie where you are allowed to catch your breath.People who hate Arnold, will hate this movie - people who don't mind him, or love him, will like this movie. If you''re looking for a cultural feast, go somewhere else. If you like action with a mix of supernatural, then you'll enjoy this movie.I've heard many say they were disappointed with the ending, however I thought it has been the best ending I've seen to any movie for ages. The ending IMHO is entirely appropriate and fits the movie perfectly. "},{"Title":"Year To Die *Or is it?*","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have just came back from seeing Arnie's latest outing and I must admit that it was quite worth my $8.00.This film is perhaps what Arnold was waiting for ever since the Terminator series, but kept himself busy by making other flouting films that were either quite passable or else a flop.Arnold plays his character with surprisingly good talent that made me feel just a little more sympathetic for his depressed  Jericho Cane, an ex-New York cop who lost his loved ones on Christmas Eve.But who really surprised me in this movie was none other than Gabriel Byrne, who portrays the Prince of Darkness with exciting flair, charm and sexual manner that makes you think Now THAT is a man/demon who isn't afraid to speak his mind. Nonetheless, another fine performance from Byrne.Kevin Pollock delivers a great performance as Canes' partner in arms, Chigago, providing some fantastic comic elements to the movie to loosen up the audience after one of the man tense sequences.Robin Tunney *most memorable as Sarah Bailey in The Craft* is Christine York, the doe-eyed damsel in distress who has been selected by Beezlebub to bear his child. Although she is not given much more to do other than look frightened or run screaming, she was quite good working with what she was given.So, with the new millennium coming up within less than 3 days, you could think of this movie as A) A sign of doom B) A welcome back vehicle for Arnie or C) A joy ride filled with good special effects, intriguing topics and actors having a ball playing their characters.I give End of Days **** out of ***** "},{"Title":"An entertaining way to end it all.","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If the World had to be saved I'd rather it were saved by 'Arnie' and if it had to end he'd certainly make it a more spectacular and entertaining finale. After wash outs like 'Kindergarten Cop' and a few other disasters in which our muscle bound star tried to unsuccessfully leave behind his action hero role, Arnold returns with an explosion of cinematic fireworks. Shades of 'The Omen' colour this very clever screenplay but whatever seed gave birth to the creative idea it still remains entertaining and attention grabbing from start to finish. This is what we go to see his films for. Good defeating evil. The bad guys getting their just deserts and loads of action. May the devil take the hind most, you'll like this one even if you aren't a fan. "},{"Title":"Watch out this New Years....","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw the trailer for this movie about a month ago and couldn't wait for it to be released here in Australia. I was surprised by  how packed the cinema was as the movie didn't receive much advertisement prior to the release.The movie wasn't only brillent for it's acting performances and special effects, but for it's tackling ways on making this movie seem real enough to make you believe that maybe this might happen this New Year.Arnold Schwarzenegger didn't impress me all that much in this movie although these are the only type of movies he is good at. His co-stars Robin Tunney and Gabriel Bryne, I thought did an excellent job. Gabriel Bryne surprised me the most as the evil Satan and it was a different side of his acting talent I had not yet seen.The script for this movie was shocking and very well thought out. It all made sense and surprisingly what Satan was saying made sense! It makes you think twice about God and his ways of life. It certainly made me think about it.I thought great story line and direction. Think about it Is the end of the World less then a week away?                                    "},{"Title":"Arnie's comeback","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I went to see this without expecting much, the critics have panned it and Arnie hasn't been up to scratch recently (Jingle All The Way, Batman & Robin), but it's Arnie - a big budget action flick.  I wasn't disappointed, Arnie was at his best, Gabriel Byrne as the Devil is excellent, Kevin Pollack as Arnie's partner was a great choice, and Robin Tunney as 'the chosen one' was great.  Stan Winston's effects were, as always, brilliant! It was well worth the money! "},{"Title":"Good film!","Date":"24 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Specially his sound and his music! Gagriel Byrne...I really scared me in some scenes! He does know how to do his job!. Better performance thanStigmata(1999) Arnold's movies are back and I would say maybe better than before. But... there was some scenes that I don't like because it seemed not to want to leave Hollywood style, but in general the movie was very good! "},{"Title":"Great expectations but...","Date":"24 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  End of Days was an all too common victim of over hype, which detracted from the film itself. This was one of Arnie's better pictures of late, not in the class of Terminator 2 or Eraser, but the closest he has done in a while. Substantial gore and special effects were balanced by an average-to-good acting performance from all concerned, Byrne in my eyes was a decent choice as The Dark Prince and he carried the part quite well. Full marks to Hyams for the unexpected ending, but it was not one that Arnie was suited to as viewers will no doubt see. The scene of Arnie taking on the mob in the alley and the temple scene evoked pleasant memories of Eraser and Terminator 2, but such parallels were too fleeting and too few. All in all, a decent movie, perhaps a little disappointing, but for what may well be Arnie's last foray into this genre (grey stubble throughout duly noted) not bad at all. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Tension grows - Schwarzenegger is back!","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A friend of mine said she had to close her eyes a few times because of the blood and guts.Well, there are, indeed, some blood scenes, but nothing Friday the 13th-ish. Special effects abound, the kind we are expecting to see from a Schwarzenegger movie. And there are some flaws in the plot, when he finds stuff a little too easily. Not to mention, of course, Arnold's somehow limited drama skills.Nonetheless, it's a great movie. Tension grows so intense you won't be able to move. There are almost no points where you can take a breath or relax - it's all either suspense or action. Great movie, go see it. And screw the critics - remember what they said about The Matrix?  "}{"Title":"GREAT MOVIEARNOLD'S BEST","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  End of days is indeed one of Arnold's very best movies with Arnold succeeding to portray a different image of relatively less powerful and strong person.Awesome special effects,great fight sequences and action are the high light of this movei.I thoroughly enjoyed this movie and congratulate Arnold on it's big box office success. "},{"Title":"Arnie's back and with a bang!","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Well he has been away for a couple of years but Arnie is back with a real bang. I took my girlfriend to see this movie and she jumped several times almost out of her seat.Well what would you expect? When you put together one of the biggest box office draws, Satan and lots of pretty impressive visual and sound effects. The story is pretty predictable but entertaining. Satan has returned looking for a bride who has been in safe keeping all her life for him to come and impregnate her. This is in order to bring the End of Days where he can walk the earth and rule supreme.It's a valiant effort to get Arnie into a more sophisticated character that does not just go around shooting people and blowing things up. He is actually trying to grips with himself much the same as Riggs is in the original Lethal Weapon. With a little more coaching I think that Arnie could have pulled it off. When we left my girlfriend and I commented that if the main character had been played by someone like Mel Gibson or Bruce Willis the film would have carried more weight to it.But having said that we thought that on the whole the movie was pretty good, so if you want to go out and be entertained by a good old action movie over the holiday period then End of Days is just the picture for you.  "},{"Title":"When it's good it's good. When it's bad it's pure cheese.","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When this film is good, then oh yes! it's good. When this film is bad, then holy s**t it's bad.Trouble is most of this film is bad.*** SPOILER ALERT ***1) No-one can EVER EVER outrun an explosion. 2) Why oh why, does Arnold have to fight the big bad cheesy monster?This is just an example.*** SPOILER ENDS ***If you like cheesy, corny, Michael Bay like bad films then this is for you!On the other hand, you could just save yourself £5 or so. "},{"Title":"In Too Much Of A Hurry","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Remember in True Lies when Arnie leapt onto that jump jet for yet another battle with the bad guys. This was at the end of a long film, when by all ordinary standards we should have been gladly on our way home, but somehow it worked - it was just more fun.	Well the End Of Days, the latest Arnold Scwarzenneger starring vehicle, lives and especially dies on the other end of the Arnie Spectrum. It takes only a few minutes to realise that this flick is rubbish and won't recover.	And it reportedly cost $100 Million U.S. to make! How can you spend so much money and come up with a dud?Just goes to show that the movie moguls aren't as smart as they'd like to have their share holders believe. I think that we can safely not blame Arnold Scwarzenneger. He's been in enough successful films and shown his wit and intelligence, not to mention his muscles, often enough to not slate this debacle to him.The Terminator films, True Lies, Twins,  Kindergarten Cop, Total Recall, The Last Action Hero, Junior and Predator have long established his screen presence and in particular his ability to gently mock himself.And it doesn't appear that Arnie has got too old for parts like the drunken ex cop/action hero he plays in End Of Days. He looks fine and doesn't look like he's lost his touch. But a woeful script, which gives the appearance of having been half completed, sank this sad ship well and truly.Perhaps the script was hurried because End Of Days is set in the last weeks of 1999 and to open in late 1999. I can right now appreciate the pressure of end of year deadlines!There isn't much that is new in this film. It's full of cliches. The devil is attempting to take over the world. This for some reason happens every 1000 years. In addition the insurrection has some ridiculous conditions.Satan has to sire a child with an appropriately anointed and prepared woman in the last hour before the end of each 1000 years. This allows Satan to be appropriately lascivious and in a hurry, a somewhat fraught condition. I'd expect you'd agree.He whooshes forth in something of the style of the Terminators well known to movie fans and then takes over a male body so that he can have congress with his bride.Scwarzenegger playing Jericho Cane (note the initials) gets mixed up in the deal when a crazed priest tries to kill the body in which Satan has chosen to do his evil deeds (played by Gabriel Byrne). Jericho Cane is some sort of unofficial, reluctant (Lethal Weapon) bodyguard.The woman (Christine played by Robin Tunney, The Craft) is of course young and pretty and you can see just where this film is going.There will be hooded priests (headed by Rod Steiger of all people) and a wise cracking sidekick for Arnie (the very good Kevin Pollack). A lot of the action will happen  in churches and the regulation, true, terrifying appearance of Satan will appear in front of the altar at the climax of the film. And of course Arnie will win.There were some good moments. Satan's description of God as a woeful under achiever with good Public Relations was cute and some of the fighting sequences were O.K. but there are major glitches and they destroy the enjoyment of the movie.Very often the action is just not believable. For instance there's an early sequence when Arnie is suspended on a rope from a helicopter while he chases a villain, but the surrounding crowd hardly seem to notice.The chopper is shot at from point blank range with almost no effect. A number of times gunmen lurch into the action from no where with alarmingly good timing.Again and again baseball bat wielding thugs appear strangely on cue and do almost nothing. It's sometimes like a badly worked out, inept, amateur theatrical presentation.And Satan seems to be able to alternately take major hits from bullets, throw big men across rooms, and then let himself be thrown out of a window!End Of Days within it's first twenty minutes loses credibility and then doesn't improve. And as an ultimate insult it features a particularly tasteless scene, one that is certainly not unique in the annuls of movie land, but one that I wish the cliché scroungers would shift to the bottom of the drawer to be never again exposed.The thrust of End Of Days is the rape of a woman. Why should this yet again be the instrument and the substance of the prize, even for the Devil?Having Arnold Scwarzenneger doing, or even about to do the deed, is in very poor taste.  "},{"Title":"Very great movie. I'm sick of people saying that it sucks.","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  How can you not like this movie? It has tons of f/x, funny lines, amazing action sequences, and all the rest. Not to mention, Arnold Schwarzenegger back on screen. I thought that it was one of the best of the year and the best century flick out. It's actually the only one out but oh well. This is ten movies in one. The plot is cool. Satan comes to town and searches for his bride. The role of Satan is played pretty good by Gabriel Byrne but I would've liked him to be a bit more wild but I guess that's how Satan is though. Just really messed up but keeps his cool. I remember seeing the trailer and being so blown away that I just could not wait for it to come out. I thought the thing with the all the church benches fliping over was amazing. I didn't even see it until about a week ago. What I saw made me want to battle the devil too. The action was so huge and Arnold was so cool with all those guns but the end was just a little disappointing. I was there was more gun-fire at the end. I did find the end a little sad. I won't give anything away but it's not exactly your typical Schwarzenegger ending. I also thought Arnold did a great job. He was very good and more human and I like that in action movies such as Die Hard and Daylight where the hero is like you and me. I just love this movie so much and I am really mad at everyone who didn't like it. Come on, this may be the last Arnold action movie. Enjoy it while you can. If you haven't seen it yet, go now. It has great f/x. I loved the train sequence. Also, the battle at the end was a great pyrotechnic scene. The soundtrack just intensifies the mood. I loved the new song from Guns N' Roses called Oh My God. It just clicks and makes this a huge actionfest and gets that end-of-the-world feeling down right. It feels like Strange Days or something. Go see it. You'll love it or not. If you don't, Satan might come for you on December 31, at 1100 P.M. End of Days A- "},{"Title":"an okay film, with an okay plot, but it makes you think","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"   I was pretty anxious to see this movie, even though I'm not a big fan of Arnold, me and my friend saw it and the theatre was packed even after 3 weeks of its release, it was kind of like the Sixth Sense, the crowd i mean. This is your basic the-world-is-ending and satan disguised as a human tried to take over the earth by bearing a woman on earth. Well, it's not THAT basic of a plot but it was still boring. The movie dragged a bit, but Arnold, Tunney, Pollack, and the dude who played The Man did an excellent job. The effects were good and at some points i was on the edge of my seat. I give End of Days 8/10. I like chicken.   "},{"Title":"Byrne steals the show in a very entertaining film!","Date":"17 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Satan comes to New York to beget his child, so that he can create Hell-on-Earth and is opposed solely by mortals - silly? Well, superimposing The Revelations upon our world and playing along with the rather narrowly self-centered (e.g. by ignoring all other calendars on Earth) view that Earth ends around the change of millennium, is a plot that either has the potential to entertain a lot, or to fail miserably. Well, to me End of Days worked - I was entertained!The acting, under the difficult and limited conditions that an action film imposes upon the actors, was excellent. Especially another superb performance by Gabriel Byrne, who is playing a marvelously convincing Satan, and really steals the show.Actually, before going to watch the film, I was most afraid about precisely how convincing it would be to see a mere human (be that Arnold or anybody else) fight the Big Bad Dude Himself ... it sounded too ridiculous to expect anything like a fair fight, right?! Well, it isn't .. fair, I mean! Enough to say, that the vices attributed to Satan, and so subtly exposed by Byrne, plays a rather important counterpart to the raw power he exhibits. Also the effects are, of course, smashing and very inspiring for anybody writing stories or plays. Finally, the manuscript, despite a few typical errors and inconsistencies as could be expected for any treatment of such a fantastic topic, is actually very good.And, oh, btw. The Christian world 1000 years ago feared that Judgement Day was nearing with the change of millennium .. sounds familiar ...?! Well, nothing's changed really!!!! "},{"Title":"A cross between a shootem up action flick and a religous horror film?","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After Twins, Junior, Kindergarten Cop, Terminator, and his other good roles; this has to be considered a step back for Arnold.He plays a drunken/suicidal cop with the opportunity to save the world.  The script is filled with inconsistencies and contrived explanations.  And Arnold gets to shoot things and blow things up.See End of Days if you want to see things blow up.  Otherwise, skip it!  "},{"Title":"Schwarzenegger's back, in a very intense and thrilling movie","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Schwarzenegger's back, (like he said he would), in another film with him shooting a gun. However this movie although not his best film ever, does rank near to classics like Terminator. The film is very intense, with a will written but compact story line. As far as action films go, this year has been pretty bad, but ending the year with Bond and End of Days, has really improved things. If you like films like Terminator then go see this, well go see it any way, it's a really good film to end the year with! "},{"Title":"THE END IS COMING...","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of the movies I had long awaited to see in theaters, after I had seen it I wasn't disappointed although it wasn't as good as I had thought. Schwarzenegger plays Jericho Cane a bodyguard who meets Christine York (the consumer of satan). Gabriel Byrne is impressive as Satan. He does have a lot of helpful talents in the movie.Although I was not used to Arnold in this kind of movie, he's usually playing the role of a secret agent or a killing machine, but this time he's just a bodyguard. Although he still has the same weapons as he had in Terminator, T2 Judgment Day, Total Recall, and True Lies so you wont be disappointed. Great special effects all the way.*** 1/2 (out of ****) "}{"Title":"Spectacular special effects can't makeup for muddled storyline","Date":"15 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one movie that has some very impressive visual effects that will blow you away. The story and acting however, are another story. Robin Tunney is obviously a limited actress and shows it. For most of the movie she runs around hysterical and, as a viewer, you almost wish her character would bite it. Kevin Pollack is wasted in a thankless supporting role. Arnold is still Arnold, but he doesn't have much of a script to work with. Gabriel Byrne is awesome as ever. He plays the part of Satan perfect with an evil cunning that makes you wonder how evil can seem so cool. At times the story was confusing as you are left wondering who was who when they switch from one time setting to another. I still do not understand that when evil is supposed to take over at midnight, it is only midnight is that one city. Did the prophets prophecy that it would happen at Midnight Easter Time? Could have been much better. "},{"Title":"Not classic Schwarzenegger but enjoyable nonetheless.","Date":"15 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was a little disappointed with End of Days as I was expecting an all out actioner (like Predator for example) but Peter Hyams seemed to be more interested in the atmosphere of the movie than the action. I must say I really liked cinematography and set design. The fights and action sequences are more subdued than other Schwarzenegger films such as Predator or True Lies. I think the action scenes required a director with more panache. But, I did love the fight in rain, It was strange seeing Arnie really get beaten down. The traditionally heroic characters he plays mean this scene has a real impact.It would be hard for anyone to claim this film had a good script. I would have preferred if the filmmakers had gone the whole hog and left out the traditional on liners and made the film really bleak. What we end up getting is a muddled narrative which is a means to an end for Peter Hyams to play about as Cinematographer and for Arnold to try a more challenging role. I cant help thinking that had Arnie's I Am Legend movie not fallen through we would have had both great cinematography and an interesting role for Arnold, plus a terrific story.So in summation I would recommend End of Days to all Schwarzenegger fans, you will find much to enjoy but everyone else might be disappointed in the weak script. "},{"Title":"GREAT COMEBACK!","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was reading a lot of comments further down the page on how so many people just didn't like this movie. I find it hard to believe, especially how they are coming up with all this technical BS. Who cares! It's an Arnie movie! You don't exactly go into an Arnie movie looking for the perfect plot, great acting, etc. You go in for some gun fights, explosions, and Arnie kicking the living c**p out of somebody. Well, at least that is what I go in thinking. This movie surprised me with the deep plot and Arnie actually doing possibly his best acting as a human (excluding the Terminators). The first hour and 50 minutes of the movie was excellent, but there were a few holes and the ending was mediocre, but oh well, nothing can be perfect. A few things I didn't care for too much in the movie, was, I didn't think that Arnie's partner (Pollack) got enough time. He reminded me a great deal of Tim Arnold in True Lies, but they didn't really develop him enough. It was just basically, he's in and out. If they added another 30 or so minutes it might have been a much better movie, but then again, that might have caused this nonstop action movie to drag just a bit, because how much action can you possibly stuff into one movie. This movie also has some excellent scenes, I am not gonna spoil the ending for people who haven't seen it, but it was sort of a disappointment. I was expecting something HUGE to top everything off, but instead, we got something much less. That, in my opinion, is what made this movie a Very Good movie instead of an Excellent movie. This movie is #4 on Arnie's all time list behind the Terminators and Predator.  "},{"Title":"Arnold at his thick headed best","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I include a couple of spoilers but don't worry, there is nothing to miss. Do not see this movie alone, see it with your most smart aleck wise cracking friend. It cannot be taken seriously. Why did the flying invisible devil jello mold entity choose Byrne's character? I'm sure he didn't wash his hands when he came back to the table (cos' he's the DEVIL now!) The unleaded urine scene was hilarious. The mark (Omega) on Christina York's arm looked like the stylized That Girl credit logo. Go to point and laugh. "},{"Title":"WOW!","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is definitely a great movie.  If you think this is another movie centralized around Arnold, then you're mistaken; although, he has really made a good comeback move with this role.  However, Satan is the key character here.  And what an awesome performance by Gabriel Byrne!  This movie kept me on the edge of my seat and jumping throughout the entire thing.  If you liked The Devil's Advocate, then you'll like this.  The movie was predictable, but who cares?  It's all for entertainment, and it was a thrilling ride!!     "},{"Title":"Hyams cant handle Arnie.","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was ready to enjoy End of Days, as I enjoyed watching the last real Arnie film Eraser. However it was all rather a disappointment. It certainly doesnt look like a $83m movie save for the presence of Arnie, the special effects were scant to say the least and in my opinion quite boring. The large bat-demon at the end did not have enough screen time, it just came up, kicked Arnie and went.Clearly they tried to make this as cerebral as possible but it just doesnt come off, Arnie cant act, he is only good when it comes to the type of environment created by James Cameron, not supernatural thrillers, he hasnt got the depth to act in this filom and so the mish mash of Thriller and action doesnt come off. 4/10 beacause it relies on a few nasty shocks and the familiar Gabriel Byrne-Kevin Pollack decent suporting actor jobs. "},{"Title":"Cheesetastic!","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  OK, it's Arnie's first film for a couple of years, and he's back to his cheesy best, which has been all to infrequent given some of his recent films.He's had a serious heart complaint and surgery, and he looks a lot leaner - a lot more normal - and healthy.Arnie is an ex-cop who is investigating Satan's return to earth (hey, it happens every week) for his Millennial conquest of the earth.  And what a coincidence, it happens in America.  It's just amazing how often these things happen in locations that are convenient to the unthoughtful Hollywood studios isn't it?Satan is returning to mate; and the cheesiest bit by far is the name of the main female character, Christina York.  That's Christ In New York, think about it.  This tie-in was tenuous beyond almost all belief.All that said it was good old Arnie stuff, with the action scenes and special effects at their best, although he seemed bereft of some of those great lines that he has become so well known for.Gabriel Byrne was eminently convincing as Satan (not that I'd know!), and it was nice to see Rod Steiger on screen again in the first film I've seen him in for ages (Mars Attacks?).This film brought Arnie back to the forefront which is what was needed, but was somewhat let down by a tenuous concept and cheesey script and storyline.  Worth seeing for its escapist content alone. "},{"Title":"the end was not good enough","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have watched Arnold's production, 'End of Days'.  After viewing it I felt that there are many strong points/bad points. I felt that the atmosphere which the director created were excellent, the effect were quite grim and cold, the story line was also well thought, but feel the writer could have gone more into depth with the End of days scenario. The ending, I felt that as The devil is said to be as powerful as god, how could he be defeated so easily. Gabriel said, 'how can you defeat me as you are just a man and I am forever'.  I felt that Gabriel played the role of the devil far better then the cute creature which was seen at the end. I thought that they should have ended the film with the devil reigning supreme. I also felt that the part when Arnie says 'Please god, help me' should have came earlier. even though I have noticed many floors in the film, I believe that future films will notice these problems, and in turn, Solve them.  "},{"Title":"Ruined by the final third","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Great as it is to see Schwarzenegger back on the big screen, this is not the film it could and should have been. Although first and foremost an action/horror movie, it does have 3D characters, one of them unfortunately, played by Schwarzenegger.Schwarzenegger has never been an actor, and his attempt here is embarrassing and seems like an attempt to emulate Sylvester Stallone's 'comeback' movie, Copland. And one has to feel a little sorry for him; unable to run and not very athletic, and especially in the wake of the action movie makeover brilliance of The Matrix, it seems like he is more than past it.Nevertheless, the film is engrossing, has a few genuinely bizarre and original moments (that thing with the spiky blonde hair!!Woah!!!) and Gabriel Byrne is absolutely brilliant as the Devil. It even has one nearly great scene, a verbal face off between Arnie and Byrne in Arnold's apartment. Where the film completely loses it is in the final third. Watching the film was fun up until then , even though it was mostly through spotting how many other films had been plagerised throughout. Then we have a rip off of The Exorcist and Gabriel Byrne is replaced by an unconvincing CGI effect, and the result is as boring as it is a letdown. It is also, almost unbeatably so, very, very stupid. All in all, watchable, entertaining, stupid and ruined by the final third, this could have been so much more had a stronger director been attached. "},{"Title":"I´ts a action movie w/ Arnold. Don´t expect something else.","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  95% of the movie is typical arnold action. fast, loud, shallow and fun. Sometimes I like this sort of thing. If you don´t, don´t watch it. Rent Rosemary´s Baby.5% of the movie is different beautiful images, smart dialogue, quotes from other movies, great acting (yes, even from arnold!), innovative camerawork.Know what to expect from this movie. This movie will not give you food for thought or discussion. It will not even frighten you. But there will be great explosions.PvH "}{"Title":"Must See for Arnold Fans","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arnold is back in End of Days to add to our millennium excitement. Computer woes aside, the devil is free to take over the world at the end of 1999 and only Arnold can stop him. There is action galore with just enough religious explanation to slow the film down. Arnold's mission is to keep the devil's prospective bride away from him during the final hour of the millennium.  He ends up constantly fleeing the devil and his minions in a manner reminiscent of the escape in Terminator 2.Although Arnold's faith is renewed at the end of the film, there is little here to convert anyone else.  The Catholic church is divided in its strategies for confronting the devil, and it cannot offer the resolution that a single man with a pure heart can bring.  The Exorcist this is not, as the film does not challenge or provoke religious beliefs and feelings. The devil might just as well be another archvillain with macabre superpowers. The special effects are excellent, however, with many fireballs, a transparent devil image in motion, and finally a clear view of the devil in full color in the final confrontation.The supporting actors leave an impression, especially the devil's bride to be and Arnold's buddy in the protection business, but the real stars are Arnold and the devil.  The devil is a handsome dark-haired man who resembles a young Al Pacino in his intensity and the controlled expression he wears on his face as he causes other to burn and perish in agony. Arnold appears as a depressed drunk who wears a trenchcoat and contemplates taking a bullet to hasten his own end.  The battle with the devil gives him a reason to use all his remaining energies to live life fully in the final days of the millennium. "},{"Title":"Arnie faces the final challenge of the millenium","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arnold Schwarzenneger is back. And after thrashing all the bad guys, be it in past (Conan series), present (Eraser, True Lies) or future (T1, T2), the only one seemed to have left was the devil himself. So Arnie comes face to face with the Satan in his latest flick titled The End of Days. A typical Arnold movie loaded with brilliant sfx and thrilling action. Another millenium movie however, (God! how many more do we have to see!) with the idea that the Satan will be coming to earth looking for his bride who could bear him his son so the evil legacy can continue. But till we have Arnie among us no such evil plans can materialize, could they? So its again up to the muscular shoulders of Arnold Schwarzzeneger to bear the burden of saving this world. And he carries out his job quite aptly. A word or two about performance. Arnold is his usual self but the guy who is really becoming a good actor pretty fast is Gabriel Byrne. The man delivers his good as the Satan and carries out a particular look through out the movie that can convince you that this man isn't good. One more thing that I've found out I don't share with Arnold (other than physique, of course) is his appetite. To me the most memorable scene of the movie is Arnie's breakfast. Beats the Rocky's raw egg at four in the morning.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining movie","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arnie goes back to his roots, so you know what to expect. Lots of action, sharp one-liners, big budget special effects. And you get the feeling that, in Satan, Arnie has finally met a worthy opponent.Gabriel Byrne is excellent as the fallen angel, oozing malice and evil confidence. Hyams direction is sharp, and you'll find yourself sometimes shocked, sometimes revolted by the turn of events.The plot does contain a few flaws, but if you can ignore these you're in for an entertaining couple of hours. I would recommend it to all action and fantasy/sci-fi fans. "},{"Title":"Pretty Cool!!! )","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Hi Im 14 Years Old And I Seen End Of Days And This Movie Was Pretty Good! And Very Cool! End Of Days Is About This Cop Has To Destroy The Devil Who Is Trying To Take Over The World! Has Two Scene's Of Brief Nudey In It Not Strong Eather! And Lots Of Action & Gore (But Not To Strong!) Beleave Me This Movie Is Great Go See It! -Jeremy  "},{"Title":"Arnold, doing the Arnold thing.","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you are an Arnold fan, like me. This is the movie for you, the one liners, the action and hero aspect all there. Story is a bit predictable, but the special effects, the shoot them, bang 'em are there. Kevin Pollak provides a nice comedic sidekick, complementing Arnold rather nicely.  "},{"Title":"A depressive Schwarzenegger? Hmmm...","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  He has played before the role of someone who knew the answer to the to be or not to be? question. This burned out boozer with a three days beard would be better left to Bruce Willis in Die Hard 4. The plot is very good, if you are smart enough to understand the logic. For instance, why was the comet above the moon only noticed by the priest at the Vatican? Such a big comet should have been oserved by astronomers several months, if not years, before it reached that size. Answer because it was not a physical phenomenon, it was a vision, revealed only to that particular priest. And so on, films about religion or the occult have their own kind of logic, and I think this one has a very coherent logic. But it's definitely not a Schwarzenegger film, I would put Bruce Willis as the hero and Nicholas Cage as the Devil. "},{"Title":"Arnie told us he'd be back. And he is.","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A surprisingly good film! Exciting, speedy, full of scary elements. So scary my wife already decided never to watch it again. I - on the other hand- will! Arnie has had a Willisian makeover (no shave, boozy type) but it becomes him. And he plays a hero with some sharp edges this time... Personally I think the best role in the film is not his, but his foe's. A great way to put Satan on display like this. And of course a bad guy that keeps coming back makes a great item in a movie. A not so American-ish film (which is a compliment coming from me, believe me). Only real shortcoming I guess is the connection to the millennium-change, which gives the film a bit short lifespan. And on top of that, I would like to see Arnie having more great one-liners the next time (like before)...Go see it, and make sure you're seated properly!P.S. I have seen the US version, which appears to be cut more than other versions... Don't know what part we have missed, bet it has to do with the sex scenes...  "},{"Title":"Not Arnold's best, but definitely not his worst.","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I must admit, I had high hopes for this film. I remember seeing a preview almost 9 months before the films release, and immediately started counting the days until it was to hit theaters.  As anxious as I was to see this film, I did not leave the theater disappointed. Gabriel Byrne was fantastic as Satan, and it was very interesting too see Arnold in a different sort of light.  He didn't play his self confident, all powerful super-hero like usual. Instead, he was a lot more fragile, both mentally and physically. This seems to be the right direction for Arnold, especially since he can't keep that Mr. Universe physique up forever. The script of course was extremely unbelievable, but then again, this is an Arnold flick. It's not like Total Recall, and Terminator were lifelike.  None the less, there were very enjoyable films..... as is End of Days.This movie should be enjoyed by Arnold fans, and fans of supernatural films like the Exorcist and The Seventh Sign. "},{"Title":"It's OK","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was expecting more from this movie, but I was kinda disappointed after leaving the theatre. In my opinion, if this isn't an Arnold movie, this movie would have went straight to video tapes. I'll give it two stars out of four! "},{"Title":"Wait for the sequel and then miss both.","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The action is drole and uneven. The symbolism is overwrought and inconsistent, as well as not having been researched (poor writing.) The acting is good to fair, as is the comedy. But, ultimately, the special effects let the whole affair down. Wait for this one to come out on broadcast television and then be elsewhere. "}{"Title":"Probably Arnold has just made a parody of himself...","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Warning This commentary contains spoilers.I have seen every film made by Schwarzenegger, and in my opinion most of his works are really fantastic. Thus, I can´t believe that he has made such a bad film as Ends of Days seems to be. Instead of that, I prefer to think that Arnold made a funny parody of all his main characters in one He is strong and powerful (more than the evil himself...), he is a really good person (he ends up crucified...!), he is a really bad guy (enters a church with a firing gun in a T2 style...), he is simple and neat, and, also, as in Terminator 2, he ends up killing himself to save the world. It´s impossible to take all of this without a great dose of humor. And that´s just what I did, and it even works, folks ! The main character is Arnold Schwarzenegger, not Jericho Cane !Of course, it´s not the best film made by Arnold, but not the worst, either. My rating is 6 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"AFI this isn't. Good Fun IT IS!","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you go to this movie expecting a great film, you are going to be very DISAPPOINTED! But if you go to this movie expecting to see a pretty cool action/horror film, your in for a real treat. I had a lot of fun with this movie. It has good action, and a great villian. And Arnold Rules! And that's all I ask from an Arnold movie.Leave your brain at home, 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Dumb movie","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arnold is back after Batman and Robin and Jingle All the Way.  Add this movie and you'll be able buy it in a set called  The Arnold's Agent is an Idiot Trilogy.  Arnold plays a bodyguard who fights the devil with machine guns and grenade launchers because as you know all bodyguards carry grenade launchers.  I knew this was going to be a mediocre movie when I watched the beginning of the movie and saw that the baby that was supposed to conceive Satan's child had a penis.   "},{"Title":"Better than expected...","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When looking at an action film, I don't expect much of a story, nor any great acting performances. But I was pleasantly surprised by this film.  It had a good plot and good actors, and Schwarzenegger gave one of his best performances ever.Entertainment at it's best, especially when at the cinema.  "},{"Title":"Overblown End of Days is a Y2K Flop","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I am a sucker for cheesy Satan horror flicks and after seeing the God awful trailers for End of Days, this film seemed to fit the bill (Stigmata is already on the way to the video stores).  Of course I went in the movie theater with very low expectations and to be somewhat entertained and in that sense I got just what I expected. Although not quite as awful as say the most recent The Bone Collector, End of Days is not that good either.  Low expectations work every time.  As far as I am concerned there hasn't been a superb Satan movie since 1973's classic, The Exorcist and to this date nothing has even come remotely close.  End of Days does not even try, but it does take from not only The Exorcist but heavily from The Omen and Rosemary's Baby too.  So mix those three excellent films together, take out the good parts, thrown in a lot of biblical and prophecy nonsense, add gigantic special effects, toss in the idiotic millennium ploy, contract a horrible action star to play the lead role, say Van Damme, Stallone, or Schwarzenegger (Arnold's the winner here) and you get the jest of this flick.Schwarzenegger plays Jericho Crane, a suicidal, alcoholic ex-cop who is now in the protection business assigned to watch over a Wall Street Banker (Gabriel Bynre).  For reasons unknown, as is usual for these types of movies, Satan possesses Bryne.  Bryne is in search of the chosen young girl, Christina (Robin Tunney), born twenty years ago during some strange celestial alignment that only the Pope and his gang are able to decipher.  Satan needs to impregnate Christina between 11pm and midnight on December 31, 1999 so that the gates of hell will open and the world as we know it ends. Yea, we heard this before.  In the most ridiculous and ludicrous Biblical babble, a priest (Rod Steiger) tells Jericho and Christina that the symbols and numbers of the devil are usually upside down or sideways in dreams, hence 666 becomes 999 (how convenient).  How this fits into 1999, except 999 being the last three digits, is beyond any logic. Well anyway we have the match of the century or should I say millennium between Satan and the muscle bound ex-cop.  What starts off as somewhat interesting just gets worse and worse until the final confrontation, which looks like the cutting room floor of The Terminator.  Although not convoluted like most films in this genre, too much does not make sense.  Why was Bryne's character chosen to begin with, if the Vatican knew about this why weren't they Y2K compliant and if Satan is not able to die by bullets, subways cars, etc. what is that ending all about.  With films like this, why even ask, the best that you can hope for is to be entertained.  But End of Days is not really that entertaining.Schwarzenegger is at his worst here as the ex-cop with mental problems whose wife and daughter were killed.  This seems like a major stretch for the strongman, but when you really look at it the only reason for making the character suicidal and alcoholic was cause it probably looked good on paper.  Other wise with the exception of Jericho aiming a gun at his head in the beginning and major pill containers on his dresser, there isn't much there. Maybe that's a good thing because Arnold can't even pull off the little bit that he has to work with.  He has never been more boring or stiff as he is here.  Gabriel Byrne, who can be very good at times, should have taken a lesson from Al Pacino's  over the top performance in The Devils Advocate.  Satan has never been less menacing or interesting as Bryne here portrays him.  Bryne basically sleep walks through this role and is almost a bore as Schwarzenegger.  Piece of advice Gabriel, fire your agent.  Kevin Pollak is basically wasted as Arnold's partner and the total lack of chemistry between the two does not help. Poor Rod Steiger, an actor of great talent, has probably one of the worst records in picking film projects.  He is not bad here, but by all means it does not show off the actor who wooed audiences in the macabre 1968 film, No Way to Treat a Lady were he played a flamboyant serial lady-killer.  Maybe he needed the paycheck, other wise I can't figure out what he was doing in this mess.This picture could have been much better with rewrites and a competent actor in the lead role.  But I guess the executives thought that Arnold would be a draw.  The thing is this is not the type of movie that Schwarzenegger fans go to see and the devil/horror fans don't want to see Arnold, so I don't know whom this movie was marketed for.  Either way fans of each will be disappointed.  I think what sold this picture to the head honchos was the millennium theme, since it does not come around every other year.One last gripe.  Why can't a movie that takes place in New York, but filmed on Los Angles sets make an attempt in realism.  New York subway cars have been graffiti proof for years and the big old closed up movie houses in Times Square have not been there for several years.  Get it right every now and then.  Not Recommended. × ×  "},{"Title":"Awesome Just Awesome","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I though this movie was so action packed. We got Arnold Shwartaneger the king of action and he has his greatest match sicne the T-1000 and that person is the DEVIL himself. I think everyone should see this excellent movie because I promise, no I guarentee you will be on the edge of your seat.  "},{"Title":"We knew Arnold would be back.","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Satisfying return for Arnold as he battles Satan. The reason for Arnold battling the omnipotent being? Some poor girl is destined to have sex with Satan, thus bringing in the End of Days at around the celestial Year 2000. Arnold really cannot let that happen. Byrne looks pretty odd playing the devil after playing a priest in STIGMATA. A bunch of unintentional laughs in this movie including some twisted Lucky Charms character that was just absolutely pointless. Christine with her dreams were a bit too strange for my taste too. Redeeming qualities are the sound effects (the guns sound more real in this movie since SAVING PRIVATE RYAN), and Arnold's fight with a seemingly harmless nurse. Other than that, the face to face showdown with Satan at the climax though nice looking was disappointing and any chance this movie has at pulling your heart will not work. A rental it is. "},{"Title":"Arnold should have stayed lost!","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ok! This movie is very well made and everything but where is the point in it?So the devil is out looking for a poor girl - what's new. Basicly this is the same story as we have all heard of before. The battle between good and evil. It has been up on the screens several times and this movie hasn't anything to contribute. Arnold doesn't quite make it all the way, 10 minutes from the end it all breaks down and loses meaning.So therefor I can't give it more than 5/10.  Hope to see Arnold in a good movie soon - like Terminator and Total Recall. "},{"Title":"Ahnold is back?????","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I am occasionally a fan of eye candy action films, and I had a lot of hope for this one. After all, Arnold is the apparent king of the action genre. I was stoked to see Gabriel Byrne play The Man (Satan). I was even curious to see Robin Tunney (who I have always thought was under rated).What I found in this film was instead was a mess of references. 1) Gabriel Byrne in a suit and overcoat, urinating in public at night and the slow motion scene of him dropping the cigarette. 2) The closeup of Kevin Pollack face lit up shortly before he meets apparent doom. 3) The priest's reference, The greatest trick the devil ever pulled... I was left wondering what Hyams was trying to do with such overt references.Unlike many of the contributors here I found the fx to be tedious and redundant. I was irritated by the overused fireball and explosion fx. Been there seen it done better.While I enjoyed Byrne's performance, I feel like the script never really gave him the chance to do much. He never quite got the malicious glee that Nicholson ( Witches of Eastwick) and Sydow (Needful Things) made so integral to the character. I blame this on a script that allowed him lots of action sequences but few opportunities to act.Arnold...Yeah uh huh when I think of action stars that can pull off the fallen hero archetype he's at the top of my list...suuuure. A.S. is woefully miscast in a role that would've been much better served by Val Kilmer, or half a dozen other actors.Robin Tunney has too much physical vitality to pull off the wounded introspective victim. Hopefully she will at least gain some visibility from this project that will lead to more credible work.In the end, the film tries to make some vague statement about the strength of faith, but it is quite simply too little too late. I would say this project is supremely mediocre and should be avoided unless you have seen everything else at the multiplex.   "},{"Title":"Hasta la vista, Arnie!","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The long awaited new movie starring the Austrian Oak is more than a little disappointing. The fact that Arnie is suddenly an emotional individual on the one hand while killing and slaughtering on the other is most stupid. In a film as this, you'll hope the special effects will at least be outstanding but not in this case. Compared to 'Terminator 2', it seems that the technology in this department hasn't improved at all. This and the always present inconsistencies , make this film to me to be a turkey. Hopefully the next film of Arnie will look more like his work in the earlier mentioned 'T2'.   "}{"Title":"The gospel according to Arnie","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It's December 28, 1999 and anarchy is everywhere in New York City.  We aren't just taking about the Y2K bug and various crazies running around.  This is serious stuff. There are freak explosions occurring everywhere.  There are grotesque murders.  The Catholic church is up to its neck in stigmata's.  Even the devil himself (as played by that thing from Predator) has come to town to get lucky! The only thing that can save us is a tough ex-cop, now a bodyguard, who has lost his faith in religion over the past few years because his wife and daughter were violently murdered.  Oh God Help Us!  I suspect that End of Days will be significant only because it marks the beginning of the end of Arnold Swartzenegger's days as an action hero.  Arnie plays Jericho Cane (and if you think that's the only cheap biblical reference here - you're wrong!), a hard drinking tough guy who has hit rock bottom.  Gabriel Byrne is 'The Man', an unnamed character who is possessed by the devil to wreak havoc and find the 'Chosen Girl'.  That girl is Christine York (yes, as in Christ) played by Robin Tunney.  She has a birth mark that clearly indicates she will be the devil's main squeeze when Y2K hits.  In a series of action packed events Anrie becomes her protector, keeping her away from the devil, because if she mates with him then that would mark the end of the world. So what is so wrong with this movie?  Well, technically speaking, nothing.  All the elements of a good Arnie movie are here.  The action is non-stop.  The special effects are great.  Of course it's hokey, and naturally the stunts seem impossible and implausible.  And Arnie gets in a few one liners, delivered as only he can.  There is the odd assortment of characters doing unusual and sometimes unbelievable things.  Arnie gets throttled by an elderly woman.  His sidekick (this time around it's Kevin Pollack) helps Arnie with some of the more difficult stunts (like acting).  And Gabriel Byrne has just the right look to play the dastardly devil.  Just like Total Recall or Eraser, End of Days provides a good mix of predictable and not so predictable action. So what was the problem?  Well, maybe it was the timing.  Ten years ago this flick might have been a box office giant.  In today's world, where action movies with hi-tech special effects are a dime-a-dozen, and Arnie movies have become common place, End of Days just doesn't fit in. Mr. Swartzenegger is going to have to tackle a new genre if he is going to survive the next Millenium.  His days as an action hero are definitely on the wane. "},{"Title":"One of Arnold's Weaker Movies","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  End of Days is probably not the comeback that Arnold Schwarzenegger wanted.  While it isn't terrible, it isn't good either.  Perhaps my expectations were too high for this movie, but I couldn't help but be disappointed.First off, I'm not going to complain about the plot holes.  You don't go to a Schwarzenegger movie and expect Citizen Kane.  As long as the action flows along in a more or less logical fashion, I'm happy.  That does not happen here.  All of the action sequences are recycled from other movies that did them ten times better.On the plus side, the special effects are nice to look at.  Gabriel Byrne obviously has fun playing Satan.  Everything looks nice and dark.  Arnold almost saves the movie with his presence.  He's got some nice one-liners, and he gets to do some actual acting.  Unfortunately, most of it is too little too late.End of Days isn't a bad movie.  Arnold fans like myself will still have a decent time, but it doesn't exactly evoke memories of T2 or Predator. "},{"Title":"2000, the beginning of a new era","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  In fact this movie is totally ridiculous. But that's not uncommon these days with big budget blockbuster Hollywood action- movies. The story is too silly to take serious, witch should not be a problem when it is told convincingly, but some turns in the plot are too unlikely. But if you like movies with lots of explosions and shoot-outs with enormous guns, and don't mind about the plausability of the story, you might like it. The movie is a mixture of all kind of other movies, maybe in a homage to those, or maybe just because of lack of inspiration of the writers. The last option is the most likely. I saw references to Terminator 2 and Predator ( both also with Arnie in the leading role), The Usual Suspects, Rosemary's Baby, The Exorcist III, The Devil's Advocate, Speed, any James Bond movie, The Night Of The Living Dead, and even Monty Python's Flying Circus ( Nobody expects the Spanish Inquisition!). The film once more shows that Arnie is in fact a very bad actor. He is playing a part that should have been played by Bruce Willis ( on the other hand it's in fact better for Bruce that he's not in this mess...) The only actor that does a good job is Gabriel Byrne, but he's not as good as Pacino in The Devil's Advocate. In the scene where the two main characters meet in Arnie's apartment, Arnie is completely played of the screen by Byrne. Finally what a shame that Arnie will never play a bad guy again, now that he is a big Hollywood star. He was at his best as a mean murdering robot in Terminator 1! "},{"Title":"So Bad It's Kind of Precious...","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I saw this movie expecting it to be pretty bad, but I was unprepared for just how moronic, how clichéd, how silly it really was. Nevertheless, they don't make bad movies like they used to, they seem to be able to make most movies somewhat redeeming, so it's a real pleasure to see an out-and-out BAD movie that is so very horrid that it just becomes precious, like a sixth-grade play or something. It becomes a little cute because the creators really don't seem to know how terrible it is. And that's sweet.Here are just some general impressionsI think this kind of action movie is dated now. I think The Matrix changed the rules for action movies, and this kind of over-the-top bombast and hulking hero with snappy one-liners really seems SO early 80's. There were times when I thought this movie might get a little creepy, but every time it starts to accumulate some atmosphere it is shattered by a huge explosion or one of Arnold's stunts or something else that returns the film to it's VERY general-audience level of banality. This is VERY MUCH an Arnold film. It also feels very dated like one.I know Arnold was trying to act, but I think he should either give it up or do different movies altogether. One thing he can never get past is HE'S ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER. He can't assume roles like other actors can, unless that role is of an Austrian Bodybuilder. It's funny in this movie because at one point he's supposed to have fallen into squalor, living on pizza and beer and Chinese takeout--and yet he has this incredible body! Also, his version of acting in this movie is to raise his eyebrows in a Crazy...or is he? kind of grimace, which won't quite work through a whole movie. It was quite precious to watch, though.This film was SO OBVIOUSLY filmed in Toronto or somewhere else. Now that I live in NYC you can just look at a corner, and even if you don't know where it is, you know it just doesn't have that New York look. Here they show a cut of Times Square or the Chrysler Building and then cut to Toronto. It's funny. They also throw these VERY cheap-looking NY2K posters EVERYWHERE (so much that I thought they might at one point have to do with the story)... but the posters are too cheap-looking to be real. Nothing that cheap-looking would ever be put up in NYC. The second part to this is the INCREDIBLY fake-looking subway. My favorite is the little signs that say Penn Station and Times Square... as if from that we must really know we're in New York! They're just picking places tourists would recognize and say Oh yeah, New York! Why not say Statue of Liberty or Empire State Building? The subway cars were also extra dirty, to conform to stereotypes of what NYC is like. It's not like that the subway is very clean and safe now, but we do have to keep up stereotypes of what the city is like, don't we? Also, there's no enormous church just off Times Square, but I'm splitting hairs. The effect is very comical.The dialogue is just SO SO bad, but it was so bad that I can't even remember some of the worst lines. I'm not talking about the one-liners... you expect top howl at those, I mean just the all-the-way-through dialogue. Wow. Bad.Anyway, all round quite ridiculous, but good fun if you expect it to be bad from the start, My hand was over my mouth in a mixture of horror/laughs through almost the whole movie. This is definitely one for the ages.--- Check out website devoted to bad and cheesy movies www.cinemademerde.com "},{"Title":"I REALLY LIKED THIS MOVIE","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I went to see End of Days not knowing what to really expect.  The special effects were really great and I enjoyed the movie.  It was well received in the theater I was in, and it had its moments of being scary, exciting.  There are lots of explosions and a plot I enjoyed as a nice action packed movie I could enjoy,  I would recommend this movie, and also if you like this, I would also recommend Stigmata... "},{"Title":"Should Have Been Called End Or Arnold's Acting Career","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was expecting a much better script for this movie. Why Arnold S. took this movie is beyond me. I guess he figured everyone would see a movie about the end of the world with the year 2000 approaching. I would have rather watched Armageddon again then this mess. Arnold fights Satan with no help from anyone religious. Arnold instead uses guns and sheer will to defeat the Dark Angel. Yeah Right!! I understand this movie is Sci-Fi, but it is totally bogus. The acting is terrible. Kevin Pollack looks like he can't wait for the scene to be over. Gabriel Bryne gives a decent evil performance, but fails in other areas due to a bad script. Robin Tunney (with short hair) is a lovely little lass, but even after she knows what's about to happen to her, she still looks confused. Why didn't they just jump on a plane and head East? The only thing that can save Arnold now is a new Terminator movie. T3 is suppose to be in the works along with True Lies 2. Jamie Lee Curtis is suppose to reprise her role. Both of these movies could be BIG for Arnold, but he must stay away from these bad scripts. Jean Claude Van Damme should have did this movie. It's more his style. In any case, stay away from this movie. Wait for it to come to video. It shouldn't be long. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but strains limits of credibility (SHOCK)","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Well, I enjoyed the film, and I was encouraged to see Arnold attacking a different type of role and film, but the film still was peppered with some action sequences (which were really unnecessary). I was glad to see the finale end on spirituality rather than violence.  A point Why doesn't Satan kill Arnold?  He even mentions that he DOESN'T want to kill him, but it's never explained.  This to me dropped the movie down a notch. "},{"Title":"good but no Exorcist...","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Just watching the previews attracting me to this film.  After being disgusted with Stigmata I had hoped this film would not of followed in it's footsteps.  Luckily, the film did not.  But to compare this film to the Exorcist is far too much, this movie overall was ok, but if matched to the Exorcist it would lose badly.  The film uses similar elements to almost all Demon-esque movies.  This film is not recommended for the faint of heart. "},{"Title":"A bit lacking","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arnold seems to have trouble with the films he's choosen lately.  True Lies and Terminator 2 were awesome but those were the only two films of his that have lived up to his previous films of the 80s (Eraser wasn't bad, but not groundbreaking).  We all love to see him in films like Terminator and Predator where everything was just so fun and enjoyable to watch.  End of Days however, although full of some pretty good action sequences, seems to be lacking.I don't know where to really point my finger exactly.  The ending pretty much ruined the film for me, that's for sure.  And throughout the film I found myself checking my watch, itching me head, just trying to get comfortable and wondering if it's going to get any better.  Some parts did surprise me and I did jump up a little bit during a scene or two.  The lunatic with the strange blonde hair was really freaky but he was really only used for a scene or two.  Had this been the work of James Cameron however, this would have been an excellent film.The acting isn't to bad.  Arnold is what Arnold does best, a hero who you just want to see go out in action and save the day.  The loss of his characters wife and son gave him something to work with and he delivered the character nicely.  Gabrial Byrne was descent, but like everyone else said, I just kept feeling Al Pacino's performance in The Devil's Advocate leaking through.  Of course they do look rather similar and it's obviously rather hard, make that rather impossible, to be a better Satan than Al Pacino.  Kevin Polluk does his usual and was an okay comic relief but for a film like this you gotta stay tense the whole way through, not giving up till the finale.End of Days wasn't exactly a bad film.  There are some good scenes throughout it but that's all you really remember when you walk out of the theater.  And good scenes don't always make a good movie, you shouldn't walk out of a film saying that one part was so cool... you should be saying that film was so cool.  Chances of me seeing it again are rather rare and chances of me recommending it to others is also probubly not going to happen.  I really hope Arnold's next film is solid, and it's a shame that he won't be around for the next Terminator films.  Lets just hope he can deliver in the future. "},{"Title":"an Arnold fan is disappointed...","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I feel so let down by Peter Hyams...between his muddled visual narrative, slow dialogue, long takes, and clunky editing, this film evoked absolutely NO emotion in me.This could have been such a techno-occult thriller...but it became an expensive slow-motion display of SFX instead.To make a slow narrative even worse, the female lead role was poorly cast (it was so hard to cheer for Robin Tunney in that role), and Gabriel Byrne doesn't get much chance to show his cold-and-distant style.If *I* was to have produced this film, I would have given it to James Cameron to direct, cast James Woods as the Devil, and given the lead female role to Cameron Diaz or someone more likeable than Robin Tunney.Sorry, Arnold... you didn't win any points with this fan of yours.I think I'll go watch video re-runs of T2 or True Lies instead......save your bucks on this one, folks...wait for the rental. "}{"Title":"A real disappointment","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  OK, by now everyone's commented on the gaping plot holes (like why does Satan need to hire bodyguards if he can survive being shot repeatedly, dropped out a window, and run over by a train?), so I'll just say this If I was Satan and got to pick my own mate, and had a thousand years to breed the right one, I think I'd pick a genetic line that produced a more attractive woman--but that's just me. "},{"Title":"No Comeback for Ah-Nold","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  On the heels of Batman and Robin - Arnie's worst action movie of the decade - comes his second worst End of Days. This is supposed to be a stretch for him, showing a more serious side, but its still a formula action movie with so many cliches, badly written lines and preposterous/non-sensical scenes that it boggles the mind. Can't one of the highest paid stars in the world find a script that isn't a re-hash of every action movie of the past twenty years?Some examples 1) Arnie as the burnt-out cop. You can tell this because he holds a gun to his head in the opening scene and drinks beer and pizza shakes for breakfast. Never mind the fact that he delivers the rest of his lines with an annoying what-me-worry attitude that never suggests that he's on the verge of suicide.2) Kevin Pollack as the wise-cracking sidekick. Every action hero has to have a pint-sized, ever-smirking partner to provide comic relief. Too bad he doesn't provide any here.3) The rules only apply when its convenient. Guns don't hurt the devil...unless there's no other way to end the scene. Somehow, I don't think the devil would have so much trouble fighting one guy with a machine gun.4) Don't kill the good guy when you've got him trapped. Let him live so he can be a further pain in the ass.There's much more than this that's wrong with the film. The action scenes are edited in confuso-vision - I assume to create a sense of chaos or something. But here it just make the action unclear and unsatisfying.Why Peter Hyams was chosen to direct is beyond me. The guy's OK - nobody expected much from TimeCop or The Relic- but choosing him to helm a big-budget action movie with an A-List action star is a questionable decision to say the least. I'm assuming nobody else was available.Overall, this ranks on the level of Red Heat, The Running Man, or Commando - a mediocre, groan-inducing, sometimes enjoyable time-filler with no distinguishing qualities.  6 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"This, after 2 years?","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  We, the faithful, have waited 2 long years since Arnold's last cinematic offering.  And we get End of Days.  A major disappointment.  Arnold puts forth his usual, physical, charismatic performance.  But the plot, the supporting characters, the theme, the whole movie - well, just stunk.  I would almost have preferred staying home and watching Red Sonja and Junior.Arnold, Gabriel Byrne and Kevin Pollack are all very good in End of Days. However - there was just something lacking?!  When you leave a movie of this magnitude and all that's on your mind is - what about that, or what about this, versus, why don't I get back in line and see it again?!  Bad news.Will Arnold ever regain his mastery of the Action genre, and our hearts? Who else is there? "},{"Title":"End of Days - not soon enough!","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ah, where to begin. First of all, I really like Arnold's movies, and I really have a lot of respect that he decided to tackle some darker material this time out. However, one of the hallmarks of great 'Arnold' films of the past has been the excellent villains/bad guys that Arnold gets to fight. What happened to Satan in the 'End of Days'? Satan is reduced to nothing more than a cheap horror movie bad guy that - of course - just keeps on coming no matter how much you do to him. Inevitably, Arnold loads up on the military hardware to take down the Prince of Darkness and the required final battle is a big snore.End of Days?  I was just waiting for the End of the Movie so I could get out of the theater. "},{"Title":"Good F/X, Shotty plot","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arnold is back in action, which there is plenty of.  For the truly Arnold-Action flick fan, End of Days delivers, for anyone looking for the slightest hint of plot or intrigue, look elsewhere.  Great special effects make this one a good male bonding experience, but definately leave the honey at home.  The overall premise of the movie is sound, good timing with the Y2K rumors flying around, but the director and writers need to be shot. This could have been a very scary, emotional movie, as well as action packed, along the lines of Se7en.  What we get is the Terminator meets the Omen.  Arnie, I love you . "},{"Title":"It's not that bad","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I really don't know what all the bad reviews are about. I thought this was a really good movie. Sure, there are several directing mistakes and it gets a little bloody, but it makes you think about your perception of Satan and what role he/she/it would have if there was an end to the world. By the way, Gabriel Byrne played the roll perfectly and Kevin Pollack also did an excellent job. So just go see it then decide for yourself.   "},{"Title":"Disappointing even for an Arnold film...","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  One of the main problems with this film is it's lack of focus. It tries to be like any other film that has religious or millennium themes but with more action sequences to make it exciting and different. Though, I really had no problem with the religious/millennium themes in the movie especially when this one tends to be a little ridiculous.You'll experience a general sense of deja vu since the majority of the film's look and key scenes was taken from otherwise past famous movies (Too numerous too mention, but you'll know what I mean after seeing it). It's also badly edited.Gabriel Byrnes' Satan character is very much flawed here not because of his acting (actually he's great here) but because his character is as badly written as the entire plot. Basically, Byrnes' acting was just not utilized well-enough, hence, wasted.Though, the action was great (and a lot even for this type of film) it sort of slowed down unexpectedly at the last moment making the conclusion anti-climactic. And this is also due to Arnold's dramatic moment required at the end scene that will show his acting prowess. And this what made the film ultimately disappointing-- Arnold is not yet polished (or probably even ready) to do these dramatic scenes (needed for his conflicted character here). But we really can't blame him for trying though. Maybe next time?Rating 6/10 "},{"Title":"A lot better than I thought it would be","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised by this movie. All the leads did fantastic jobs, and pretty much all of them had some really good lines. I've always liked Kevin Pollak and he's back to playing the quirky little fat man character that he does so well. Arnold was.... well, Arnold. I've never really expected Brando-esque acting from him, but he's certainly got the goods when it comes to movies like this.If you like action peppered with some laughs, then this is a movie for you. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as they say","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I don't understand why people thought End of Days was bad.  It wasn't the best but it was certainly not the worst of the year.  It had some faults; some of the one liners were dumb and some of the action scenes were not too great.  But over all it was an entertaining movie.  It seems like people expect an Oscar winner every time they see a movie.  That just doesn't happen.   "},{"Title":"It's Arnold! It's Fun! It's the End of the World as we know it...","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  End of Days 1999 Peter Hyams Written by Andrew W. MarloweIt's Arnold! Wheeeee!! We love Arnold movies. Only cause we know exactly what to expect. At least I did.  I think Peter Hyams should've gotten himself a different writer only cause his other film,  The Relic,  made sense. And for 100 million dollars, I think they might've found someone who would've written something that didn't seem as though they tossed a few hundred ideas into a hat, fished inside and pulled out a few, then ran with whatever came out.  There was no symmetry to the plot, it seemed as if it were made up as they went along and just kept to the religion/Y2K hysteria theme for the cash-in. No in-depth character.  There was no way you could like the characters cause you knew absolute dick about them. It was a struggle to let you in on what was happening and I was irritated being left in the dark until it was in your face. Especially that in your face turned out to be ridiculous. Not to mention the predictability factor. It was very obvious to me and the few people that actually stayed to finish watching it. However.. as an Arnold movie, it was super. There was tons of action, Predator- style and lots of good battles, gunfights, seriously good explosions and plenty of Oh, I'm So Sures in there. Watch out for Gabriel Byrne's p**s.. it's a killer!  And of course, he was ultraviolent, lustful (watch for that sex scene with Udo Kier's wife AND daughter you perverts!) and super powerful, except when he confronted Arnold. And for some reason, it turned stupid.. like the old movies where the bad guy told the good guy everything that was happening just so the good guy will have the edge on the bad guy in the end. And we all know it. It ALWAYS happens. It reminded me so much of Dr. Evil (Austin Powers) that I had to laugh. There were some fun moments, and the action was NON STOP.  As I said.. Very Arnold. Just what we expect. Only I really expected a little more meat with my potatoes. I don't know why, but lately I've been leaving the movies very hungry. But I guess you can't really go into an Arnold movie and expect Citizen Kane. The main thing is that you go in there and enjoy yourself. Don't try to understand it. Just embrace it for what it is. One of life's simple pleasures.  -)Chris Fata Scottsdale AZ Trash City Magazine North American Ambassador "}{"Title":"Action","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Guns, explosions, and blood sums up this movie.  If your a fan of flat out action movies it's not bad, if you enjoy a decent story/acting with your movie, you might not like it.  One extremely annoying thing was the horrible placement of music throughout the movie, it was very distracting.  Every time The Man comes onscreen, a religious type song is played, which got old after the first five times you see him, and of course all of the heavy songs by big bands are played at odd times most likely so you will notice them, not to compliment the movie.  And the second distraction was the editing, especially during fights.  There are so many cuts it gets to the point where it makes the action hard to watch.  Entertaining, but it does have its (many) flaws. -- Mindless Friday night fun. 7/10 "},{"Title":"The end of an era..","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is it folks, you are watching the end of Arnold Schwarchzenegger's career when you see this piece of trash.  I loved the rest of Arnold's career, True Lies, T2, Total Recall, but he hasn't been in a good movie for almost six years.  This piece of bilge is supposed to be his comeback flick, but its only saving grace is a cool performance by Gabriel Byrne. I'm not even going to comment on the many plot holes because, hey, it's an action movie.  There's no sense of fun to the film at all and they let Arnold try to talk way too much.  I just can't see Arnold in a work that is so dark and moody.  With this and the fact that The Sixth Day isn't looking too good I fear we might be seeing the end of a great action star. "},{"Title":"typical bible-horror","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  the word this movie didn't have the typical one-liners and destruction (terminators, total recall, eraser, predator, etc) cause it wasn't that kinda of movie. it was a typical bible horror end of world type flick. in this respect, it was pretty good. what i think i like arnie movies. seeing this dude throw people around and fire mini guns is entertaining. unfortunately, not much typical arnie stuff in this flick. there were scenes he could have thrown bad guys around, and at one part he got a cool gun, but overall, arnie wasn't arnie. in his fight scene, which i won't describe i case u haven't seen the flick yet, i would have liked to see more people thrown around and beat up. when he starts shooting, once again, i would have liked to see more rounds spent and more destruction. but no. instead, the main destructive force was the devil. he was kinda cool, but as you can well imagine, it doesn't take much effort for a devil to destroy stuff... i find it more entertaining when characters have to break a sweat when destroying things. i have to admit, arnie did destroy quite a bit, but not as much as usual and the movie wasn't non-stop action like his best flicks are... oh well  "},{"Title":"wear a diaper","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I really thought this movie was good, and I about s*** my pants on several ocasions in this film.  Granted, the story is pretty silly, and there were several parts of the film that I had a few problems with, but if you go into this trying to just have a good time out a the movies, it is enjoyable. Bring a date too, chances are she'll probably be clinging to you pretty tightly before the movie is over.  "},{"Title":"I wanted so much more...","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This isn't a bad movie. It's pretty good. But I wanted so much more.See, this is a movie with a lot of promise. Satan. The Millenium. Good vs. Evil. The Apocalypse. Hell on Earth.Yet, you throw in Arnold and it becomes just another shoot 'em up flick.Now, I *like* Arnold, but, goddamn it, this shouldn't have been just an action movie. It shouldn't have just been Lethal Weapon goes to Hell. I went to this movie, and I wanted big, I wanted bad, I wanted world-spanning, I wanted drama and conflict and Armageddon and a final showdown between the forces of heaven and hell, and, by God, I wanted to see Satan lead a holocaust of such fury that the living would envy the dead.Instead I got a couple of burning buildings and a subway train gone accordian.It's an above average action movie... It's just not nearly what I hoped.7/10 "},{"Title":"Terminator 3?","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Here we have a Schwarzenegger movie where the incredibly powerful and unstoppable bad guy is after a woman, and she has to be helped by a good guy who carries practically every firearm known to man.  Sounds familiar?  (Then again, this could just as well be Predator III--in fact, there is a small touch that will indeed remind the perceptive viewer of the first one, IMHO still Arnold's best movie.)Pros very good visual and great sound effects; very good acting by Gabriel Byrne; some genuinely suspenseful moments; adequate action (but not as much or as intense as in the aforementioned films)Cons faulty internal logic; characters that are too unusual/artificial/undeveloped to believe; Arnie's acting "},{"Title":"Not one for the books","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I recently wrote a paper for a science fiction film class called  Messiah Figures and the Apocalypse Myth in Pre-Millennial Science Fiction Cinema, so I think I come from a fairly informed place when I say that End of Days is not a sterling gem in the apocalypse-allegory pantheon.  Despite some well-staged action scenes and a respectable performance from the always-dependable Arnold Schwarzenegger, this film is largely a hodgepodge of elements from other films, most of them not utilized with any particular flair or imagination.It is interesting to see Schwarzenegger playing a broken-down, depressed figure instead of his usual Teflon hard-ass.  Still, this character is underdeveloped and let down by a script that serves up a busy but still poorly thought out plot about the devil attempting to impregnate a chosen woman on New Year's Eve 1999, thus bringing about the end of all creation.After the complex and intriguingly presented theology of Dogma, it was sad to see a film with such hoary and ill-reasoned theological concepts driving its narrative.  The devil's powers seem to differ from scene to scene, but Gabriel Byrne's portrayal of said evil beast is not bad, considering I saw Al Pacino do most of it a few years ago in The Devil's Advocate.This film, which has nothing truly original in its plot and not one memorable line of dialogue, is a major letdown considering that the screenwriter, Andrew W. Marlowe, also gave us Air Force One, a film with a committed, intelligent script that elevated its rather rote material.  Peter Hyams, however, is a man from whom I've come to expect nothing less than the least.  He does give us some big-money action payoffs here, to be sure, but his editing often renders even the quieter dialogue scenes too fast for the eye to keep up.  He makes Alex Proyas look like Ozu.Kevin Pollak and Rod Steiger do nothing to particularly distinguish themselves.  Robin Tunney makes her damsel a little too distressed for my tastes, but to be fair, the real fault with her performance falls to her hairdresser.  With that wild Beethovenesque frizz Tunney's sporting here, she looks terrified even before Satan shows up.  Forget the guns, and get yourself a comb. Anyway, End of Days will not end Arnold's career, but I'm hoping we'll get another apocalypse film, and soon, to send the millennium out with the sort of big bang it really deserves.    "},{"Title":"how do critics give it No stars?","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  this  was an action packed movie that totaly rocks. it's got sex, drugs, violence and the man himself, Arnold. What more do you want? Plot and story-line are insignificant for a star like Arnold. but since you critics always complain about everything i shouldn't bother even commenting on your B.S. reviews. it just goes to show how the man is trying to keep me down. Power to the People! "},{"Title":"Cool movie, but sucky story","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  First of all I'd like to clear something about the millennium a millennium is the passing of a thousand years because the number 0 did not exist in European culture at the time, the first year of our calendar is year 1. Thus, after 1000 years, we're on 1001, or 2001 and the millennium starts, not on January first 2000 but January first 2001. I say this because the mistake was made in the movie. Now, the real thing.The movie was really cool and entertaining. I thought that it would be an atypical Shwartzennegger (or whatever he spells it) movie, with a few heavy action scene and the rest of the movie a theological thriller or something. Man was I wrong! The action is very near from non-stop, and what's more, its really good, altough there are maybe too much explosions in my taste. The direction and special effects are excellent (after seeing Satan in his true form, I can't wait to see the Balrog in Lord of the Rings!)On the other side, the story sucked alot. First, the inversed number of the beast sounds more like an excuse to set the movie on the edge of the millennium. Also SPOILERS HERE DO NOT GO FURTHER UNLESS YOU'VE SEEN THE MOVIE (or really don't care), it is said at one point in the movie that Satan can only copulate with Christine because she was born at a time X, and that he could only possess Gabriel Byrne body, for the same reason. But he ends up possessing Arnold (its easier to spell this)! And the suicide of Arnold, altough it is very typical of movies featuring demons (like Fallen Angel or the devil's advocate) was far from necessary five more second controlling himself and Satan would have lost and depart for another millennium. Also, it is quite unlikely that he'd have time to reproduce during this short amount of time (especially since steroids cause sterility).But it's much fun to see, so I  gave it a 7  "},{"Title":"At least I only had to pay 6 bucks to see it.","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw it opening day at the Waverly in the Village, and they had a 6 dollar special for students, so I figured what the heck, I might as well see it. Besides, Im a huge Guns N Roses fan, and I wanted to see how the new GnR song fit into the movie. All in all I gave it a 6 out of 10, it wasnt awful or anything, but it wasnt a great movie. The effects were good, but the plot was thin. Arnold looks great in it though, I wish I look like that when I am around 50. The whole devil aspect of the movie was a blatant ripoff of Pacino in Devil's advocate, right down to the Devil's look in the film. I wont reveal any details, so if an elaborate action creampuff is what you are in the mood for, go see it, but I recommend you get some kind of deal on it, use those free passes you got for your birthday or something, or if you are a student in New York City, go to the Waverly for the student discount, and bring your student ID (For the record I dont work there, or work for any theater at all, I just thought people might wanna save a little money at the movies) "}{"Title":"Don't believe the hype...this one doesn't deliver","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  End of Days is one of the weakest Arnold movies I've had the opportunity to see. The acting all the way around was awful. Even a great actor such as Gabriel Byrne put in an uninspired performance. If you want to see a good devil watch The Devil's Advocate and see what Al Pacino does with the role. At the same time, some Schwarzenegger films aren't known for the acting content......it's all about the action. This movie can't even deliver there. There's action, but not half enough to make up for a shoddy plot and awful acting. Skip this one and go rent Terminator or Predator and wish for the Arnold days gone by. I give it 5/10.  "},{"Title":"Good comeback for Arnold Schwarzenegger","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arnold Schwarzenegger is back after that awful film Batman and Robin; he plays a hero this time around. Jericho Cane (Arnold Schwarzenegger) is a depressed excop who must protect Christine York from Satan. Gabriel Byrne makes an interesting Satan who try's to mate with Christine York before the year 2000 starts. References a lot to the Bible story where Satan becomes free from his cage every thousand years since that is what the film is about. The film is effectively scary in some parts the rest is the action packed and gory just what I was excepting to see. The film is a complete time capsule upon itself; it will be dated by the time reaches video. I would suggest that you see this movie now otherwise this was defiantly a good comeback for Arnold Schwarzenegger.    "},{"Title":"So overhyped...so, bad!!","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  At this particular time at the cinemas I have seen a lot of fantastic motion pictures.  End of Days is not one of them.  First of all the acting is lame. Even Gabrielle Byrne seems dry (although I blame that on the extremely bad script.) even though Gabrielle's portrayal of Satan is the only highlight of the movie. Not even the special effects kept me interested. I loved the Terminator movies I even liked Kindergarden Cop and twins but his portrail of some ex-cop in this movie leaved so much to be desired. The movie is even laughable in some parts.  Maybe if it was made to be a comedy it succeeded better than I thought. "},{"Title":"A disaster on several levels","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Not to mention the cliche quality (or lack there of) of the film.  The bad technique and dissatisfying effects (considering what the budget must have been) were enough to want my $8.25 back.  However, all these have been heavily commented on.  I would like to remark on how the movie failed miserably on a biblical and theological level.Now, I have nothing against Roman Catholics, but why is it that the truth in movies is always found in the dimly lit basement of some spiritually enlightening Catholic church?Strange that the movie claims a Christian base and yet misses the entire theme of Christianity.  Yes, you must have faith in Christianity.  But according to End of Days in a horrible situation where God doesn't save us, we have to save ourselves.  Yet we must have faith because the bible says so.  Why do we need to have faith in God when we apparently don't need Him and we essentially just save ourselves (even though we need to ask God for strength to defeat Satan)?  Strange theology.  And certainly not Christian. The Bible says have faith certainly, but if you really want to go by the Bible, we don't save ourselves.Then the issue of Revelation 207 (When the thousand years are over, Satan will be released from his prison).  The writers of this one have seemingly taken this verse and the last sentence in Revelation 1318 (The beast's number is 666.) completely out of context and used them to create their entire plot--one which would appeal to the end of the millennium.  When the number of the beast (whom they imply is Satan and not the antichrist) is flipped upside down it is 999.  The numbers 999 represent the thousand years.  So the thousand years is over, for the second time (the first time was 999 BCE), and Satan gets his second chance in 1999 (only between the hours of 11pm-midnight, which isn't anywhere to be found in the Book of Revelation).  This interesting considering Revelation was written in Koine Greek, which doesn't have the same numbering system as ours, and would not create the number 999 when flipped upside down.  But that's okay, because some Gregorian monks created our system, and they knew what John REALLY meant.  Even though when developing the BC/AD system they messed up considering Jesus was born at least 4 years before they thought.  So, was Satan released according to the actual timeline or the faulty Gregorian one? Is it a thousand years after Christ's birth or when the monks thought Christ's birth was.  Maybe the priests on their computers in a dimly lit church basement can tell us.It was a bad movie with a bad plot, bad script, bad acting (except for Byrne) and a heavy misrepresentation of Christianity.  I don't know who came up with it, but as far as I know this belief does not fall under any conventional Christian view.  And if it did, it would be one of extremely bad biblical hermeneutics.So, if you go to see it, don't expect to be impressed, and certainly don't take it seriously. "},{"Title":"WoW!!!","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What a great movie!!  I just absolutely loved it!  Arnold makes one cool comeback in this awesome flick!  Everything about this movie rocks!!  A must see!!  And the new Guns N Roses song for this movie is extremely awesome, too!!  Please do yourself a favor and go see it soon!  And more than once!!!!  I know I'm gonna!! "},{"Title":"2000 An Arnold Odyssey","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Our good Arnold is back. Kicking and alive with a great movie. Dropping off the heavy weaponry and picking up some faith in the things to come. What makes this film different from the common Arnold package,in my honest opinion, is the fact that he has got some humanity back without getting away from his usual ways. I guess some of you fans can miss some heavy weapons and rapid-fired action but, instead you get a more balanced performance with some minor flaws in the plot and great lines in some of the dialogues. So don't you fear, Arnie is here and as far as I can see ready to turn the century in great shape. "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  End Of Days is good entertainment.One of Schwarzenegger's better movies, its entertaining, dramatic, suspenseful,and thrilling.It's good to see Arnold on the big screen again.I did enjoy this movie it is a must for Arnold fans. It's a must see. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Hokey fun","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Just as in TERMINATOR 2, Arnold gets to be a Christ-figure again. This film is an odd but amusing combo of GHOSTBUSTERS, THE EXORCIST, ROSEMARY'S BABY, and THE DEVIL'S ADVOCATE -- with a bit of DOGMA thrown in too.In STIGMATA, Byrne played a priest who helped save the world. Now he's on the other side, and, by the way, he has some mean urine. You just don't want to mess with this guy, but, of course, Arnold does.In a struggle between the Prince of Darkness and Arnold, guess who wins. I won't spoil it, but I think anyone can figure the answer to that one. The film is a bit silly, yet it is funny too and is worth a look. "},{"Title":"hmmm...no.","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Let's see here.  Peter Hyams sets out to make a movie about the millenium, regarding the return of Satan to Earth and the so-called End of Days. Sounds interesting enough.  Unfortunately, any kind of mystical, demonic atmosphere the film tries to create is undermined by bad acting (Ah-nold especially), hokey humor, and ridiculous events that drive the story. Imagine the Devil's Advocate made into an action movie, stripped of its symbolism, and aimed at action movie audiences.  Gabriel Byrne does a god job of portraying Satan, but the character itself is hugely flawed, and his valiant effort is made in vain.  I went into this movie with medium to low expectations, and did it meet them?  Check out the one-line summary for the answer. "},{"Title":"Above average","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arnold's first action blockbuster since his heart surgery has a lot going for it, but not quite enough to leave a lasting impression.  Maybe if James Cameron had had a hand in the production or direction or writing, ex.(True Lies, Terminator, etc...) but he did not.  The movie has some amazing effects, but the overall plot is so full of inconsistancies they become distracting. The Book of Revelation is mentioned a great deal, but sporadically, taken from different segments of the book that have no correlation with each other. I was hoping for more from End of Days and was a little disappointed overall. "}{"Title":"jee, what other movies can we exploit?","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I just figured I'd give it a chance, after all it had a cool preview and starred Gabe Byrne as Satan. It seemed promising. Well, it wasn't. The acting was mediocre, this doesn't mean bad, it just means that they could have gotten more out of it (that means you, Robin Tunney! Arnold we have accepted), with exception of Rod Steiger who gave a strong but very insignificant performance. As for the plot wow, man, how'd ya come up with that? good vs. evil, that very original. say waht? let arnold kick the devil's ass? this movie will definitely strike the first place... on the planet Sucko. But how can we make it work then, Mike? well, not by ripping off film such as The Usual Suspects (the greatest trick the devil ever pulled off...), the recent Stigmata (o, what this exorcist routine is still supposed to shock us?) and The Devil's Advocate (Let me tell you about God...). Hyams, who did the direction and cinematography apparently couldn't make up his mind on which he should concentrate the most... I've lost two hours of my life looking at action stuff that has been done and lame humor... O, well, what do you expect from a film called with the tagline (or was it merely a consellation that the movie would end?) The end is coming... jee, how long that take you to think up?  "},{"Title":"A real disappointment - overblown digital action without dramatic impact.","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Synopsis  Save your money and splice together Commando with The Devil's Advocate, whose last scene with Al Pacino and Keanu Reeves makes me embarrassed for Arnold and Gabriel Byrne.Many people have complained about Arnold's recent films (Eraser et al.) but End of Days ranks as one of his worst.  I put it down there with the Last Action Hero in the category of trying to do something beyond a straightforward action film, but without having the courage to marry that enviable goal with a decent plot, a logical story-flow or credible acting.When you watch an action film, there is a certain immediate suspension of disbelief - the kind that lets the viewer accept the absurd A-Team-style action sequences of an earlier Arnold film like Commando.  But when you see a dramatic film - even a dramatic-action film, the picture needs to make sense.  You know, those little things like plot, motivation, character development etc...End of Days ultimately fails because it doesn't make sense.  It also fails because it doesn't play to Arnold's considerable strengths as a performer. Without giving too much away, I was constantly asking myself questions like, Why does Satan need a bodyguard?  Why is Rod Steiger still alive after Satan has killed everyone else in the church? Why are they crucifying Arnold instead of killing him?Keep in mind, I'm not questioning the obvious action sequences, or why Arnold's boss let's him gear-up a la Commando for the final showdown with Satan, without even asking why this drunken, deadbeat, ex-cop who hasn't reported in for a couple of days needs a rocket launcher. That's par for the course.In the end, End of Days would have been much better if it had aimed lower and been a straight-ahead action film with lots of Arnold screen time, a few new corny Arnoldisms (I'll be back etc.), more action scenes, fewer digital effects and some decent second-string villains for Arnold to vanquish.Alternatively, it could have been a really interesting film if it had tried to build on the dramatic tension the film tries to create in sequences like the long discussion between Satan and Arnold.  But alas, that would have required a decent story. "},{"Title":"Getting better...","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Being an avid Arnold fan, I naturally raced out to see his much anticipated triumphant return.  Unlike many, I loved much of his early work, including Commando, Running Man, even Raw Deal.  His documentary, Pumping Iron, was excellent as well.  Total Recall, the Terminator series, even Red Heat - all I enjoyed despite his acting abilities.  These movies were simply entertaining; they are not meant to evoke some cathartic experience. However, as his salary ballooned and his focus shifted away from traditional action, the quality of his work deteriorated.  Examples Jingle All the Way, Junior, Last Action Hero (an insult to Arnold fans everywhere), and Batman and Robin.  However, End of Days does somewhat repair the damage.End of Days does provide a worthy action vehicle for Arnold's talents.  He speaks some great one-liners and has some good action scenes. Unfortunately, the script is poorly written (shocking given the staggering budget of this flick).  Commando is the tightest, most logical script on par with Gone with the Wind compared to this script.  First, Andrew Marlowe, the scriptwriter, does absolutely no character development whatsoever.  Not that it is expected from an Arnold movie, but it is nice to know who the hell the character is.  If I hadn't read the reviews ahead of time, I would have had a difficult time determining that he was even a security guard for Gabriel Byrne.  The action just starts, no explanation.  Then, periodically, we have some ridiculous plot points drawn.  I think Marlowe spent a weekend searching through his Gideon bible from a hotel room trying to figure out how to make his storyline make sense.  For example, the 666 meaning 999 and then, just add a 1.  Figuring out that Christ in New York means Christine York and that there is only one Christine York in a city of over 9 million people.  Please...  Then, you get Arnold just making dumb decisions , which is usually out of character for the action star.  For example, when Arnold disconnects the subway cars during an action scene, he does so from the wrong subway car and then, jumps to the disconnected car with Christine York.  Why didn't Arnold simply disconnect the subway car from the other side, the side with Christine York in it in the first place?  Things just don't make sense.  Finally, the ending is not very good.  Predictable and been done  before.Despite these criticisms, this movie does entertain.  Without Arnold, it would be sitting on a shelf next to Mars Attacks.  However, Arnold makes this movie.  Hopefully, this is the beginning of better movies to come. "},{"Title":"New Arnold","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A movie unlike any other Arnold movie we have ever seen, not really but there is some nice new things that we have never seen before. If you look at it from a genre point of view it is a good movie. But I would argue that with a reported budget of 100m, they could have got something more out of it. There is some good action setpieces, but I believe with another director than Peter Hyams it could have been much better movie. But overall a good and entertaining movie. "},{"Title":"One Pretty Kewl Movie","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When I first saw the trailer for End of Days, it looked pretty good...Then a friend of mine checked out the reviews for it...Didn't look too good!! Well I watched it anyway with my homegirl and I was really surprised...I finally saw Arnold back to the macho and strong action figure as he ever was...All I can say is it's great to see Arnold back in action and it couldn't have come at a better time than the making of End of Days...Definitely something to watch!!!! "},{"Title":"...yawn","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I wanted to walk out on this one after about a half hour, but I just would not listen to my intuition.  It was so blatantly obvious that this movie was borrowing, if not stealing, many ideas from older horror classics.  Same old Satan vs. God story, except the producers think you throw some fancy special effects and Arnold Schwarzenegger and they'll draw a big crowd.  I knew I should have run out on this one.  As an atheist, I was horrified by how the movie soon turned into these long discussions on religion, God, and Book of Revelations material.  Unless you are a die-hard believer in the darker side of the christian religion, you will find it hard to sit through all of this.  I've seen all of this sort of revelations material in many previous movies, and it never seems to get any more interesting with the next flick.It was cool to see those two fellas from The Usual Suspects come together, as both are great actors, but the overall movie was just dull, and the amount of religion thrown onto you is much overdone.  Very unoriginal and boring.  Go see James Bond's The World is Not Enough instead.6 of 10. "},{"Title":"Arnold sucked; movie rocked.","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Hey. This movie was amazing. It had an outstanding plot, amazing special effects, and everything. Ah it was great. The only bad thing was Arnold. Sure he's a tough guy and is great for strictly action films. But this movie had an actual plot - and it was a good plot too. Arnold just didn't seem right for the character he played. Anyway, it was an awesome movie. One of the best I've seen in a while.  "},{"Title":"The forces of evil sleep but do not die","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Well Arnie, u have redeemed yourself here, very well done. I walked into this movie with low expectations but walked out liking it. But I loved Byrne the most, he played the best Satan to date. The movie was quite dark, it didn't live up to the hype, but then again there wasn't heavy promotion for this so i guess it was a smart idea so then it might do better. The movie seemed quite offending to the Vatican so I wonder how that will go with the audience. Overall a pretty good film to go and catch on a Friday night, defanately an Arnold movie. "},{"Title":"It's a turkey, but it is a fun filled turkey","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It's a turkey, but it is a fun filled turkey. If you like Arnold, and what he does best in these types of action films, you will have a good time watching this. But don't expect a masterpiece like T2. Special effects are quite good, there are some good lines, sadly it is the finale of the film that makes it a true turkey. "},{"Title":"** out of ****","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  As I sat through this boring film, I was reminded of the much BETTER Hyams film The Relic, which was actually scary. This film tries to be scary but fails. I usually hate saying this because it too has become an unoriginal statement, but this film is totally unoriginal, borrowing from other movies that are much better.The film doesn't even try to surprise us like Deep Blue Sea did. There are no shocking moments and the film is more than surprisingly predictable. It's also plagued with so many plotholes. Satan himself, when he shows up at the end, isn't the least bit scary because we can hardly tell what he looks like. This is a lazy film that takes forever to lift-off, and the fast-paced editing only hurt the film, not helped it. "}{"Title":"No brain but a whole lot of fun.","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arnie's back! End of Days is an actionpacked supernatural thriller and it sure gives you the ride that is promised. Arnold fights satan in Predator-style. There are many plot-holes and stupid scenes. Gabriel Byrne as satan actually urinates gasoline when he's about to blow up a car. That's rather strange...but I guess Satan can do these things. I'm not saying this is a great film...but it beats the hell out of Eraser(which truly sucked). Enjoyable action-movie. "},{"Title":"Latest Schwarzenegger action opus has its merits, but could have been better","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arnold is Back! The local New York critics have been brutal to Peter Hyam's Arnold vs. Satan opus, End of Days. Is it really as bad as they say? Not actually, but Arnold has done much better. Fans were probably hoping for a great return after his couple of year hiatus. They might be disappointed, but this fanciful tale moves right along and certainly carries the audience with it. Jericho Crane (Arnold) is an ex-cop who is hired to guard a wall street big wig, The Man (Gabriel Byrne), who has been taken over by Satan (yes, the devil himself). What Jericho doesn't know is his client's alter ego plans to impregnate a young woman (Robin Tunney) with his child within one hour of the new millenium. I guess Satan doesn't know that the real millenium is a year away. When Jericho finally realizes the mission of The Man, it becomes his mission to save her, and restore his own faith in G-d along the way. His partner, ably portrayed by Kevin Pollack, is not given enough to do, and his fate is quite predictable.The action is spectacular and exciting. Special effects abound and the stunts are exactly what you would expect.  It's all a bit over the top, but Mr. Schwarzenegger is in fine form, looking pretty good at 52 years old. The whole tale just  borrows a bit too much from previous epics about the supreme Evil (Rosemary's Baby, The Omen, etc.) You feel you've been there before and with more enthusiasm and creativity. It's just a little too much by the numbers.   "},{"Title":"Another Good Story for Arnold & Gabriel.","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A good Story for Arnold & Gabriel.  Even Kevin was good for a sidekick.  A real stretch for what a Security protection company team would do after a hit attempt.  Not much background to help figure out the characters so you have to learn to like them. Arnold saved the day and you believed he had faith at the end. Gabriel showed the real mean & manipulative side of Satan. Almost as good as Al Pacino in Devil's Advocate.  The Special effects were all great.    "},{"Title":"If you like big, stupid FX movies...","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  You probably already know whether you'll like this film. It has a ludicrous plot, lots of massive explosions, a forgettable heroine, and Arnold pretty much gets to be Arnold. I'm still debating whether it was a waste of bargain-matinee money.    It has a little bit of True Lies (Arnold, an aviation chase, and a likable buddy), Terminator (trying to save the innocent chosen woman from the unstoppable evil guy). Unfortunately, it's only about as good as those other thrillers with supernatural encounters in the NYC subway tunnels, Ghostbusters 2 and Mimic.An hour into it, when I was fighting every urge to head for the lobby, a little humor started creeping into it and it became a bit more watchable. But the folks waiting for the next showing did not get what they were hoping for when they asked our group how was it? 4.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Lighten Up Critics!!","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The critics bashing this film need to chill out.  The movie was exciting, funny, and far more interesting than the majority of action films released these days.  You can't go to a Schwarzenegger movie and expect to see the next Citizen Kane, so just sit back, stop analyzing and just enjoy.  Its a fun movie. "},{"Title":"Unrealistic and Comical","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  During the show, I have thought about Turkey whose neck was cut off but his body walk around for 20 min. What I just said could be somewhat unrealistic and this movie portrayed on a unrealistic piece. We some like sci-fi and fiction story if not all. But would Satan coming to New York actually come as a truth? If I strongly believe Catholic which was portrayed as witch craft (totally based on my opinion) in this movie, yea, things can be scared at the last 3 days of this coming December. I myself isn't really good active Mormon, but this movie made me think once more that Go back to Church. Satan was named after 666 because he couldn't come up himself as the God (777). Before and during the Christ time, #7 was the highest number. Anyhow, this movie treated Satan as Superman but evil one. The Satan can hurt by a bullet,  but he can be only killed by ..... "},{"Title":"Bad reviews be damned...","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Thank God Arnold's three year film hiatus is over.  I have read many mixed reviews on this film and allow me to set the record straight.  Three types should see this film horror fans, action fans, and Arnie fans.  End of Days successfully combines the horror and action genre for one hell of a thrill ride. Arnold plays an ex-NYPD cop now private security agent (along with partner Kevin Pollack providing good comic relief) who comes to the aid of a young woman marked for consummation by Satan (thus ending mankind as we know it).  Two schools of thought exist to foil Satan (Gabriel Byrne), one group (knights of the sacred heart I believe they call themselves) wants to kill Satan's unwilling bride-to-be while the other relies on the more traditional aspect of faith in God (both stemming from the very same Vatican!) In a radical departure from his traditional action roles, Arnie plays flawed hero Jericho Cane, a drunkard down on his luck and without faith (lost both his wife and daughter).  It is definitely an interesting character study as Cane must not only grapple with personal issues but the greatest manifestation of evil the human mind can acknowledge.  Byrne, on the other hand,  plays the devil with charisma and intelligence.  Although many may be disappointed with his initial entrance, one cannot deny his screen presence.   Many critics have complained the film lacks originality.  End of Days indeed does borrow visuals and concepts from the Omen/Exorcist I and III as well as from numerous Schwarzenegger flicks ranging from Terminator to Predator.  The brilliant opening sequence also reminded me of THE MATRIX.  However the combination of religious horror with the bravado of a Schwarzeneggar persona is ultimately the films greatest triumph.    Peter Hyams (THE RELIC, TIMECOP, THE STAR CHAMBER) provides enough eye candy for any genre fan (e.g. the most wicked inbred since DELIVERANCE, stigmata, crucifixions, Arnie double fisted, the most firepower since Terminator II).  Finally, the film does successfully manipulate emotions to the point where I could honestly say I care if Evil wins over Good.  If this isn't a fun time at the movies maybe its the end of days for you.   "},{"Title":"Murky and Dark, and Good Exciting Fun","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you can wade through the rather dark and murky religiosity and metaphysics, and the equally gloomy cinematography, you will enjoy Arnold's exciting comeback.He plays a lost soul of a super-security agent, Jericho Cane, who is an alcoholic and on the verge of suicide his life having been ruined by the murder of his family - for which he blames himself and his work for not being there. Enter the Catholic Church in search of the very special and chosen young woman who, when she copulates with Satan in the last hour of 1999, will bring about the End of Days - and Satan's rule on Earth and the destruction of all we know will occur. (I would have loved to see how the Special Effects Departments and Industrial Light and Magic would handle THAT!).Gabriel Byrne does an excellent and malevolently restrained job as the evil Satan incarnate. His pursuit of the young woman, Christine, played well by Robin Tunney, and how they run afoul of Jericho Cane - and vice versa - if the main plot of End of Days, which is gory enough to be sure you leave the kids home. And leave your cell phones home too; I think we are all tired of some idiot answering a cell phone during a movie! Rod Steiger plays the priest who not only has to try to find and protect the girl, he has to try to stop other Catholics - including the cardinal of New York - from killing the girl to prevent the copulation with the Devil.At the heart of the film is how Satan can NOT be stopped by the entire Church, but can possibly be stopped by the faith, goodness, and sacrifice of one man whose transformation away from violence must happen.  But will it? No spoilers! Will good triumph over evil? It's an old but applicable theme.One of the more curious elements of the movie is how impotent the Catholic Church is against Satan crucifixes, churches, priests, and even one cardinal can do nothing against The Prince of Darkness. Incidentally, unlike some movies and art exhibits of note which ARE Catholic-bashing, I do NOT find that to be the case here, although it came close with the cardinal intent on murder.   Some of the scenes are memorable, such as the Satanic ceremonies deep under the street of Manhattan, and the fight on the subway train which was spectacular. Many of the shots in Manhattan are well worth seeing.Elements of Day of the Locust, The Omega Man, Rosemary's Baby, and The Exorcist all can be recognized in this film. But even if End of Days is derivative to a degree it still works.   "},{"Title":"Could have been so much better","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I went into this movie expecting some awesome, cutting-edge action movie. Maybe it was my mistake to see this right after The World Is Not Enough, but there was a HUGE difference in the quality of the two movies. While TWINE had awesome gadgets, a great plot, and one heck of a final fight, End of Days was just the opposite. Arnold has apparently forgotten how to act (though I've got to give credit to Gabriel Byrne for giving the part more depth then it really had) and some of the cinematography was among the worst I had ever seen. The special effects themselves were pretty cool.There are logic and plot holes in this movie that I could drive a semi through as well.Bottom Line- A movie with an intriguing premise and above-average cast that ends up being one heck of a letdown.Grade C-  "},{"Title":"Nobody does action like Ah-nold!","Date":"23 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  You'll be surprised by how many previous occult films you'll recognize in this one.  Regardless, this is an entertaining action movie.  It doesn't stimulate your cerebral cortex, but that's not what a good Schwarzenegger movie does.  Over the top pyrotechnics mixed with good ole fashioned CGI. Kevin Pollack and Robin Tunney do well in their minor roles.As Satan, Gabriel Byrne is to die for and everyone does. The man is smokin' hot, presence oozes out of every pore, and he has the gift, so why doesn't he make more romantic movies dammit!!!  Every woman should see this movie just for Gabriel Byrne -sigh- "}{"Title":"The atmosphere was dark and cold","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I had quit high expectations after seeing the trailer and I don´t think Arnold is the best actor on this planet, but I do think he is a really cool guy in his action movies. (especially in both Terminator)Gabriel Byrne who played the devil did it really good. This is the kind of movie where it starts with a high tempo,just to attract the audience, but after a while you get tired. The excitement disapears and I said to my self during the show, -I´ve seen this before, too many times, but the special effects are really good.The atmosphere in the movie was dark and cold which I liked and I think my favorite sceen was when Gabriel Byrne kissed the lady at the restaurant and when he went out, the whole place just exploded.  "},{"Title":"An enjoyable Schwarzenegger vehicle","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  End of Days - drunkard ex-cop has two days to stop Satan from taking a bride and wiping out humanity.  Combining elements from The Omen, Rosemary's Baby and Ghostbusters only to name a few, Days is a different take on the millenium bug.This is definitely a  Schwarzenegger vehicle light on plot, great special effects, lots of guns, and things going boom. With dialogue that is more stilted than usual, Schwarzenegger still does a passable job.  Kevin Pollack meanwhile provides great comic relief. Byrne however is the standout - he makes a truly wonderful Satan  handsome, suave, and someone you certainly wouldn't want to cross,a sort Bond gone wrong.There are no Oscars in this movie's future, just a fun night out. "},{"Title":"Awesome Arnold comeback","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arnold disappointed many of us with his comedies, and with the exception of the Eraser, Terminator 2, and Total Recall, all of his movies in the last ten years sucked. If this film means that he's getting back on track, than it should be cherished. Excellent work by Stan Winston and Hyams, their collaboration is the only thing that I liked about The Relic. End of Days is one Arnold's best films. It not only makes his record look good, but it is also Hyams' best film. Great fun. "},{"Title":"Metaphysical Mess.","Date":"19 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This flick was supposed to have been written by somebody named Andrew W. Marlowe but I don't believe it. It was written by a Magic 8 Ball and occasionally a heuristic computer was called in for a consult. Don't try to kid the kid.As the new millennium approaches (Kids That would be the year 2000.) the Devil must appear and impregnate a mother-designate before New Year's Eve so she will give birth to the Devil's spawn, who will then rule the world. The Catholic church apparently has a handle on these plans. In fact, one perverse but well-meaning sect is out to eliminate the young lady (Robin Tunney) and prevent the design from being realized. The Good Priest, a plump and lumbering Rod Steiger, has nothing but good in his heart but is unable to do anything in the material sense. Schwarzenegger, in his last movie before becoming a real power as well as a health food fanatic, is an ex cop who gradually catches on to the sneaky stuff and does battle with both the militant Catholic sect and the more or less immortal Devil (Gabe Byrne) and his myrmidons.It's a kind of pastiche of horror movies. Let's see. The impregnation and the need for its being prevented is from Rosemary's Baby and The Terminator. The Devil nobody believes in is from The Usual Suspects. Steiger does a reprise of his honest but helpless priest from The Amityville Horror. The final earthly representation of Lucifer looks like the monster in the defensive field in Forbidden Planet. The smashing up of the subway cars is reminiscent of the subway crash in the third installment of the Die Hard franchise. The prelude to the climactic confrontation -- in which Arnold buckles on all kinds of black leather straps and holsters and arms himself with enough weapons to destroy a city is from every Arnold Schwarzenegger movie you ever saw.Yet, the Magic 8 Ball must have realized that the series of Schwarzenegger action movies was growing a little long in the tooth. It must have advised, Try Something New. In this flick, Schwarzenegger is no longer Superman, like Steven Seagal, who emerges from heroic battles unscathed. Here, he gets thrown around a lot, banged up, beaten with pipes, slammed against walls. He bleeds. He howls with pain.But the over-achieving 8 Ball went a little too far in suggesting that Arnold be given a chance to act. And not only act, but to act out a crisis of faith in the aisle of an elaborate church with stained-glass windows and a thousand candles. Tears run down his face. He has an epiphany, a Road To Damascus experience, before throwing himself on a sword after being possessed (Cf., The Exorcist). He gave a much better performance as governor.The best lines are given to Gabriel Byrne, with an attempt at a New York City accent. He makes some clever, if not especially fresh, observations on the nature of good and evil, and the character of God. The lines aren't really challenging though, not to people who have given any thought to them, or who think at all.I understand Shwarzenegger is now back, in another action movie. Too bad. He can't possibly need the money. "},{"Title":"Arnie goes manno a manno with Satan","Date":"20 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie in itself looks very good. The posters and the advertising impressed me, and it promised to be a rather thrilling movie. Unfortunately it turns out to be much less so. The effects and the action sequences are literally what one would expect in an Arnie movie. Like Terminator II he is going up against something which simply cannot die, so in the end of the movie the heavy weaponry comes out. Unlike Terminator II, the movie is not constantly on the go and you become somewhat agitated as you have to put up with a rather contrived plot in between the action sequences.The movie is about the end of the world and how Swartzenegger stops it. The precept is that a girl is born who will give birth to the child that will destroy the world. Every thousand years, Satan is released to mate with the girl, and if he succeeds then the world will end. So humanity is responsible for stopping him and giving them another 1000 years to develop until he comes again. Of course this is all stupid, and the way they explain it, such as 666 being upside-down (especially since the Greeks did not use Arabic numbers like we did, and that is what John, the author of revelation, wrote in), was just plain stupid. It would have been just as good if they had left that out.The plot is the typical good verses bad idea. The good guys are the church while the bad guys are the satanists. I liked the whole secret society aspect to the film where there are disparate factions in the church with all of their own goals while the satanists are one huge underground faction bent on following their master's will. Satan is the big bad guy, and I feel that Gabrial Byrne plays him exceptionally well. What is impressive is that Satan is played as his manipulative, deceitful and betraying self. He is actually shown as not the cool person to follow, and that the promises that he makes are inevitably destructive.God, on the otherhand, is misportrayed. He is described as a distant figure who lets humanity fight its own battles. It is the Catholic Church (rife with its traditions and such) that is portrayed as the proper church, not the evangelical, bible believing church. In fact the claim that the end of the world can be predicted is unbiblical as we are told that we will not know the hour or the day. Still, the movie redeems itself slightly at the end when Arnie puts his trust in God by asking him to give him strength, and then goes on to defeat Satan. I guess in the end, Satan is a powerful being not to be trifled with, but God is supremely more powerful. "},{"Title":"Faith Or A Glock 9 Millimetre?","Date":"20 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" End Of Days is directed by Peter Hyams and written by Andrew W. Marlowe. It stars Arnold Schwarzenegger, Gabriel Byrne, Robin Tunney, Kevin Pollak, Rod Steiger, Udo Kier & CCH Pounder.It's the end of the Millennium and as 1999 draws to a close Satan (in human form played by Gabriel Byrne) is in town and looking for his bride. That bride is Christine York (Tunney), who 20 years earlier on her birthday had been chosen by Satanists to be the one for the spawning of the anti-Christ. Enter retired cop Jericho Cane (Schwarzenegger), a suicidal security expert whose family were murdered, who after being hired to protect an every day business man finds himself in a battle with evil itself. It's not just the fate of poor Christine that's now in his hands, but that of mankind too.Arnold versus The Devil, you couldn't make it up could you? Well actually they did, but hey, what's wrong with pitting modern cinemas action super star against man's ultimate enemy? The answer is nothing wrong with it at all; as long as the expectation level is set at brain left at the door for some mindless popcorn fun. Which when one sees the premise on offer is all one can surely expect to see. Surely? Budgeted at $100 million by Universal Studios, of which $25 million went on the Austrian Oak's salary, End Of Days, contrary to beliefs, made over double that when all sales were factored in. However, it was still a poor return for such a big block-buster and Universal were most disappointed in the returns. As was Schwarzenegger himself, who was hoping to launch a big movie come back after a run of sub standard movies had seen his stock fall. Throw in the Razzie nominations for Schwarzenegger, Byrne (who was also up for Stigmata) and Hyams, and it doesn't make particularly inspiring reading.It's all very ridiculous, the film not the statistics, but End Of Days is a whole bunch of explosive, bonkers, action based fun. Its flaws are many, not least that the plot is actually an adventurous reworking of T2 Judgement Day (Arnie playing it on safe territory one feels). While giving the big man some character depth was never going to be a good move considering his-ahem-range. Yet the film finds him on particularly good muscular form, machine gunning, shooting rockets and facing off against Byrne's (having a great time and playing it as it should be played) snarly, sarcastic Old Nick adversary. Tunney (wolf whistle that body) bats the eyes and screams as befitting the role, Pollak deserves better but runs with it in his usual dry dulcet way, while the wonderful Miriam Margolyes gets to kick Arnie's butt! Yes it's that kind of movie folks.With dashes of grue and explosions aplenty it was never about trying to win awards. If ever a film does exactly what it says on the tin then this is it. Arnie Vs Satan, it is what it is, relax and enjoy. 7/10 "},{"Title":"This is a great movie","Date":"18 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Jericho Cane, a beaten down ex-cop, wakes up to another day, oblivious to the struggle that he soon must face. His job as a security specialist alongside his partner Chicago has become a tireless routine of seedy surveillance jobs, and since the death of his wife and child, everything in life which once held any meaning to him is now gone. Following a bizarre confrontation with a crazed homeless man warning him of impending doom, Cane rescues a young woman, Christine York from attackers who have invaded her home. He soon finds himself drawn into a heart-stopping game of cat and mouse, as he realises that she is the key to a supernatural force of terror, born of prophecy long ago foretold.This is a great movie, it had a lot of action in this movie, and some really good creepy, Dreams or Vissions that will keep you hooked for the whole movie.Arnold Schwarzenegger was great in movie and the acting from the rest of the cast was great too, This not just a horror movie, it more of scary Thriller I give this movie 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Arnold is back - fighting Satan","Date":"6 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Just to put it out there - I'm a huge Arnie fan! I love End of Days, it has everything an Arnie film needs - guns, killing, bullets, a hot girl, an enemy, a body count, bloodshed and humour. Plus it has an interesting storyline, and its a horror movie. It has twists and betrayals constantly throughout. Arnie delivers some great one - liners as usual - 'If I had to choose between your faith and my glock 9mm, I choose the glock'.There are some immensely satisfying scenes in which Arnie is unloading bullets at Satan (played well by Gabriel Byrne). 8/10 may be a harsh score but Arnie would forgive me as that is the lowest I would score any of his movies. "},{"Title":"King Saul","Date":"9 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Has it ever occurred to anyone that in the final dramatic scene Arnold resembles none other but King Saul from the Old Testament? In order not to be captivated by the Philistines, the wounded King throws himself upon his own sword. Arnold didn't have a sword, but this scene still imparts a deeper meaning to the film the war the Evil wages against the humankind is still impossible to win, but it exacts a great toll... Needless to say, the resemblance between Jericho and Christ is also striking both offered themselves up to save the humankind. Jericho reminds of the biblical story of one of the most glorious victories of the Hebrew over the Canaanites. "},{"Title":"I can't believe it!Please read!","Date":"13 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Okay,here is the thing.The other day when i was watching this movie for god know's which time i remembered to check out what grade it got because i've seen many underrated movies by grade on IMDb like Gladiator,or Braveheart who is on the 104'th place on the IMDb's two hundred and fifty best movies ever.I mean come on...It's one of the best if not the best movie ever made.An the Gladiator...How can Gladiator be on a hundred and twenty second place.He deserves a place among the first ten if not five.Anyway...For the Braveheart i understood in some way since the English hate it so you can't expect them to give it a high grade.But this...I cant believe it.Have people forget about a little thing called fun because this movie is a kind of movie that's made for fun,not for Oscar's but for fun.How can it be so underrated.This is one of the best Arnies movies.It's not a masterpiece but it's not made to be a masterpiece.It's made so people could sit,turn on the TV and spend a few hour's of their life.And at my opinion those few hour's were worth it.I had a great fun.And is till do every time i watch it.I think that the reason this movie was so underrated is because people don't grade the movies on the way they should.For example...You think that it's not nearly as good as the godfather so you will give him five.Well afcorse it's not nearly as good as the godfather but that's not the thing.The thing is that every movie should be graded in it's own genre.That's why i think that IMDb's 250 list is stupid.You can't sort The Braveheart and American pie under the same list.You just can't!It's the completely different style of movies.And it's obviously which one is better because you can't say that American pie is an epic movie just as you can't say that Braveheart is a teenage comedy movie.Anyway,i hope i helped those who haven't watched it.I know that everyone has it's own taste and i respect it but i just can't believe that some movies are so underrated...At least at my opinion! Enjoy! "}{"Title":"I really rather liked this one...","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" End of Days starts at 'Vatican City, Rome 1979' where a Priest realises that an ancient prophecy on a scroll is about to happen... Cut to 'New York City 6 Hours Later' where a woman (Rainer Judd) gives birth to a healthy young baby girl, the baby is whisked away & a strange religious rite is performed on her by some dodgy Priest (Udo Kier) before being returned to her Mother... Jump forward '20 years Later' to the '28th December 1999' where alcoholic ex-cop Jericho Cane (Arnold Schwarzenegger) lives out his life playing bodyguard for the rich along with his partner Bobby Chicago (Kevin Pollak), on this particular day they have to protect a stockbroker (Gabriel Byrne). An attempt is made on his life, Jericho manages to catch the would-be assassin who turns out to be a Priest named Thomas Aquinas (Derrick O'Connor). As Jericho investigates things further he discovers that his client is in fact Satan himself who intends to mate with Christine York (Robin Tunney) at the turn of the millennium & bring down civilisation as we know it as she has been destined to since birth 20 years ago... It's up to Jericho & his Glock 9mm to save the Earth from Satan & protect Christine!Photographed & directed by Peter Hyams I really rather liked End of Days, sure it ain't no masterpiece but as good, solid entertainment what's not to like? The script by co-producer Andrew W. Marlowe moves along like a rocket, there's plenty of explosions, CGI computer effects, demons, sex, nudity, gratuitous violence, chases, helicopter, car & train mayhem, an albino guy with a really bad hair style & of course there is the one & only Arnold Schwarzenegger running around blowing the crap out of things with big guns. What, may I ask, more do you want? While all the necessary, well as far as I'm concerned they're necessary, ingredients are present & correct there's slightly more substance in the story & character's than one might expect from a big budget Hollywood shoot-'em-up. Again I should stress it's not going to change the way you look at life but I thought the character's were well fleshed out & fairly believable (in context obviously!) while the story itself had a bit more to than I expected with a decent amount going on throughout the film. I also thought the ending was brave, I believe this is the only film in which a character played by Schwarzenegger dies so don't expect the usual sugar coated happy Hollywood ending.Director Hyams does a good job, a lot of the film is pretty dark. The action scenes aren't outstanding or particularly original but their well done & are suitably over-the-top & extravagant. The film seems to have a hard time deciding whether it wants to be a horror or action & as a result it sort of alternates between the two in a seemingly random & uneven way. There is one funny bit though where the old grey-haired & somewhat fat Miriam Margoyles has a fight with Schwarzenegger & beats him up! There's some decent gore here, a cut open snake, an exploded head, plenty of gunshot wounds, someone is crucified using medical equipment, a shard of glass is pushed into someone neck, cut out tongues & someone has their heart ripped out.With a supposed budget of about $83,000,000 End of Days has that Hollywood polish about it & it is very well made with great production design, special effects & cinematography. The acting was OK, Schwarzenegger has never been the best actor in the world but he's OK here, Byrne is class as Satan while Rod Steiger plays a Priest & the infinitely watchable Udo Kier has a small role.End of Days is one of those big budget Hollywood flicks that is loud, noisy & delivers plenty of bang for your money. I have to admit I rather liked it, one of Schwarzenegger's best films during the later stage's of his acting career, if not the best. Well worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly amazing (Spoilers!)","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I saw this movie yesterday, and I must say it blew me away.Along with Terminator, Predator and True Lies, this is one of Arnold's best movies. He gives an excellent and even Oscar worthy performance as Jericho Cane. I know, you must be thinking Schwarzenegger? Oscar worthy performance?!, but it's true. I can be very realistic when it comes to movies and performances, so it's not like I'm exaggerating. I think it's a shame this movie only gets a 5.2. This is without a doubt Arnold's best performance ever. I'm giving this movie 9/10 for everything the acting, the directing and the writing. Yes, the scene where the priest turns the 666 upside down so it would be 999 is a bit off, but then again it's good entertainment. Director Peter Hyams did a very good job. The action is superb, as well as the special effects. In this movie Arnold proves he is one of the greatest action heroes ever, and a good actor.Believe me, give this one a shot. You won't be disappointed.Well done, Arnold & Peter. "},{"Title":"Like the old days","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There was a time when people went to the movies to be reasonably shocked, entertained and to escape reality. That time seems to have ended. Today movies are over-criticized and have to be about either mental disorders, sexual preferences, cross-dressing or preferably both or even all three to be worth anything.End of Days is more of an old-style movie. With a huge SFX budget spent on pretty cool pyrotechnics and CGI, a loud action hero(Arnie) and the devil himself on a hunt for a one-night stand, End of Days would have been a good movie in the 40's. Of course, back then it would have been banned. End of Days is brutal and non-compromising and refreshingly cliché-free for an action film.Arnold decides to act and he doesn't fail. Some scenes are borderline funny when they're not supposed to be but still, over-all, it works. Byrne(credited as the man) does a smooth, suave and satisfying devil and he is pretty much the actor of the movie.SPOILER End of Days breaks a lot of Hollywood taboos, should be considered offensive to Christians(Byrne's devil has a line you can't shake off so easily When good things happen, it's His way. When bad things happen, He works in mysterious ways), but in the end Arnold is redempted when he is forced to choose between the Holy Spirit and his M-16 with a grenade launcher, in what must be one of the weirdest scenes of 1999. END SPOILERThe budget of 80 million dollars is put to good use with the special effects, which often rocks. The visions throughout the movie are imaginative, sometimes unsettling and always satisfying. The strong sex scene described in the MPAA rating is pretty much insane. There are strong Arnie movie vibes throughout the movie for some reason, from T1 and T2 to Predator.Maybe the film-makers really believed the world would end 1999. They put a lot on risk making this movie, and IMO, it payed off. Some neat bonuses are Udo Kier, some nods to the Omen, and Arnold's hilarious accent. (I noe what I he-urd!)7/10 Solid satanic entertainment. "},{"Title":"I Was Surprised","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When I first saw this movie, I was surprised. It was a lot better than what I had been lead to believe. This is a truly moving film. I believe in god more than I used to. This movie has influenced me. I am very glad I saw it and I know you will be too.End Of Days is about a creature known as Satan. He has come to New York inside of a man's body in search for a girl. If he finds this girl and mates with her between 1100 pm and 1200 am on Dec. 31, 1999, Satan will be released into the world and the world as we know it will cease to exist. It is up to a cop named Jericho Cane to stop Satan from finding this girl and saving the world from the wrath of Satan.This is a well made movie that I definitely recommend to anyone who believes or is fascinated by this type of stuff. If you are a believer, then you should see this movie at some point in your life. If you are not a believer, I still think you should see this movie because I believe it will make you believe in god and have more faith. It really moved me, and I believe it will move you in some way or another.The verdict This is actually a very well made film that will at least help you believe in god and faith.8/10 "},{"Title":"Arnold in a horror movie...well sort of.","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Actually the first Terminator movie was just about as horror filled as this movie of the end of the world. It needs more horror and who knows it may have made for a really good movie, instead of being just another Schwarzenegger action flick...a movie in a line of three of his movies that really did not register on the radar (Collateral Damage and The Sixth Day being the other two). Overall I enjoyed it, but as with those two movies this is not anything all that grand or cool. Just Arnold fighting the devil with a machine gun with a few twists and turns here and there and to top it all off a very predictable ending. Still, it had good action, wasn't boring, and Arnold was his usual self, not bad, but not as good as he can get with a more top notch director. This movie has him as an ex-cop haunted by painful memories (aren't all ex-cops in these movies). Meanwhile Satan has taken over a man on this realm using him to find a bride so that he may have a son. That is pretty much it, like I said good action including a pretty good subway scene and you have your typical Arnold movie with a few splashes of horror for good measure. "},{"Title":"not Schwarzenegger's best but good enough","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Arnold Schwarzenegger is Jericho Cane, a man who's a depressed and suicidal ex-cop who has to stop Satan (in the form of Gabriel Byrne) from coupling with Christine York, a young woman who was chosen to be for Satan when she was a newborn in 1979, before the new millennium. Jericho must find his faith white battling Satan. This is a good film, nowhere near Schwarzenegger's best, but serviceable enough. And even though it's a little over 2 hours, it doesn't really feel it and I didn't ever feel the need to check my watch.My Grade B- DVD Extras Commentary by director Peter Hyams; episode of Spotlight on Location; Special Effects Clips; Book of Revelation notes; Music Videos by Everlast and Rob Zombie; Theatrical trailer and Trailer for U-571 DVD-Rom Screensaver, video postcard, and more movie images Eye Candy Melissa Mascara, Linda Pine, Lynn Marie Sager, and Robin Tunney bare breasts "},{"Title":"Schwarzennegger's Date With The  Devil-devilishly  good !","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I must admit that Schwarzenegger took a great risk when he decided to do this film.Okay,its an action-movie,but with a theme that a large portion of his fans will definitely not fully comprehend.They are used to seeing him kill real  villains ,and the Devil is definitely not that real to them.But that is why this film stands out from all others this great Austrian has made.Schwarzenegger's character,Jericho is a tortured soul with lost faith.He is a cop who has lost his family to terrorists,and wants to end his own life.And then he comes face to face with something he never believed in-the devil.The Devil is on Earth to marry his bride,thereby unlocking the gates of hell,and bringing about the End Of Days. Jericho does everything he can to stop him,and ends up giving himself to the cause.The film is superbly made,with great special effects and the works.What is particularly watchable is Gabriel Byrne's portrayal of Satan-his act is a class act.But hey,this is Arnold's film after all.And he does very well indeed as Jericho.So does Robin Tunney as Satan's would-be bride. Great ! "},{"Title":"Ah-nold meets the Omen, with tacky results","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  End of Days is a strange beast.  It can't decide whether it wants to be an Omen-style religious thriller or a slam-bang action movie, and so it ultimately emerges as a weird and unsatisfying hybrid of these very different genres.  We get some good dramatic moments, mostly involving Satan tempting Arnold with visions of his happier past, but the film's pretensions of being serious fall apart every time our muscular-bound protagonist dangles from a helicopter or dodges an enormous ball of fire.Gabriel Byrne makes a good Satan (he takes those bullets well, doesn't he?), but he could've been a great Satan.  I sense him sleepwalking through much of the film, and tacky moments - like his use of flammable urine as a weapon - don't help much.  Note how bad the CGI is when he turns into his demon form; computer effects were still awful (for the most part) in 1999.  And hey, they're still awful now, much of the time.Kevin Pollack gives a career-worst performance as the funny sidekick, Rod Steiger is wasted in an exposition-heavy role, and Robin Tunney plays a rather flat (or I should say boring) character who is not much different from any other action movie damsel-in-distress.Peter Hyams, who has directed many lame action movies before and after this one, surely deserves a lifetime Razzie for consistently mediocre work.  Not terrible - just mediocre.  End of Days isn't quite the bottom of the barrel, but it was certainly bad enough to drive Arnold that much closer to politics.   "},{"Title":"quick reviews!","Date":"26 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  SPOILERS!!!So I've read on the B/W board that End of Days is crap. I can understand people saying it for Collateral Damage, and admittedly this is a bit pretentious, a man taking on Satan and all, exploiting the supposed 'end of the millennium-end of the world crap' for all it's worth. But it's an Arnie film, so expect guns, explosions, one-liners, and general entertainment, if you're into that sort of thing. Gabriel Byrne is good as the devil, perhaps not as frightening as Pacino, but slimy and attractive enough to be effective. The plot revolves around a girl whose birth is believed to bring around the end of days, if Satan can impregnate her, and as the church is not strong enough to protect her, Arnie mistakenly gets drawn in. With the Dark Lord chasing her, as well as priests who believe that her death is the only solution, Arnie whips out the hardware and eventually sacrifices himself for her, and the world. I saw this in the cinema, just before New Year's Eve, which added atmosphere, not because I was stupid enough to believe that the world was going to end, but because I was surrounded by people who weren't sure. The film has a fair amount of jumpy amounts, not as effective on the small screen, and has some dark content for a typical action flick. But, once again, you don't need to think much for this one, just enjoy, but one question arises if Arnie with guns, grenades etc can barley stop Satan, knowing that Satan tries this once every 1000 years, how did they defeat him 1000 years ago? Harsh language? Sticks?  "},{"Title":"Arnold To the Rescue again","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" End of days is a great action thriller with intense moments. Arnold Schwarzenegger is ex cop Jericho cane who is assigned to protect a woman by the name of Christine York (Robin Tunney.) Christine is a woman on the edge of her seat, trying to escape run and hide from the Devil/Satan (Gabriel Byrne). If he mates with christine, he unleashes massive hell on earth. But Jericho is not going to let that happen heis going to do anything his power to stop Satan that means risking his own lifeI've been watching Arnold a long time and at age now its great to still see him do action movies Robin Tunney is beautiful but she talks weird she sounds like she did in The Craft when I first saw her act Gabriel Byrne is just a great actor the man knows what hes doing ever time he act Schwarzenegger Vs Byrne who ever thought It could definitely a movie to see**** "}{"Title":"true blue action stuff!!","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  this is probably one of the most underrated movies of all time.what people fail to understand while watching this one is that its supposed to be a pure action thriller and not test anyones grey cells. it definitely lives upto arnie fans expectations as an action hero.with some gr8 cgi and good cinematography and sound design.deifintely i would reccomend this to anyone who wants some good popcorn entertainment on dvd.the background score is also haunting at times,but gabriel bryne is the real star of the film as satan.he is very very menacing and i mean it.but not a dissapointment for arnie fans. "},{"Title":"a waste of good talent","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Good grief. The worst movie is one where there is so much potential - a budget that can stretch to good special effects (Stan Winston's effects), a very good cast list (see below) and a good director (Peter Hyams) - but then goes and screws it all up with an awful screenplay and blatantly hacked together and rapidly rehashed scenes.*** SPOILERS ***Several scenes were so badly acted that they made me laugh out loud Arnie's crucifixion was hysterically bad, the random explosions that follow Satan around the place, the completely gratuitous mother and daughter sex scene (even the SFX guys on the DVD had the grace to look embarassed about this) and the death scene at the end had me shaking my head in disbelief that this kind of stuff gets released in the first place.Rod Steiger, Gabriel Byrne, Miriam Margoyle and Kevin Pollak are great actors, but after reading the script, they must've thought Well, at least it puts bread on the table and went and did it anyway. I don't blame them for the travesty that is this film, and indeed I have a feeling that Arnold's ego got in the way and insisted on a few scene changes to make himself look wonderful.I watched the film to the bitter end in the hopes that some smart writing or coherent sense would emerge from this train-wreck of a movie, but it was not to be. I don't begrudge the two dollars I spent on the movie, I just want the two hours of my life back.An awful, stupid movie. Only watch it if you are an Arnie completist. "},{"Title":"They should've called this one, The Piece...","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I consider this picture a nail in Arnie's career coffin. Whoever suggested that he take this picture should've been gunned down. I remember seeing a sneak preview of this and being mighty disgusted. Looking back, I can't even remember most of it. It was just... instantly forgettable. I like Peter Hyams, really I do but shame on him. There was one scene where the Arnster is being threatened by some possessed policemen and it's the best scene in the movie. It's him in a dark alley with only the red and blue lights of the squad car providing lighting. Very tense and... that's it. I have nothing else to say about this movie and I almost forgot that Kevin Pollak was in it! It's too bad, really. They could've made this flick pretty spectacular. If you need some Arnold in your life, see something else. It's not his absolute worst but you can definitely do better. Rating *1/2 out of *****. "},{"Title":"I don´t get it -SPOILERS-","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I´ve just seen EoD for the first time. It was a quite enjoyable movie for a sundaynight. However, I have to say i´t has a disappointing stupid plot. I always had to wonder why that girl had to be saved. The efforts to save her caused the deaths of dozens other innocent people. I mean, in Terminator it was convincing to keep John (or Sarah) Connor alive, in order to save all mankind. The girl in EoD, however, was a danger as long as she´d be living! The fact that she wouldn´t be sacrified by those hardliners from the Vatican wouldn´t have any positive consequence for earth and all living. After all, I think, it´s quite hard to stay on the girl´s side throughout the entire movie.  "},{"Title":"Most likable Arnold movie since True Lies","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  End of Days had its main character more realistic than other Arnold films, he was not invincible in this role, had suicidal tendency due to the painful lost of family and suffered from the guilt thereafter. Arnold portrayed this character with emotions that I could identify with, very real, and his acting was quite subtle at some scenes, I was not a fan until I saw this one, then consequently I bought it on DVD.The main problem about this film is its trailer, I don't know if the trailer on DVD was actually the theatrical trailer while it released, but it's very unappealing compared to the substance of this film to say the least.On the contrary, the two MV on DVD are much better edited than the trailer, I am glad Terminator 3 will be released by Warner Bros instead of Universal Studio, at least WB knows better when it comes to promotion. It's a pity that End of Dayswas much superior than it seemed from the trailer.Other complaint is that the DVD reveals too much secret of the special effects making, it's terrific that those stunts were made very believable, and the CGI was great, but is it necessary to exhibit how they were made? It only reduces wonderment next time you see it, personally I would rather not know these technical things, and believe it's all actually happened (e.g. church explosions and train derailment).Other than those two mentioned above, this film is very good, its atmosphere is thrilling, Usually I hate to watch action films, especially overly violent ones. But Arnold 's acting in this film impressed me a lot and kept me captivated throughout the viewing, It's probably that I like to watch a more realistic character than superhuman ones although the latter are cooler.End of Days is my second favorite Schwarzenegger movie, btw he looked very good in this film, not changed a bit since I last saw him in Eraser except that his performance in End of Days is better than Eraser. He didn't look older after these years, he's more than double my age, but that's not the point, the point is he looks really great and charismatic, it's quite amazing. "},{"Title":"I thought this movie was great","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Who better then Arnold to save the world? no body man. This movie was good despite some negative viewer reviews.The movie's plot is like this apparently the 1000 years of peace is about over (please 1000 of peace through the 20th century) well any way Satan is freed from Hell and walks the earth to find a wife/host for his child. Arnold finds out about the whole deal though strange occurances.Arnold then finds himself in a battle against pure evil its self. Oh but don't worry God's on his side and he's taking names and no bull. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arnold fans won't be disappointed. The movie has action, definitely near the end. It's certainly better than his efforts as Mr. Freeze in Batman and Robin (it was just a horrible film altogether, inevitably). I'm a big Arnold fan, ever since I saw his old Commando movie, but the star who really shines in this film is Gabriel Byrne. You can tell that he either took the role with a sense of importance or just really enjoyed it and had fun, because he pulls of the Satan role very effectively. It's amazing that this man can play a character as sinister as that and turn around and play a priest in Stigmata, both to such effectiveness. Aside from these two, the rest of the cast is on par. The female lead is good but doesn't present strong starpower, and I don't expect to see her in many more films as a lead. The rest of the cast is supporting and very insignificant to the story, which is ho-hum.Overall, the film is in the middle. Not cream of the crop, but not a stinking pile of dung. Arnold fans will enjoy it. Those intrigued with the Book of Revelations and biblical mythos will enjoy it. Best advice watch and decide for yourself. This isn't one of those films that screams WATCH ME! I'M THAT GOOD! but it's still enjoyable for those select out there. "},{"Title":"One of the finer Schwarzenegger movies.","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"                   POSSIBLE SPOILERS. A lot of people have been complaining about this movie. IT'S NOT SHAKESPEARE. Get it through your heads, its a movie about the end of the world. It's an action-horror movie. It had good action sequences. Schwarzenegger was more vulnerable in this movie. He is not an unstoppable killing machine (i.e. Commando, Terminator). In this movie he cries and is suicidle. Gabriel Byrne is brilliant as Satan and messes with Arnies head throughout the movie. There are, however some flaws, i.e. some of Arnies one-liners(e.g. when he's threatening Satan you're a choirboy compared to me). Also, why does Satan choose to do the Bond villian routine, and not kill Arnie when he has the chance i.e. when Arnie gets crucified. Still these are minor flaws. The movie is still filled with enough blood and gore to satisfy any gorehound. And if you're looking for a good action movie, this won't fail. Its not Arnies best, it's not his worst, but its in-between. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"So bad you'll mutter is disbelief!","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There has been a spate of Satanic/Apocalyptic movies spewing out of Hollywood in recent years ('Lost Souls', 'Stigmata', 'Bless The Child',etc.). They have all been illogical and stupid, but 'End Of Days' easily beats them all on both counts! This is one of the most lame-brained horror movies ever made. I love this kind of film when it is done well e.g. 'Rosemary's Baby', 'The Omen', more recently 'The Prophecy' - first one only - and the unfairly overlooked Spanish comedy/thriller 'The Day Of The Beast', but when these movies are bad they are REALLY bad. Arnold gives a tired and cliched performance well past its use by date, and the script has too many holes in it to bother even listing. I enjoyed the silly cameo from the legendary Udo Kier, a man who put the tongue in cheek, but you had to cringe seeing actors of the calibre of Gabriel Byrne, Rod Steiger, Kevin Pollack and Mark Margolis being involved in this utter drivel. 'End Of Days' isn't even worth watching for some cheap laughs. It's not worth watching period. "},{"Title":"The movie has interesting elements!","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have seen End of Days several times and appreciated the fact that Hollywood decided to make a movie about the turn of the millennium (altough everybody knows that the year 2001 was the real start of the millennium).Altough it is a bit inconsistent with the novel, I have to say that I have enjoyed the apocalyptic theme of the story. The part that gave me goose bumps was when Jericho, feeling depressed, looks through his window and he sees the World Trade Center towers!I also have to give a 10 on the soundtrack, the songs were greatly selected (featuring the return of Guns N' Roses). "}{"Title":"Not a bad movie for a rent, but definitely not a movie for theatres","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  In short, this was a mildly entertaining flick.  Arnie tries to act, and does a reasonable Job.  Gabriel Byrne does the devil schtick, but almost reminds me of Al Pacino's John Milton.  The plot runs amuck when we see the devil destroying so many things with a flick of the wrist, but yet does not destroy Arnold.  There are so many situations where Arnold is let go by the devil, you almost wonder if the devil is as cunning as he appears to be.  Otherwise, decent action scenes.  Not your best religious thriller, but ok if you can get it at your local library. "},{"Title":"A millennium has finished and IT has left triggered its prison","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A millennium has finished and IT has left triggered its prison. Without late it has returned to the Earth to demand it like its everlasting kingdom. For it it must fuse its meat with the one of maid that their followers have prepared in the capital of the sin New York. There one goes of etérea, safe form of his triumph, because by the end of the century XX is plus which they watch downwards that upwards. But for his misfortune, it does not have count a hero Schwarzennegger, who will make pay expensive his dare with explosions, shots, train crashes and fights to by greater, the Austrian will make suffer most humiliating of the defeats to the one of the 666, that that not only dared to defy God but, total blasphemy, it wanted to make see his luck the loved star of Hollywood. Once again we confirmed that neither very same Lucifer can against the overpaid steroid coat. Impressive by its technical resolution, End of days, of the director Peter Hyams is, without a doubt, the best visual exercise of this effective craftsman, who in his hands has had the good one finished of jewels of the action like Sudden Death or films of made science affluent fiction like 2010 . With End of days Hyams it not only confirms why the studies trust estimated millionaires to him, but in addition revives the weak star of Arnold, that after turkeys as Batman and Robin and The protector did not see his. But there are some who yes will jump with End of days, and those are the religiously orthodox ones how they would let do it, if in the Arnold film will be attemped by the demon, crucificado and finally it will finish crossed by an iron as it happened in the Gólgota 1966 years ago? Parallelism is too evident to avoid it, but luckyly the frenetic edition, grandiloquent music and the overwhelming special effects will cause that the analysis yields their site to the adrenalin. The director Peter Hyams obtains with End of days that we swallow the pill once again, although now we must pass through our throat the inflated volume of Schwarzennegger. "},{"Title":"Surprising","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What can i say, i got the film expecting another Arny film with bark but no bite boy was i wrong. With Gabriel Burn playing the second best devil in any motion picture (only Al Pacino in Devils Advocate beats him) this is pure cinematic joy for any action junky or for anyone who loves a well written film i highly recommended  it. P.S Gabriel Burn is Awesome as The Man "},{"Title":"A Good Movie Despite The Reviews","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was another movie that was slammed by the critics. But I never listen to them anyway, so I went to see this movie, I was surprised, But not to surprised, I mean All Of Arnolds Movies are good apart from the odd 1 or 2. I knew I would like this movie when I first saw the Previews about 2 months before the movie was released. The acting from all of the cast is Amazing, And Gaberiel Bryne Plays the devil very well. I urge you to rent this movie, You might be surprised. "},{"Title":"Good movie... Arnold stepped off his standard for this one.","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arnold Schwarzenegger is typically known for action-thick, plot-thin, one-liner laden entertainers.  Commando, Raw Deal, and Conan come to mind. But it seems that he's tried to be more serious since his career was mocked by The Last Action Hero.  That movie undermined everything that Arnold has stood for to me for his entire career.  Since then, he has yet to utter the most recognized Arnold phrase I'll Be Back.  His movies are becoming more legit and less campy.  I've always found campy to be a term used by people who enjoy watching sludge, but don't like to call it such. (i.e. horror movies that are funnier than they are scary)  He attempted to continue his standard style with True Lies, but everyone seemed to see through his barrage of smooth-neckbreakings, perfect aim combined with unhittabillity, and stream of comedic lines.  Since then, his movies have gotten further from what typical Arnold fans appreciate, but without normal movie fans taking him seriously.  Therefore, people have decided he's fallen.  He's moved from where he succeeded to more actual acting, even the occasional unfunny comedy.  End Of Days is NOT a typical classic Arnold movie.  This movie is dark, creepy, and GOOD.  This is a good movie. While Arnold has, finally, shown he can actually do some real acting, this movie really wasn't a role for him.  He does a good job in this, but the role didn't really fit him.  I mean, c'mon... a man is drinking himself to death... and he looks like THAT?  I doubt it.  I personally would have chosen maybe Bruce Willis.  That said, I think this is one of the best movies Arnold has done, by true movie standards.  By Arnold movie standards... its not really the same thing.  Considering what else he's done since Terminator 2, this was pretty outstanding.  Junior, Jingle All the Way, and the much-maligned Batman & Robin were all steps in the wrong direction.  This was a good movie that didn't really appeal to anyone because, A its not a real Arnold movie, and B it has Arnold in it; it can't be good.  If you watch this with an open mind, you'll enjoy a typically brilliant performance from the ever-versatile Gabriel Byrne, who played Satan immediately after playing a priest, both impeccably.  If you're a extremely religious person, you'll probably be offended by it, as it says things people don't like to hear about their religion.  If you don't go in looking for a kill-fest, or expecting action-slop, you'll see a dark, noir-esque, scary film.  overall 8.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"In three words  AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME!!!","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  To tell you the truth, I wasn't expecting much when I first saw this movie.  I'm a big Arnold fan, but for some reason this wasn't on my must-see list.  But after I did see End of Days on its opening weekend, I said to myself I have to buy this movie when it comes out on video! Well, I did, and I still think it's a blast.  Of course, the plot holes become more and more obvious in repeat viewings, but the fun's still there.  This is more serious than Arnold's usual work (which, despite gratuitous action, borders on comedy), but he still manages to squelch out a few funny one-liners.  And best of all, he's paired off with the hilarious comedian Kevin Pollak.  So whenever we don't have Arnold to provide us with comic relief, we have Kevin.  Wow, we lucked out!  There's one really funny scene, where Arnold makes a breakfast shake out of everything he finds in his kitchen--including a pizza that fell on the floor--and takes a sip, saying They say breakfast in the most important meal of the day.  He asks Kevin if he wants some and Kevin replies, I'm good.  The two of them make a spectacular team, and I hope to see them paired off again in upcoming movies--even if they have to do one of those tired buddy cop flicks.  Just watching those two on screen is a delight.  And of course, Gabriel Byrne couldn't have played a better Satan.  There is a memorable scene where Arnold comes face-to-face with Satan, who's begging Arnold to sell his soul to him.  He says, He's (referring to God) not going to help you.  He just has a good publicist.  Whenever something good happens, it's his will.  Whenever something bad happens, he works in mysterious ways.  That scene alone is worth the price of a rental. I guess you can say it's a guy flick.  It's certainly not a date movie!  There's intense, graphic violence, gore, disgusting images, foul language and one explicit sex scene.  So...be prepared!  You're not about to watch Mary Poppins.  As I mentioned there are plot holes--some subtle, some you can drive a truck through--but the film moves at such a fast pace that you don't give a damn!  You're here for the ride, and what a wild ride it is!  Lots of action, some cool music, great one-liners, a creative premise.  Not an Oscar winner, but there's not much more I can ask for.  My score  7 (out of 10)   "},{"Title":"A bust","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This junk should have been released straight to video. They gave it all that hype then nothing happened. It only made $66 million. It should have been a good comeback for Schwarzenegger but instead it was another overblown disaster. Don't expect to watch this and see an intense, action-packed film. All it turns out to be is talky, illogical, and boring. 1/4 "},{"Title":"No Revelation Here","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  End of Days is not a bad movie by any means.  But it isn't a good movie either.  While we do get to witness some surprising tenderness from Arnold Schwarzenegger, who plays a Secret Service-style body guard who has (recently?) lost his wife and daughter, his accent causes his angry dialogue to seem more scripted than genuine.  Still, if that were the worst problem this movie had, I would call it a success.  But the flaws of the movie are much broader.One big problem is the predictability of the plot.  The story, which follows a woman, Christine (the movie is full of semi-symbolic names), chosen to bear Satan's Spawn (shades of Rosemary's Baby) and the attempts of various non-Satanic agencies to prevent that.  And while I understand the motivations of the Christians in preventing this union, Jericho's (Schwarzenegger) reasons for doing so are not so apparent.  He doesn't believe in Satan, and Christine indicates she would probably mate with the incarnate Satan willingly, so he isn't even really preventing a rape.  And while we're on the subject of plot holes, Jericho's rescue of the man whom Satan posseses seems pointless (except as a plot device) since we later learn that Satan can use any person he chooses, not someone pre-chosen, as Christine had been.  But, of course Jericho must save him so he will be in the right place to learn about the plot.  And of course he will continue to be in the right places to stop the bad guys just in the nick of time.  And of course every time he turns a corner there will be a horde of zombies.  Etc.The biggest problem, however, is the directing.  Predictability can be overcome with clever directing.  But a close-up of a sliced apple practically screams, Hey, something's going to happen with this, ruining any potential suspense.  The action scenes are also presented in a very straightforward way, keeping us constantly a step ahead of and, thus, slightly distanced from the intensity of the moment.All in all, End of Days is passable entertainment, a typical apocalyptic thriller, easily forgotten over a relatively short period of time.  There are no major theological observations or ground-breaking theories.  The movie tries for nothing more than simple entertainment value, and in that attempt alone it fails.  Just not by much. "},{"Title":"I can't believe I watched this stinker.","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I wasted two hours of my life last night. I actually sat down in my den and watched a full Arnold Shwarzenegger movie from my satellite receiver. It was absolutely awful, terrible, silly, awful (yeah I already said that but this one is double awful). The name of it was End of Days, some trash about the devil having to mate before midnight at the end of 1999. All the actors looked like they phoned in their parts. I was mainly just checking out the surround effects but stupidly stuck with it till the end.My question is how many people actually walked in a theatre and paid money to see this crapola?  "},{"Title":"The devil scared me he looks like me in the morning","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Schwarzenegger shines in this movie (so far the only one I've ever seen him shine in), but it deserves the credit. The devil(Byrne) plays a really convincing part; and one line I'll never forget  If I do something wrong  Ah, he's the devil; if god does something wrong  he speaks in mysterious ways! Brilliant movie ; good plot, plenty of action.   "}{"Title":"decent","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I thought this was an interesting choice for Arnold Schwarzenegger. He plays a cop who has to protect a girl from the Antichrist at the turn of the millenium. The special effects were outstanding, but that was pretty much the high point. Gabriel Byrne was good as the bad guy.** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Despite its flaws, I immensely enjoyed it","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  These days, Arnold Schwarzenegger is still associated with being an action-man. A pity really, I found his comedies such as 'Jingle all the way' quite a laugh. But I suppose, like Hulk Hogan was better at wrestling than acting, Arnie is still a muscle-man, and that's a role he returned to, for End of Days.I'm not going to completely shower this film with praise, as it did have faults. I felt the sex scene was needless, the way Arnie worked out the girl's name was ridiculous, and I had a major problem accepting that Arnie would be left alive on the cross, and when he woke up, he was able to get up straight away.Still, despite these obvious flaws, I immensely enjoyed it. It has a lot more substance and plot to it than something like Eraser, and I thought the ending was appropriate, as it meant Arnie didn't win outright. I really didn't want to pick any flaws in this film, and when I'd finished watching, all I could think of was praise for it. Still, when it comes to reviews, snobby reviewers are going to look at it down the end of their noses, and say Well, it had a rather strange plot or Arnold took his role too seriously.I picked it up on DVD for £9.99 second hand. I would have been prepared to pay twice that.8/10 - while I loved it, a few flaws stop it from getting the very top marks. "},{"Title":"good, but not great","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie keeps getting put down. Alright, there isnt as much action in it as other Arnie movies, but it is still a great film. Arnie is back in great form, some of the stunts are good and Stan Winstons work on creating the devil is great.  I`d give it about 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent - One of Arnie's greatest","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  End of Days is one of the greatest, most exciting movies you may see in your entire life, it's everything you'd expect for an Arnie movie. Its a horror movie, and its great horror movie. Overalli rate this a 10/10Good Points EverythingBad Points A Little To Overpowering "},{"Title":"Surprised","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"      I was pleasantly surprised with End of Days. After reading a bunch of reviews and with past experiences with Arnold, I was not expecting much, but I really enjoyed this movie. I was a big fan of Arnold when I was a kid but in the past 10 years or so I have gotten tired of his movies with the exception of Terminator and Predator. Until now, I really think he did a good job in End of Days.     I thought the story was pretty good, above average, the acting was ok with the exception of Gabriel Byrne who I thought was excellent. What I most liked about this movie was the cinematography and the action scenes. I really liked the shots of New York city. Put all this together and I thought this was a very entertaining movie, I was completely into it. I also believe this is a spiritual movie at least for me, it really had me thinking about religion. "},{"Title":"Back to roots, Arnold!","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When I was a kid (let's say 10 years from now) Arnold Schwarzenegger was my biggest idol. I totally loved his movies. I used to think they were so exciting and cool and I guess I don't have to justify why. Of course I still like him and his films very much but because of completely different reasons.I can't take him seriously anymore but his movies are just so amusing (Commando, for example ABSOLUTELY HILARIOUS!) I can't stop loving 'em. Well, how can anyone take him seriously as an action star after Junior and especially (Damn!) Jingle all the way? Too much is just too much. Actually it's quite easy to say he belongs in the '80s because after Terminator 2 - Judgment day his career has gone gently more and more downwards.He grew old, that's understandable. Still, End of days is an unexpected turn in this route. As a film it ain't so special, just one of the many millennium-movies, but as an Arnie-film it was a very affirmative surprise to me and to many other too, I suspect. I had no idea he had the courage and guts to do a film like this nowadays!After action comedies True lies and Eraser I thought that this was his current course action here and there, bit of comedy and sentimentalism now and then and some more action. End of days offers direct action and bleak horror - that's it. What surprised me most was the lack of humorous one-liners! End of days is Schwarzenegger's darkest film since The Terminator and that's a noteworthy achievement. "},{"Title":"Satanic warfare-lite","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Sometimes it pays to miss out on a movie when it is released into theaters. Bad reviews and hype sure has a way of influencing our judgement. I guess this is why I rather enjoyed End of Days on video, since I wasn't expecting much more than Arnold kicking some Satanic butt.End of Days did impress me with its dark and ominous atmosphere. The mood was decidedly creepy and on occasion gets rather disturbing. Hyams conjures up some pretty evil and demented scenes, although not as disturbing if you've seen the recent pictures with similar undertones. The action is orchestrated with style and vigor, especially the whole subway-bit and the scene with Arnold dangling from a police helicopter. Byrne's performance as Ole Nick himself is very understated, but one gaze conveys as much evil as Pacino did with a whole monologue. Who said less is more? Kudos to Stan The Man Winston for the icky demon at the end, although it could have done with some more screen time.End of Days does however suffer because of the premise of merging action with heavy religious themes. The broody atmosphere suffers when the action kicks in and Arnold starts blasting away with his machine gun. This was kind of distracting and at some times seemed rather ludicrous as well. Also, poor Arnold has to do away with evil all by himself, action-hero style, which somehow conveys the wrong message to me. End of Days is also pretty derivative and the whole Satan takes a bride-premise has been done much better before, even when it was delivered as a comedy aka The Witches of Eastwick (Jack is still to date the best Devil...). But since End of Days is  such a dramatic departure for Arnold, the movie shouldn't be compared to classics like The Omen and The Ninth gate at all. Instead, enjoy it for what it is well-produced escapism. Lots of action, gore and some shivers-up-your-spine imagery. Thanks, Arnold, you did it again!!! "},{"Title":"Unbelievable - an action movie that gets religion right! (ending spoilers)","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I gave this movie a 10 based entirely on the last 5 or 10 minutes. As a Christian, it often frustrates me that Christians are portrayed in the movies as either psychotics or idiots. While there certainly was a share of both in this movie, the ending got Christianity right. There's Arnold, bruised, battered, broken, bloody, beaten, in a church, waiting for the devil to show up. He throws down his gun, drops to his knees and pleads to the statue of Christ I can't do it. I need you. That's right - it's not Arnold's muscles, guns or even accent that defeat the bad guy. It's Christ! I never thought I'd see something like this in any kind of secular movie, let alone a Schwarzenegger shoot-em-up. Oh yeah and the part where we find out the devil's pee is flammable was pretty neat too. "},{"Title":"Think of a Title of a Neil Young song about commodities","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There have few truly bad Arnold movies. This is one of them.Course, if you like lots of gore, a plotline from sixties-grade horror flicks, a hackneyed soundtrack, a bonanza of superstition mixed with a script by a demented fifth-grader full of Uzies and flowing streams of blood, crucifixes used as weapons, etc ad nauseum, by all means come to dinner. Otherwise, don't waste your nickel. I'd rather be forced to see Kindergarten Cop ten times in a row than have to sit through ten minutes of this corpulent fiasco again. "},{"Title":"silly, dull action film","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It usually takes a few decades, or at the very least, a few years for a film to become dated.  End of Days, Arnold Schwarzenegger's latest action film spectacular, achieves that distinction in a mere few months - truly a record-setting time.  Released in November, 1999, the film, dealing with the apocalyptic events surrounding the dawning of the 3rd millennium, already seems hopelessly foolish just a few months into 2000.  Not that it played much better in the last century.  For, in any and all eras, this film is a washout.  Apparently, having run out of villains for the indomitable Schwarzenegger to go up against, the filmmakers simply went straight to the top - or bottom - and found none other than Satan himself waiting in the wings.  This screwy, laughable tale of the devil and his minions wreaking havoc in pre-New Year's Eve Manhattan runs through all the cliches we have come to expect from all the films (from The Omen movies on down)that have attempted to turn the biblical account of the final days into dubious horror movie entertainment.Not directly inspired by the Book of Revelations, the story puts forth the notion that, at the turn of every millennium, Satan has one opportunity to mate with the preordained woman of his choice in order to overthrow God and destroy the world.  Schwarzenegger, as a former cop driven to alcoholism and suicidal despair by the murders of his wife and daughter, somehow becomes the sole protector of the innocent woman whose fate has become so inextricably entwined with that of the whole human race. The villain of the film - in this case Satan himself - lacks even a modicum of consistency in terms of his supernatural attributes.  He can bend time, eliminate anyone he chooses at will and in the most unlikely fashion; he can raise people from the dead, yet he is unable to locate the whereabouts of this one defenseless, unenlightened young woman.  Time after time she manages to slip through his fingers as he bumbles his way through the subway tunnels and dark city streets of a drizzly Manhattan. By combining two genres, the film simply doubles up its cliches. Thus, in addition to all the action film paraphenalia one expects from such a film - countless explosions, runaway subway cars, improbable helicopter stunts, gruesome deaths and, even the oldest cliche of all, a cat jumping out to startle a gullible and easily fooled audience - we are subjected to the usual array of black masses, psychotic, self-mutilating priests, debased religious imagery and, of course, warring factions of Catholic hierarchy who huddle in the dark recesses of the Vatican and debate the morality of killing the innocent girl chosen to be Satan's bride - all elements invariably associated with stories of this kind.In the sunset of his career as an action hero, who would deny Schwarzenegger his little bit of self-indulgent self-aggrandizement?  But, really, turning him into a Christ figure does seem a trifle much to swallow even for his most devoted fans.  As to his acting, the less, as usual, said about that the better.  But, after his recent appearance in the similarly themed but equally awful Stigmata, perhaps Gabriel Byrne (who plays the part of Satan) should start seeking out his own absolution - or, at the very least, some better movie roles. "}{"Title":"Very loud, very violent, very stupid, very fun!","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" End of Days logically, is a ridiculous movie. Satan comes to Earth, possesses somebody (Gabriel Bryne) and has to have sex with a certain woman at 1200 Jan 1 2000 and the world will come to an end (or something like that). Enter Arnold to save the day. I'm giving the plot as short a write-up as the actual writers did. The plot is dumb from the word go, there are laughable leaps of logic (see how Arnie and Tunney escape from a subway train hurtling to them--actually had me yelling out Oh come on! out loud), needlessly LOUD (has to have more explosions than I've ever seen in any motion picture), crappy acting (except for Bryne who's obviously enjoying himself) and needlessly cruel (a main character gets crucified...for no reason) but I had a fun time! If you can turn off your brain you'll have a great time. The movie is never dull (SO much action) and the exposition (what there is of it) is SO lame and badly acted that it becomes fun to listen to! So no great movie at all...just dumb, loud and violent. If you're in the mood, you'll have a great time!When I saw it there were two kids in the audience who couldn't have been more than 13. They howled through the movie and walked out saying, Boy was that DUMB! That should tell you something. "},{"Title":"End of a Film Career, and Intelligent Viewing !","Date":"29 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" How Arnold remained a Star, after viewing THIS attempt at Sci-Fi/ Horror of the up and coming date with the Millennium, they even have the year wrong, what does that tell you.....Satan MUST mate with THE Chosen One, Christine York( Robin Tunney), in an effort to bring about The End of Days!  With New Years Eve as the backdrop, a prelude to the End of Days !And of course, Jericho Cane(Arnold Shwarzenegger), a New York cop, determined to prevent the renegade priests, or the Devil(Gabriel Byrne), from doing any harm or impregnating her. He feels responsible for his families murders, he was not there to prevent them from being killed. Subplot that almost works , until Arnold jumps onto the Christmas tree.ha...ha...Anyway, you can slow the Devil down, by shooting him and blowing him up, yes , that is the premise, of course, doesn't he come from the Land of Fire and Brimstone, so , how can Fire affect him , duh, I guess Homer Simpson wrote the screenplay....Whatever, it is almost entertaining until they get to the subway chase scene, and well, hands pop up, down , and sideways in the subway car, yeah, its the Devil but , if he is metaphysical, , why not just appear and take your booty ? Dunno....Anyway, Arnold ends up sacrificing himself and the last vestiges of dignity , and credibility by jumping onto a sword in Church, after being infected with the Devils Soul, assuming he has one....This film is a waste of time, unless like me , you enjoy Special Effects, and chase scenes.....if not, then keep looking....I gave this film a 3 for Special Effects....BTW, the New Millennium Officially started in 2001....not 2000.... "},{"Title":"..a sermon on End of Days","Date":"22 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I am shocked that I found a movie with Arnold in it that I liked. I gotta comment on his physical appearance you'll remember they never showed him shirtless, a must for him !! Only the tank-top, but if you looked very closely, you'd have seen bulges at the waistline and very thick there, too. ; plus, very sluggish in his movements. We in Hollywood have known for years that he has become somewhat of a slob in that dept. Not too hard to keep his arms in shape, I guess. ANYWAY, I really liked this movie, and I am not one for countless-excessive gunnery-fights and explosions. However, I thought they went with the movie, so I just enjoyed..... Some reviewers are aware that Arnold has a much larger acting-job - Gov. of California....What really puzzles me is, does the pope always sit in huge rooms like that, with all those lights on ? I wasn't aware of that - maybe it was because they were awaiting for everything to explode and the end of the world. I also am confused about how they planned to protect the girl (Robin Tunnry), with some divisions of The Church planning to kill her. Hmmmmm...Arnold's name in this film is quite suggestive - Jericho for the name of the pagan, walled city the invincible Israeli general Joshua conquered the pagans, and would have the protection of Arch-Angel Michael; and Cane (spell it Cain for the evil son of Adam), because he's really about to commit the ultimate sin, suicide. Yes, in places he DOES seem to have some supernatural protection against Satan (Gabriel Byrne, who played a very suave role), but how would the movie progress without it ? His immediate return to strength and brawn goes-along with that extra-ordinary ability which people use when faced with impossible odds brute-force, lifting autos and impossible weights. Thus, he could come down from his crucifixion and become the brute he was.....some reviewer stated he asked Jesus to give me strength when he actually asked help me.I loved all those rites perpetrated on the baby, but thought the snake was a bit much. I guess it symbolized Satan. A huge gap in the script from babyhood-to-twenty-year-old with the nurse being the jailer - after Mom's death? Still trying to figure-out how other reviewers don't realize that the nurse would have supernatural powers, as an agent of Hell. And, The Vatican must have a huge electric-bill - the pope was still in that same room with all the lights, twenty years later. Oh, well......and, like others, I'm wondering how Satan couldn't see inside the church, but turned-up in it. I liked Steiger's role (Father Kovak) - I think he was very believable. HOWEVER, had I been protecting the girl, I certainly would not have been upstairs... didn't you love all that electronic equipment the church had in the basement?All of this is irrelevant - I loved all the explosions and gun-fights with Satan instantaneously healing, and knew right away that Chicago (Kevin Pollack) was on Satan's side. Indeed, Satan could do all those inexplicable things, because he HAD BEEN God's right-hand man, before he was banished to Hell. Where-in-the-world was that huge room, underground, where all the final rituals took place ?? Under the theater ?I am not one to follow a certain director nor writer, but thought Hyams and Marlowe put together a good, enjoyable tale. The CGIs must have cost a fortune. Still, all this gore will not keep me from recommending this film, nor watching it again tonight, story-seeker than I am. It gets a 10 from me ......UPDATE 10/1/07) I watched End of Days again and enjoyed it immensely. Above, I wondered where that huge chamber was, when Satan was about to do dirties with Christine. I've seen several docus about the huge tunnels under NYC, and now understand........ "},{"Title":"Change of ways","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bizarre-o. Here is a truly, deeply differing role for Mr.Schwarzenegger. Darkness encompasses this story. Troubles are on all of the sides for Det. Jericho (Arnold Schwarzenegger) Peter Hyams (Director)is a brilliant director, first off. He is supreme in vision and delivery, bringing his characters and the story to proper fruition. The set up is deeper than practically everything else he has been a character in. Finding the evil prefix, seeing the signs, the coming End of Days. As the good father Rod Steiger, was absolutely believable as sort of a counseling apocalyptic, informant, with the Catholic church. He was intense and whole-heartedly right there laying it out, giving the warning, that would need much heeding. The casting for that Monsignor was perfect. I also, truly enjoyed A.S.'s performance in this film. What a departure from other characters he has played, in many years, say since the 'Original' Terminator, in 84'. A vast, city a specific evil presence. Stalking, encompassing the two investigators. A heavy menacing power, that is relentless and Hell-bent on destruction, at any price.Finding his way around and sort of being a die hard, stumbling cop/investigator. He is on the case, make no mistake, but his own personal life is Titanic proportions. He is going down if he isn't utterly careful in every step that he takes. He is on the trail tracking evil, and he is just starting to figure out the clues, that are being left behind. The Devil, is on his trail, as much as Jericho is on it's. His partner Bobby, is 'on' and little more stabling I think, but soon trouble has come like waves on a stormy ocean, overtaking. I was really set back by this one, with Schwarzenegger, showing his other acting side, he makes good on this investigation. Gabriel Byrne is excellent again, of course. I think he has a master since of his rolls, from a solid standpoint.I recommend this one for the discriminating thriller, movie fan. (****) "},{"Title":"We're All Still Here, go figure","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This flic has the distinction of being outdated almost immediately, as of 5 years ago, despite just coming out in late '99. The plot hinges on the nervous anticipation everyone felt at the end of the 1999 year, when anything from Y2K to Judgement Day might have spelled the end of it all. The supposition in this story revolves around the numbers of the '1999' year, which are the TRUE sign of the Devil, not '666' as everyone figured. Talk about Topsy-turvy. So Satan (a grinning Byrne) comes to town (New Yawk City) to bed a designated virgin (Robin Tunney) and thereby herald the Apocalypse (or, a new beginning - it all depends on your perspective). His main opponent? Arnie, as a suicidal cop. Directed in the usual by-the-numbers style by Peter Hyams, the typical huge-budget action film holds no surprises (unless you count the scene where one of Satan's disciples, a grandma, throws Arnie around like a rag doll). There's also a racy sex scene with a kinky kick to it - but what else do you expect in a Satan movie? I believe we have reached a point now where we've run out of enemies for hero Arnie to face, and he better switch to light comedy. Or politics. "},{"Title":"Not a Good Arnold Movie","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Since I saw Mr. Schwarzeneggar in person here in Vancouver at the public library while he was filming The Sixth Day, I'll always have an interest in his films. End of Days is not his finest effort. All the good Arnold films limit his dialogue and emphasize his muscles. The exception is Twins and arguably Kindergarten Cop. Here it is painful when his trademark accent warbles the lines as he tries to be a theological detective with a crisis in faith. Gabriel Byrne does what he can to prop this vehicle up with only partial success. 6/10.  "},{"Title":"meh, but good for some giggles","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  spoilers - I'll always remember this film for having the quickest punishment-of-a-woman-for-enjoying-sex scene that I've ever seen in a horror film.  Usually an obligatory woman has sex early in the film and then is run down and killed by the monster somewhere in the middle.  Playing Satan on earth, Gabriel Byrne's first dastardly deed is to tongue wrestle and grope a woman in front of her dining companion in the middle of a crowded restaurant.  There's a second of her appearing aroused as Byrne walks off and then the next shot is of the entire restaurant being consumed by a fireball as Satan nonchalantly moves on.  Too bad the rest of the film doesn't go in for that sort of brevity.This is one of those movies that has a lot of exposition, but probably would have been much better without any at all.  End of Days basically does a time-out intermittently so characters can explain to Arnold what the point of the next scene is or who so-and-so was.  And the explanations make the plots of 70s/80s satanic horror films like The Omen and The Prince of Darkness sound lucid and downright scholarly.  At one point Arnold doubtfully asks if the apocalypse is really scheduled to account for Eastern Standard Time - for a brief second the movie seems to giggle at it's own absurdly inadequate end times scenario, but then earnestly dives right back into explication as meaningless as star trek technobabble.I had a bad feeling when I first saw Se7en that Finch's effective use of urban dark and decay was going to influence a lot of people to make a lot of movies where characters seemed to be stumbling around the in the dark for no reason.  End of Days is one of those films.It's a bad action film that runs long cuz some stale horror movie cliches got shoehorned in.  Or is it the other way around?  It's not scary and the action is so-so, so it fails on two levels.  Byrne is okay.  Arnold isn't different from any of his other films (does anyone really want him to be?), but in this movie you have to put up with the tremendous poor taste (or sacrilege I guess) of seeing him going through the motions of being a Christ figure.  He's even crucified, in case the J.C. initials failed to tip everyone off. "},{"Title":"Pointless","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is pointless. As a matter of fact, it's pointless even to comment on it. Nonetheless I will.Pretty effects and a fairly evil Gabriel Byrne do not a good movie make. It takes more. First and foremost it takes a cast who believes in the story and that in turn takes a story that can be believed. Most people would find the overall plot unbelievable but that is where movies make their point. In a cinema inherently unbelievable stories can be made realistic. This is not one of those cases.As for casting, Arnold Schwarzenegger was completely mis-cast here. He has made some fairly good movies but when real acting is called for (read emotional outbursts) he fails pathetically. I do, however, bow to him for trying.No, this is not Shakespeare but neither was The Omen and that worked quite well. "},{"Title":"Please God, Give Me Strengthhh","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  One of the worst lines that Arnie has ever delivered. I couldnt help but laugh when he said that and for me Arnies desparate attempts to act showed how poor in parts this film was. I'd rate this film as his worst,i havent yet seen Hercules in New york yet though which is supposed to be very bad. The film just doesnt work and although i wanted to like it, i just couldnt.Even though the film had quality actors in it, Kevin Pollock and Gabriel Bryne, it just DIDNT work. Whatever happened to the Arnie of Predator, The Running Man and Total Recall? I just hope his next film is much better than this.5/10 for the film6/10 if Arnie had been called anything but Jericho Cane "},{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE...QUITE UNNERVING AT TIMES","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was one of Arnie's best films in my opinion. It was dark, scary at times and it had full of action.It did have one problem-most of the film was set in the dark and I hate it when you have to strain your eyes to see a film. But I got past that minor inconvenience and enjoyed the movie.I watched this movie shortly before we entered the new millennium. It unnerved me a bit because during the last days of 1999 the majority of people across the world (even those who wouldn't admit it)thought that 1999 becoming 2000 would lead to some catastrophe. Thankfully, that didn't happen but this film played on most of our fears.Robin Tunney made a good female for the film and there seemed to be a lot of chemistry between her and Arnie.All in all, a fantastic movie and highly recommended. "}{"Title":"such a shame","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Maddeningly convoluted action film which wastes a perfectly good setup. With the new millennium on the horizon, The Devil is released from his prison and travels to Manhattan where he takes human form. Aided by his cult-obsessed followers, he searches for his bride so he can have a child and bring about Hell on Earth. Unfortunately he never anticipated one thing burned-out ex-cop Schwarzenegger, who's lost his faith but is still formidable enough to thwart his plans. Overblown catastrophe has a story that grows more tiresome and complicated as it goes along, subverts its own ground rules, and throws out action scenes that are simply absurd. Had potential, but revels in lame action movie clichés. *½ "},{"Title":"A little bit too dumb","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Let me start by saying that I used to be an Arnie fan. I loved movies like Terminator, Predator, True Lies and especially Total Recall. But lately, his movies have been mediocre at best. This one, End of Days is no exception. I know I shouldn't expect too much of a plot in any Arnie movie (Total Recall being the only notable exception) but this movie has a little too much plot holes (how does Arnie find the girl?, Why does Satan leave Arnie hanging on a cross?) and religious nonsense thrown in. Usually the action makes up for this, but in this case I also found the action sequences to bit sub-par, but that's probably because I'm spoiled by things like The Matrix or Face/Off by now. Plus, this is yet another movie in which a cop loses it after his family gets killed by gangster. Come on, I've seen at least a hundred of those. And due to the serious theme, the movie is also sorely lacking in the One-liner-department.All in all, End of Days isn't terrible, but it's a lot less funny, exciting, or even well-written then nearly any other Arnie movie.*1/2 out of **** stars "},{"Title":"Arnold Battles Satan","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Throughout Arnold Schwarzenegger's career, we have seen him battle all kinds of deadly villains.  These include South American terrorists(Commando), gangsters(Raw Deal), alien hunters(Predator), psycho game players(The Running Man), Russian drug dealers(Red Heat), more aliens(Total Recall), shape-shifting cyborgs(Terminator 2 Judgment Day); more gangsters, an axe murderer and his real self and what I mean by that is the real Arnold(Last Action Hero), Saudi Arabian terrorists(True Lies), corrupt government officials with high-tech weaponry(Eraser), Batman(Batman & Robin), himself or a clone actually(The 6th Day), and finally the darkest force of them all Satan.The plot to End Of Days is simple Satan(Gabriel Byrne in his human form) has come to Earth in search of a bride.  If he is successful in impregnating her before midnight on New Year's Eve, he will cause Armageddon.  Satan however, did not count on good old Arnold to come and foil his plans.  There, simple enough for you?Yeah, you could tell that from the previews on T.V. that this was meant to be Arnold's come back movie.  Unfortunately it isn't.  The main problem that I have with End Of Days is that it's simply not thrilling enough, even for a Schwarzenegger film.  This doesn't stop it from being a good movie though.  It does have it's share of action and explosions.  Arnold is good in this movie.  His grief over his family's death does pay off here.  Near the middle of the movie, Satan offers Jericho a chance to be reunited with his dead family if he tells him where the girl is.  Pretty cool, although that is all that's really new for a Schwarzenegger film.  Other than that, it's just the usual explosions and all that good stuff.8/10 "},{"Title":"Dark, depressing and stupid","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  For a movie to be good, it has to have a good story regardless of the actors, director, music, etc. This poorly scripted flick probably sounded good as an idea with Arnold taking on the devil, but the finished product is a mess.The main problem with the movie is that the devil is presented as being practically omnipotent. He can control people's minds, survive explosions and is unhurt by gun shots. If this is the case, why doesn't the devil just kill or control Arnold as soon as he meets him?  If the devil wasn't as powerful, the movie might have been a little better, but not much.There are also scenes that draw unintentional laughter. The one that stands out for me is a scene where a little fat lady kicks Arnold's ass in a New York City house. She throws him around like a rag doll and tries to crush him with a piano.In addition to his beating by a little fat lady, Arnold also suffers a brutal beating and crucifixion by a bunch of satan worshippers, but a few scenes later he's as healthy as a horse and ready to kick butt. I wish I had his recovery ability.The action sequences are nothing special either. They've all been done before in better movies than this.Gabriel Byrne does a bad New York accent. Kevin Pollak cracks a few jokes, but doesn't do much else. And Rod Steiger plays a priest spewing out a bunch of religious nonsense. Skip this one. "},{"Title":"Why was there a cat in the fridge?","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Warning Does contain spoilersI was so hyped when I saw the first trailer for this film last year.  It was either late in 98 or early in 99 that the first trailer graced our screens for this flick.  The producers obviously knew that with combination of Arnold and the Y2K and all the Armageddon stuff, the earleir they could get this out into the public awareness, the better off they would be.  End Of Days looked fantastic and I could not wait to see it.  But that is where my enthusiasm ends and all cynicism begins.  End of Days is one movie that is so short of logic that after the first 20 minutes or so you are laughing and greatly anticipating the next idiotic plot piece to invade your intelligence.  End of Days is pure idiocy and it is not even fun to mask the ineptitude of the script, straight up, this is a terrible movie.Now I am going to attempt to explain very briefly what this movie wants us to believe.  It starts in 1979 where a priest in the Vatican looks outside and sees a comet racing over the moon.  He goes to an old drawing and it too has the comet over the moon.   The Eye of God.  he says to himself and then rushes into a chamber where the Pope is sitting with his religious advisers presumably talking about what they are going to do on New Year's Eve, and tells him that the child will be born tonight.  The Pope tells him he must find the child and protect her.  It seems that once every thousand years that a child will be born and that child will be the one that Satan has chosen to mate with so that he can come to Earth and wreak havoc and that will spell the End of Days ( get it? )  So now we cut to a dark hospital where a woman is giving birth and when the child is born, a nurse brings it down to the basement where some spooky looking people are waiting and one of them kills a rattle snake and puts the blood of the snake in the mouth of the child.  This is obviously the chosen one and by putting snake blood in her mouth that must mean that she is now protected by Satan and she is now Damien from The Omen.  So now we skip 20 years and we meet a buffed up Martin Riggs who is played by Arnold and he is going to kill himself because he obviously misses his wife and kid.  Hockney from The Usual Suspects walks into the room and tells him that they have a long day ahead of them and so killing himself is not very prudent right now ( I think Fenster and MacManus and Verbal and Keaton were sick on this day so they didn't come and join Hockney on this one ).  So we now know that a burned out Arnold is going to be called upon to save the girl.  That's all you need to know because the rest is really just a bad Arnold movie with logic that is so stupid that it defies logic to understand how this script got made. Here are some questions that I have for the writers of the film, and if you have seen this, you'll know exactly what I mean, if you haven't, hopefully it will deter you from doing so.1) If that guy at the beginning wasn't looking out his window and he didn't see the Eye Of God, would no one else have notified the Pope about this miraculous sight?  Was no one else aware of this Eye of God thing?2) If all of Satan's people knew that this girl was going to be born on this day, were there people all over the world in hospitals waiting for the girl to be born?  And that has to be the case because no one knew exactly where the baby was going to be born, so if that is the case then that means that every city in every country in the WORLD, there would have to be one nurse and at least one snake killing guy that would have to be waiting in the basement of every hospital in the world waiting on the off chance that it was their hospital that little Christine would be born in.  That is a pretty big following, say at least, what, 5 million kids are born every day, so that means at least 10 million people in this cult that are very well funded and have a proepnsity for catching snakes.  And you know snakes would not be too happy to lose their lives that day.  And what exactly does the blood do anyway? 3) If this day was so important and this child was so important, don't you think God himself would have taken a greater interest in trying to stop Lucifer from entering Earth therefore negating all that once was?  Somehow I think that he would send something more trustworthy that a drunk ex-cop with large biceps. 4) I have a great many problems with Thomas Aquinas.  First of all his name. No one ever mentions that his name is that of a great man from the past. If a guy named Albert Einstein showed up and was poking around doing things, I think someone may make a joke about it, or Sigmeund Freud, why not Thomas Aquinas.  And next, if this guy was all that the Vatican had going for them , don't you think that he would be a little more funded than he was and that perhaps he would live in a little nicer place than some rat infested-run-down-basement apartment in New York?  This guy was trying to save the world and he has no money?  I don't buy it.  And when Arnold and Lieutenant Wineberg find his place and they are searching for clues, how come there is a cat in the fridge that just happens to jump out at them? Why?  I have seen horror movies before that throw cats into the frame just to scare us, but never have I seen a cat that jumps out of a fridge.  Why would he be there?  How did it get there?  Are cats strong enough to open a fridge tp get in?  Did Thomas put him there to scare Jerico?  Would it not be dead if it was in the fridge?  All very good questions with no real answers. 5) If your best friend was kind enough not to kill you and then you saw him set on fire, do you A) let him burn B) try to put him out C) at least shoot him so that he doesn't feel the pain of burning to death.  I would say the answer to that is maybe B but more probably C since he is a raging inferno. 6) If a down and out ex-cop is offered all that God took away from him, why would he turn it down?  Does he all of a sudden have faith now?  Has God been good to him?  Does Satan not tempt him to have a better life?  Where is the side to him that wants to say no?  I don't buy that either?  I don't think Arnold's character would have said no to Satan. 7) How do you kill Satan?  You can't.  Not with what we have here.  If he is impervious to pain and bullets and can walk through fire, then why is it that a whole bunch of bullets can stop him? 8) If Satan can invade people's bodies then why didn't he invade Arnolds way back at the beginning and find out where the girl is?9) He is Satan, why can't he find her whenever he wants to? 10) What exactly is it that Rod Steiger and all of his people were doing in the basement with all of their computers?  Were they trying to track down where Satan was on the computer, or were they reading reviews on the IMDb or even checking their email.  According to Steiger, there are forces at work here that you can't possibly imagine.  OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO scary stuff!!I really could go on and on and on but I'll leave that to Celine Dion. Just saffice it to say that this is one film that has no logic to it and no matter if it is Arnold or not, it is a terrible film.  I liked it when he was Dutch and the Terminator and Matrix and Harry Tasker and all those other cool characters that he played.  But this Jericho is awful and End of Days is even worse.  If you want to have some fun picking apart a film, go see this one.  The ten issues that I touched on were just the tip of the iceberg, I'll bet that someone else could pick out ten other silly points to the movie that I didn't even mention, it is that stupid.End of Days stinks.  There is no other way to say it.  And I am still really confusedWhy was there a cat in the fridge?  "},{"Title":"Total crap","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Holywood is getting sillier by the minute. Do not go to this movie - it is pure idiocy. Satan comes to new york in search of a bride - and Arnold is there to the rescue, so what can you expect... ;) overall - just a gore infested movie with sub sub-plot and the worst acting i've seen for a long while. oh, and btw - if the latin chanting doesnt get on your nerves after the first 10 minutes - it will after 30... ) "},{"Title":"Arnie's End of Good Movies.","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  END OF DAYS proves, once again, that not even Arnold Schwarzenegger is invincible.  Just think of the film's plot Every thousand years, the Devil walks the Earth in disguise to search for the woman chosen to be his bride, hoping that he impregnates her.  If he fails, he'll have to wait another thousand years.  If he succeeds, he'll be able to bring about the end of the world.  The fate of mankind lies in the hands of Schwarzenegger himself, who must find the chosen woman before the Man does.  Boring, but if you can make it past the first 30 minutes, you just might get lucky to make it through the whole thing.1 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Getting old but not wiser","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Eh, the great Arnold is getting older and tries to create deeper characters... but fails miserably! I'm a great fan of Schwarzy, I saw almost all his movies and I can say that End of Days is only second to Collateral Damage for pathetic contents. Only two or three classic scenes that still allow Schwarzy to rock'n'roll like old times, but the general feeling is rather poor... and the end is extremely pathetic, but this looks like the latest trend of this old-time hero. I'm sorry to say it, but he's getting old...  ( "},{"Title":"This may mark the end of Arnold's career","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Remember the comedy classic 'Airplane' that was a spoof on all the airport disaster movies? 'End Of Days' is like a spoof of the 'Exorcist'. So dumb and unbelievable my mind began wandering within 20 minutes.     Moreover,Arnie's character is so unlikable that I was starting to root for Satan. When the movie ended, most of the audience (including myself) left disappointed. My pick for the worst movie of 1999. "},{"Title":"Awful, Awful","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is as bad as it gets.  Worthless brutality and violence invade the film.  This film uses God as an excuse for violence and perversion in the worst of taste.  I am not sure if it was trying to be funny but it was a real joke at many times.  Stigmata or Lost Souls were much better films than End of Days. "}{"Title":"End of Taste","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one ugly movie, from the scene involving a newborn baby and a rattlesnake to the lovely fate of Schwarzenegger's family.  Hyams is normally a wonderful director i.e. 2010 and Outland, and here his technique outshines a terrible script full of plot holes.  Schwarzenegger proves he can only do action, not acting.  I thank God we can wait another one thousand years for a sequel.  To paraphrase Steiger's statement in the film that the mark of the beast 666 really means 1999, this movie is a pile of tihs.  I give this a 1. "},{"Title":"It made me think....","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Of all the things I've read about this movie the funniest has to be it made me think... Perhaps the people who find this piece of tripe thought-provoking would regard Plan 9 from Outer Space as a treatise on the human condition. This is a pure Arnie action film with a garbled plot and mindless quite graphic violence.  The only thing it made me think about was why I wasted my time and money going to see it. I know that logical consistency and great acting aren't what Arnie's movies are about but there comes a point where a modest grip on reality would not go astray. "},{"Title":"Dumb Movie, Dumb Devil","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I've never seen a devil so stupid. Never seen such a poor script. If my girlfriend wasn't there I would have walked out of the theater after the first 30 minutes. Don't you see this movie! Don't even consider it a movie. It's just an Y2K BUG. (Of course I've Voted it Awful) "},{"Title":"It's not the end of a century","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A movie made by Century Cretins for Century Cretins. There's not much more one needs say about this waste of celluloid. A stupid movie intended to rake in cash from the gullible. Anyone who would believe that 1999 was the end of a century would also fork over 10 bucks to see this offal. Caveat Emptor and there's a sucker born every minute. "},{"Title":"But hardly the 'start' of something new for ageing Arnie either...","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsI really hate it when movies like 'End Of Days'keep you waiting in eager anticipation for ages for their release so you can see them,only for them to 'end' up letting you down as badly as they do.One of the inspirations for Mr.Schwarzenegger's choice of the role obviously being his new found 'faith in God'following his life threatening surgery,which was likely to have been the set in stone for a new path of more intellectual movie-making as he slumbers into his mid-50's,in retrospect,it should have been relatively obvious to me that this was the sort of pretentious,heavily incoherent twoddle he would end up showing us.The intelligent premise of the storyline has him having just under 48 hours to stop Satan (a laughably phony Gabriel Byrne)impregnating the 20 year old chosen one,a girl suffering from recurring nightmares in which she remembers her dead parents.But it's carelessly and aimlessly unvieled to the eye of the viewer.Arnie's name throughout is Jericho Cane,yet we never hear any of his security buddies,or his female sidekick, call him this until about the last half hour.As they come on the scene at the beginning,he is only ever referred to as'buddy','pal',or some other form of American chow word.The scene in which he shows real emotion by crying over a tiny ornament posession of his dead child barely lasts ten seconds,and throughout all his slumberous depression,he simply looks like a man suffering from the onset of a winter cold.On the effects front,the end monster Byrne's satan transforms into looks like a huge pile of athlete's foot fungus,which Arnie's winter blues throws him away from.The onset of the haunting choir music is pacelessly orchestrated to all the gratuotous violence on display,involving huge puddles of blood being left on hospital beds,icky manifestation on dead matter,and pike's being slammed through various body part's.I forgot all through that it was directed by Peter Hyam's,who gave us the Jean Claude Van Damme timepassers Timecop and Sudden Death.Though the style and pace of these films is credibly not apparent throughout,at the end of the movie,the core at the heart of them slids disappointingly through.** "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever made to man.","Date":"25 June 2011","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There is nothing beyond god awful to describe this film.I have to wonder if the writers of this film really believed in Y2K or the world ending because the dialog and plot shows how rushed the script was, maybe they used that as an excuse for when the movie would be accepted as terrible, they would have some kind of excuse.The film opens with these priests discussing that some biblical person was born today, and they are on the planet. They then argue like typical religious nuts who are mentally disturbed, about weather they should murder the baby or not, even knowing they can't find it. Then the Pope declares they will NOT kill the baby. First off why even discuss it if it's clear you can't find the baby? Are you going to go through the name it's given to you in some 2000 years ago, and start secretly murdering every one on the planet with that name? But you believe in God and are peaceful like God is made out to be right?So the baby is born and these weird Satan guys take her from the delivery room and have some snake blood put on her. This also begs the question. if the evil guys were there when the baby was born, why not take her then and raise her to be prepared for her destiny?So then we see some weird cloud come up in New York City, go into a bathroom and suggest itself into Gabriel Bryne. I guess it's Satan. So he goes out and kisses some woman in front of her husband before walking out of the place and having it explode. Guess the director figured we were bored this far in the movie, so they give us this useless action scene to get our attention again.So when we do meet Arnold Schwarzenegger he's a suicidal down on his luck cop, that has mental problems. To show his job, we have a senseless action scene, someone shoots at Gabriel Byrne. Arnold hangs from a helicopter and we sit there a mindless action scene we know nothing about or care about, except for the Y2K, December 31st 1999 posters, papers, everywhere I guess to remind us a million times what this movie is about.So far into the movie, if you're not bored you probably feel something is really wrong and this movie is going to fall apart at any second.The cops find the guy who was shooting the guns and he's some mentally disturbed priest with his tongue cut out. So we meet the grown up baby again, who hallucinates some very strange scene on a bus just so we can hear a 4 letter word over and over, since this film has to be explicit. We learn Arnold's name is Jericho Cane. Well why don't we just name him Moses? At this point it sounds like an angry 13 year old wrote this after bible study one day. So while we have to see Arnold Schwarzenegger crying his eyes out (And for the record, this also shows how easily he cannot act a serious dramatic role) Gabe Bryne, I mean Satan has a weird nasty fantasy that exploits that 4 letter word we had to hear earlier, and to give us something of entertaining to people who are bored out of their mind so far.Then we also get a stupid scene of Satan running into a kid with a shirt that says Satan Rules and in typical Satan fashion, he lets him die by a bus accident. I don't understand what this scene was meant for. Was it suggested that people who listen to Satanic Music should die? Why not just have a kid wearing a shirt of ANY heavy metal band and have them die since the writers of this film have an obvious problem with some group of individuals out there who may listen to dark versions of Heavy Metal.We learn that Christine York is who Arnold is looking for, I mean Christ can you get any worse names than this? This is where the movie starts to officially fall apart. This is the moment when plot hole after plot hole after plot hole after plot hole become so many holes that I can't list them all so I'll make it short.The dialog in this movie is more laughable than anything. You have Arnold's one liners that get all serious and sound stupid like this one.You're a choir boy compared to me! A CHOIR BOY! (Not he's saying this to Satan, I can't imagine a more stupid, rushed line in history of Arnold's terrible one lines)Arnold survives some things that no other regular human being would survive. (Rioters beating him to death, and crucifying him, falling from a window a dozen stories high, some how managing to survive many explosions that would have killed anyone not in the movie) There's a church that Satan cannot see. Arnold don't believe in God and blames him on his problems for no apparent reason. Satan does some out of character stupid silly things. And the list goes on. I can't list them all but you get the flow.The movie tries as hard as they can to build you up to the ending. Yeah we're ready to get it over with! NONE of the characters are very likable. I guess they tried to build up some momentum at the end and fix some plot holes, but it still didn't work. Actually the ending is rather laughable. You couldn't imagine you were laughing so hard you were going to cry at seeing Arnold do some of the worst acting ever in his career. "},{"Title":"Arnold came back for this?","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arnold must have had some really big  medical bills to pay off or something,  because I can't see any other reason why  he made this film. Cliched, silly and downright  boring, this is the type of film that could  end a career. Just look at where Gabriel  Byrne and Kevin Pollack are right now?  Heck, look at where Arnold is! End of Days  is correct, for a great many careers that is. "},{"Title":"Disappointing movie about Armageddon.","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  End of Days was a HUGE disappointment to me. It starts like it could be a great movie, I mean, it stars Arnold Swazenegger (?spelling) How could it flop?Well, for one, the leading character's motivation lacks purpose. First, he's about to commit suicide, then that negative angle of his personality is completely scrapped... and the new motivation is often totally unfounded. He doesn't believe in God, yet is ready to believe there might be a connection between what's going on and the Bible! After reading what is refered to as a football score, he immediately gets the connection to a verse in the bible, which he finds straight away, or course? Of course UNLIKELY! There is a bit of excitement while the tongueless priest /assassin is being chased and a hint of the atmosphere in Seven or NBC's 'Profiler' as they go through Tongueless's living quarters... and find his tongue in a jar.Throughout the movie, as expected, Arnold, unfortunately, too often has that unconvincing look of fear on his face. It's like that OVER-USED mouth gaping in most kid films. Actors these days just seem to have that fear face... but it gets tired and unconvincing when you've seen it umpteen times. One can imagine the director Ok, Arnold, now do the scardie face! CUT! That's a wrap. The movie also unashamedly tries to portray Arnold's character as some sort of Chirst figure, crucified (for a bit) downtown by the devil crowd... All this without establishing the character as THAT kind of character.It's seems directors, in increasing numbers, have forgotten that the audience need to have a reason to admire a hero, pity him or sympathyse with him... There is no character building taking place in this movie. - Ok, we get a little pathetic glimpse at him moping and grunting over a music box, but you can't base a whole character around ONE concept... as I said, the characterization is, at best, SHALLOW.Even the sequence of events is poorly built up. With no reason or buildup, alone, the head priest just pops up and saves him off this cross. No-one comes to tell the priest where he has been seen, the priest just conveniently pops up to save him. I felt this was a bit too much. Especially, after seeing Arnold's character dangling, a-la Jesus, and the priest is made to cross himself! - As if Arnold's character has suddenly become some kind of Saint. That's something this movie can't make him... They never do the background, how can they expect us just to swallow a half baked potato!In this movie they never really establish any real motivation, just portray a chain of events. I felt myself saying WHY!!! when suddenly Arnold's character starts reading the wall of an obviously insane priest... and even less plausable, starts looking for a girl who's picture he finds in a jar in the priest's fridge. COME ON! - Why would he! What about his JOB? He gets ONE assignment in the start of the film, then what? Is he unemployed again? Who is paying for his time to research WHY the priest tried to shoot a Wall Street Banker? Who asked him to? This is an example of how a lot of little missing pieces render this film irritatingly boring to thinking people. I expect then, it was probably made for the ignorant many?Considering the powers they hint that the villain has (the devil), that villain makes absolutely NO use of these powers! At one point he's bending reality, at another point he's just walking in a threatening way! Why not bend reality WHILE walking in a threatening way! and just capture the girl he's after! It's rediculous... About as rediculous as the GIANT devil in the movie Spawn, close enough to crush Spawn but saying to his army of little guys Get him! instead of just crushing him, himself! Duh! If it was just one time, fair enough, maybe the villain is as stupid as the director thinks the audience is, but one gets the feeling they purposely make him fail just to drag the movie on... and on.About as rediculous is, when Arnold's character has witnessed what little damage normal weapons do to this villain... he still has that scene where he goes down to the place he is supposed to work (but this is never established in the film) and arms himself with all sorts of weapons and ammo (complete with the typical military background music, and he doesn't have to answer to anyone about it! Convenient & rediculous!) exploding bullets, rockets, handguns, pump action bazooka, more ammo, more weapons, etc. Who are these for? Killing off innocent civilians who can't help themselves but follow a more powerful person? - Is this our hero? - Who's out to kick ass cos his ass got kicked? Is this what they think a Jesus type hero would do? - in the middle of a religious-type of movie, and after establishing this villain is WAY beyond being blown up, this scene was VERY out of place.For me, the whole movie was like this. Shallow, considering the subject matter (and $ wasted!!!), predictable plot, with no unforseeable twists, obvious and pathetic attempts at symbolism which was very out of place in this movie. Shallow characters with NO credible motivation to take on what they did. A powerful villain rendered impotent at convenient times... This movie had so much potential... but was probably hampered by executives? - It leaves one asking How come movies aren't DEEP anymore? How come millions of dollars are being wasted on crap like this? Have the directors of movies today ever seen any GOOD movies and examined what makes them GOOD movies? I propose lots of trips to film schools. Quite frankly, with the amount of experience of the people involved with this movie, I expected a better film. "},{"Title":"Sometimes you border on competency","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I once spent a desperately dull hour logged onto an on-line Schwarzenegger chat. Cynicism reared it's ugly head as the only questions being put to Arnold seemed to be of the tell us about your new movie variety. When the star at one point condemned the spread of guns in American society, I posed the question of how he could object to the use of firearms when his entire career appears to be based on their application?Not surprisingly, the company hosting the chat session didn't forward my question as one of those Mr. Schwarz had to answer, but the issue does get raised in End of Days, with a final forty minutes given over to pyrotechnics and not terribly convincing CGI. It's a shame the picture ends this way, as before the final quarter it was actually quite a decent film. This an Arnold who realises his place in the movie business is more in doubt than at any time before, with action movies scarcely existing and his previous film role &#150; snigger behind your hand, he's a big guy &#150; Mr. Freeze in Batman and Robin. Perhaps inspired by his colleague Sylvester going all thespian in the admirable Copland, Arnold tries his hand at acting. You read that correctly. Here we have an Arnold who loses his first screen fight against a middle-aged woman, a drunken, pill-popping Arnie who has bad hygiene and cries. Yes, cries. Well, a bit. And, to his credit, he shares screen space with Gabriel Byrne, Rod Steiger and CCH Pounder yet doesn't make a complete idiot of himself. He's no Olivier and that accent's as thick as ever, but he doesn't do too badly does our Arnie.The film itself owes more than passing debts to Se7en, while there's a nice line from Steiger's Father Kovak Satan's greatest trick was convincing man he didn't exist. This is, of course, a close paraphrasing of the line in The Usual Suspects, where the subject under discussion was again Gabriel Byrne. Byrne is the Devil, an evil deity with flammable urine (actually another Usual Suspects reference now I think of it) in a largely monochrome-tinted view of pre-millennium tension. Latin and old Biblical texts paint the screen, and there's a very real sense that all are giving their best, if nothing else. Kevin Pollak plays the typical expository buddy role, but other than that the film is relatively free of genre clichés. Arnie's wife and child were killed some unspecified years previously, making him flawed and negating tiresome love interest fixations.It is all nonsense of course, Byrne out to impregnate Robin Tunney as the not-that-subtly-named Christine. It appears the Devil can take over the Earth and plunge all into damnation if he has a quickie on New Year's Eve. As this film had a December '99 release, it's the strangest example of a movie with a built-in sell-by date. Maybe the watch it in three weeks or it suddenly becomes irrelevant hook was designed to drag in a disinterested audience. The idea that the Devil can, if not be stopped, but temporarily set back, by Arnie's requisite 9mm is silly, and what begins as a reasonably sombre detective case (even though you'll put all the pieces together far faster than Arnie does) hopelessly degenerates into brain-off firepower. There's also some notably poor and confused editing for the fight sequences. However, it's really not as bad as some reviews have claimed, and worth a look when it comes on TV. The ultimate thought that End of Days leaves you with, though, is that while the world at one point loved Arnie, looking back we were paying to see inconsequential pap like this, The Terminator notwithstanding. End of Days is not a bad Schwarzenegger film (it certainly beats Commando hands down), but we're now watching it with the rose-tinted spectacles long since broken. Will Arnold ever be as important again? "},{"Title":"So bad you wish you could laugh about it","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Let's summarize how dumb this movie is with two details  Arnold to Antichrist  Let's see who is meanest said with a straight face. And you can tell they were not trying to be funny.How do you think Arnold will battle the evil of all evils?Blessed Water, A crucifix, a priest..nooo! with a bazooka, yes not even Satan expected it they're so clever.After an engaging beginning (which reminds you of Devil's Advocate) it goes nowhere. Somebody get me those two hours of my life back. Don't ever watch it, rent it, lest buy it. "}{"Title":"Very underrated hateful supernatural science fiction/action film","Date":"17 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" End of Days (1999) is the most very underrated and hated American action supernatural horror flick.Directed by Peter Hyams starring Arnold Schwarzenegger, Gabriel Byrne, Robin Tunney, Kevin Pollak, Rod Steiger, CCH Pounder, and Udo Kier.I think End of Days (1999) is the most underrated Arnold Schwarzenegger film that is supernatural action horror flick. I prefer this film over Schwarzenegger new films Sabotage, Maggie and Terminator Genysis also those films are utter garbage of this days. Schwarzenegger can not make any good film this days, like he did by this one. I love this film to death. On millennium's eve 28th December a man must fight against the devil to prevent the end of the world and apocalypse on the New Year's Eve! Honestly? I think it is Schwarzenegger different action film than his classic action films were.The film's plot follows former New York Police Department detective Jericho Cane (Schwarzenegger), after saving a banker (Byrne) from an assassin, finds himself embroiled into a religious conflict, and must protect an innocent young woman (Tunney), who is unwittingly chosen by evil forces to conceive the Antichrist with Satan.This film isn't classic action movie like are Terminator 1 and 2, Predator, The Running Man, Total Recall and Commando. But it is still a good action film that I love and I will still watch it. This is the first Supernatural film with Arnold Schwarzenegger. This is a great movie.. even has some funny parts.. but Gabriel Byrne steals the show as 'The Man' .. a.k.a. The Devil. He is amazingly hot in this movie and actually had me rooting for the devil. I know I wouldn't run from him!!! All hell breaks loose when Arnold Schwarzenegger battles the ultimate evil in this chilling supernatural action thriller. When a burned-out former New York City cop named Jericho (Schwarzenegger) is assigned to security detail for a mysterious and foreboding stranger (Gabriel Byrne), Jericho thwarts an incredible assassination attempt. During the ensuing investigation, he and his partner (Kevin Pollak) save the life of the beautiful and terrified Christine York (Robin Tunney), whose destiny involves death, the devil and the fate of mankind. Now it's up to Jericho to save the girl, the world and his own soul as he comes face to face with his most powerful enemy ever! The movie pits Arnold Schwarzenegger against the devil (Gabriel Byrne), with director Peter Hyams delivering tense moments of action amid not-so-subtle choices for character development.There are forces here you couldn't possibly comprehend. Dialogue from End of Days'' You can say that again. End of Days'' opens with a priest gazing out his window at the Vatican City and seeing a comet arching above the moon like an eyebrow. He races to an old wooden box, snatches up a silver canister, pulls out an ancient scroll, unrolls it and sees--yes! A drawing of a comet arching above the moon like an eyebrow! For verily this is the dreaded celestial display known as the Eye of God.'' The priest bursts into an inner chamber of the Vatican, where the pope sits surrounded by advisers. The child will be born today!'' he gasps. Then we cut to New York City, 1979'' and a live childbirth scene, including, of course, the obligatory command, push!'' A baby girl is born, and a nurse takes the infant in its swaddling clothes and races to a basement room of the hospital, where the child is anointed with the blood of a freshly killed rattlesnake before being returned to the arms of its mother.Put on the full armor of God so that you can take your stand against the devil's schemes. For our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against rulers, against the authorities, against the powers of this dark world and against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realms.Without even realizing it, suicidal skeptic Arnold Schwarzenegger sets out to fight the evil one head-on in End of Days. Throughout the story, he resorts to a plethora of guns and firepower. He just didn't understand that spiritual warfare cannot be fought with guns. Not until the conclusion, when Arnold comes face to face with the knowledge that, without God he is useless, is he able to effectively battle Satan. In this I find redemption in End of Days, and Biblical truth.End of Days is a 1999 supernatural thriller directed by Peter Hyams (The Presidio). Set at the end of the twentieth century, the film stars Arnold Schwarzenegger as Jericho Cane, a burnt-out private security specialist who finds himself protecting a young woman from a man who may embody the ultimate evil and then bring about the end of the world. The film prominently features several models of the Glock pistol, including one of the earliest appearances in a film of the Glock 34. The film's cast includes Gabriel Byrne, Kevin Pollak, Robin Tunney, and Rod Steiger. At the end of the century, Satan visits New York in search of a bride. It's up to an ex-cop who now runs an elite security outfit to stop him.10/10 Grade A- Studio Beacon Communications,Universal Pictures Starring Arnold Schwarzenegger, Gabriel Byrne, Robin Tunney, Kevin Pollak, Rod Steiger, CCH Pounder, and Udo Kier. Director Peter Hyams Producers Armyan Bernstein, Bill Borden, Thomas Bliss Screenplay Andrew W. Marlowe Rated R Running Time 2 Hrs. 1 Min. Budget $83.000.000 Box Office $66.862.068 "},{"Title":"Wicked supernatural outing for Arnie","Date":"8 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Peter Hyams​ 's End Of Days is one of those loud, bombastic, stylized Schwarzenegger flicks that's meant to be pure unbridled entertainment. On that level it works amazingly, and nostalgically for me, it's one of my favourite Arnie films. It just has such a palpably evil atmosphere, and good old fashioned supernatural adventure to it that's awesome. Arnie plays Jericho Cane, an alcoholic, tormented private security expert with a sketchy past. When he and his partner (Kevin Pollak) are tasked with protecting a high profile VIP, an assassination attempt is made, and they start to unravel a dark,possible doomsday plot in the making. The man they are protecting (Gabriel Byrne) happens to be none other than Satan himself, hiding in human form, and trying to track down the one girl (Robin Tunny) that he must copulate with before midnight in order to bring about the end of days upon our world. Oh yeah. Byrne brings a gleeful, carefree, alpha male malice to the role, and is one of my favourite cinematic incarnations of the devil ever. Although it's a pretty implausible, fantasy action headbanger, it has a sense of purpose and duty to its own mythology, and takes it seriously, which helps a lot. Hyams also steps in for DP, and there's some truly awesome shots of New York, from dingy back alley chases to helicopter propelled vistas. Schwarzenegger is surprisingly poignant in the role, only allowing his trademark camp to surface once in a while (you ah ah choiahhboyy compared to me, ah choiahhboyy!! Is my favourite). Tunny diligently plays the female lead with understandable confusion, but also noble grace when the heat gets hot. Miriam Margoyles is a terrifying little goblin as her evil Aunt with ties to the cult who raised her to be Lucifer's bride. Udo Kier, in his few scenes, is chilling as the head of the cult. The film has a chilling vibe that raises it above the level of other smash and grab Arnie action opuses, a vibe that's almost reminiscent of classic John Carpenter. The eerie soundtrack adds to the haunted house fun,me specially when old Satan first appears in NY as a giant invisible beast and meanders around looking for a human host. If you're looking for slimy supernatural fun anchored by a midnite movie style concept and some awesome at atmospheric chills, look no further. "},{"Title":"Flawed, but still interesting horror/action from Arnold","Date":"6 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" End Of Days is a comeback for Arnold Scwarzenegger who has returned to the big screen after his absence due to open heart surgery. The last time he appeared in a movie before this it was in Batman And Robin, which is an excellent candidate for worst movie of all time. End Of Days is a flawed production, but in my opinion Arnold's best and most interesting project from the worst period of his career(the late 90's/early 00's). The premise of the film is where Arnold is to save the world from Satan, who in the new millennium wants to create Armageddon and Hell on Earth. Sounds good to me. However, End Of Days is not without its problems. I think because Arnold was cast, there is too much action for this action/horror hybrid to work. I do think much of this action is great. However, it is a bit overdone for a film of this type. While Arnold is killing tons of bad guys on the screen, much of the atmosphere and suspense is killed off as well. Which is not good as such components are key elements in making material like this work. Also, the abundance of horrible late 90's CGI hurt this as well. Even though the visual f/x are garbage and the action is so much that it dilutes the supernatural/horror elements, End Of Days still has quite a bit working in its favor as well. After a serious operation, Arnold still is more than capable on delivering the action. He also gave an excellent, character driven performance. He definitely held his own against great dramatic actors Kevin Pollak(his cop partner/best friend) and Gabriel Byrne(the physical embodiment of Satan). Gabriel Byrne gives an Oscar worthy performance as fallen angel Lucifer. His presence and performance is remarkable and he brings a lot of class to a production that relies heavily on action and special f/x. The support cast is very strong also. Although I feel that this could have been done better, End Of Days is still pretty entertaining and you could do much worst for an evening's entertainment. "},{"Title":"Sacrifice thyself","Date":"16 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After seeing the Nostalgia Critic review I think it's time for a review.New Years Eve 1999 to 2000 is arriving in New York City.In the meanwhile the devil himself comes to town and causes mayhem.Causing explosions and fire all around in the city.Arnold plays a drunken and burnout cop.The cop hunts Down a bum that is a weird priest.A New York City located movie with a subway hunt, how typical.But, then Things escalates as Arnold faces the Antichrist, At last Arnold has nothing to do but sacrifice himself.It got loads of action, cheesy end of 1990s fun and more.Now go out and try to find this movie if you love 1990s action movies.7/10 "},{"Title":"Lame action flick","Date":"13 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It is a good thing Arnold gave up acting to become a governor. END OF DAYS, one of his last films, is simply terrible. It is the last day of the previous century, and the Devil assumes human form to hunt for a bride who will bear him a child before midnight and the start of the new millennium (never mind that the new millennium doesn't actually start until the beginning of 2001). Once the child is conceived, the world will end and the Devil will reign supreme. The only thing standing between the Devil and his plan is ex-cop Jericho Kane, an atheist who lost his wife and child some years before. With a name like Jericho Kane, you know not to take this flick too seriously, especially after the Deil's bride-to-be yells it about a hundred times. To make things even sillier, Kane's former partner is named Bobby Chicago. Lots of explosions and fires, and absolutely no sense. It also is hard to follow the action with all the jump cuts and dimly lit scenes. Arnold is Arnold, what can I tell you? Gabriel Byrne plays an ineffective Satan and Kevkn Pollack is the former partner. Robin Tunney plays the bride-to-be, and frankly isn't given nearly enough to do, considering her considerable screen time. The bombastic ending, set in a massive church, is a joke, although I suspect not intentionally. Skip this one. "},{"Title":"One of the worst","Date":"22 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film is shot down by the fact the story-line relies on concepts that the writer apparently didn't bother to research or even think through. Did they have to beat a dead-line?For example, where does the writer gets his time-line from? Apart from them making the common error of setting the turn of the century/millennium a year too soon in 1999, the year 2000 is only the last year of the 'accepted' second millennium of the Christian era, we now know Christ was born around 6BC; and the 'arbitrary' time reference point hinges around Greenwich, not Arnold. Arnie wouldn't even of heard the trumpet. )Also Gabriel Byrne's performance is wasted as he is excellent in his role and this must have been so hard with such a dismal script. He is the only chrome in a lack-lustre production. "},{"Title":"Tthe structure is nearly perfect, but the story is completely disturbing","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I could almost give this movie ten stars for the structure, the way things are built & acted out being so great. But I realized just how dark this movie is and how far off it is biblically. It is sad that they (the directors) wasted the brilliance and wonder for a film that would otherwise be a total masterpiece. Not only did they mess up good film concepts but they also tried to make a worthless image of the higher power; I don't believe that Jesus would ever allow Satin to kill numerous amounts of human beings. If End of Days was going to get any larger rating, it would need to have a person of higher power fighting off evil (like in Constantine). But in a way it doesn't matter to me because the fact that the storyline revolves a newly resurrected Satin is completely disturbing. Although they may not try so much to make you believe this, it is foolish of them to put this kind of garbage on the market, as no one needs to experience the 'chorus of demons' that is sung on the biggest waste of film in history. "},{"Title":"Somewhat good","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Overall, not as bad as it could be. During the scene where the devil attempts to sway Arnie, it sounds like some kid acting in a high school informational vidio used to show kids peer pressure. The ending was actually quite exciting...that is until they went all 'Alien' on us and showed the devil in some weird alien form.There were some things that just didn't have a place in the movie, but overall, it was pretty well done. I would have liked to see it better explained and perhaps better executed on the part of the screen writer, but still. Arnie actually did something other than blow up people and kill them (though he did that as well)...a huge surprise to those who regularly view his movies.A good rental film, though I wouldn't buy it. It's worth viewing. "},{"Title":"Confusion","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm not going to say this is a great movie. It's not. It's not even a very good movie. But hey, I've seen worse. And so have you. Don't try to deny it.But there is one thing I've noticed in several of the other comments that I had to respond to. A lot of people seem to think it was dumb that Satan didn't just kill Jericho while he had the chance. After all, there were a dozen occasions in the movie where he could have just ripped the guy's head off and had sex with Christine without interference. What those people don't seem to get is that Gabriel Byrne's character was NEVER THE ONE WHO WAS SUPPOSED TO IMPREGNATE CHRISTINE. It was JERICHO who was destined at birth to be the biological father of the Anti-Christ. That's why Satan hired that particular bodyguard in the first place to get him involved. That's why he didn't possess Jericho earlier in the movie because Jericho wasn't yet ready to serve as a vessel. That's why, as he was leading Christine to the altar in the church to rape her, Satan/Jericho told her Everything is as it should be. Old Scratch needed this guy to be alive and with Christine at the big moment so he could possess him. That seemed like a pretty obvious conclusion before the movie was half over, but I guess not everyone could see it even while it was happening. "},{"Title":"Great action plus ten useless minutes","Date":"12 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Arnold vs Gabriel Byrne in a religious movie about the end of the millennium, and subsequently the world. Byrne who was already familiar to this genre after doing Stigmata, now gets to switch sides and play the devil. Arnold mantles the reluctant good guy character in the form of ex cop, who lost wife and child, who stumbles on a solution to save the world. Good special effects, and I like the theological explanations the movie gives to explain the whole apocalypse thing. The first time I saw this movie I remember thinking that is was a fantastic movie the entire time. Then the last ten minutes rolled along and the movie went from great to typical. But it is worth seeing all the way through once, but if you ever watch it a second time, turn it off before the end. "}{"Title":"It's better than ...","Date":"10 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film is a far better Peter Hyams piece than Capricorn One. Hyams' improved directorial skills, considerable film experience, and advances in technology go along way in that regard. The explosions, stunts and visual FX are excellent quality and there are very few noticeable action cuts visible in the final product. Hyams' use of lighting is reminiscent of Kim Manners' techniques in the X-Files, and uses it well to keep the viewers in the 'scary mode'. Arnie delivers a mediocre reluctant hero/ cynical cop performance as Jericho Cane that is about on par with his performance in Kindergarten Cop, but nevertheless, it's still an enjoyable movie. Gabriel Byrne rocks! and it's nice to see Rod Steiger on screen again. Kevin Pollack, Arnie's cop partner, does a fine job but I keep seeing Tom Arnold (True Lies) as his partner instead. On second thought, maybe not. While Tom Arnold delivers the one-liners better than Pollack, he probably couldn't pull off the secondary roll Pollack had to deliver. Overall, I think that if you enjoy the Omen-Damien-End of the World genre then you would probably like this one. "},{"Title":"yes it's pretty dumb but i had TONS of fun with this it was EXTREMELY entertaining WARNING!!!!!!!! SPOILERS!!!!","Date":"30 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  yes it's pretty dumb but i had TONS of fun with this and wish people would stop criticizing it and just try to have fun once and a while plus when you have Arnie what could possibly go wrong?. sure the script has tons of problems and some logic lapses but if ya don't think about it your bound to be EXTREMELY entertained it had plenty of gore and violence which i won't spoil for you this time and a pretty cool ending. i read lots of reviews on other websites that they thought the 666 explanation was laughable i didn't think it was all that bad and frankly i really wasn't paying any attention to most of the flaws which i must say there are quite a few i was too busy having fun watching this.it had 3 awesome leads in Gabriel Arnold and Robin. The Acting was AWESOME!!! Arnold Schwarzenegger does AMAZING as he always does (which i have said in my other reviews too but this time he seems somewhat bitter and angry and much more depressed although i can see why his whole family is dead. but he did AMAZING here once again and as always kicking that butt. Robin Tunney does very well here i liked her lots she is focused and on top of things she also cries very well. Kevin Pollak does okay here but got on my nerves as the comic guy. Gabriel Byrne is a blast here to watch and is obviously having fun doing it. rest of the cast do fine with Rod Steiger CCH Pounder and Udo Kier giving decent performances when there on screen. Overall don't listen to all the negative reviews and just sit back and enjoy ***1/2 of 5 EXTREMELY close to a ****  "},{"Title":"Great Gabriel Byrne","Date":"10 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Though I must admit that this movie's too gory or even worseridiculous sometimes, I cannot deny that the performance of GabrielByrne as Satan's absolutely praiseworthy  (SPOILERS) One of themoments of the movie I  remember with particular interest is the scenewhere   Gabriel Byrne/Satan shows Schwarzy his tragical past and heoffers him his help to change it. Would anyone of you have acceptedhis treacherous offer? I would HAHAHHAHAHHA!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!(hysterical laughter, sorry ( )As for Schwarzy, well he's the ideal savior ofour world, stronger than Terminator, Jado and Hercules put together.SPOILERS His strength mainly consists of accepting what he couldn'tor even better wouldn't accept the real existence of Satan himselfEnd of SPOILERS. As for Robin Tunney, well I think that this movie was for her arelaxing experience after Niagara,Niagara where she fought againstsomething real (The Tourette syndrome) "},{"Title":"The best of Peter Hyams","Date":"26 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is the best movie directed by Peter Hyams yet, it has a faster-than-light editing, great cinematography, superb music and cool action scenes, the final climax is awesome, and Schwarzenegger is more vulnerable than others characters he played, The dream team made an excellent movie (Peter Hyams, Steven Kemper, John Debney), The soundtrack it has mixture of suspense, apocalypses, and redemption, all in one for a class A action thriller movie. Peter Hyams clichés, natural/dark cinematography, fast editing, pulse-pounding soundtrack are clearly print on the film. The action sequences are very well storyboarded, too many things happens at the same time, explosion, shootouts, helicopter chase, alley fight, weird fights(see old woman), religious opinions and scary possessions. This film is 100% entertainment.  "},{"Title":"Terminator With a Collar","Date":"21 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is actually Terminator in a different suit; the suit of a priest.  The terminator here is Satan (or his agent), diffidently played by Gabriel Byrne, hot to make a baby on New Year's Eve.  Arnold has the Kyle Reese role, and does his best to protect his 'Sara Connor'.  The movie is not as bad as folks would have you believe.  Just don't try to wrap it up as a sophisticated intelligent movie.  It's escapist fare at best.Perhaps the worst thing this picture does is completely waste Rod Steiger in a role that could have been played by a chimp.  He might have made a more interesting Satan.  All in all, I'm glad I watched it on DVD. "},{"Title":"End of Days!","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  End of Days is some movie! Arnold is very good in the movie! Gabriel Byrne put on a fantastic performance! Rod Steiger and Udo Kier were good as well! Mark Margolis was in it also and its weird because he and Udo Kier were both in Ace Ventura Pet Detective! Look for Sven-Ole Thorsen who is in most of Arnold's movies! The music is great by John Debney! Peter Hyams direction was very good once again and if you like him I recommend you another film with epic proportions called The Relic! Anyway End of Days is a great movie in My opinion and pits Arnold in one of his most different roles! If you love the cast above then I strongly recommend you watch End of Days!  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good - not what I was expecting.....","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Well this was a surprise....I had heard dreadful reviews about this, indeed it was difficult to find anyone who had seen it and liked it but I digress.....I have always been an Arnie fan but missed this one until I picked it up cheap on DVD - I was pleasantly surprised by the film, not at all what I was expecting.Some good set pieces are matched up to a quite well thought out script (although a little silly in places including the no relevance to the plot whatsoever sex scene) as Arnie basically fights big Mr Evil himself in the form of the brilliant Gabriel Byrne whilst protecting the young girl branded to become the devil's wife.We will overlook the obvious plot holes (girl destined to be Satan's missus being raised by Devil Worshippers yet she hasn't been raised as one herself - Huh? and what happens if she was infertile or something?) and point out the excellent performances by Arnie and also Gabriel Byrne who steals every scene he is in - the scene with his 'sales pitch' between him and Arnie being particularly memorable.Some decent special effects and some surprises along the way with the girl being pursued by the good (?) guys (the Vatican's very own hit squad no less) as well as the bad guys leads to a necessarily spectacular climax with an ending that even had me feeling a little dampness in the eye - just one question - what does she do now?Leave your pre-conceptions about Arnie films at the door and just watch it - you will be surprised.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful!","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Oh, what a great movie End of Days was! I saw it the October it came out and I couldn't move for about five minutes after it ended because I was so riveted. Even my dad was a little pale and shaky and he doesn't scare easy. Did I mention I also cried at the end?The Burgundy Sheet Scene, Arnold's Christmas and The Wedding are what ties the movie together, but The Wedding is slightly lacking, making a slightly lame ending. Perhaps if Peter Hyams and Gabriel had worked together to write the end, it would have been a lot better.All in all, top marks! "},{"Title":"It's a howler, but I feel much of that is intentional.","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  ** 1/2 out of ****End of Days, a movie which has obviously dated itself back to the end of the 20th century, was Arnold Schwarzennegger's comeback attempt.  Given its budget, the film didn't do very well at the box office, but it's not like Arnie isn't getting any work these days, though the movies he'd go on and make would be a step backward (The Sixth Day, Collateral Damage).  A lot of the hatred pointed at End of Days is understandable; it's a very silly movie.  But then again, Stigmata was arguably just as silly if not more and none of that film was meant to be taken as anything less than serious, so how come that movie has its fans?End of Days is set three days before the millenium, and Arnie stars as Jericho Cane, a for-hire bodyguard who's latest assignment is to protect a businessman (Gabriel Byrne).  Turns out this guy he's working for might be possessed by the devil, interestingly enough.  So Cane discovers he's got to find a woman named Christine York (Robin Tunney) and save her from being impregnated by Satan himself.  As I watched End of Days, I noted the movie's numerous typical Schwarzennegger one-liners.  A lot of them were very funny.  A lot of the plot was funny, too, and it only took me a while to realize the filmmakers intended for the film to play as half-serious.  End of Days knows its premise is silly and learns to have fun with it.  For crying out loud, there's a scene where an old woman almost beats up Schwarwzennegger.  If you don't find that funny, then you obviously haven't seen many Schwarzennegger films.  The movie's plot holes are abundant.  Tunney's character was raised by devil-worshippers, hard to believe they didn't raise her to be one, either.  There are also a few things I'm not getting here.  Apparently, the devil is here just to impregnate her with the anti-christ, and he's got to leave the minute it's year 2000.  Everyone in the film is acting like the world will end exactly once it hits 2000, heck, the devil even has Schwarzennegger bound up on top of a building so he can witness the end of the world, as if though we're to expect the baby to be born in a matter of minutes, for him to age to a fully-grown adult in hours, and then take over the world instantaneously, even with the entire Roman Catholic Church aware of all this.  It just doesn't gel.But I go to a Schwarzennegger movie to watch stuff get blown up and shot up real good, and that happens here.  A lot of the action is fast and thrilling, if not exactly memorable.  There's lots of gore for the horror fans and even a bit of gratuitous nudity tossed in to add to the schlock factor.  It's nice to see director Peter Hyams didn't feel the need to dress this up as an all-important movie with a message, a la Stigmata.  End of Days is an action/horror/comedy, with the emphasis on action and comedy.  It works as both, so take it as such.  "},{"Title":"Way better than the Exorcist","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Schwarzenegger's best movie since the exorcist. good actors, good script and plenty of action. very creepy. Compared to the exorcist, The exorcist was so crappy and not scary at all. but End of Days kicks ass out of all devil movies.  That's why i rate this movie a 8.0 star on 10.Highly recommended. "}{"Title":"Good solid entertainment, if you like action movies with a religious bent.","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  some SPOILERS follow - don't read if you have not yet seen this movie.Free 'loan' from my county library, I had heard mixed things about End of Days. It is loosely based on Biblical Revelation, and involves the devil coming back every 1000 years to father a child with a chosen female so that he can rule the world. So the film starts in 1979 with a comet observed arching over the moon, and the Pope sending representatives to all cities to find the baby to be born soon.The movie then jumps to 1999, the baby is now 20 years old and inhabiting the beautiful body of Robin Tunney. They prove it to us with a scene just after her workout, and she pulls off her shirt walking towards her bath room, and indeed she has no sports bra on! That nudity, plus a few curse words, and lots of violence and images of terror earn this film a solid R rating. Arnold is an ex-cop and gets into the fray. Through clues he figures out what her name is, and eventually, why she is being hunted. Some rogue priests want to kill her, justifying it by saving the rest of the world. While the devil has inhabited someone's body and seeks to capture her for sex between 11PM and midnight on New Year's eve, the only valid time for his rape.Arnold and Robin manage to elude the devil, and the climax (the film, not the sex) takes place in a church, and with prayer and strong will, good (God) prevails. Serious subject, but there were a few humorous scenes that fit. After one especially gruesome scene, Arnold's sidekick says, It's official, I'm not going to sleep anymore, not ever.  Not a great film, but we were entertained for its whole 2 hours. It seems to me its rating on IMDb is a little bit low. I give it a 7 of 10.  The DVD has a very nice picture, even in very dark scenes, and the Dolby 5.1 surround sound is very nice. Plenty of surround effects, and lots of LFE during explosions. There is also an interesting On location extra.However, one unforgiveable mistake. The script takes great pain to point out that the depicted events occur at the end of the millineum.  That would be New Year's eve 2000, not 1999.  "},{"Title":"Schwarzenegger's comeback","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  End Of Days was billed as Schwarzenegger comeback after the donkey sh*t of a movie Batman & Robin. While Schwarzenegger is good in the film Gaberial Byrne has the most fun as the devil. Robin Tuney does good in her first female lead and Kevin Pollack gives some one-iners. Peter Hymas has made a okay film with enough action to please the Schwarzenegger fans. I give **1/2 ut of ****. "},{"Title":"Well, at least Arnie's back.","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  (including your average spoiling-it-all-spoilers)Arnold Schwarzenegger is back after a 2 year hole, during some operation or something, and though you can't really call me an Arnie-fan, at least not a serious one, I had some expectations. I at least hoped that END OF DAYS would be better than horrid BATMAN & ROBIN which was barely watchable. Was it better? Yes. But it was a close call...END OF DAYS is kind of a cross between THE OMEN and TERMINATOR. But with Gabriel Byrne as the evil machine that won't stop until he gets his hands on the innocent woman, and the woman being (a nice version of) Damien.Gabriel Byrne is a kinky devil jumping up to earth to find a nice little bride, to breed and to rule the world (cliche #1). Robin Tunney is the unlucky girl who thinks she's crazy (cliche #2) and good ol' Schwarz is the guardian angel (cliche #3), a burned out cop (cliche #4) that's taking the blame for the death of his family (cliche #5). Udo Kier (cliche #6) is in it.Just to once again team up with Arnie for some butt-kicking was a nice feeling (though he looks like an idiot crying, praying and, oops spoiler here, dying). Peter Hyams is an OK director when it comes to dialogue-making and storytelling (2010 was actually quite great), but he just CAN'T direct action sequences, and I write this in full knowledge that he did some Van Damme-films (TIMECOP and SUDDEN DEATH if I'm not mistaken). Every single action sequence was dull, not a good comment on an action-film. So guess we're off depending on the plot to save the film. Don't think so. The christian horror-plot is VERY thin and unstabile, basically the film is standing on it's billionstrillions-bucks. The extra-intrigue with our hero facing God and all that is very close to be unbearable.By the way, did anybody but me notice the serious loads of TERMINATOR-references? Right before Arnie is nailed to the wall his face is covered with blood in an oh-so-familiar way, satan reminds more of the T1000 than the devil and as Roddie says He won't stop until he get her, among others... END OF DAYS is perhaps nothing but a nothing-giving, very thin-plotted Arnold Scwarzenegger-film, but it is at least better than crap like CONAN THE BARBARIAN, COMMANDO, RED HEAT, RED SONJA, RAW DEAL, THE RUNNING MAN, JUNIOR, ERASER and oh yes, BATMAN & ROBIN.4/10 and the big question is if Arnold is saying Trust me because it's a trademark or because it's in the script. "},{"Title":"Gabriel Byrne steals every scene","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Reading through all of the other comments here it's fairly obvious that this film has received mixed reviews. I tend to agree with a lot of the points made. Arnie is not at his best here by any means and the plot could have been much better. Having said that, it may sound strange, but I quite liked this.Let me point out first that I have no interest in action movies and I didn't watch this for the action. I found the struggle between good and evil far more interesting than Arnie's predictable attempts at saving humanity.Don't get me wrong, as action flicks go, it's fairly respectable but I really must confess I wanted to see this mainly because Gabriel Byrne plays the devil. And may I just say I wasn't disappointed.For anyone who's familiar with literary images of Satan he is always portrayed as attractive and lecherous. Gabriel Byrne plays both with great aplomb. The devil is far more attractive in this movie than the supposed good guy. (Then again that's probably because Gabriel Byrne is incredibly attractive anyway.) Byrne as Satan is also very fond of women. It seems that sex is all he thinks about. No wonder we hear so much about the sins of the flesh.His interaction with Jerricho Cane (Arnold) is interesting because it deals with the ideas behind where pain and suffering comes from. These are the best moments if you ask me. But then again I do like all that philosophical stuff.This film had a lot letting it down. Arnold for one was not convincing and some of the religious constructs were a little shaky. The only reason anyone should watch this is if they are interested in characterisations of Satan. (On the other hand, you'll find nothing new or unusual here either.) Perhaps, after all, Gabriel Byrne is the only redeeming force here... he does have some great one-liners after all. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  *SPOILERS AHEAD* Arnold Lifts this movie quite a bit, and it's not really that much horror in my opinion. I didn't really think it's that appealing, with Satarn coming from hell to find a bride and make a kid with her, then trying to raise hell on earth. But i still found it pretty entertaining because there was heaps of action and it was scary at sometimes.7/10  "},{"Title":"Compared to me you're a choireboy! (minor spoilers)","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The audience has seen Ahnuld beat up right about anything from single advisories to whole armies to even an invincible alien hunter from outer space! All right, who's next? Try Satan himself!An easy-to-miss-idea actually gets its kicks from its 'so far-fetched theme that it actually hits home'. Add in large-scale action and one-liners that are just too cool- even for Arnie, and what do you get? A solid actioner truly worthy of about 7/10 (though I gave it an 8, to counterweight the wrongly-given bad ratings). Even though it's a Peter Hyams movie - the same man behind Time cop and Relic? Well, then again, he also did Outland...Besides, 'cause Arnie this time plays an OLD washed-out ex-cop virtually on the verge of a breakdown, this would have been a fine legacy. To end what he started with The terminator. And after this, just ONE more time to complete the T-trilogy, but then that's it.Tsk, there's just no explaining 6th day or Collateral Damage... How does it say, Quit while you're ahead.Anyway, drop Sh*tty Day and Career damage and rent out End of days - you won't be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Good lord almighty, this is dumb!","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There might be something wrong with me, but I did not find this scary. AT ALL. It's a nice brainless action flick though. Hilariously dated Y2K refernces and instant-replay shots make this kill the devil to stop the apocolypse epic that much more amusing. Unintentionally funny, and filled with lots of the ol' ultra-violence we know and love Arnie for. My favorite bits were the train chase, the fiery demon-thing Schwarzenegger faces near the end, and the scene where the preists keep trying to excorsize the devil out of the church and he knocks them off to shut them up. Much more dark humor than in most movies he stars in. And for once, the villian is the one making the bad puns. Resembles a Hong Kong fantasy/horror/kung-fu film than a suspense/horror film. Fans of old-school fright like HALLOWEEN and ROSEMARY'S BABY will be severely dissapointed, but action fans will be thrilled. "},{"Title":"Arnie tries to kill Satan with a machinegun...","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ...that alone should give you an idea of how good this movie is. The story sucks bigtime, it even has some biblical inaccuracies (being a non-christian with limited knowledge of the bible, even I could spot the mistakes). The script is bad as hell (pun intended), the actors really do their best to deliver their lines convincingly....sorry Arnold, but, err, no.The special effects are nice, you already know that if you've seen the trailer or had a look at it's budget, but the whole thing just stinks. I mean, it really takes a VERY long time for Arnie to figure out that you can't fight the devil with guns...any character played by Freddie Prinze Jr. would've come up with something better after a few minutes! But then again, it's Hollywood, so let's not pay attention to logic.All in all, a bad, baaaaad movie. Ugh! "},{"Title":"Insulting rubbish...","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Christians are not the good guys, Arnold. In times when they had absolute political power, they have murdered countless numbers of people solely for not being like them. Anyone who is aware of this fact will probably feel extremely insulted by this film, which takes American stupidity to a whole new level. Only in a country that claims to be the land of the free when a director's creative choices are butchered without rhyme or reason can a piece of hypocritical tripe like this be made.This film would have us believe that Satanic cultists are everywhere, ready to harm innocent children or make life hell for the good little Christian boys of America. When you watch this film, the question you should be asking yourself is how many times you have encountered tract-waving Satanists who won't take no for an answer, compared with Christians of the same pathological breed. The answer will make it perfectly clear to you how big a steamer this one is.Arnold is not making any smart career moves lately, either. His latest flick is just another anti-cloning piece of tripe that, like all other anti-cloning pieces of tripe, ignores the fact that cloning has the potential to make things like AIDS, cancer, or transplant organ shortages things of the past. Combined with this obvious attempt to pander to the bible bashers of the USA, it leaves Arnie with a rating of two good films in the last ten years. I think he'd better do another collabaration with Paul Verhoeven real quick if he wants to restore his credibility, because End Of Days is a blot on his resume that I am unlikely to ever forgive him for. "},{"Title":"Horrible acting, silly plot, this is what gives American movies a bad rep","Date":"30 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What does this movie have? Lots of gunfire and expensive effects. Nothing makes sense on any other level.Watching Arnold cry is seeing acting so bad that it is laughable. The plot is ludicrous.If you think the Devil will be impressed by a bad actor with a machine gun, well, this movie is for you!  "}{"Title":"the worst film of 1999  & maybe of the century","Date":"7 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"    I never thought I would  absolutly hate an Arnold Schwartzeneggar film,   BUT  this is is dreadful from the get go. there isnt one redeemable scene in the entire 123 long minutes. an absolute waste of time thank yu Jay harris "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT Great movie. I think that Arnie has never before recorded a movie like this. This is a movie I have waited the most. I was on a premiere in Slovenia and the movie kicked butt. The movie is good because Arnie is very human (not like in Commando where he was undestructible), but I am very disappointed on the end where Arnie dies. I thought that god will appear from heaven and put him back to life but he don't. Not good, Arnie can't die. Along with Terminator 2 this is a movie with the most sad ending (. But whole movie rocks.  "},{"Title":"Exactly what I expected....","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I rented this movie this last weekend becouse I missed it last year and because it would be perfect for my mood to watch a kick ass movie with a touch of Halloween and I got what I expected!I Knew this movie was not going to be Arnold's best due to the mediocre reviews last year and I knew it would have a combination Exorcist,Omen,Seven,Total Recall,Terminator 2 combination movie just by the trailer.Props to whoever made the trailer because it was an exciting trailer and made no false promises.Yup,kick ass action,typical modern style formula of explosions and heavy reliance on sound and computer animation,shockers,excitment,and a stronger acting effort from Arnold.This movie delivers exactly what it promised!I think the movie is still a classic because of this unique individual called Arnold Schwazenegger.Very difficult to find somebody who embodies energy like this man.The movie fails in plot indeed but that weakness can be forgiven because everywhere else,the movie delivers for an action/horror film.I know we can get mad(as a lot of critics did) at the producers for not coming up with a better story(is it really that difficult compared to the technical wonders they accomplish on everything else in the movie?),specially when they came so close to perfection in this genre on this one in all other aspects.But considering how terrible other action movies are nowadays and how precious a performer like Arnold is (giving strong effort in performance too),and the bigger than usual production effort,and how wrong this movie could have gone(like countless other missfires out there),this one still ROCKS.The ending saved the movie and I consider it a classic for people who can look past plot sometimes.......  "},{"Title":"Disappointment","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I felt that the film was rushed, and the acting was full of holes.  Arnold was good, but the main girl was stupid, and the guy who played the devil was awful.  The story was confusing and idiotic.  The film had no point, and was unbelievable.  The movie is not the worst movie, but is not too far away from it. Overall I was awfully disappointed, it could have been alot better. My score is a 3 out of 10  "},{"Title":"end of arnie?","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  this film sucks a big one. so many holes in the plot. if the devil is invincible, why does he require the protection of arnies bodyguards? I couldn't fathom why arnie didn't turn up for work for several days and then suddenly appears, takes their entire armoury and disappears again!! Nice work if you can get it. It's sad that the last 1/2 hour has to result in the standard arnie 'uzi 9mm' finale. Arnies interpretation of a depressed cop is to bow his head and sniff. i thought he had a bad cold for most of the film. Dreadfully scripted, Arnie is called 'buddy', 'dude' etc for 95% of the film and then suddenly we hear him being called by his real name of Jericho Cane (where do they get these names from??). The ending is so twee you'd better get the barf bag ready. Shame that Gladiator pulled off the same ending with 100% more class. "},{"Title":"Utter tripe from beginning to end","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I thought child of the devil movies went out with Rosemary's Baby and The Omen. What on earth is Gabriel Byrne doing in this mess? Arnold's script choices have been going downhill for a while, but Gaby hopefully has a few more good ones in him yet. But this ain't one of them. The story is so ludicrous it isn't even funny. It seemed the movie couldn't make up its mind what it wanted to be and dithered between various genres before giving up in resignation. Arnold is just plain terrible. Never seen him act worse. Robin Tunney looks scared a lot but doesn't do anything else, and Gabriel Byrne is feeble as a devil and didn't give me anything like the creeps I got from Al Pacino's legal diablo in Devil's Advocate. But then maybe he realized what a disaster he had got himself into and couldn't be bothered.The score was even more cliched than the dialogue, with Satanic and heavenly choirs alternating ad nauseum. Gore was gratuitous and the effects were just there to try and convince you that it was worth your $12.And that ending! How can such a screenplay get the nod from studio bosses? This isn't even mediocrity, it's BAD writing. Any student would be thrown out of film school with a script like that. This film is WORSE than Damien Omen III. And that's saying something. "},{"Title":"As blundering and incomprehensible as Arnold himself","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Well, incomprehensible as in Why did this get made? or How the heck could they make it this bad? or Did they think they could get away with that?Arnold's accent is thicker than ever, somehow. He spends twenty minutes being hauled around like a sack of meat from a helicopter in a major action scene, and falls victim to the dumbest of movie blunders he defeats evil through LOVE!Byrne is really awful, but he has nothing to work with. Evil given form is apparently a slightly horny, smirking man who wisecracks and leers. He spends the film killing his henchmen (I'm so sick of villains doing that) and random people he bumps into by use of buses and magic dynamite. How boring is that? Satan is given a human body and he behaves like a teenager who's read the Anarchist's Cookbook too many times. Ahnold is NOT back. He is a dinosaur of the past and will be replaced by younger, comprehensible actors who do some of their own stunts and can read a proper line to save their life.  "},{"Title":"This is one of those films that tries admirably to roll multiple genres into a coherent film and fails miserably.","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If this film had tried to be either just a horror film or just an action film, it might have been more successful.As it stands, the film is a jumbled mess. the acting is all over the map, the CGI effects are laughable, Robin Tunney doesn't do any full frontal nudity, and the ending was just plain stupid.While much better than the similar Stigmata, this film is still lacking every department.rating4 "},{"Title":"One of Arnold's better movies","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I think that this movie is one of Arnold's better movies, though a lot of people think that this is his worst movie. This film is not deep or insightful but it is entertaining. I like what director Peter Hyams did with the films atmosphere he keeps it dark and brooding. I think that Arnold Schwarzenegger while he has some weak moments turns in his most accomplished performance in a film yet. He has considerably more dialouge than usual, and he tries his best to develop his character. The action sequences in this film are not top notch but are fun none the less. This is not one of Arnold's worst movies, I think it is one of his best. I give it *** out of ****. "},{"Title":"Not As Bad As People Say","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I've read some of the reviews of End of Days on this site and I must say that I disagree. Sure it is not a great movie, but it is enjoyable. People have said that this movie is short on logic and has a lot of plot holes, thats true. To be honest all movies in one way or another have lapses in logic. This film is actually more watchable than Schwarzenegger's last action film Eraser, and I don't think that it is Schwarzenegger's worst film either Batman and Robin owns that distinction. (Sure it is not a true Schwarzenegger movie but it is the worst he's ever been in).  "}{"Title":"Violent, trashy, gratuitous, brilliant","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  End Of Days is a very enjoyable film. It is packed full of over the top gore, sex and violence. The plot is very trashy and thin, but you find yourself enjoying this movie, although you realise that you probably shouldn't be. The performances are very good, with Schwarzenegger looking right at home amongst the mayhem and one-liners. Byrne plays the smooth, seductive vessel of Satan with great ease and makes good of a very simple script. Also, the movie contains work by the great Stan Winston, who has done creature effects for all the great Sci-films. If you are a fan of Schwarzenegger or just love an action-packed film, do not miss Arnie as he battles his greatest opponent ever. The Devil.  "},{"Title":"Arnold's Best Film in years if not ever!!!!(May contain spoilers)","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Where do I begin?  I rented this film due to relentless anticipation and anger at myself for missing it in theaters.  I didn't know much about the plot, just Arnold vs the devil.  And I was blown away!!!! This movie has everything  Great Acting, Action, Suspense, Drama, and Comedy!!!  One of Arnold's best acting jobs where he's not a total gun wielding shooter. Gabriel B. as the Devil was good, but a little tame and often humerous at times.  Al Pacino would have been better.  Kevin Pollack is probably one of the most underrated actors today.  He brings intentional humor to the film and in some ways is a hero in this movie.  The film's story is great, though many people were offended by the religious aspect of the story(churches being destroyed, etc.  Big Deal!!) And the only REAL Problem I have with Arnold is in the end he goes back to getting the Terminator type weapons (missle launcher) and goes after satan, even after he says The only thing standing between Satan and the girl, is my 9mm (Yeah Right) this could've been worse, next time just get your 9mm and a shotgun.  Very few mistakes in the film's continuity (mostly minor, unnoticeable) Music is good (can bearly hear the soundtrack through the noise of the film) great dialogue (best line in the film  Arnold  You died for nothing, you just bought them more time.)  Great ending except for the 10 sec. or however long it is that satan has to knock up the girl, talk about pressure!!!  Anyway on a scale from 1-10 I give this film a 9.5 Arnold a 9 (best work since T2). And the story a 10.  best in it's genre!!!Don't miss this film. And one other thing  Last Action Hero wasn't that bad!!!!(It was for kid's for god's sake) "},{"Title":"Well, I Enjoyed This Movie","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  End of Days is not a masterpiece, but it is an entertaining movie. It is more violent than it needs to be, and parts of it are kind of weak but it is enjoyable. This is not Arnold Schwarzenegger's best film nor is it his worst(at least I don't think it is). If your looking for an enjoyable movie to watch for a couple of hours give End of Days a look. "},{"Title":"great movie!","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was one hell of a movie, if anybody tells you differently then their just either dumb or a critic towards everything. Arnold may not be the best actor but hey who doesn't like him for his personality and he plays the characters good and this is no exception. Gabrielle Byrne did a good job as well and this movie had it all. It had a decent story line and awesome action, I give this movie a 10 one of the top 5 best movies I've ever seen and definitely Arnold's best in my book you have to see it! "},{"Title":"End of Days screwed me out of $8","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I didn't think Arnie could do a film worse than the Last Action Hero, was I wrong.Mostly lame action sequences definitely didn't save this film which lacked acting, dialog, or a fluid plot.  I guess some of the scene and the camera work was OK.  If you like the random bare breast shot there were several that just seemed to be thrown in there because they could.Even for free this movie (if you want to call it that) is a rip-off! "},{"Title":"The End of $7","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was really excited to see this movie when I first so the posters for it... Arnold standing in a post-apocalyptic looking setting. Oh yeah! Arnold vs the Devil!  But then the movie started...Why does the devil have to have bodyguards?Why do buildings blow up for no reason?  If I see one more building/car explode for no reason... I'm going to scream.The devil takes a leak, and the p**s catches on fire.. c'mon! Give me a break.I was waiting and waiting and waiting for something spooky, something supernatural, anything! to happen then I got tired and dozed through the rest of the movie.What a disappointment. "},{"Title":"End of talent","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I wish I could say that it was rare to see a film this bad, but its not. From the very outset, its predictable plot leaves the viewer with nothing but average special effects for entertainment. This film really is a triumph of marketing over cinematic art. "},{"Title":"Anyone ordered a Rosemary's Baby rip-off?","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you want to enjoy this movie, go have yourself a nice lobotomy and you won't have anything to complain about. Some movies look beautiful and have an intelligent script, i.e. The Mummy, The Matrix, Deep Blue Sea or What Dreams May Come. Others look beautiful and have a boring script, i.e. Armageddon. Unfortunately, End of Days is part of a new class beautiful movies with a dumb plot. There are a lot of things that do not make sense or they are not explained why does the restaurant blow up after Satan leaves? why would the character of Miriam Margolyes, after being such a caring mother for over fifteen years, turn in a murderer? why can Satan walk into a church just like that? Questions, a lot. Answers, none. Should I mention gratuitous nudity? It does not make the movie more watchable. You probably know this but most of the time, looks do not go with talent. Robin Tunney is not an exception.Yet the special effects are flawless, and there are are some funny scenes as well. My favourite of them all is when Miriam Margolyes beats up Arnie. Well that, you do not see every day.But, I still cannot recommend this movie. If it made more sense, maybe. But in this state, no. It is a pity that this had to be Arnie's comeback after the enormous critical flop of Batman and Robin.5/10     "},{"Title":"Funniest Comedy of the Year!","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was horrible. It ought to be a comedy. This may be a tiny spoiler, but it's nothing but blood and guts, people getting shot, explosions, blood, and explosions. No plot whatsoever.Slight spoilers. Satan, in this movie, is a very funny character. He kills an old guy and carves things into him. Whoopty-doo. He kills a lot of people and feels a woman's breast.Take my advice This movie SUCKS. Don't see it!!!! It's a waste of money "},{"Title":"embarrassing kitch religious babble","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arnie is a lot better with one-liners than when trying to say more, which in the end means less, as here. The characters are shallow and the religious aspects horribly kitch and over-stated. I squirmed through most of this and was glad to get out. However, I did like the graphics of the evil spirit distorting the air but remaining invisible as it moved - though this is a tiny detail, I want to say something nice! "}{"Title":"What a waste- what is the world coming to?","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Tragically the script crises in Hollywood isn't over. Even for a Schwarzenegger-movie, this is bad. Pure crap. Save the money, so that the makers don't make a sequel in a 1000 years. Great effects gives the film a 2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I Don't Believe","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After you see this film, write down a brief synopsis of the plot and see if you believe it.  Did the cast know how awful this was, while they were filming it?  The whole terror in the concept of the Apocalypse arises from a belief in the literal truth of the New Testament.  This film seeks to invoke the terror, but discards all biblical concepts along the way.  Much like playing tennis without a net, without a court and without a ball.  "},{"Title":"Remarkably insipid...","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I want my $9.00 back from Peter Hyams right now!  Considering the potential this film had and how eager most of us are for Arnold to have a rockin' good comeback to the action genre, this film disappoints all the more.  There were gales of laughter (and groans) from the audience as the film lumbered through silly action sequences and contrived quasi-Christian rhetoric. Many awful scenes are strung together like a recycled heap of Seven, Rosemary's Baby, and The Devil's Advocate; without any of those film's merits.  Hyams' forced-angle camera destroys any rhythm the scenes could have had as his actors spin wildly to and fro, looking like children lost in Satan's theme park.  What a shame so many talented people have come together for a remarkably insipid flick.  I really want my money back! "},{"Title":"Too gory by half","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  As I was leaving the theater, I could only think of what might have been. The basic plot, while familiar, was kept moving and the characters were at least O.K.  What kept me from really enjoying the movie was Hyams predilection for gross effects.  Seeing people crucified with scissors, tongues displayed in bottles, and snakes ritualistically sliced open is not the way I enjoy eating my popcorn.  There was really no reason for this excess and I found it detracted from the story.  On the plus side were good special effects and Arnold finally getting back on track, even if the track ultimately gets shunted off onto a siding.  This isn't what I would call a date movie and certainly not one to bring young children to. 4/10. "},{"Title":"One Word Stupid.","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Useless Movie with Ahhhhhnold! against the devil with a nice kinda dark atmosphere. Only problems, it's supposed to be an action movie, but it's so funny! Just an  example of this is when you see an actor, a real one, Gabriel Byrne and Big'Ole  Arnold saying something like You are just a choir boy compared to me well I cannot help but laugh, or when Arnold cries... This movies is worse than Wild Wild West. And why the hell did he killed himself? You cannot f__k a girl and make her pregnant in 3 seconds, but that lame dude just-- whatever, you don't need to know.I Give this movie a 15% (2/10)Best Quote How do you expect to defeat me when I am FOREVER and you are just-- a man!! "},{"Title":"This movie rules because it dares to go where few others now do....","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What's that mean? I'm taking about the brutal violence and overall tastelessness of the movie (Arnold starring in it makes it all the more awesome). No, I'm not a degenerate fiend or anything, my point is with all the brouhaha over Columbine and all the apologists and hardline conservatives blaming the entertainment industry and trying to advocate change in what we see, what we hear, and how we think, this movie spits in their face and does it's own thing. You can't change an already jaded society with a capitalist mentality and where MTV has replaced the need for parents. So let the blind lead the blind and the able-minded will strive. Hyams fuels this fire beautifully. To all you people who whine oh man, the plot sucked blah blah blah, all I have to say is if you couldn't tell from the previews that the story was a tough act to follow to begin with, you need some serious self-evaluation. This film is meant to be enjoyed for it's sight and sound and ever so classic one liners from God....er, Arnold. So stop tearing it up for nonsensical reasons and don't be so wishy-washy when it comes to big budget films!Rating a much deserved 10/10   "},{"Title":"Sucks","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Uh, how is it that the warrior-priests of the Vatican (Wow! good movie title!)can find this girl, but the devil can't.  Oh yeah, and shooting the devil with a shotgun will SLOW HIM DOWN!  I love Arnold...but don't waste your money. "},{"Title":"Terrible... just terrible","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  One of the worst movies I've seen of late.  It is interesting how the devil himself can destroy cars and buildings with the snap of his finger yet could not defeat one man.  The ending was weak and too predictable.  The only thing going for this movie was the many explosions and destruction of property, but all the explosions in the world won't save this movie. "},{"Title":"Great Potential but a Great Loss!","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  With great potential, this film failed to live up to its billing.The story content glides from one unbelievable sub-story to another.  For example with all of his supernatural powers at his disposable, the 'prince of darkness' has limits that are silly and inconsistent from one story line to the next. And the 'hero's weapons against this super-power?  You guessed it!  A variety of guns and exploding projectiles.  Give me a break!It takes the viewer a constant 'leap of faith' from one premise to another, with only a few such events that made any sense at all. The special effects were quite good, but the story content with all of it's props (priests, the church, satan worshipers and scenes of 'conflict' between supposed good and evil, the special effects) are unable to tie the overall picture together and rescue it. don't waste your money. This is a seriously flawed film. Truly, 'enter at your own risk!' "},{"Title":"BAD!!!","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I think End of Days has to be the biggest disappointment this year.  I've been watching trailers with so much potential since before Star Wars. Arnold bumbles through his lines, when he reads the Bible I wanted to declare myself an atheist on general principles.  It makes me sick to see Arnold martyred, and the FX are sooo bad.  I would rather watch the Postman 25 times back to back than even look at the poster for this movie.  A TV critic put it best when she described this movie in one word-- Painful "}{"Title":"Capricorn One where art thou?","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Old stars sometimes want to go supernova rather than brown dwarf.Arnold is old. Arnold has cellulitis (no kiddin'). Arnold's wife stands in the way of any and all bedroom scenes. Arnold is a Republican. Arnold is a true believer. Arnold had not had a single smashing/good movie since T2.Arnold meets Hyams.Hyams made the OJ classic 'Capricorn One'. Hyams is patently free of imagination and/or talent. Hyams likes long takes of scenery in an action movie. Hyams shares the belief that passions (especially passionate love) come from Satan. Hyams believes that Satan is (a) stupid and (b) inexperienced.Hyams meets Marlowe.Marlowe is not related to the great Christopher in any way. Marlowe assumes that the only logical justification for a apocalyptic flick is that 666 looks like 999. Marlowe forgets that we live in the year 1999 not 999. Marlowe writes in a character who asserts that one would agree to many things if one is on fire.Arnold, Hyams and Marlowe make a flick.I wish I rented Capricorn One... "},{"Title":"Overhyped and underwritten","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  While the acting in this film was excellent, and any chance to see any part of Robin Tunney (or Ivy Borg, depending on when Borg was being a body double) unclothed is worth taking, the script to this film is a monument to muddlement. It's plotless, confusing, and seems as if it were thrown together to capitalize on a combination of Y2K hysteria and the present rash of (better) religious films finding a surprisingly large fan base. There are a good enough number of funny lines, mostly from Schwarzenegger, and certainly enough things blowing up. Blood, breasts, and beasts-- this one's destined for Joe Bob's drive in rather than the shelves of critics everywhere. "},{"Title":"EMBARRASSINGLY bad","Date":"23 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Where to begin?  The direction was awful, Arnold's minimal acting talents were nearly non-existent (the audience I saw it with laughed whenever he had an emotional scene).  The story was old and hackneyed five years ago.Apparently the director estimates the audiences IQ in the low 30s the way he hovers over important plot points  such as the fact that SPOILER UNLESS YOUR NOT FEEBLE MINDED the scrawl 207 is actually *gasp* a BIBLE PASSAGE!!!  I wont even discuss the last scene with Arnie but let me say, it left me holding my head in pain and other holding their stomaches.  Arnold has made some decent movies but this is not one of them.  Even as an action flick it's BORING.  Stuff blows up, whoopee!The worst in hollywood formula mediocrity.Gabriel Byrne does the best with what he was given and Rod Stieger's presence in a scene was a welcome relief to break up the monotony. "},{"Title":"Review By starwarskid 1992","Date":"24 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Between your God and my Glock 9 millimeter, I take my Glock-Jericho Cane Arnold is back as a ex-cop who must fight the devil to save a young woman before she conceives her child. The devil knows of Jericho's dark past and uses that to get to him, but Jerichio fights it. The ultimate battle occurs on New Year's Eve, where the devil must be stopped or else, the human race is finished.This was Arnold's comeback film and it didn't turn out as expected, but it's still loved by fans (including me). The action scenes were pretty good including the ending involving a subway car. Peter Hymas directs well as usual. And Gabriel Byrne is perfect as the devil (Only Al Pacino could do it better).It give it a 4 out of 5 "},{"Title":"In hell...","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Arnold Schwarzenegger stars as Jerico Cane a hard boiled detective who protects a woman (Robin Tunney) from Satan (Gabriel Byrne, credited as The Man) of course this mumbo jumbo is treated with seriousness and is treated in the beginning as if it was Se7en. Let it be said this is one of Arnold's lamest efforts. End Of Days might have been decent if it was played with the same tongue in cheek tone that Schwarzenegger's 80's movies played on (Commando and The Running Man spring to mind) however like all the other action heroes of his ilk the late 90's saw the change from silly fun to just plain asinine. The movie seems like a rip off of The Exorcist III but while that excellent movie had atmosphere and George C. Scott, all End Of Days has is just an artificial mood that is supposed to be scary but fails in all attempts to be even remotely watchable. Arnold Schwarzenegger plays the role so distanced that we wonder if there is something more to his character but there never is and overall there is no fun to be had in this roadkill. It is obvious that Arnold was starting to lose his edge but one wonders if he wasn't trying to outdo his career stopping performance in Batman and Robin.* out of 4-(Bad) "},{"Title":"Arnold, 52, still bad as ever","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arnold Schwarzenegger brings this film to a nice high pitch action film that hasn't been matched by him in years.  The film is a typical tick-tock till Y2K film, but this time, satan Gabriel Bryne is good as this man) has come up to impregnate the one who's child will become the antichrist.  But one thing he didn't count on is Jericho Cane (Arnold) who is a ex-cop who gets the job done.  Heart pounding action defeats a not quite great plot and succeeds.  What's best of all is Arnold actually acts here, and it's not a stupid comedy.  Great.  A "},{"Title":"welcome back Arnie - an average action movie","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After all these supermovies in the last time, a classical Hollywood thing again. So the acting is very good, but doesn't matter enough, effects and action are good but not too surprising, the script is too obvious, camera work is too traditional and uninspired and the whole movie feels soulless, too unrealistic and artificial, and in the case of this special movie often very laughable for its story background. Everything smells very well known, just as if Matrix, Blair Witch Project and all the other cool new films had never reached the cinemas.But Arnold Schwarzenegger never had done anything different, even if many of his past movies where somewhat better than this one. More original and without such a braindamaged script idea. So this is a very average movie, recommended of course for Arnie fans, but thats it. Was nice to see a new movie of him anyway.  "},{"Title":"Arnold Good.  Movie Bad.","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There is very little of redeeming value in this movie.  The plot-line, a translation of the book of Revelations so loose its laughable, is made even more unbearable by clunky and melodramatic dialogue.  Although Arnold Schwarzenegger does some of the best character work in his career here, it is muddled by lopsided drama and action which just plain isn't.  The pace of the show, despite the multiple and gratuitous violence, still never surpasses a struggling limp, and the movie is forced to rely on stunning special effects (I'll admit, they're good) and some big names (Gabriel Byrne and Kevin Pollack) to boost viewership.  Byrne's performance as Satan seems phoned-in, and the spiritual struggle of Arnold--which could have saved the show, were it better written--is lost in a deluge of dramatic explosions, dopey double-crosses, and flammable demon pee, only to be revived at the last moment in a sort of oops, almost forgot by the directors, writers, and, unfortunately, Arnold himself. "},{"Title":"All Stolen!","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I did not mind Arnold in the role of the good guy.  I did not mind Gabe Byrne in the role of the bad guy.  I had some big problems with this movie though.First, you have the script which is terrible.  Then you have the rip-offs. If you have seen Usual Suspects(also starring Gabe Byrne and Kevin Pollack), Devil's Advocate, Empire Strikes Back, True Lies, Predator 2, Speed, Rosemary's Baby, and even South Park Bigger, Longer and Uncut, then you have seen all the scenes in this movie.  I was especially upset when an EXACT quote from Usual Suspects was used and a slightly different scene to one in Usual Suspects happened in the movie.  Gabriel Byrne, as Satan, has a dialogue with Arnold that looks like it was stolen from Devil's Advocate and then turns into Empire Strikes Back's Climax with Arnold hanging out his window.Other little things that bothered me were the names of the characters like Christine York(of which Arnold guesses is the identity to the woman in a totally unrealistic and idiotic way), Thomas Aquinas, and Jericho Cane. Now, I am an athiest so I had no problem with what others may interpret from use of religion in this movie...but it was just DUMB!AND FINALLY...The Kicker for me was the line that went TELL ME WHAT YOU WANT, WHAT YOU REALLY REALLY WANT.This movie should tell Hollywood to slow down and look at itself.  The fact that this movie is totally unoriginal and a movie as original as Being John Malkovich can be in theaters at the same time really shows me that there is junk and there is greatness in movies still.  I am tired of remakes of great movies coming out and movies that rip-off entirely from what has been successful in the past.  Why can't more movies be as original as Being John Malkovich. "},{"Title":"It´s very bad, stay away from it!","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The only thing that is good in this movie is Gabriel Byrne's performance. The rest is just awful and a real disappointment! I did not like The Relic either (also directed by Peter Hyams) and End of Days is just as predictable... This movie as Eric Cartman of South Park would put it sucks ass! "}{"Title":"Man, this movie sucked!","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The plot had promise, too bad that it bombed so badly with this film critic. This movie left me feeling sick to my stomach, with all the special effects that tried so hard to make Satan even uglier. The acting was not up to par with the rest of the Arnold flicks out there. It was hard to pay attention to what the overall message was when the last thing you are left with is a torn a part devil still trying to end the world. Take my advice, do not waste your time. "},{"Title":"In End of the days the wind doesn't blow, it sucks","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I taught that an actor who is working in film for more than twenty years (and is called intelligent in some interviews, which I seriously doubt) can tell the diffrence between a good and a bad screenplay, but Schwarzenegger obviously can not. It's a stupid, Reagan-age semi-intellectual flick, in which Schwarz shoots dozens of people with a iron face and without aiming. False sentiment, bad directed action scenes and stolen plot and dialogue complete this looser film. Zero stars. "},{"Title":"It's a Dog!","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was so bad.  I'm slowly loosing my Arnold Schwartzeneggar fan status.  If it wasn't for the scene that you see in the trailers (the fire bursting up the church isle as the pews snap over like dominos) I wouldn't say it was even interesting. I love Gabriel Byrne - yet they made him unsexy by making him over sexy.  It was just dumb. "},{"Title":"terrible!","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I ask myself how is possible to make such a terrible film Arnold has lost any sense of modesty, fighting and defeating the evil himself! All the story is a mixture of nonsense and comic interpretations of the Bible and Religion (the italian translation probably made it even more ridicolous); of course it's a fantasy film, but in the fantastic there should be a bit of rationality and a plot (i.e. Terminator). Is possible that Schwarzenegger, who made some very good works, did not understood what kind of idiot movie was going to act? Does not have money enough to live? 24.000 Lire wasted.  "},{"Title":"An ill conceived plot from the beginning","Date":"5 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's understandable that over time Arnold Schwarzenegger has become one the most popular actioneer actors in Hollywood. Whenever he was cast as a good guy, he would be unbeatable, if not immortal. The prime example of this kind of aura that Mr. Schwarzenegger has established for himself is in the movie Commando (1985). And for most viewers, it is easy to suspend our belief when it comes to that, and come up with various explanations to how he can withstand such bodily strain and continue to push forward. The reason behind this was that Schwarzenegger was fighting ordinary people. But this crosses the line on believability.The story is about the ever popular End of the World prophecy that got nearly everybody cringing on New Year's Eve of 1999, where the devil is predicted on returning to open the gates of hell. Thankfully there's Schwarzenegger, playing a depressed ex-cop, Jericho Cane, who lost his family to some no-name robbers and now plays by his own game. But seriously, Schwarzenegger is going to save the day? How does a human being stop a supernatural force like the devil? That should be impossible! Well apparently not, but I still found the whole concept flawed.Character wise, Arnold Schwarzenegger doesn't even give a truly convincing performance. It's obvious that he put on some weight too since his last appearance in Batman & Robin (1997). Plus, most Schwarzenegger films have good one liners, I only laughed at one here. His performance was just dry. Playing the devil is Gabriel Byrne and he's even worse. For the majority of the film, Byrne will just walk around with a smirk on his face blowing up things or killing people. He's not menacing at all. However, there was one good scene between Byrne and Schwarzenegger when the devil tempted Cane into joining him. That was interesting, but the rest was slow dialog. The writer, Andrew W. Marlowe who also wrote the script to Hollow Man (2000) didn't do a good job here.The makeup effects I do favor along the various horror elements that were randomly inserted in the movie. Those were okay, and I say okay because they weren't scary but it was ugly visuals, which makes them horrific. Even special effects master, Stan Winston headed the creature effects, which I was happy to see. However, the effects used even in here were almost barely on screen. I also didn't understand some of the editing in this movie. There was an alley fight scene and some of the shots switched out too often too quickly. That was frustrating to sit through. Lastly, the score John Debney composed wasn't great either. There was a theme, which is fine, but it wasn't memorable. There was also a motif for the devil but honestly that particular tune was more annoying. Every time it played, the audience will know the devil is coming but it's so annoying that audiences will roll their eyes when they hear it, instead of cringing in fear. Also, the tracks that covered the action scenes were too generic, there was nothing that made me sit on the edge of my seat hoping for the best. The music wasn't compelling. This movie works in some places but not many. The people who will enjoy it the most are the Schwarzenegger fans.Schwarzenegger's acting is plain, the action is generic and the music is too formulaic. What makes it worse is that the story is way too unrealistic. There is very little that works here. "},{"Title":"Arnie vs. the dark side of Y2K","Date":"5 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Satan decides to menace New York to celebrate Y2K and to chase a girl around. So what if midnight new year's eve 2000 was an arbitrary moment chosen to have Times Square parties and computer melt downs. There's certainly no biblical significance to the date, but the film tries to conjure one up, anyway.Gabriel Byrne as the ultimate antagonist and Arnold as an agnostic cop give pretty decent performances. Efforts to make this a biblical apocalypse type story are too contrived. The bad guy acts like a bully; original. The cop runs around yelling at priests, and being a Terminator. That's how deep the script is. There's a lot of running, screaming, explosions, deaths, predictable impersonations, and so on. There's a target girl, like in Terminator. There's an exploitive subplot about a dead wife and child. Church people appear just to get killed. But there's little story behind all the noise and chaos. The ending has some grandiose effects, but holds no surprises.Arnie usually gives us classics, both serious and outrageously camp. This outing is disappointing. "},{"Title":"Terminator Part 2,5 !","Date":"9 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" At a phase where I was young and supposed to be dazzled by action heroes, I've never been impressed by stars, only movies. So back then I didn't concern about Arnie's career as one of the era's big names, but I lived it anyway with movie after another.So, after the massive success of Terminator 2 Judgment Day (1991), which I don't like personally, I saw how Schwarzenegger lived hell literally. His work was nothing but cruel chain of flops  Last Action Hero (1993), Junior (1994), Eraser (1996), Jingle All the Way (1996), Batman & Robin (1997). Then this last one was too hard even for him I suppose, but he continued the tragedy with  End of Days (1999), The 6th Day (2000), and Collateral Damage (2002). Loved some of the above or not, the box office surely hated all of them with passion ! But there was a chance for one last, nearly decent, swan song and I mean  Terminator 3 Rise of the Machines (2003). After that it's Governor Arnold for you !Despite anything I went to watch (End of Days) having some high hopes. At least director (Peter Hyams) is one I feel optimistic with. But I didn't buy it. And it didn't amuse me either ! Look at it, it's the Terminator 2 formula again  super chaser (The devil this time) chasing a young innocent victim (who's so worthy to him only) and there is kind of super opposite that helps out the victim along the way (Arnold Schwarzenegger in both cases !). I only loved the businessman image for today's devil. But there wasn't more. Over and above, (Gabriel Byrne) didn't persuade me that he's the prince of darkness even if he urinated all over the American streets ! (Schwarzenegger) himself looks out of glamour, dusty and run-down (the word is non-distinct with anything this time). (Rod Steiger) well, let's not bring up the matter that he was here in the first place, he was so serious being the real scary factor of it !Although (Robin Tunney) seemed sweet and gentle but not to an extent that could make me love the movie or, god forbid, re-watch it !(Hyams)'s work wasn't impressive. The action wasn't ambitious. The music wasn't catchy. And it was too gloomy to be fun. Generally it wasn't clever as a horror, great as an action, different as a fantasy, or even good as unintentional comedy. This way it earned the attribute tasteless respectfully ! Between Terminator 2 and 3, this is the 2 and a half forgotten sequel. Being a lousy one too. And with choices like that form Arnold.. It was definitely the End of Days for him !P.S  on its cover, as a video tape, it was written  More chilling than The Exorcist. More hunting than The Sixth Sense. End of Days will scare the hell out of you, then in very tiny letters there was the name of the one critic who wrote this. True I couldn't read it, but I bet.. He was Satan himself ! "},{"Title":"there's redemption for this movie yet","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When I had first seen this movie I hated it, I thought it played part in Arnold's down going career as an actor.But 6 1/2 years later, I seen the movie again with different eyes and a fresher perspective.If you take out all of the Millennium hype surrounding the movie (which at that time, if you remember people was swinging off of the Y2K jockstrap which I thought was cheesy then)and the Catholic overtones, you have a great movie.It's a dark movie, with dark overtones, and the one thing that actually scared me was not the devil and his tricks but his followers because if you remember, they were never really shown (except for those few police officers and hospital attendants). They were just a bunch of silhouettes and subconsciously that says to me that you really will never know who's a true devil worshiper.Out of all places, Satan choose to bust out a fault pipe in NYC for some prophetic coochie, or rather the stars which were aligned for such events to take place.Gabriel Bryne was an excellent devil and so was the Governator's role as 'Jericho', the half suicidal cop who marinates himself at night with hardcore boozing.There are always three things that always annoys me with these types of movies and that is1. Why is it, that the Catholic church (one of the most corrupt organizations or religious institutes) has to be the all knowing authority on demons and devils? 2. Do you ever notice that Hollywood always try to add more sinister-ism to devils, demons and other infernals by making them so horrible and powerful, that their victims have no will of their own? Case in point Gabriel Brynes character has no choice to be the vessel for the devil because the alignment of the stars makes this so.and 3. despite annoyance #2. the good guys always win, and purity prevails although some possessed person has to die through it.But if you take out those 3 things, you have a good movie.One of my favorite scenes is when one of the priest flings forth a big silver crucifix telling the devil to get back before the devil takes the cross and jams it through his skull.One of things that are left for me to chew on is since (in this movie) every thousand years the devil gets to leave his hell to do nasty with some virgin maiden, that means 1999 wasn't his first time, nor will it be the last, and I don't know about you but if I'm locked up for a thousand years looking forward to only one day of freedom, then please believe I would have a full proof plan in succeeding my goal.In summary, with the dark overtones and the relevant filth and corruption of humanity, it would of been more climatic if the devil did get to impregnate the girl. And on that thought, I give this movie a 5 rating now instead of a six-sorry. "},{"Title":"very enjoyable","Date":"7 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arnold Schwarzenegger and Gabriel Byrne are one of the best combination of actors put together in the same movie together following previous film duos such as Paul Newman and Robert Redford.Byrne is such a fine actor in this role, he reminded me a lot of Al Pacino's cunning and convincing role as the devil in The Devil's Advocate. I was impressed with the way that Byrne carried himself throughout the film.There must be a good villain to have a better good guy. This cliché is only half accurate because while Arnold is the best at what he does, Byrne upstages him a lot in this film.Adding to this underrated and spectacular film are the performances of Robin Tunney, Kevin Pollak and Rod Steiger along with unbelievable special effects.The special effects were spectacular and eye opening at wonderful and convincing the sequences were. In addition, the plot equaled the effects in that they went together perfectly and very convincing all the way around.  "},{"Title":"One of Arnold's best movies..period!","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Well, i seem to be one of the few that thinks that this is one of Arnold's best movies. Great action, great story and great actors.Favorite scene is, hard to pick, the temptation scene. Here Arnold really shines..and proves that he CAN do other things than comedies and heroic-stuff.This movie is greatly underrated because it is not what people expect from Arnold..which explain why it did not go well down. I just saw it once again (i bought it on DVD) and i think it was even BETTER now, than it was when it came out. Extra plus for Robin Tunney.And yes, i think that the end was great..totally in line with the feeling of the movie.  "}{"Title":"Probably the worst movie ever!","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have to say, even though it has been about four years since I saw this movie, it has stuck in my head as being one of the worst movies I've ever seen...Only went to see it because of the trailer (good job making that)because the subway melting/falling apart scene was beautiful. Plus it didn't look like Arnie was talking much. Unfortunately none of those thing fit on the rest of the movie. And that' all I have to say about that. "},{"Title":"Very thrilling and one of the best Bad-guys ever!!!","Date":"5 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Wow, what a film! The story is weird, but I like weird stories. And this one was weirder than anything that I have seen. I don't believe that something like that actually would happen, but it is an interesting idea. Gabriel Byrne plays the devil very good. No, not only very good, but absolutely fantastic! He always has this diabolic smile on his face and looks really cool with it. Even if I don't consider Schwarzenegger a very good actor, he wasn't bad in this film. Sorry, but I can't understand why people think this film is bad. I give it 8/10. The action-sequences and explosions are great, the whole story and script also. As I said, Byrne was the right choice in this film to play the devil. And also the ending of the film was good, not just the usual Hollywood-happy-ending like in other films Schwarzenegger kills himself to save the others (of course this is a parallel to the crucification of Jesus). "},{"Title":"Under-rated thriller...one of Arnie's best","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  End Of Days is one of the most under-rated movies ever. It deserves more than what it's already got.Arnie does a great job in this movie. It's one of his best in my opinion. It sucks when he gets killed and stuffs up the ending. The ending could have been better in my opinion. Arnie actually acts properly in this movie. In movies like Kindergarten Cop, Predator, Terminator 1+2 and True Lies he didn't really do that much acting...just getting a gun and killing people.Gabriel Byrne also does a good job like always. He plays the devil better than Al Pacino does in the Devil's Advocate. He provides a lot of comical moments in this movie. The scene in Arnie's joint is cool.These performances are backed up by strong performances by Robin Tunney, Rod Steiger and Kevin Pollak. All in all, fantastically written and well casted.10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Entertaining but dum action flick","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  End of days wasn´t a smart film. Plot that goes Hey it aint 666 it´s 999!! Wou, and when you put number uno infront of it? WOULAAA!! It´s 1999!! Dum? Yes, but entertaining. Action scenes are absolutely great! Arnie hasn´t lost his touch... yet. There aint that much oneliners if I remember correctly but End of days still is a typical Arnie- film. Nice explotions and Arnie kicking Satans but big time!!! Nice way to spend few hours...  "},{"Title":"Arnold's Back","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Great hype right before the century turned.  Arnold vs. Satan is something I've waited years to see.  Also Jericho Cane is one of the more darker characters that Arnold has played.  Great action film for a party. "},{"Title":"`End of Arnold' Would Be More Appropriate","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" . . . or the beginning of the end, anyway.  I'm sure that Arnold Schwarzenegger will continue to pump out a few more crappy action movies in the next couple of years (`The Sixth Day', and God forbid, `Terminator 3'), but his heyday is over.  `End of Days'  certainly doesn't demonstrate anything innovative -- or for that matter, good -- to indicate even a slight hope of positive things yet to come.`End of Days' is about the quest of a man named Jericho Cane (Schwarzenegger), who's seeking to stop the Devil (Gabriel Byrne) from impregnating his unwitting, chosen mortal bride (Robin Tunney) and creating Armageddon, or the End of Days.  When it comes right down to the nitty gritty, the story isn't any more complicated than that.  Unfortunately, weird explanations involving the Church, sects of Vatican Knights, prophecies, and other jumbled up pieces of nonsense keep getting injected into the story to foul things up.  Add that to many never-satisfactorily explained plot holes (if Arnold's part of a privately owned security agency, and not a government agency, how come he's allowed to wield so much firepower without anybody batting an eye?), and the story's nothing but an incoherent mess.  It actually would've been better if `End of Days' had pared down its moronic story and jacked up the action and violence -- at least there'd be a lot less nonsense to explain.  The movie almost comes across as though some executive had an idea for a movie  Arnold versus the Devil . . . and then used some Mad-Libs style mechanism to create the necessary script for shooting the film.  The action's okay, but nothing great, and certainly not enough to make up for the long, boring stretches of dumb dialogue and aimless story.As Jericho, Arnold Schwarzenegger's supposed to be an alcoholic suffering a crisis of faith, a very complex character . . . and that becomes the problem.  Arnold's classic action heroes aren't complex, they're simple-minded macho men with a hatred of evil and a penchant for violence. `End of Days' needs a simple guy to take on the Devil and beat him to a pulp -- instead, the hero is this supposedly complex guy who doesn't garner much pity from the audience, and ultimately is very uninteresting and unsympathetic. As Christine York, Robin Tunney is a pretty face with nothing to do, which is a shame, because the character has lots of potential. Christine has the `gift' of seeing visions, but instead of the visions actually being useful -- such as seeing into the future, or providing insight into what's going on -- they only produce cool but useless images of evil-looking things.  Heaven forbid such a gift might be used to propel the story in an original direction.  Gabriel Byrne's Devil chews a lot of scenery but is ultimately all flash and no substance (and surprisingly incompetent).  Kevin Pollack as Chicago is perhaps the only saving grace of the film -- he's funny, and he actually moves the plot along in slightly intelligent ways -- but he's not in the film enough to redeem it, or to even make it mildly entertaining.If you're in the mood for a good Schwarzenegger action flick, rent `Predator', or `Total Recall'.  `End of Days' stinks, to put it mildly.  Do yourself a favor and avoid this piece of insipid nonsense.  Grade D+  "},{"Title":"unoriginal dreadfulness","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Arnold Schwarzenegger has (quietly) been on one of the losingest of losing streaks that any major star has had recently. Eraser, Batman and Robin, and then End of Days were all among the ten worst movies of their respective years (with B 'n R carrying the honors for 1997 in a Battlefield Earth-style runaway). Compared to the above, The Sixth Day was a major comeback.End of Days manages dreadfulness in any number of ways. The script is littered with cringe-inducing lines (including several scenes with the pope in Rome closely following the situation as if he is getting the half-inning reports on a baseball game). The action scenes are witless and unimaginative. Schwarzenegger is hopelessly miscast as a suicidal ex-cop who has lost his faith. A man with his ego has no understanding or feeling for what loss feels like, and it comes through in his performance in every scene, most notably when he is a)about to commit suicide and b)regaining his faith in God. Peter Hyams' direction seems to call for the draining of urgency or drama from any scene, and none of the cast shine. Robin Tunney is especially empty as the hapless vessel upon which Satan's lust will be vented, but Kevin Pollak is also miscast in the Tom Arnold role. Only Rod Steiger manages any degree of dignity as a priest who is able to quietly provide exposition.The plot? In 1979 a baby girl is born under the Eye of God (a full moon with a brow caused by a comet). As everyone knows, this means that she is meant to mate with Satan on the eve of the millennium and then bear the antichrist. This nooky (it is later explained) has to occur between 11 PM and Midnight on December 31, 1999 EST.Fast forward to 1999, December 27. In a chic eatery investment banker Gabriel Byrne is tracked down by a transluscent flying beasty that has emerged from the sewers followed by a series of gas main explosions (if you missed these explosions while in the popcorn line don't worry - there will be at least 20 more). The beasty is of course Satan, who takes possession of Byrne in the bathroom. Coming back out, he kisses and gropes a female diner (her husband goes 'Hey!') then walks out of the restaurant, which promptly explodes (told you so). Satan, in Byrne's form, will then contact his loyal followers in Manhattan, of whom there are thousands based on the number of extras that will later be dispatched. The Satan worshippers don't seem particularly bright - one of them is stepmother to Tunney's Christine, and it still takes Satan three days to find her. Satan displays his mercurial displeasure with them by doing things like punching through their heads. He also gets to bang their wives and daughters together, in what this movie presumes is shocking eroticism. It's not, not in this movie.So how does Arnie get involved? He's playing a security guard hired to protect Byrne/Satan when a mad priest tries to cap Byrne. He tracks down the priest's lair and puts two and two together by means of the screenplay. Why he would be interested as a rent-a-cop is beyond me, but sidekick Kevin Pollak doesn't question it, which in this movie is enough.In any case, Arnie winds up shepherding Tunney from the bad guys and the bad good guys (a sect of Roman catholic priests called the Vatican Knights who want to kill her and her unborn baby before she can be impregnated, certainly against the Pope's views on abortion). Of course, in the meantime he will be challenged by the devil, lose the girl, cap off a lot of people, be involved in explosions, and get crucified. Somehow, the police are fortunately not around when all this fun is happening.The biggest failing in all this witlessness is the portrayal of Satan. Byrne isn't compelling, but he doesn't have much of a chance given the mechanics of the script. Satan's approach to finding his bride is pretty much like that of the terminator - just keep looking and killing the people in your way. Nowhere does the film give Satan the benefit of knowing all men's weaknesses, powerful charisma, Satanic cleverness, an ability to dodge bullets or kill Arnold Schwarzenegger just by wishing it was so. Satan is supposed to be virtually omnipotent - I mean, the guy is fighting God, right? One rent-a-cop should be a laughable matter. But not for this Satan. Want to get away from him? Fill him full of holes and then peel out!I thought Eraser was the worse movie, but this one is simply a dumb reason to blow things up in a very unoriginal way. If you have to have your antichrist, Stir of Echoes, Stigmata, or Lost Souls will all do you better. If only Robert De Niro's Louis Cyphre could have shown up - the whole plot would have been over in 15 minutes. "},{"Title":"Satan puts up one Hell of a fight!","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Plenty of action makes up for lack of script. The story line is pretty powerful and intense. Satan takes human shape and comes to New York City to find the young woman with whom he plans to mate and start the 'End of Days'. This mating is to happen during the last hour of 1999 and Satan will have taken possession of the world. Standing in the way is one stubborn ex-cop(Arnold Schwarzenegger). No way to nap long during this one. Loud and full of action. The finale is awesome. And the appearance of the Devil putting up his grand struggle for the girl is worth waiting for.This is the best thing Schwarzenegger has done in a very long time. Robin Tunney plays the marked young woman. Gabriel Byrne is outstanding as the Man from Hell. Also in the cast are Rod Steiger and Kevin Pollak.  "},{"Title":"It's good to see him, but like this?","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arnold's acting in this one can be compared to Denise Richard's in 007's The World Is Not Enough.  About as good as a 2 dollar steak.  This movie had potential, it really did.  Arnold's character just wasn't convincing, even know Gabriel Byrne's was amazing.  He had me totally believing he was Satan, and boy was I hating him for it!  An excellent performance as The Man.  The plot makes sense I guess, could of also been better.  The climax of the movie is well done.  Good special effects, and I think Satan is one scary mutha.  You would have to see the movie to believe what I'm saying.  Wow, Satan's scary, he definitely is.  Overall not that bad a movie, even know Arnold could of given more emphasis on his character. "},{"Title":"Cheesy but fun.","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arnold must Satan from boinking a certain woman,because if Satan doesEnd of Days!Fun & violent Arnold flick contains explosions,action to spare & a hilarious performance from Gabriel Byrne.Robin Tunney is one hot tamale.Rating*** (out of five) "}{"Title":"A show of faith","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" * * * (3 out of 5)End Of DaysDirected by Peter Hyams, 1999This is Arnold Schwarzenegger's alleged comeback, after almost three years of recovering from heart surgery and Batman and Robin. You decide which was worst.Me, I have never remotely understood what the fuss was about. Schwarzenegger was and is a big stiff lacking even the most basic acting tools, who has moaned and groaned his way through so many dimwitted and expensive Hollywood vehicles that I have lost count.As an actor he leaves so painstakingly much left to be desired, that I wouldn't know where to begin. Ah-nuld, as he is lovingly dubbed by fans and critics alike, really is an institution. He's like a computer game. Like one of those `shoot-em ups´. What you get is what you expect. Every time.So watching this movie on opening night in a cinema full of Arnie buffs (blue-collar, white males mostly) really was something of a shock. Some were boohooing sporadically after just ten minutes. Why is that? Easy. Because this movie bravely presents Arnie in a new light. He puts one foot out of his typecast cocoon &#150; lo and behold &#150; he gets jumped by his own fans.Do they care that End Of Days is clearly his most original and homogenic work since the first Terminator? No, they squirmed in their seats because they wanted big brawn, lots of guns and a bunch of stupid one-liners (hasta la vista style) from the get-go.As if they were asking Arnold always delivered in the past, so what gives? The funny thing is &#150; End Of Days does deliver.It delivers, and in a much more subtle and relaxed way than any of his past movies ever did, including James Cameron favorites Terminator 2 and the overly loud, sexist and ludicrous Bond rip-off, True Lies from 1994.The difference being that End of Days actually has an issue worth more than an abrupt macho statement and that it sets its own pace early on. It effectively blends horror and gore with straight-faced and classic Ah-nuld mega action, spiced with both humor and even adventure. While the entire recipe is old and sometimes annoying (Kevin Pollak's constant comic comments can be a strain) it never comes across tired or contrived.Confusing as it may be (and occasionally funny do not start to decipher either time zone logic or how 666 is suddenly 999 and thereby 1999), End Of Days seems oddly fresh throughout.This is mainly because the movie steals left and right and with such haste that you are busy lapping it all in. There are connections to many movies (most notably Rosemary's Baby, Omen, Blade Runner, Seven, The Matrix), but director Peter Hyams moves forward in his own admirable and unique style and lends End Of Days a rare continuity.Especially considering the weight he is carrying and has to balance out here, and Ah-nuld &#150; mind  you &#150; he's a load if there ever was one.Has his acting improved? Not really, and his accent is still as bad as it ever was, but his engagement is loose and the focus on him is lessened, and this kind of low-key approach is very fitting.Our man is trimmed at 52, and he is still the star, sure, but backed by such an effective film-noir (some wonderful scenery of New York City) and some good sparring from Kevin Pollak, Rod Steiger and especially Byrne, he really doesn't halt the proceedings to the point where you start to get annoyed.Byrne as Satan is a steal. Once more we are reminded of past movies (Al Pacino in Devils Advocate), but his performance is both hypnotic and provocative. He also seems strangely at ease against Schwarzenegger, and the two share the movie's greatest moment. Together in Jericho Cane's (Arnie) apartment, the two engage on a verbal battle regarding faith. Great stuff indeed.A question I was armed with beforehand was does Ah-nuld just kick the devil's butt? Does violence overcome evil? And if so I would be ready to crucify (no pun intended) End Of Days right there.That would clearly be on the terms of the old Schwarzenegger movies then. No, again the movie is well rounded. There is a whole lot of shooting going on as the devil has taken over Byrne's human body and is therefore somewhat fragile, but always with the sense of something grand and invisible lurking behind the curtains.Subsequently the ending &#150; a nice touch that is dished out perfectly by Hyams &#150; is all about faith. It is about temptations and traps, about life and death, about holding ship when everything else collapses.While it may seem clichéd (a priest even goes `It is in our darkest hour that we must show our real faith.'), End Of Days addresses an issue of faith, not necessarily in terms of Christianity nor Satanism, but one that is universal thus making the movie both somewhat poignant and rewarding.Jericho Cane is rewarded too &#150; so to speak. By whom or what we (luckily) never learn. End Of Days doesn't stray from the initial path. Well done.So is End Of Days simply an apocalyptic thriller or a doomsday shootout? Well, both actually, yet it is also beautifully filmed and scored and while it has plot-holes the size of Wyoming, this Ah-nuld vehicle is frankly entertaining as hell. Pun intended. "},{"Title":"Peter Hyams + Andrew Marlowe = .666 (out of 10)","Date":"7 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I had been working all day out in the Inland Empire, a sort of purgatory where smog goes to fester after it's left its stain over the San Gabriels. On the way back to Los Angeles I got stuck in one of those soul-sucking Highway 60 traffic jams. So I pulled into a mall - a sure sign of desperation - and figured a multiplex had to offer two hours of something better than sitting in my car. I've rarely been more mistaken.Okay. I should have known. Peter Hyams is God's object lesson for Hollywood, a warning to be careful what you wish for would you really want a career consistently directing the worst movies their respective stars ever made? And of course Arnold's no slouch when it comes to picking bad scripts. But the trailer had Gabriel Byrne and Kevin Pollak, who were so recently so good in USUAL SUSPECTS; plus the always apocalyptic Rod Steiger; and when was Udo Kier bad? So I was in a way rewarded. Entertainment is a relative concept; it all depends what you're looking for. As a connoisseur of bad movies, I came to appreciate this abortion, so perfectly ridiculous it's even well-named.Andrew Marlowe is the kind of writer who pits a guy with a machine gun against Satan, and has Satan lose; END OF DAYS is the kind of movie that gives the devil, as his first fleshly act... what? What's evil enough for the Lord of Flies? That's right. He cops a feel and gives somebody a nasty look. This is a Lucifer impervious to a ten story defenestration but afraid of being shot (but who then gets shot and is more worried about his clothes), whose most despicable atrocity is a threesome to a bad Everlast rap, who urinates flammable blood but has to open his own doors, who with the entire villainous world at his disposal has chosen minions as incompetent as they are disobedient, who can't find his way around Manhattan without following signs, who seems less malevolent than pissy (so easily annoyed that he pushes skateboarders in front of buses), and who is easily outsmarted by a steroid casualty whose only convincing acting job was playing a robot. Mostly it's too bad for Gabriel Byrne, one of those fine actors cursed with never being in a good movie. His touch, for some reason, perhaps in expiation of some youthful blasphemy, is absolute poison to the quality of whatever project he's in. What else? You got a good guy named Cane and a bad guy named Abel - clever, huh? You got Schwarzenegger, eating a stale-pizza breakfast shake ripped off from a Brian Bosworth movie, as the 666th incarnation of a suicidal drunken ex-cop with a dead wife and kid. Right along with it you got the heavy saying to the hero, for the 999th time, some version of We're not so different, you and I. You got Rod Steiger riffing on his own I'm on medication press conferences, screaming and staggering through helpful advice like, Often in dreams numbers appear upside down and backwards. Darkest of all, you got Robin Tunney giving another performance so sulfurous that she seems less likely the mother of Antichrist than the beast itself.The best part came after I crawled from the theater, got back on the 60... and into the same traffic jam. Some kinds of Hell are visited upon the earth. "},{"Title":"Laughably bad","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This Godfather meets Devil's Advocate meets Terminator mess is one of the worst movies of recent memory. The sheer absurdity of the climactic battle, in which Jericho (Arnold) does terrific damage to Satan with bullets and far larger projectiles, left me breathless with laughter. Everything is clichéd, predictable, stupid. Nothing makes sense and while the action is quite fun it's preposterous in a movie about personal salvation.To abandon this critical framework, as a piece of insane cheese, this is one of the greatest ever movies of the kind. Its prudish covering of body parts in sex scenes, indulgence in trashy visuals (tongue in a jar; eyelids stitched shut; and the early warning glimpse of a fetus in the credit sequence), ridiculous sentimentality, and utter unwillingness to make sense place it in a category few turkeys ever break into.Worth it all the crucifixion of Arnold "},{"Title":"* OUT OF FIVE","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arnold Schwarzenegger stars as Jerico Cane a police officer who protects a woman named Christine York(Robin Tunney) who Satan (Gabriel Byrne) is trying to impregnate in order to bring upon the climax in this silly actioner with a cheesy horror undertone. Arnold Schwarzenegger is okay but mainly he seems bored with the whole thing as will be those who watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Brutal rape of Christian values and symbols!","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is an outrage if you are a strong believer!   It tries to entertain using something that constitutes the meaning of life to people like me. The film itself, apart from raping Christian values and symbols, is very poor in quality. I am aware that some people, who are not Christian, may not have the same ideas about this film, as I do. Some Christians may not even find it offending. But none the less the film is hardly entertaining. The One-man-army concept has never really appealed to me.  "},{"Title":"My First Movie Review/Revisions of Message Board Posts","Date":"22 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" How about renaming the first message board post about this movie, The Only Enjoyable Aspects of an Otherwise Steaming Pile of Human Fecal Matter instead of Reasons Why End of Days is the Greatest Movie of All Times. That would actually be true. The list posted is truly indeed, the only fine points about this crap of a waste of an hour and a half of my life of a movie. I was laughing out loud as I was reading through the reasons that person listed. Absolutely hilarious. Here's what I think. Arnie gave the Devil hell. He single handedly killed a Predator. He defeated evil clones of himself. A couple of times I might add. Once in the future and once in the future on a distant planet. Took out the whole of the Columbian drug cartel and guerilla terrorist cell, all the while as a forced to resign fireman. He survived the most heinous murderous reality T.V. show full of professional killers. Saved his one and only daughter from evil plotting terrorists. Not only once, but twice. As Hercules, he played the half-god son of Zeus. He was the baddest Barbarian in the all lands. Trained to be a killing machine that could take on evil sorcerers and sorceress in his sleep. Not to mention, he was the sole savior of little John Conner and the whole human race, once more, on multiple occasions. But he couldn't please all those voters. Damn those Cali taxes and pot holes... What were they thinking? Who cares. End of Days is crap. I actually think it made me stupider for having sat through it. Whether it be stupider from the actual movie itself physically draining my intelligence. Or perhaps stupider just in the fact that I did not avert my eyes to such immense amounts of runny, chunky celluloid diarrhea. Avoid this movie at all costs. It will make you have an embolism. Blood vessels in your brain will burst. You will bleed from your eyes. Those dollar bills would be better spent being used as toilet paper than being used to pay to watch this movie in any way. Even if you only spend .50 on a DVDR to rip this movie, there is a body of water somewhere you could make a wish on that would be money better spent. Just to explain a little more... I went to see this movie when it was released because it had such a remarkable soundtrack. Talk about blind bad luck. There were a few scenes that remain mentionable. Namely, the mother/daughter-Devil love fest. That was hot. LOL But that's all this movie was worth. A few good laughs at how horrible it is, is more like it. I was so enraged that I had paid good money to watch such horrendous, well everything, that I decided that the theater was going to let me watch a good movie for free. So, while I was exiting the local movie megaplex I managed to dart into a nearby theater to watch Sleepy Hollow. Thank the powers that be for redeeming my faith and reminding me that not all Hollywood movies are complete trash. Some directors actually take pride in their work. Really. Thank you Tim Burton. However, I still feel that I am permanently scarred and somewhat retarded for having watched the entirety of what is End of Days. I have not, nor will I ever, subject what little is left of my brain to the direct trauma and torture, of said movie again. It was a decision that I greatly regret, that I had chosen Arnie over Tim Burton originally when I went to the theater to watch a movie. Never again will I make that mistake. It was an asinine decision, from the get I admit. But it was Gabriel Byrnes as the Devil. I mean..., come on! I thought that in no way could they mess that up... Again blind bad luck I guess. My First Movie Review/Revisions of Message Board PostsThe Management. "},{"Title":"Likeable","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I liked this movie. Arnold always seems like he's overacting, but I think it's the accent. Anyway, he plays the burnt out cop alright. There wasn't much to like about his character except you saw the reason for his fall from grace so to speak. The usual God let some robber kill me family, so I'm gonna hate Him kinda spiel. Robin was fine as the scary Satan dreaming damsel in distress role. Not much to do with in a film like this. Gabriel Byrne is the best. I love this guy. He was so good in this role, that his lines are memorable. A really underrated actor. I guess the point of the movie was for Jericho to redeem himself by saving Christine. In a sense taking back what he lost or fighting what took it away from him. I dunno, but it was likeable just for Gabriel. He had some funny lines. The whole plot was absolutely un-biblical, but worthy of a watch. The whole thing with the warring factions of priests was something new. One side wants to kill her and the other side wants to protect her from the side that wants to kill her. It was kind of like a symbolic signature of the different denominations in Christianity warring amongst each other in terms of doctrine. How people believe in the same thing can have different perspectives on it. That's what I saw anyway. I liked the fact that I saw this movie on December 31, 1999 at 1130 p.m. It went right over into January 1, 2000. This was during the time of the famous Y2K scare and this was the perfect movie to watch for a time like that. I never believeed in Y2K, hence why I went to see this film. God's not coming back when we expect Him to and computers can add. This country just thrive son fear I tell ya. Watch the film though, it's worthy. "},{"Title":"A demonstration.","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  End of days=square root of the omen + logarithm of Rosemary's baby+(1(sin Jacob's ladder) + 666(seven -silence of the lambs)+e^(i(strange days)). Besides,Arnold Whatsisname's talent is undefined for all positive integer values. The limit of the function exists and is 0 when the movie tends towards infinity. QED. "},{"Title":"Remember How 2000 Mirrored 1972 on Your Computer?","Date":"28 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Eleven years ago Peter Hyams' End of Days played off the end-of-the-millennium/world gibberish that had us all in a tizzy. Well, folks, the world--and your PC--didn't go kerflooey, so we can look back at this exercise in idiocy as a reason to stay away from any movie with that nasty ol' Satan doing the creeper act on poor little Robin Tunney, waiting for just the right moment to do to her what I felt Hyams was doing to me.End of Days is technically an Arnold Schwarzenegger movie (Did anyone notice that Robin Tunney's character in The Mentalist is an employee of the governor of California?; too weird!) but it's a disaster in so many more ways. Tunney, a lovely young woman who has grown into a more mature and nuanced performer is nothing more than a prop, a blow up doll for Gabriel Byrne's Satan to pursue. Kevin Pollak is completely wasted. I don't even want to waste any more computer ink on Arnie--his acting is reduced to firing exotic weapons and doing that weird Austrian-accented pain howl he does.The plot is utterly predictable and so filled with holes that I began to feel almost immediately insulted. What I found depressing was that Peter Hyams has done some really fine work. Apparently he felt compelled to allow End of Days to degenerate into a junk pile of explosions, gunfire, creepy dream sex, and CGI slaughter. There could have been a riveting little story of Satan hunting for a mate somewhere in this garbage, but I don't think it ever crossed the minds of anyone involved to tone it down and scare it up! Instead I got nauseated.Probably the only thing that I felt some sort of sick satisfaction over was, after the basic premise of the movie was established, just sitting back to see when Tunney would appear naked. I actually said to myself, Self, they're going to show her nekked--this is that cynical a piece of trash. Sure enough, we get a boob flash just before a gout of blood in a shower, an attempted assassination, an extended chase and shootout. Yada, yada, yada.Satan is sooo predictable. "},{"Title":"End of Days","Date":"27 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" From Razzie nominated director Peter Hyams (Timecop, Sudden Death) this is an interesting apocalyptic supernatural action thriller. The film begins with the birth of a baby in 1979, who may have a terrifying future to face, and then it fast forwards 20 years to New York, preparing for the Millennium, 1999. Jericho Cane (Razzie nominated Arnold Schwarzenegger) is the suicidal, drunken and atheist cop in deep depression because of the memory of the murder of his wife and daughter. Everyone doesn't know it, but from the pits of Hell, Satan has come to Earth, taken over a man's body (Razzie nominated Gabriel Byrne, I thought he was good), and he has come to take his bride with him, and then he will be able to spread a deadly plague across the world. Jericho eventually finds the girl victim to this terror, Christine York (Robin Tunney), get it, Christ In New York, and now she and him are on the run from the devil that only they can see intentionally. Also starring Kevin Pollak as Bobby Chicago, Face/Off's C.C.H. Pounder as Detective Margie Francis, Rod Steiger as Father Kovak, Derrick O'Connor as Thomas Aquinas and Miriam Margolyes as Mabel. It is ironic that they got an actor with the name Gabriel (like Archangel Gabriel) to the dark lord, for me he, the devilish moments and one or two quite good special effects are the only good reasons to see this film, it should have been scarier. Worth watching! "}{"Title":" Satan Wants a Bride!","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"               If you like films that deal with the Devil and all his powers of Evil and his ability to perform horrible acts of murder and death, this film will keep you on the edge of your seat.  The photography showing a helicopter flying over New York City at night is fantastic and a subway train going out of complete control was very well produced and directed.   Arnold Schwarzenegger,(Jericho Cane) did everything he could to stop Satan from accomplishing his goals.  Gabriel Byrne(The Man/Satan),Shade,'03, was a very convincing Devil and even gave the audience a few laughs.  Rod Steiger (Father Kovak),No Way to Treat A Lady,'68 played an excellent role as a priest and tried to tell Jericho Cane to have Faith in order to beat the devil in his evil ways.  Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Great supporting cast.  Very predictable.","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A predictable story told reasonably well.In view of the cast (Byrne and Pollack) and the visual ambiance, I did become distracted, however, wondering how many blatant references to The Usual Suspects there were going to be by the time it was over. The greatest trick the devil ever pulled . . .  must have been fascinating us with the sight of a flame chasing along a trail of any combustible fluid toward a massive explosion.Byrne and Pollack were enjoyable, as usual. The Governor was, as always, the Governor. Rod Steiger was wasted on another shallowly written part. The screen play treated us to nothing unanticipated, other than the homages noted above.Not a great film, but an adequate one time distraction. "}]