[{"Title":"I was entertained.","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"61 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Tomb Raider is a harmless diversion that should please its core audience. I loved the performance of Angelina Jolie, who brings the computer game heroine Lara Croft to life. I watched an interview with Jolie in which she said that she really became Lara Croft.With her mock British accent, Jolie is a lot of fun as the adventurer-archaeologist who is equal parts Bruce Wayne and Indiana Jones, but with a much better body.Taking its cue from the video game, the film's screenplay is more of a puzzle than a plot. The script is a patchwork of ideas that plays like a Greatest Hits collection of other films. It deals with end of the world stuff, but it never feels apocalyptic. It's controlled chaos, utterly lacking in surprise. The script jumps from one expected moment to the next, never apologizing for its lack of originality.At least Jolie understands the limitations of the script. There's enough conviction in her performance to make you want to believe in Lara Croft, the spunky heiress is who is equally at home in her spacious mansion or within the catacombs of a lost tomb. She's guided by the spirit (both literally and figuratively) of her late adventurer father, Lord Croft (Jon Voight), and assisted by an archaeologist Alex West (Daniel Craig) and cyber-geek creator Bryce (Noah Taylor).The film opens like Raiders of the Lost Ark, with Lara Croft deep inside one of those musty, dusty tombs. Instead of outrunning a giant boulder, Croft squares off against a mechanical monster, a robotic menace that seems to come out of nowhere. It doesn't. We learn that it's a creation of Bryce, used to keep Croft on her toes.Angelina Jolie made the perfect Lara Croft; her facial expressions and sly smirks added a personality to the flick that I can only imagine the video game is missing. She seemed smart, brave, and composed as well as full of emotion. Okay, maybe the parts with her father (real-life papa Jon Voight) were a little over the top, but since the whole movie is just eye-candy anyway they seemed to fit.The fight scenes among ruins got me. How can you not love Lara Croft jumping onto a swinging obelisk to smash a glass eye that holds the key to time, or sledding thru an ice cave being pulled by dogs? Or the scene where the villains jump through her castle windows as she rappels around the walls, smashing chandeliers and pistol-whipping bad guys? What's a girl to do but hop on her motorbike, take a guy out sideways, and race off at 100 miles an hour? Excellent.  "},{"Title":"The Female Indiana Jones","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"54 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Angeline Jolie, gives us the female version of Indiana Jones in this wild cartoon-like adventure story, which is fun to watch. Being a mentally lightweight action film with no credibility (no villain ever harms Jolie in this film despite firepower that would take out some Third World countries) but our heroine is there to save the day, of course! Jolie mainly is there to show off her chest in tight tee-shirts and perform near-impossible stunts. To her credit, she went to extreme lengths to get herself physically-fit for the role.Audio-wise, this is a one of the better DVDs you will ever hear, with excellent use of the surround speakers. Nice scenery, a sharp picture and low profanity also are pluses. Yes, the action is a little much and too loud in spots but otherwise Tomb Raider is a fun adventure that is recommended to all.p.s. Skip the sequel; it's a weak one. "},{"Title":"At least it had (a) Angelina Jolie, and (b) Arnold Rimmer","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"46 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The use of space in the bunjee-jumping-inside fight scene is masterful - all three dimensions are used in a clever way.  But I only worked this out afterwards.  It was the choreographer's work that was masterful; the idiots who filmed and edited it did their darndest to make it choppy, incoherent, and unexciting.  As if that weren't enough, someone - it may have been the composer, it may have been the director - thought that the action scenes would be best accompanied by a tuneless, relentless, jackhammer techno beat.Tomb Raider is Raiders of the Lost Ark emulated by people who haven't seen it.  If they HAD seen it, they'd know that Spielberg edited his action sequences so as to let the audience know what was going on, to give us an idea of where the hero stood and what obstacles he faced; also that John Williams wrote actual MUSIC, complete with themes and chords and rhythms and consecutive bars that often as not differed from one another.I'm not familiar with the computer game - if I were, I would be doubly grateful to see Angelina Jolie in the leading role.  It must get tiring looking at large computer-generated breasts that just SIT there, like cast-iron balloons.  Oddly, the audience I was with tittered because Jolie's breasts bounced as she walked downstairs.  I don't get the joke.  That's what breasts, by and large, DO - those of Hollywood actresses being an unfortunate exception to the general rule.  -Anyway, all this aside, Jolie was, as always, terrific, when the film allowed her to be.  This wasn't often.  Usually I can at least decipher the storyline of a film afterwards, but this one has me baffled.  It SEEMS that the film's heroine, in order to Save the World, merely had to sit still and do nothing - and KNOWING this, she Endangered the World, so that she could later save it in a more rope-swinging, kick-boxing, ammo-expending fashion.  But surely nobody would spend millions of dollars on a film with this central weakness ... would they? "},{"Title":"Just for fun","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"20 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  A fun movie, indeed in the line of the Indiana Jones' features. Nice effects, a strange and interesting plot which does make sense most of the time, some good acting by the team around Croft. The right thing if you want relax and take off to the world of fantasy for a short time.  "},{"Title":"Stellar performance by Jolie! Pure escapism at its best.","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't play video games, had never heard of Tomb Raider.  I stumbled across this film on cable and absolutely loved it!The person writing this usually tends to like movie classics and classical actresses.  Rarely do I enjoy action films.  This one is an exception.Angelina Jolie is spectacularly fit, and in top acting form for this physically demanding role.  I admit that I like the multi-talented Jolie. I found her to be a very believable Lady Lara Croft. Her acting, stunts (which she did most of herself), and her wonderful diction with a British accent, were a true delight.  I watched this movie on cable at least ten times before I did something very, very rare for me  I purchased the DVD. Barring this film, the ONLY pre-recorded movies I own are classics.The plot may be a bit on the thin side.  It is, afterall, designed *after* a video game. Another thing I enjoyed about the film was the fact that while there was a great deal of violence, there was no unnecessary gore or vulgar language - read buggar vs. what it could be.I have to highly recommend this film for anyone who enjoys pure escapism at it's best!  My 75 year old mother liked the movie, and she has very good taste when film is involved. "},{"Title":"A hot Angelina Jolie brings Lara Croft to life","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The best part in this movie was without a doubt sexy Angelina Jolie in the title role as Lara Croft.She was very HOT! I`m no fan of the game,but with no comparisons;the movie was good. Entertaining enough;no brains,no story,no heart,but full of special effects action.Jolie is good,so are her real life father Jon Voight but rest of cast is forgettable.This is very much like Indiana Jones,but much lesser memorable.A better script would have helped,but that`s not the point;this is supposed to be fun.Better than The Mummy,but just another Indiana Jones clone.Anyway;it`s OK.Rating 6/10 "},{"Title":"If you don't expect more than pointless action, you will get your money's worth. *** (out of four)","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"44 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  LORA CROFT TOMB RAIDER / (2001) *** (out of four)By Blake French	At last, here is a successful screen adaptation from a video game. Lora Croft Tomb Raider takes the plot seriously, and has a lot of fun with it. Unlike the silly Wing Commander and incompetent Mortal Combat, this movie soars with its physical potential. The movie experienced many production complications, therefore I excepted it to symbolize the three tedious years of filmmaking, the director who bailed out, the sexual harassment charges filed, and the 11 screenwriters who couldn't satisfy Paramount Pictures, the bill, and Eidos Interactive, the company that owns the video game. Lora Croft Tomb Raider manages to pull past its problematic filmmaking process and provide audiences with what is expected from this action packed extravaganza. 	Academy Award winner Angelina Jolie portrays Lora Croft, who is a cross between Indiana Jones and James Bond. The role of Croft was not an easy accomplishment, even for Jolie. She endured great physical hardships during the shooting, including injuries to her knee, foot, and shoulder. It's a good thing that Jolie did the film, however, she's probably the only actress with the capabilities and physical appearance to handle such a role. Elizabeth Hurley, Sandra Bullock, Denise Richards, Ashley Judd, and Jennifer Love Hewitt were also among the actresses considered for the role. Any of those fine performers would have brought their own charm and delight to the role, but Croft feels perfect for Jolie. 	The disposable premise is not just a clothesline for various action sequences. It stands alone as a needlessly complicated plot contraption concocted out of desperation and deadlines. I am glad the actors took it so seriously; this material begs for parody. Lora Croft discovers a key-based clock unidentifiable even by an antique dealer. Meanwhile, a ruthless member of a powerful society named Manfred Powell (Iain Glen) is waiting for a planetary alignment that occurs once every 5,000 years. This event will give the holder of two separated pieces of a magical stone the power over time itself. Croft and Powell learn that the key will unlock the whereabouts of those missing halves.	The rest of the plot follows the villains and heroes on their journey around the planet, searching for the various artifacts and precious instruments. The film will not disappoint action fans. Suspend disbelief and follow the film's absurd concepts, then the fast-paced action sequences, eye-popping special effects, and convincing sets will satisfy. The outcome of almost every single scene is as obvious as it is predictable, but that doesn't mean we enjoy the scenes any less. There are some exciting action sequences in Lora Croft Tomb Raider, although it's easy to become lost in the action; the frequent cuts and camera tricks often interrupt the flow of the action.	Lora Croft Tomb Raider is a fun summer thrill ride. It's not a smart, savvy film, but compared to movies like The Mummy Returns it's a wake up call in the midst of a starving summer movie season. If you don't expect more than pointless action, you will get your money's worth.   "},{"Title":"Action packed,fantasy,entertaining.","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"29 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Synopsis Lady Lara Croft (Angelina Jolie) travels to exotic and dangerous locales in search of tombs and relics of lost civilizations. As the first interplanetary alignment in 5000 years approaches, Lara Croft faces her greatest challenge. Her mission is to recover two halves of an ancient metallic triangle hidden in underground chambers in Cambodia and Siberia. With the guidance of letters written by her late father, Lord Croft (Jon Voight), Lara sets out to recover the artifact which grants its holder the power to rule time. Along the way she faces dangerous opposition from of Manfred Powell (Iain Glen), an agent in the employ of The Illuminata, a sinister secret society determined top possess the artifact at any cost. And not even Bryce (Noah Taylor), Lara's erstwhile electronics assistant can help when the ancient forces are unleashed.My Review Based on the popular interactive video game, but not only for the fans, Lara Croft Tomb Raider is a wonderfully visual, fantastic action-packed entertainment, full of amazing effects and a stunning, sensual super-heroine that really packs a punch. A fast-paced adventure in the vein of Indiana Jones and The Mummy, Lara is The Terminator's Sarah Connor of the 21st Century. She is everything you could wish her to be &#150; cool, but oh so hot and totally in control, ready to save the universe. Her soft whimsical sighs reinforce her femininity and vulnerability. She is her own woman sexy, confident, a dare devil and a tomboy but still a lady, in essence as well as name. And Angelina Jolie embodies the cartoon-like character with curvaceous abandon and extraordinary grace, athleticism, style and charisma. She is fabulous to watch &#150; sexy, sassy and without question, all woman. The story speeds along faster than a speeding bullet, with slick editing, classy production design and superb cinematography from Australian Peter Menzies Jnr that showcases striking locations in Cambodia and Iceland. One of my favourite sequences shows Lara on a husky-drawn sleigh on a spectacular Icelandic skyline when the sun, the moon and the world seem to merge. Graeme Revell's score is wonderfully diverse and the script is well paced, never running out of ideas. There's a predictable butler (whose silver tray reveals some surprises), a nerdy in-house technology expert (Noah Taylor is fabulous) and a power-hungry villain who wants to control time. But of course, it's that special casting of Jolie's real-life father Jon Voight that adds an extra dimension. The violence is comic-book and the worst profanity uttered is 'bugger'. In every sense, there's more to Lara Croft Tomb Raider than meets the eye; it's action plus and a spine-tingling, dashing escapist fantasy set to thrill. "},{"Title":"Great Action.  Great Movie.","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The hype, the merchandising, the tagline, and even the box this movie came in, promised Angelina Jolie to be the Ultimate Superhero.Was Laura Croft (as portrayed here) the ultimate superhero? I'd have to say, Yes!The sets were all exquisite in design and architecture. The props were top of the line, state of the art Hollywood eye candy. The wardrobe, specifically that of Ms. Jolie, was quite well done, and while the character development did come late in the movie, I honestly found myself emotionally invested in her character.Frankly, I geuninely hope they make another Croft movie. I was so amused and entertained by the first one, I can't wait to see where she goes next.The elaborate sets and props were nearly awe-inspiring, delicately and cohesively tying the story together with the setting, and working to Jolie's advantage through demonstration of her talents and obvious hard work in preparation for this movie.If they DO make another, and I understand they already have at the time of this writing, I do hope they at least paid a good screen writer and kept the props manager from the last movie. As I have said so many times before, the little details add so much to a production; not just with this one, but any production, and they can often bridge the gap between avid fan and casual movie-goer enjoyment.All that having been said, the action is quite stimulating, and extremely well choreographed and executed by Jolie, thanks no doubt to her personal trainer Eddie Chow. The soundtrack was very now, with great songs as the background by Nine Inch Nails, Chemical Brothers, Groove Armada, Oxide & Neutrino, Delerium, Basement Jaxx, and more.Great music with the action and extremely creative set designs lend for a very enjoyable movie.It rates a 7.4/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Emotion and adventures with frenetic action","Date":"18 May 2005","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The film talks upon Lara Croft (Angelina Jolie), an explosive and sexy British archaeologist and it results to be an adaptation from a successful and famous video game . Lara musts discover and destroy halves-objects of an old relic which can control time and a nasty (Iain Glen) also wants to obtain it with the aim to ruling the time . Lara Croft is helped by an adventurer (Daniel Craig , future James Bond) and by two sympathetic underlings (Noah Taylor and Christopher Barrie). Her dead father (John Voight, like on the real life) will give up clues to find it . She'll have to take on several risks , dangers and adventures until reach her aim.The picture mingles suspense , tension , skydiving , action-packed , pursuits and a little bit of violence when the quarrel happen but it's a very amusing movie . It's a real and typical action film  Running men while are shooting , continuous struggles in bounds and leaps and interminable runs . It's a run-of-the-mill action picture , as from the beginning to the end , the unstopped action and the fast movement is varied . Besides , there are breathtaking outdoors from different countries around the world where the protagonists are traveling to resolve the issues . The final duel amongst the starring and contenders for the possession of the ancient relics is impressive and groundbreaking . The film is similar to the posterior ¨ the cradle of the life¨ , it has a likeness chum (Daniel Craig-Gerard Butler), equal performers (Noah Taylor and Chris Barrie ) with gorgeous as well as spectacular scenarios . However , the first part achieved a lot of box office and second part (directed by Jan De Bont) attained limited success because the storyline was basically a rehash of the original film . Peter Menzies cinematography is awesome like is marvelously reflected on the extraordinary outdoors and Graeme Revell musical score is jolly and lively . The picture was rightly directed by Simon West. "}{"Title":"Sexy and stylish fun.","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Lara Croft Tomb Raider may be the silliest movie to ever grace multiplex screens, but it may well be one of the most enjoyable to. The action is thick fast and stylish, the stunts so unbelievable you'll love them and little pieces of Angelina Jolie thrown in for good measure. The story is a B movie classic, Tomb Raider Lara Croft finds a clock that contains a powerful map. The map shows the way to the pieces of an artifact that if placed together when a planetary allignment occurs grants the bearer the power of God. However the evil group the Illumenati want the map for themselves and thus steal it from Lara. Lara then goes after the group in order to stop them from using it for evil. The acting is the campest of the year with Iain Glenn as the stand out. Jolie is the perfect person to play Lara and looks great in some of the action sequences. The supporting cast which includes Daniel Craig are very much background players but they add plenty of color and fun to the story. The Director Simon West, who is also responsible for the excellent Con Air deserves applause for catching the essence of the Video game perfectly. So sit back and relax because when it comes to Lara Croft Tomb Raider only a churl won't love it. "},{"Title":"I liked it!","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I am not here to defend any plot snags this film might have.  I however thought it would be cool to come here and say that I liked this movie.  It was quite entertaining.  Maybe not always riveting but fun action cheese nonetheless.  Jolie brought a computer woman to life well and the movie is a good rental, maybe even an unpopular purchase. I gave it 7/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Angelina Jolie delivers!","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is one of the best action movies I've ever seen! Angelina Jolie does a wonderful, great performance in it, being almost the exact duplicate of Lara Croft in real life. And to think, she did almost all of her own stunts! The movie delivers one action packed seen after another, also twisting in drama, revenge and even comedy. The plot's just like a VG of Lara Croft She has to pick up the two pieces of the pyramid of power before her arch rival does, and uses it to take over the world. Highly recommended, especially since of the Bungee Balet scene which keeps you on the edge of you seat!!! Even better than Indianna Jones! "},{"Title":"Lara Comes To Life","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Many video game enthusiasts were looking forward to the movie adaptation of the Tomb Raider game series.  When Lara Croft Tomb Raider was finally released, not all of them were satisfied.  But the movie does have its good points.  Angelina Jolie takes the lead as Lara Croft, the famed archaeologist/adventurer, woman warrior and gamer's dream girl.  She plays the role as if she were meant to be Lara Croft.  The movie also boasts some very good visual effects and exciting action.  The plot does leave a bit to be desired, though.  The ancients may have had deep knowledge about the universe and the planets, but the concept with the planetary alignment was just barely plausible.  But, really, with movies like this, it's all about explosions and the star's body.  Lara Croft's game might not be for everybody, and the same goes for the movie. "},{"Title":"A hilarious adventure film that manages to adapt one of the most successful video game franchises .","Date":"22 December 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" In 1996 there emerged a series of video games that was very successful thanks to adventures featuring the style of  Indiana Jones and the charisma of its character, the young archaeologist Lara Croft  . Lara is an athletic adventurer , who lives in a large mansion inherited from his family and whose hobby is finding old gadgets worldwide . In this film adaptation moves more or less the essence of video games and the character.On the positive side it shows they have spared no expense . Lara moves around the world and spectacular outdoor scenery. We see Venice, London , Cambodia and Siberia, as well as a recreation of an Egyptian temple in the end is not what it seems . There are also a lot of fantasy and action. The fantastic aspect which can serve very well for the game , but in the film are cast them need more explanations in history because it is just an excuse to show.The most interesting part is in the Cambodian temple , which recreates part of the video game Tomb Raider 3 and special effects abound . Angelina Jolie seems to have born to portray Lara , because she is the perfect character , who does not lack her peculiar cockiness and acrobatics , as we may well see the scene of the mansion. Is a success they have enjoyed in her real life father, Jon Voight, father to do in fiction. Interestingly, in a secondary role, we can see  007 Daniel Craig  , another famous movie hero . The butler and the engineer put their soft little touches of humor.The soundtrack is really good, both orchestrated compositions as the music selection. Seem particularly good song  Elevation  by U2 (on credit) or part of Delerium . "},{"Title":"Oh buggar","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  As someone who has never played Tomb Raider, I really enjoyed the movie. One thing I have noticed, that Tomb Raider hasn't been well received by the female audience. I on the other hand actually thought that Angelina Joile was perfect for the part. Apart from Angelina appearance, her acting was first class and the plot was easy to follow. Oh yeah the CGI was pretty darn good. I noticed how some people have scorned Tomb Raider, as it is not an art house film, yet I personally think it is worthy of a 7 out of 10. I can't wait for the sequel.  "},{"Title":"THE MOST FUN I'VE HAD ALL SUMMER","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Wow! I loved tomb raider. if you have heard anything negative .. dont believe it! this is  GREAT summer flick. i havent had so much fun in the movies in a long time. go see it. ***1/2 out of ****! Angelina Jolie is sooo great! Sexy, strong, and in control. "},{"Title":"Lara Croft is Action, Beauty and Brains","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Lara Croft Tomb Raider is enjoyable camp. All the parts are clichéd such as her evil nemesis, Manfred Powell, her ever dependable butler Hillary, and Wilson, the old man she seeks wisdom from and then betrays her. The story is about a group called the Illuminata who are looking for the 2 halves of a triangle which when joined and after following a series of steps, gives the holder the power to control time and space like God, putting the stability of the entire universe at risk. The plot and action scenes reminded me of a video game and I didn't mind it one bit. Jolie poses in various monochromatic outfits and pouts her famous lips a lot but I think this will one day secure it as a cult classic. The film is if anything, gorgeous to watch, moves quickly, and has an excellent lead player. Finally a film that knows 100 minutes is enough time to play itself out. Jolie brings a depth to the role of Lara Croft that many other actresses would have fallen flat with. And the stunts were fantastic; I was surprised during the bonus footage to find out Jolie did all of her own stunts. She's not only fit, she's brave. The stunts look difficult because they are. I thought the scene where she is being chased out a tomb by water was computer animated, but it wasn't.Overall, the film is true to its inspiration. When it is over, you'll want more. "},{"Title":"Lighten up everyone!","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What is it with all the negative reviews on this site? Big deal if the story is nothing special. This movie isn't supposed to be some sort of dramatic masterpiece! Just watch it for what it is, a fun action/adventure movie with a really sexy lead character! ;-)8/10 "},{"Title":"Better the second time around","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  When I first watches this movie, I'm not sure why I didn't enjoy it.  It could be just that I was in the wrong mood.  However, I did find the movie lacking a convincing villain challenging enough to make you root for the heroine.  Indiana Jones had a good villain, Jackie Chan movies always pit him against the odds - that's what makes for good action.  In Tomb Raider, not only is it clear to everyone that Lara Croft is greater than the villains by a long shot, worse still - she joins forces with them!  This creates a confusing scenario where natural sympathies for the main character get thrown out the window.However when I watched it the second time, this time without any preconceived notions and fully expecting the lack of exciting odds, I really enjoyed it for what it is - a visually appealing film with some thrilling stunts and action scenes.  The fact that Angelina did her own stunts adds to the enjoyability of the key action scenes, all of which are artfully conceived and executed.I realize many people toast this movie, but watch the movie for what it offers - some unique and stylish action.  The heroine certainly does some nifty tricks that we've never seen on the big screen before, let alone from a female character. "}{"Title":"Worthy of its nominations for sound editing","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" With Angelina Jolie in the leading role as Lara Croft, and her real-life father (Jon Voight) playing her archaeologist/father in the motion picture, the dynamics are, of course, believable. She, having starred in roles as diverse as a psychopath in Girl Interrupted, and he, having portrayed a displaced rural dreamer in an urban metropolis in Midnight Cowboy, the duo perform up to expectations. As is so necessary in an action-adventure, the editing was tight and the sound editing (nominated for many international awards) was tighter. Rarely in a motion picture based on a video game do all of the elements come together to recreate the intensity of the gamers' involvement. "},{"Title":"Angelina Jolie Boob Raider","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is so much fun to watch! Angelina Jolie stars in it and she is kicking butt! The plot is kind of silly but the movie is filled with a lot of fun action sequences.3(***)out of 4(****)stars "},{"Title":"Best Movie Till Date","Date":"23 March 2016","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Lara CroftTomb Raider is my favorite movie.Performance Of Angelina Jolie is just splendid.Angelina Jolie is the sole reason i loved this movie.Personally i'm a huge fan of Angelina Jolie so i always look up to her movies. I think this movie is the best of all. Ever since i watched this movie, Angelina Jolie has been my favorite action star.I have collected all her action figures and i still admire them to the same extent i did when i was young. Her style, her voice, her acrobatic skills ,her gorgeous smile still amuses me. I've watched this movie over 7 times and still i long to watch them. So my action superstar has always been Angelina Jolie. But the sequel didn't live up to my expectations. In the sequel Angelina was portrayed somewhat differently that i didn't seem to interest me. So i rate this movie 10/10 .No doubt about that. "},{"Title":"awesome if you know what you're going into","Date":"20 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is a classic entertainment action flick. If you're expecting deep revelations to life, you won't get it. If you want great entertainment in what I'd say is what the majority of summer action flicks strive for - then Tomb Raider is just awesome.I'm genuinely surprised that the rating for this movie is so low. Tomb Raider is one of the movies that I'll occasionally throw on when I just feel like watching a good action flick circa Mission Impossible. It's entertaining, it's pretty smart, and it's a clever adaptation of a video game.I'm also a huge fan of the soundtrack to this movie. The compilation of songs is really great. "},{"Title":"British Female Indiana Jones?","Date":"5 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Ever since Raiders of the Lost Ark (1981) entered cinema history, there have been film after film of directors trying to replicate the same formula. Most of them have failed but there are a couple gems that stand out from the rest. As for this film, it comes off as an Indiana Jones movie but with the lead being female, with a British accent and is one of the most attractive actresses in Hollywood. Besides it being a financially successful PC game, this film was a financial success and even spawned a sequel in 2003. Starring as Lara Croft is Angelina Jolie. She really brings sexy back in this action film because of how she moves. The way she leaps, rolls, jumps are all very exhilarating to watch. Mostly these moves look so great because of her agility and flexibility as a woman. Also starring with her is British actor Daniel Craig. It's funny to see Jolie who's American, play a British character while Craig who's British, plays an American character. In my opinion, that's pretty impressive because if I were acting out that scene, I would get confused with who I was talking to and speak whatever accent felt more comfortable; but they do it like they were born in those countries. What makes this movie like Indiana Jones is not because of the title, Tomb Raider. No, it's the substance involved in this film. Right at the beginning of the film, Croft is already fighting off a menacing killer robot that's packing some serious arsenal. Same thing with Raiders of the Lost Ark (1981); no robots but still trying to avoid all kinds of dangerous devices such as impaling walls and rolling boulders. Lara Croft is just more modernized since Indiana Jones lived in the 1930s. Either way both are trying to find sacred artifacts that could change the fate of mankind. And to do this, they must hunt for these objects by entering ancient architecture. All this does is add spectacle and wonder to the film and it works really well no matter if it's 1981 or 2001.Making things even spicier in this film is what Croft wears. Whatever she wears in a certain scene is appropriate and sexy at the same time. It's almost like she's setting a standard for a next generation of archaeologists. As for the musical score, I didn't really care for it. I couldn't really feel anything from it and felt that maybe a different composer could have been hired for the job. That and the fact that although this movie was good, I just never felt any love for it. It was entertaining but it wasn't like much of the characters were memorable besides Lara Croft. That part disappointed me. As for the rest of the film, I really liked it and feel it's worth watching for good entertainment.Even though this movie doesn't have many characters to connect with, Lara Croft Tomb Raider is a fun action adventure film. Jolie plays Croft really well and it was wise of director Simon West to keep her as the main lead, otherwise, this movie might have flunked. "},{"Title":"Finally, a Game-to-Movie Translation that Succeeds","Date":"5 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Video games and movies are wildly different formats of entertainment. The original Tomb Raider games are among my favorite. I am also a big fan of the Metal Gear Solid and Castlevania series, plus the original Max Payne. Many video game-to-cinema conversions have been attempted before, and almost uniformly resulted in abject failure. I cringed when I read that Metal Gear, Max Payne, and Castlevania were the next targets for assassination. There is one example to follow for whoever leads those projects. Tomb Raider Director Simon West, the five other contributing writers, and lead producers Lawrence Gordon, Colin Wilson and Lloyd Levin were able to accept the idea that less is more, and in doing so created the only video game adaptation worth viewing. That is their example.The film opens with a long, zooming shot out of Lara Croft's (Angelina Jolie) eye and opens to what appears to be an Egyptian ruin. Just as the intrepid Croft zeroes in on her target artifact, she is wildly attacked by&#x85;a robot? The adrenaline starts right away as she battles a machine so sturdy it is a wonder the military does not deploy them en masse. The tomfoolery is not finished as the film shows off all of Lara's signature moves from the video games. It is soon revealed that the whole battle is no more than a training drill right outside her 83-room house.Then the movie flashes to a meeting of the Illuminati. The council demands an update on the search for a key that will allow them to find the triangle during the alignment of the nine planets. The whole key and triangle business is a bit confusing at first, but the film does its viewer the justice of explaining it all thoroughly and repetitively. No, does not make much sense, but it gels together nicely, which is really what is most important in films dealing with the preposterous supernatural. Whether it is Highlander or Lord of the Rings it can only work if all of its elements are believable in relation to each other.Although that important task is met, the film ultimately lives and dies by the actress playing Lara Croft. To the gaming world, she is more than a mere heroine; she is a legend. She is the first sexy video game character, and her athletic maneuvers were ground breaking at the time. It was the most critical casting decision since Batman, and perhaps even Superman.Physically, Angelina Jolie bears the closest resemblance to the character, right down to her height, hair, and sexiest-woman-alive figure. Just as importantly, she imbues the part with the right mixture of attitude, confidence, toughness and, yes, tenderness. Her acting goes far beyond the lines and the blocking. Her posture and body movement, from the way she sits to how she walks and smooths her hair, communicate a lot about what is happening in Lara's pretty head. When her caring butler (Christopher Barrie) says a lady should be modest, she drops the towel from her shoulders and replies, Yes, a *lady* should be modest. Lara Croft Tomb Raider is not high drama, but I genuinely felt for Lara during her key emotional scene towards the end. It was then that I knew how much Jolie persuaded me to buy into her character. That she can bring wholly convincing tears to a far-fetched story speaks well of her acting abilities. Her quality is equally high in the athletic segments, as when she relaxes while somersaulting a mid-air ballet in her huge main hall. Moments later, she becomes lethal fighting force in a well above standard action scene.All of this is good, but the film would falter had the creative team tried to overstep their bounds. The mistake of trying cram in too much plot or action would be fatal. Video games can have more plot and a greater number of locations because they take many hours to finish, 10-20 in the case of a Tomb Raider game. The film clocks in at a slick 100 minutes and has only two exotic sets. Its movement is quick and straightforward, and Director West does not try to break any records with the action. There is only one ancient curse battle, and the highly impressive creatures have bodies even more fragile than ours.From a supporting standpoint, Iain Glen shines the most. He plays the Illuminati who sits at God's right hand with wily charm. His accent and deliberate delivery add distinctiveness to the part. I love the way he says Ancient cosmological models with careful, accented enunciation that slightly slows down with every word. Richard Johnson is the Distinguished Gentleman with a grim scowl, and it is delightful to see the pre-James Bond Daniel Craig.At the end of the day, Lara Croft Tomb Raider succeeds because of Jolie's savvy and self-control by the creative powers. It never reaches the level of the Indiana Jones movies, nor does it try to. It excels within its limits, and the quality action and superlative set design secure the only victory to date in a risky game. "},{"Title":"Not bad at all","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Lara Croft Tomb Raider, can be considered yet another film based on a video game. However, like very few video games turned films, this one actually breaks the curse of being bad. And while the script is quite flat and predictable and the dialogue only average, what really makes this film stand out is great actress Angelina Jolie, who takes on the title role of Lara Croft and easily makes it her own. The fact that Angelina Jolie is every bit like her video game persona in real life only makes the transition to Lara that much easier. And it was nice to see her real life father Jon Voight portraying her screen character's father, Lord Richard Croft. A solid enough 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":" I feel that time was stolen from us and it's not fair","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Angelina Jolie is charming as Lara in this riveting adventure farce. The remaining cast is superb. The costumes are elegant. One of the good movies in the genre, Lara Croft Tomb Raider will engage the viewer on a scavenger hunt. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Fun!","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is not a movie for the critical. It is fun, fast moving, and the plot line exists only to tie the scenes together. It is an action movie with surplus cleveage, so don't expect an intellectual debate arising from the theme and character development. Rather, its enjoyable, and a person who is relaxed and non-judgemental will find it both entertaining and worth-while. I would add do not see it alone, or while depressed. The movie will give you what you went into it expecting. "},{"Title":"bit of fun","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  i love all the tomb raider games, even when i hear the music from the first one it throws me back I was 19 and life was simple..anyway to the film. I enjoyed it I can say, angelina is very hot and fits the part well didnt think she would when i first heard she got it but i wanted kelly brook ;-) Lara's butler and computer geek made the movie much better and i wish they were in it more. On the whole I feel the movie ended too quickly and needed another 20-25 minutes. It's aimed at kids without been too dumb and is a million times better than other game 2 movies like street fighter (vomit!) and mario bros. "}{"Title":"Jolie rules!","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Ok, Tomb Raider may not be the greatest action film I have seen but it still is a quite good movie. Although it has borrowed the elements from Indiana Jones -films and its story is very flimsy, Tomb Raider was a fast-moving and enjoyable picture which has a great and striking action scenes. The best thing in a whole movie was of course Angelina Jolie. She did a great work as Lara, not only portraying her as ahard-boiled fighter but also a sensitive woman. So, although movie is typical and imperfect, it is watchable especially for Jolie andaction sequences. "},{"Title":"Angelina Jolie rules, Tomb Raider rules","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is by far the greatest movie of the year, it is a complex, highly underrated masterpiece with Angelina Jolie, Jon Voight, Iain Glen and many others. Simon West's direction is top notch. I have nothing bad to say about this film. Jolie is awesome, what a great babe she is, look at her breast, her lips, her legs, perfection. Hope that she will be in the sequel, if there is one. Here is the story thanks to Sujit R. Varma.Based on the popular video game series, Tomb Raider features the adventures of Lara Croft an antiquities hunter-for-hire. She travels to exotic locales in search of treasures and artifacts in the catacombs of ancient tombs and ruins remaining from age-old empires. A female Indiana Jones, Croft's expeditions are always chock full of action, danger, intrigue, suspense and her omnipresent knack for defying death in tight outfits.Far better than any Indiana Jones, this fabulours gem of a movie is now available on DVD with full of extras like a commentary by director Simon West, 4 deleted scenes and much more. I love this film. "},{"Title":"Give me more powerful women","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Because it is based around a woman who is not a victim through out the movie, there is not too much you can compare it to.  Then again if you stretch you can easily find a million parts that are much like many other movies.  I think of The Mummy Returns, with a powerful woman.  Prancing about in tight clothing, saving the universe again and again.  Eye candy gone mad.  It almost has a Buckaroo Bonzi comic book syndication feel. What I feel X-men will eventually have if Singer does not stay on his toes. But while it is fresh, this is the type of movie I love to go to the theater for.  Big.  Bold.  A Massive world of it's own making ... apologizing to no one. "},{"Title":"are you kidding me?!?!?","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  what is this? i mean were a bunch of idiot out of work screen play writers sitting around and thinking..hey, let's make a movie about a video game nobody has played in two years, make some action scenes and stuff all of them in the trailer and then make up a bunch of ridiculous dialogue to fill in the other hour and thirty five minutes. then another idiot says, i dont' know, do you think people might get bored? and the first idiot replies,don't worry, we'll get some hot chick, give her fake boobs, and everyone will be captivated by that. and another idiot says, that sounds pretty awesome, and i think we know a little something about awesome. speaking of which, have you seen the new hulk hogan movie, it's fabulous... ok, that probably isn't what really happened, but this movie was that horrible. first of all, one of the things about this movie that was supposed to make it a success was the fact that the hero, the big action star, was a WOMAN!! oh my gosh, what an original idea! here i thought they would use an over-used, over-played cliche. for those of you who are unfamiliar with sarcasim, i will be blunt. honestly, are we supposed to be impressed by the fact that a woman is the hero of this story? especially when you consider that any time, and i mean ANY TIME you turn on the t.v., you get the point that women are equal to, no, better than men hammered into your brain. every commercial and t.v. show always involves a man doing something stupid, and a cool, smart women looks at him like he's the decay of western society, and fixes the man's blunder. i dont' have a problem with this to a certain extent, but it is a constant overload of this garbage. my prediction is that in ten years men will walk down the street and at every corner it will be manditory for a man to be looking at a sports magazine or a hot girl and walk into on-coming traffic. then a smart, beautiful, sophisticated, yet tough, strong, and independent woman will grab the primitive male and pull him away from a car that nearly hits him. the man will be forced to say, thank god for women, without whom the world would be a bunch of knuckle-dragging, primitive, slow-witted morons. failure to do so would result in lashings on the spot. you probably think im kidding, but i truly feel it will one day come to this. that is why, out of pure mercy, i will not bring a male child into this world. once again, you probably think im kidding. and don't get me wrong, i don't mind the idea of a female action star, that is perfectly fine with me. but in this particular instance, i found it a little hard to believe. no, im kidding, i found it to be an insult to my intelligence. i can deal with the fact that this woman can over power a machine that has the power to break through stone walls, or that she can take out a bunch of fully armed special operatives with her bare hands, of even that when this lady runs she is in constant danger of tripping over her ridicuously large...well, you know. but it got to be too much when this lady is able to slice and dice all of these stone statues while these huge army guys with machine guns are being picked off by the statues one by one. then after these army people have unloaded countless rounds of automatic fire into these statues, but not achieving a scratch, boob raider, i mean tomb raider is then able to decapitate a statue with a single round from her hand gun. the final straw for me didn't even come in the movie. it was some shrill feminist movie critic (and you know how qualified those people are) giving an editorial on some network like CNN. she sat there for five minutes of my life which i'll never get back, and told me how not only is angelina jolie part of a new breed of action heroes (i later discovered that this new breed was the group of people known as women) but that this new breed (women again) was better than the old breed (men). she sat there and informed me how arnold, sly stallone, van damme, and segal are all over the hill and haven't made any good movies in years. she said this whole speech of hers with a bitterness that made me think she thought she was defending the fact that a woman was the hero of this story. she also informed me that angelina makes a far better action star than arnold EVER did. i'm sorry, but if your telling me that lara croft, who's best line of defense is the front side duel airbags she has attached to her, is gonna be able to beat up the terminator, the eraser, or the guy who killed the predator, your insane. especially when this annoying lady decided to play a clip of croft standing in a pair of white pajamas springing around on bungee cords, followed up immediatley by a clip of arnold from Predator, holding a massive machine gun. so, add to this pile of garbage horrible acting, dialouge, sets, and action sequences, and you've got a recipe for a steaming pile of worthless rubbish. go see this movie if your an idiot. But don't take my word for it, after all im just a guy.2/10  "},{"Title":"Stupid","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The games rocked. All five of them were cool. Now it appears the makers of this film drained all of the excitement out of the games and gave us this dull, stupid and unimaginative film. Granted, the locations are nice and Angelina is pretty solid as Lara, but in the end it's really just nothing more than a cash-in. And a shoddy one at that.5 out of 10 just for Angelina Jolie. "},{"Title":"Roller Coaster Ride","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Minor Spoilers aheadTomb Raider is a great action adventure movie.  I went into this film never playing any of the Tomb Raider games, I am a new comer to the adventures of Laura Croft.  The film surprised me, it had a sci-fi twist, the triangle that is supposed to control time, and the planetary alignment.  I wasn't expecting a sci-fi element in a film such as this. Spoiler ahead, I loved the scene where Laura Croft visited her father in the past, through the Triangle. I am a sci-fi fan, and it was a delight to see this element in the film.The film is a Roller Coaster ride, The adventure never ceases, From the beginning when Croft fights that machine, the break in to her house to steal the key to finding the segments to the triangle, and an explosive ending.  I was kept at the edge of my seat throughout the whole film.Angelina Jolie portrayed Laura Croft to perfection.  She had great moves, and a great performance of Laura Croft.  She reminded me of a female Indiana Jones.  I think that Laura Croft has arrived as the next action hero.  I look forward to see many sequels to this film.Overall I give this film a B    "},{"Title":"All we can expect of you Angelina!!!","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Really I didn't have any real expectations when I saw Tomb Raider, at the premier day in Norway (27 june), but I was suprised in a absolute positive way. Angelina brings Lara to life in a exellent way. Oh good I understand way Jolie got the role, we knew that Lara is sexy in the computer game and so is Angelina in the film... Superb. It's action from start 'til the end, okey the story is a bit thin... She's gonna save the world in 48 hours, but this is adventure and this is entertainment in a big way... Thanks Angelina... "},{"Title":"Angelina is a dream!","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Okay, this film is truly nothing special! It´s the same old Indiana-Jones-meets-James-Bond-story, combined with the typical elements of Hollywood´s action flicks, as we have seen it a thousand times before... The only one reason to watch Tomb Raider is its fabulous main actress Angelina Jolie who´s refining this average movie with her performance her talent, her beauty, her charm and her charisma are so irresistible that she makes you forget the empty story easily and all supporting actors looking pale in comparison to her. The film itself is very entertaining, but also very undemanding! Watch it for a great Angelina/Lara, she´s the first real female action heroine that Hollywood has created! Mrs Croft kicks James Bond´s butt! A sequel would be desirable...7/10 "},{"Title":"Riveting","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is such a riveting film. You can get glued to the screen for hours on end watching this film. The action is SO amazing and slick, you could fall. And, Lara Croft in the film is so great! My recommendation WATCH THIS FILM TODAY IF YOU HAVEN'T! "},{"Title":"Fun. That's why you went isn't it?","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Tomb RaiderThey are going to be selling waist attached bungee cords for Xmas, right? This one is fun. Anyone who gets a line of dialogue milks it for all it is worth. Angkor Wat and the polar regions look like unique travel destinations. Angelina spins and flips for you.   "}{"Title":"Better than the game - by far!","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The film Tomb Raider was a superb addition to the movie and entertainment industry. Excellent action scenes within this movie. Also great features on DVD.Anybody who hasn't seen the film, BUY IT! "},{"Title":"Angelina Jolie is wonderful!","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What a great actress she is! I love world culture so this movie lived up to that, unfortunately the dialog/plot was sticky and predictable- Angie is capable of so much more. She carried this movie on her back and pulled the stunts off with gusto and grace(I want a bungee exercise room!). She is a great heroine. I am inspired to raid tombs myself now, or perhaps help refugees as Angelina does in real life. I hope for a sequel. This movie made me a Jolie fan and I'll see her future films and rent her past ones. Overall, a beautiful film to look at, but doesnt allow the watcher to get completely immersed into Lara's world. I give it a 7... "},{"Title":"Jolie Stars In Special Effects Adventure","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Director Simon West hits upon an action formula utilizing the female as heroine. Lara Croft stars Angelia Jolie, in a tailor-made role, as Lara Croft. Jolie is chic, sleek, and unique as the aristocrat turned adventurer. You must be an aristocrat to be an adventurer by definition; otherwise, how would you finance all those exotic escapades and cool clothes? Jolie performs all of her own stunts in this special effects-laden adventure that is long on action and exotic locales and short on character development and substance. It contains most elements of a fun, action movie it's fast paced. full of action, special effects, and form-fitting outfits. The plot concerns the recovery of some time altering artifact from an ancient tomb of sorts. Like most Bond films, the plot doesn't matter much, as our eyes are fixed on Jolie and everything she says and does. Remember, the character is based upon a video game, so she'll be able to do all sorts of things that real heroes wouldn't be able to do. Jon Voight adds a cameo appearance as Jolie's father, as he is in real life. *** of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Fine action movie","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a good action movie.  Certainly the dialogue is as good, or better, than most James Bond or Arnold Schwarzeneger movies.  There are a couple of slow spots, but all in all, this was very entertaining.  I'm NOT a Tomb Raider game player, so naming is rather irrelevant to me.  Perhaps they ran into the problem that the name really exists, and to make it less liable for a lawsuit, they changed it.  It happens, you know. "},{"Title":"Fun if not faulted","Date":"27 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Lara CroftTomb Raider should be judged by the audience it was made for (computer playing geeks) and I use the term geek affectionately, since I'm not a gamer, but a movie fan, I'm sure some, if not most of this Will be lost on me.Angelina Jolie with her perfect pouting lips and padded bra is perfect as Lara Croft. Though saying she is perfect as a lifeless computer game character, may not be the ultimate compliment. I'd previously only seen her in The Bone Collector with Denzel Washington and her Oscar winning turn in Girl Interrupted. She is fine here and she looks the part even with her ridiculously padded boobs. A pre James Bond Daniel Craig makes an appearance here, and gives more than a hint at his potential as a future Bond. Jon Voight has less to do here than one might hope, Iain Glen ( splendid as Ser Jorah Mormont in Game Of Thrones) is surprisingly poor here. As is Chris Barrie who I loved in Red Dwarf, yet cringed every time he was on screen here.I didn't always understand what was going on and It's silly in parts, but I enjoyed a lot of it. Is it on the same level as the Indiana Jones movies?? Hell no. But it's fun none the less. "},{"Title":"Fun film which I never really got the hate for","Date":"28 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Don't misquote me. This is hardly a touchstone moment for film making, but this is easily the best film based on a video game. Bringing in some fun set pieces, interesting, though flawed, puzzles and a plot with just the right amount, if not slightly too much, stupid, Simon West produced a winner, if only a modest one, here.There are plenty of negatives to discuss here. The plot is pretty unengaging. It's basically just there to give Angelina Jolie's Lara Croft an excuse to well, raid tombs. But the puzzle does keep us interested enough for the film not to drag. The film seems to borrow from Raiders of the Lost Ark in some scenes, Die Hard in others and the Goonies in others and is a bit of a mish mash of different styles, but like I said, never gets boring or too jarring.Along for the ride are Noah Taylor (Shine) and Chris Barrie (Red Dwarf), as Croft's assistants and Jon Voight (Oscar winner for Coming Home) as her deceased father. The bad guys are fairly bland, despite being played by quality actors in Iain Glen and Daniel Craig.In the end Lara Croft Tomb Raider basically does what it say on the label, and Jolie was simply born to play Croft. Decent movie, better than it's rating here would indicate. Though if you are looking for a similar movie which is better, try National Treasure. Still, not a bad effort and worth a watch if you like adventure flicks. "},{"Title":"To See A World In A Grain Of Sand, And A Heaven In A Wild Flower ...","Date":"6 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Lady Lara Croft is an archaeologist adventurer whose father disappeared mysteriously years ago. As a rare planetary alignment approaches she finds a strange clock hidden in her mansion, and begins a dangerous quest for a legendary artifact, the Triangle of Light, which may have the ability to control time itself ...This fantastic action film, with a wonderful heroic-sexy-funny performance from Jolie, is in my view the best movie adaptation of a video game (with Final Fantasy The Spirits Within a close second). It does this by taking all the best visual elements from the Eidos series of videogames (jungles, gun-battles, ancient curses, Lara's iconic outfit) and then concentrating totally on being a movie; letting the actors perform, having fun with the story and not slavishly adhering to the style of the games. It's a comic book film but its heart is in the right place, full of action and humour, with very little violence or profanity. Jolie is simply sensational in the lead, her eyebrows permanently raised in an infectious smirk of pleasure as she dances around the rest of the male cast, with notable turns by a young Craig (And now for a cold shower !) and the always reliable Voight (Jolie's real-life father). She is amazingly physical in the role, one of those rare films where a leading actress really looks like she's doing lots of dangerous stunts, typified by the wild bungee ballet dance/fight sequence, but the whole movie is full of great scenes. The Cambodian temple mid-section, complete with stone monkey brawl, is one of the most exciting and visually arresting blockbuster scenes in modern cinema. West skilfully mixes huge sturm und drang moments like these with funny vignettes (the moment where Lara overcooks a TV dinner), which is key in to keeping a big action film grounded and involving. There is one serious liability for me though, which is the music - there's a good score by Graeme Revell, but far too many song cues by techno-pop acts like Moby, Missy Elliott and Basement Jaxx, which date it badly (although there is a nice theme song, Elevation, by U2). Great action movies should have classic, timeless scores (see The Great Escape or Raiders Of The Lost Ark) whilst the music here is too often a distraction. It doesn't detract however from what is fundamentally a great family friendly romp of a flick, with a truly wonderful female icon saving the world. A great Hollywood-funded, British-made action extravaganza, shot on location in Cambodia and Iceland, and at Pinewood Studios. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable fun","Date":"23 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" It's hard to imagine what this movie would have been if Angelina Jolie hadn't agree to take the leading role. Because in a very real sense she is the perfect Lara Croft. She has the looks, the charisma, the attitude and the believability to play a hardcore female action hero. At that time she was probably the only one that could have made this movie work, so it's lucky that they got her. The end result is a fun little action film, full of great action scenes, beautiful locations and a plot that falls just on the side of cool instead of silly.Jolie is easily the best part of this film. And why shouldn't she be, it's a movie about her character so it stands to reason that she should be the main focus, and luckily this is one of the few female action hero films that don't try to water the main lead down by adding needless secondary male heroes. There are of course male characters, one of them even a love interest for Lara, but the filmmakers realized that when you have an actress of Jolie's repertoire, you can and you should keep the focus on her, which they do. One of the rare films where you don't have to doubt the badassery of its leading lady for even one second. And I love it for it.The rest of the film is okay. Nothing really stands out, except for the breathtaking locations, but nothing really falls short either. The plot is a bit of a hit and miss. If you can enjoy a good popcorn flick every now and then, I think you're going to enjoy this one as well, but if you have high expectations as far as logic and rationality go, this one isn't for you. It's meant to be enjoyed, not analyzed to death.So, do I enjoy this film? Oh yes. Is it a good film? Not really. It has a few too many plot holes, inconsistencies and general silly moments for me to call it good. What it is, is a lot of fun. One of the better popcorn/adventure flicks I know and the only one with a great female lead. "},{"Title":"Angelina Jolie becomes Lara Croft","Date":"19 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Paramount has taken the famous video game heroine Lara Croft and transformed her into an action packed movie heroine. Angelina Jolie does a fantastic job portraying Lara Croft and has the opportunity to act alongside her father Jon Voight who plays Lara Crofts deceased father. This is the type of role Angelina Jolie was made for. She brings the action and excitement and does what she is known for; doing her own stunts.Lara is from money and has the luxury of being an adventure seeking tomb raider. This lifestyle and other events take her all across the world in search of ancient artifacts. Along the way put her life is put in danger many times over. As you see in the opening scene she is trained for combat, is not only good with guns, but is also good in hand to hand combat. The female version of Indiana Jones, just in tighter clothes with thigh gun holsters.Every 5,000 years the planets in our solar system go into a planetary alignment. The night this alignment begins Lara finds a clock that has begun to count down. She now must finish her father's work and find the Triangle of Light. She is in a race against time to beat the Illuminati, a secret society, to this artifact that has the ability to control time and space. Alex West, played by Daniel Craig, is another tomb raider but is working for the Illuminati. When the character is first introduced you know there is some history between the two.The film takes the action of the video game and combines it with a weak plot. The film is more about the action, adventure, and excitement you feel from the video game. The action scenes have music that you would expect from video games and get your heart pounding. The soundtrack, mixed with the special effects, is a main focus in the film. The scenes are shot mainly zoomed in on Lara and plenty of gun fire, hand to hand combat, knife fights, falling rocks and debris similar to what you would see in the video game. The film does not have a strong plot or much character development. This is still a must see if you are a fan of the video game or just a fan of action, adventure, and special effects. Make sure to check out the special features on the DVD. This section will show all the training Angelia Jolie went through and also the stunts she was able to do herself. "},{"Title":"Great fun; scrap logic","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Hey, now, who couldn't like such a silly enterprise? Well, perhaps anybody more interested in Ingmar Bergmann's comedy or Woody Allen's darkness.There are, surely, lots of mistakes, errors and omissions in this pure, entertaining fun in the vein of Rider Haggard, Ian Fleming or old school space adventure. I could point to the not very wise choice in casting some of the characters, or to the total lack of any characterisation. Not to speak of logic. Although there is one moment in this flick, which really should have been a bit more logical; to give away no spoiler - how can there be a spoiler in a movie lacking logic? - let's just say that something very funny can be observed when Lady Lara escapes from the Khmer temple (witness her adversaries and ask yourself what they are doing just before she comes out ...).But all this doesn't really matter, this movie is just a helluva fun ride; it never takes itself too seriously (one of the freat errors with the latest Bond films), it always shows that it is a video game come alive. And don't forget its main assets sic Angelina Jolie, who not only looks gorgeous but acts in a movie that doesn't ask for it. My favourite example is her facial expression whenever she kills of a baddie or a monster, Lara really likes to be on top ... "}{"Title":"Hits the mark it was aiming at - thus 4/5","Date":"18 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The film is flashy and entertaining on a very simplistic level - just like the videogame it is based upon.  Why do people go see and then review movies they know from the start they will not like?  If the genre is not your thing - stay away from the movie - don't go and the complain to everyone how you hated it.  If you don't like the videogame, this is not the movie for you.  If you like a traditional hero-archvillian simple plot  with figures aimed at the male audience aged 13-30, then its a very entertaining film.  Its fun to watch and for that reason it succeeds.  Its not supposed to be a drama or supsense-thriller and if thats what you folks are comparing it to, you need to have your heads examined. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable film","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  My Rating *** out of ****. I have said it before and I will say it again 2001 was one of the worst years in movies. However, during the Summer it did offer its share of enjoyable Popcorn movies. Tomb Raider was one of them.Tomb Raider is about as intelligent as my dog, actually my dog is a little bit more intelligent. But this movie is more fun to watch than my dog, especially since she cant do any cool flips. Tomb Raider is your typical summer movie. Its high on action but low on intelligence.If your looking for action, Tomb Raider has a great deal. Whether its in a very nice looking mansion or in an ancient temple in Cambodia. All the action scenes are well done and are not tiresome. The Visual Effects are mostly good. The cinematography is also beautiful in Cambodia.The best female action heroes in films are Ellen Ripley and Sarah Connor, you may now add Lara Croft to that list. Croft was an awesome video game character, but Angelina Jolie makes her an awesome movie character. I cant believe she got a Razzie Nomination for this, thats just dumb. Noah Taylor does a solid job as her partner. Daniel Craig is flat in his performance. Iain Glen is also flat as the villain, he doesnt really make any part of the character evil. If there is a big problem in Tomb Raider it is the dialogue and some of the editing. Im not counting story because story is not that important in summer movies. The dialogue is quite cheesy and painful in areas. I noticed where they screwed up in the editing. Its the scene at the end where Jolie goes through the big sun globe or whatever you call it. She places the clock on there and ends up with the 2nd piece of the triangle but she ends with the clock the enext second later. I know Lara is amazing but even she cant get it that fast. Many people will say Tomb Raider is just dumb and a waste of time. Well, thats what its made for. Yes, like I said its not intelligent but you dont go to a movie like this to think. You go if you have an hour and 45 minutes to waste.   "},{"Title":"Finally watched for the first time...","Date":"12 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" ...and I really can't understand why this film is so maligned.  I thought it was sexy, funny, exciting, and audibly and visually stunning.  It's not a great movie, but it is a good one.  And much better than most of the comments indicate.  Maybe I just wasn't expecting much. Many of the things previously said about it are true  it's silly, very unrealistic, and doesn't always make a lot of sense.  But come on!  Do we require so much realism that we can't accept a film on its own terms?  Isn't that very essence of suspension of disbelief?  So, yes, she fights a robot while raiding a tomb in the beginning.  A more than unlikely scenario.  But if you need archaeological realism, than you should watch a special on the History or Discovery channel.Speaking of archaeologists, everyone is making comparisons between Lara Croft and Indiana Jones, but Lara and Indy are only alike in their trade only.  Structure wise, the film is much more in line with the James Bond movies.  Although it's not a spy flick, it has that same kind of cartoon action scenes, sensual stars and attitudes, exotic locales and over-the-top set pieces, with the addition of a little mysticism and possibly supernatural elements.  It's really a lot of fun.  I skipped the sequel at the cinema because I hadn't seen the first one, and read all the bad reviews.  But now I'm looking forward to catching the DVD.Regarding the a/v, I watched this DVD (R1 Dolby Digital NTSC) at reference level (system calibrated at 75 db on all channels), and was stunned by the sound activity all around.  It's a great sounding and looking disc. "},{"Title":"Fun with guns, more entertaining than the Fast and the Furious","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This a the action popcorn flick for video gamers rather than tough guys as compared to the Fast and the Furious, released the same weekend.  This movie is fun but full of too many fantasy cliches.  You'll see what I mean when you see it.  And remember- it's not for everyone. B-, 7/10 "},{"Title":"A must-see for any fan of the game(s)","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I am a massive (female) fan of the Tomb Raider series so could not wait to see this film...and I wasn't disappointed. Angelina Jolie is fantastic as Lara and plays the character just about as close as is physically possible. The opening scene(s) are my favourite, and really sum up Lara's personality, although there are a couple of gratuitous shower scenes that aren't really essential to the plot!!. Although Lara's history differs from the games' it's not far out and is easily forgiven by all the sfx and action sequences. The 'bungy ballet' scene is breathtaking and I've totally worn out the soundtrack CD! Chris Barrie and Noah Taylor add some really funny moments, not sure about Alex West as a love interest though. Overall, a great film, even for non-followers of the game (where have you been?) and an absolute must-see for fans of Lara Croft. Can't wait until Cradle of Life is released... "},{"Title":"Very Weak, unreal, poor poor visual effects","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What to say about the beloved recreation.....shallow characters, poor CGI, and if i had blinked at the write time i might just have missed the entire plot.  Jolie is already a poor actress in my book.  Her roll as Lara Croft didnt much change my mind on the matter.  The most annoying part of the movie, however, is now and shall always be the make-up crews complete failure to cover Jolies infamous, back woods, honky tonk,  BILLY BOB tattoo on her arm.  Come on people you could have gotten that one right!  "},{"Title":"A second look and you'll learn to accept it for what it is - a summer blockbuster.","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  When me and my mates went to see this in the cinema, we weren't really expecting a plot. We just went to see Angelina Jolie's luscious form as she personified the legendary computer game character! Most probably 99% of the male audience went to see it for the same sole purpose, considering it's box office success!I HATED this film when I first saw it, and thought it was a waste of time and money. But, I have to admit, on a second viewing, I learnt to accept it for what it was and sat back, and enjoyed.Jolie is great as Lara Croft. She is sexy, witty, strong, and intelligent. Great to look at, and the film plays to that strength, she knows it, the director knows it. Sex appeal is the first thing they had to nail, and they did! The second thing they had to nail on the head were the SFX, and I must say, whether it's in the cinema or in your home, this film is loud and the SFX are great! The set pieces are also well choreographed and they never really let up until we are completely safe and clear of danger. Mind you though, the film does drag a little bit when Lara 'mourns' for her lost father. But it doesn't really hurt the film.This is Jolie's film, and everyone else is just background material. The SFX are the only things that pose a danger for the viewers eye to wander away from Lara's physique!Iain Glen is o.k. as a one dimensional baddie, whereas Noah Taylor is just plain irritating!!! Chris Barrie? as a fan of Red Dwarf, he is welcome, and his few lines are delivered well.So, all in all, after giving this film a second chance, I enjoyed. The plot is bordering on pathetic, but mind you, it is a summer blockbuster, plots go out the window, it's the visuals that matter the most! Just remember that this IS a film. So, just leave a portion of your brain at the door, and you too may enjoy an hour and a half worth of fun.6/10Enjoy!  "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Never liked the games - but I thought I would give the movie a try.  The whole thing was a bit flat and lifeless.  Some good set pieces and FX - but strangly empty. Angie looked good - the rest of the cast forgetable.  Its all been done much better before (Raiders, The Mummy etc).  A digitally enhanced 6/10 "},{"Title":"a really bad film","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If you are 10-12 yrs. of age you probably will enjoy this film. Accents coming and going, lame action sequences, and terrible direction.I rather enjoy the game and yes, Jolie IS Lara, but this film was a let down. To bad Chris Barrie didn't have a bigger part. If you see this film expecting nothing, you may come away slightly relieved when it is over. Personally if I had the chance to do it over, I'd wait 'til bbc aired it for free.  "},{"Title":"The summer's biggest disappointment","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"   It is trivial to me how studios can pack a film with so much technical wizardry, balletic action sequences and massive set pieces and still deliver such a shallow, empty film. Hence 'Tomb Raider', a film that you really want to enjoy, but just cannot seem to immerse yourself within the films' uselessly complex plot and ridiculous comedy bits.Angelina Jolie was supposed to be catapulted to the title of Female Action Star. Yet, while she does a satisfying job at keeping this mess of a film together, she just cannot make us believe we should care fore her and her cause.She stars as Lara Croft, an imagining of a popular video game that sets the background for this film. Like other characters, she must save the world. This time, our character must find a mysterious triangle that if found, can give its' owner the power of God. Furthermore, this triangle must be brought together since it was broken into two pieces thousands of years ago at the exact moment of alignment of the planets. If you find this confusing and useless, it is. This plot allows our hero to travel the world and shoot her guns in extravagant locations amidst the bass pounding music of techno in the background. It is a popular saying but the bigger they are - the harder they fall. As we speak, this film is still falling.The major inconsistency within this film is its' ridiculous plot. It is so mangled up and scraped together that we know things blowing up are just excuses so she can run away from them and see her bountiful breasts jiggling all the way. Anyone who knows the Lara Croft character knows that her biggest attribute is not her ability to elude danger, but her  breasts.The script also calls for Jon Voight to appear in flashbacks as Lara's father who disappeared many years ago. This is a pitiful attempt to add cause and justice to her duty to be a good daughter and listen to her daddy. In my opinion, this only adds to the sappiness and stupidity of this film that the studio heads actually accepted this horrible script in order to produce this film.There really is not much to say about this weak film except to defend myself in all the midst of this negativity. One would expect a film of this calibre and budget to expose the audience to a few thrills and exciting sequences, instead, we are insulted. Insulted by the level of ineptness by the filmmaker's to create a fun, exciting, fresh piece that is at least remotely entertaining. Instead, we are left with a recycled, cliched film that leaves no cliché unturned.Director Simon West (Con Air, The General's Daughter) does his best with this horrible script and sets up the action sequences in a stylistic way but not even that is enough for adventure fans that have not grown to care for our female heroin.  In conclusion, to sum up this film in one sentence - probably this summer's biggest disappointment.  The only good  thing about this film is that one will wait until the end credits to hear U2's 'Elevation Tomb Raider Mix' putting a close to this bad film.Rating *1/2  "}{"Title":"A slow-moving disappointment","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Let me start with the positive Angelina Jolie, great actress and great beauty, lethal combination. She is great at playing the part of Lara Croft. Another positive thing was the really cool action scenes, especially the fight which opens the movie which includes a lot of sweet athletic moves performed by Lara Croft. The action scenes really made the adrenaline start pumping in your body and that first scene really made me excited about what was coming up later on.Unfortunately about 45 minutes later the movie started dropping fast in quality and speed.  The action packed beginning went to a closure and a slow ending of the movie started to bore me.  Towards the end the action scenes became worse and worse and the tempo of the movie was nowhere to be found. For about 30 minutes in the end I was just waiting for the thing to be over. I wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone, there are a lot better stuff out there with Angelina for y'all to enjoy for example Gone In 60 Seconds which is really cool. "},{"Title":"Stupid movie, but well made","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  When judging this film, you should consider its heritage and that's a computer game. The game had some interesting features, like the way the Lara character was animated (especially Tomb Raider II, with the canals of Venice and Lara's plat moving in the wind), the very well designed sets, and - let's face it - the size of Lara's chest, which is totally impossible without major surgery.It's interesting to see that the movie uses much of the atmosphere of the game, including the locations and the nice looking sets. Unfortunately, the game didn't have much of a plot (compare it to Half-life and you know what I mean) and this goes for the film as well. It's about the action, the locations and Angelina Jolie's surgically enhanced chest.She even had her lips done, which is a major turn-off if you ask me. Fake t**s is one thing, but fake lips really look gross.Despite the British accents, most of them genuine, this is a very American film. Every character has his own place and purpose this is the bad guy, this is the guy who's supposed to be funny, etcetera. Most probably, this is a film based on questionnaires, surveys, whatever it takes to come up with something that's just right for the average viewer.This, however, makes it all very predictable and mediocre. Naturally, this is what this film is all about, but I tend to regard film as an experience. In this respect Tomb Raider compares to Raiders of the Lost Ark like a drive to the supermarket does to a panoramic route in a country where you've never been before. Mind you, many people visit the supermarket.As for the story, there isn't much of it and any spoiler would reveal a sizable part of the film. If you consider the context (the video game), it doesn't have too many holes in it, but it does skip and jump often, taking a shortcut that isn't immediately apparent.All in all, the film is professionally made, and the resemblance between Angelina Jolie and the video game character Lara Croft is stunning. The film also captures the mood of the game very well, but if you're looking for something that tickles your mind, you'll have to look further. "},{"Title":"Line to remember - There is NOT a good movie based on the computer game!","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Mortal Combats are OK, at least there is some action in it, but the plot and acting are awful. Streetfighter is a very, very bad one and so is this. This is what happens, when you build a movie around a pair of breasts. Everyone slobbers seeing Jolie, but even though today`s world is messed up enough, it is still not possible to make a good movie just on easy-on-the-eyes chick. Jolie gets with this movie on a bandwagon with such flicks as Barb Wire, everyone awaits seeing sexy scenes. But yet, the action scenes are cheezy and fake, the plot is boring and full of cliches, the acting is poor.  "},{"Title":"Nothing Special","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"   When I saw Anjelina Jolie was targeted to play Lara Croft in the new Tomb Raider movie I went Goose Pimply all over! I expected so much and to my disappointment I did not see a brilliant movie.In fact, after all the hype about this being the beginning to the Summer Blockbusters it was not actually a very good film. The action scenes were adequate, with only the fight with the movey-statue-thingys coming to mind as being any good! The final sequence in which Jolie faces her fathers killer is over in a few minutes leaving me slightly disappointed.The performances were good and Jolie, Chris Barrie, Iain Glen and Daniel Craig were very fitting for the roles they played. But the roles they played were often confused and disjointed - was Glen intended to play a comic book villain who made us smile more than scared, was Craig a good guy or bad guy?These questions were just a few instances on where Simon West (director of the brilliant Con Air) should have smartened his film up, and instead of relying on his leading lady to wow the audience (which, she does) should have probably included some other interesting characters to involve the audience more. When you are given the task of bringing Lara Croft to life in a much anticipated movie, the director should really concentrate on making an incredible movie that will stun audiences. He should have brought style and variety to the action sequences instead of making them tiring and repetitive. All in all, Tomb Raider was a fair movie, but not the movie that I quite expected to see. Rating = 2/5 "},{"Title":"huge disappointment","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was hugely disappointed by this film. I really do not know how they manage to mess things up every time they try making a movie out of games or comic books. Remember that sad mario bros movie? of the x-men. Ok with mario bros it was understandable. And the x-men was also very fantastic so I imagine that could be difficult as well (still a poor excuse for a bad story).But Lara croft, they could have started a whole new line of Indiana Jones type films. But nooooo, babe in tight clothing and a lot of special effects seemed to be all they wanted. The story was ok, secret organization the illuminati and a mysterious power. But they just did not do anything with it, everything is so unbelievable. Angelina looks great in every scene but I kinda expect more from a film. Why would anyone in their right mind decide to hop on a motorcycle to defeat the bad guys when they've got a gun. sure it looks cool but come on!And with all the high tech we see in the beginning you should think they would be able to keep intruders out. I could go on and on, unnecessary special effects, I think it is just sad how they managed to spoil this. If only they had spend more money on the script and less on special effects.I really wonder how spiderman will be.  All this technology and money and still. I mean Batman turned out just fine? and superman. I think they're putting to much focus on special effects nowadays. "},{"Title":"The best no-brain actioner so far this year","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Basing a film on a cult figure can be a dangerous thing, not least because of the past record of comparative failures (Judge Dredd, Tank Girl et al). Good job then that Tomb Raider is a cracking yarn that provides good solid entertainment the whole running time. It's certainly more fun than The Mummy Returns or Evolution.Angelina Jolie was the perfect choice to play upper-crust, globe-trotting nutter Lara Croft, and the opening scenes of the film showing her as an eccentric archaeologist are spot on. Her computer geek hanger-on is a necessary annoyance, but gets some good lines, and Chris Barrie's stuffy butler is a laugh - shame he wasn't in it more.Leaving aside the plot and characterisation (like they're important in ANY film like this), we get to follow Lara on her adventures around the world, taking in some gorgeous scenery and impressive set-pieces, especially the two 'tombs' (OK, they're not proper tombs, but anyone who's actually played these games will know that the look and feel of them are spot on).Complaints about plot-holes are largely superfluous, as even a small amount of reasoning or imagination can get you past them. What's important is that this is a fun and feisty homage to a larger-than-life video game star, and the best no-brain actioner so far this year.Time to plan the sequel? Absolutely. "},{"Title":"A computer game","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a computer game turned into a movie. It's neither better nor worse that the Indiana Jones movies we have seen and it may be classified in that kind of movie. It conveys no message at all so if you are going to see it prepare yourself only to be delighted with the usual special effects scenes very well done as a matter of fact, with a touch of good humor here and there. And there is also a feminist aspect the heroin is much better than all the men involved not only mentally but also physically I mean she wins every fight she engages on.   "},{"Title":"A great film that was looked at by the wrong people!","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I know now why this movie is getting so many bad reviews. it's because the critics don't play the game! The movie is EXACTLY like the game! Hell I've played half of the action sequences in it!I thought they did Lara alot of justice. When is part 2 coming out? "},{"Title":"must-see movie","Date":"7 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The movie has got a great story, breathtaking locations and fantastic stunts. Angelina Jolie is acting in one of her best acting roles as the main character Lara Croft and makes the movie to a must-see. Also the other actors, like Jon Voight acting as Lara's father, Noah Tylor who plays a chaotic but intelligent nerd or Daniel Craig as the bad boy. All, including the crew, have done a very good job. An extraordinary flair is given to the sceneries - inside and outside. The music matches to the different scenes and locations. A fascinating movie with a lot of action, adventure and coolness. One of the best movies, that are based on a computer game. Unforgettable and always worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Excellent Action/Adventure","Date":"26 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Probably the best film based on a video game. This movie received mixed reviews, it seems to me that critics in general were too hard with this. For the genre it's a great movie. The plot is quite the kind of you could expect in a hunting treasure archaeological adventure like this. The action sequence were good, and the acting were above the average. Angelina Jolie and Daniel Craig did an amazing job. One can forgive some flaws as long as you take into account the source material. Something spectacular to me, that seems to had been passed unnoticed is the cinematography. The lighting of the sets and the visuals look of the film both stands alone for themselves. Enough reason to get a blue ray copy if you can and give it another try. "}{"Title":"Angelina is Amazing; She is Lara Croft","Date":"6 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Angelina Jolie was the right actress to play Lara Croft; talent, athletic and looks where all combined to make the Tomb Raider lady be just right.Special Effects are amazing like the scene with the Time Glitch and the Husky; I thought it looked great.The plot line could have done with a little bit of work but most of it was brilliant. The co characters where great; especially the villain Mr Powell who was the perfect villain like Dr No.The outfit was great on Angie being all black to make Lara's posture and out more and they kept all the things key to Lara (Dual Pistols, Plaited Hair)Angie is great in the action scenes and she does it all (NO STUNT DOUBLES!) "},{"Title":"After avoiding this movie for years, it made a nice Rainy day watch.","Date":"20 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I'm not a fan of A. Jolie or over hyped action films so the combination of those two factors for Tomb Raider helped make it easier to avoid watching the movie. Jolie, having done some good work, even though I'm not a fan, is particularly bad in this film but still very watchable. I don't know how she accomplishes that, maybe because she is beautiful? She does an awful lot of posing in this film like in a TV medical drama with models. A lot of hands on hips suspended in time for a few seconds longer than humanly normal. The film as a whole, however, is as good as any male dominated action film of the same budget and era. The sets are very well done, creative and rustic. The action is also fun and creative. The plot is worthy of a hero or heroine in this case. Fun and entertaining movie. "},{"Title":"A decent, fast-paced and action-filled adventure movie","Date":"23 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Perhaps I'm only one of the few, but I really can't say that I hated this movie. The main reason why I liked it was because it offered me exactly what I expected from it. It was plenty of action and it had a good looking Angelina Jolie in it. I know it isn't much, but I can guarantee you that it is the only way to avoid disillusion and because I can't immediately think of any other reasons to watch this movie. You don't have to watch it because of the world shocking story. I'm not saying the story isn't any good, but it was derived from a video game, which is, let's be honest, not really the best of modern literature.Lara Croft is a wealthy, British antiquities hunter, who travels to exotic places, in search of treasures and artifacts in ancient tombs and ruins. She is skilled in hand-to-hand combat, in handling weapons and she speaks several foreign languages. The Illuminati, a secret society, is seeking an ancient talisman that gives its possessor the ability to control time when the planets of the solar system are going into planetary alignment (something that only occurs every 5,000 years). To find the talisman, they need a key that is hidden in a clock, which is in Lara's possession. The Illuminati steal the key and now she must try to get it back before the alignment. You probably ask yourself why? Well, because in the meantime she has received a letter from her deceased father, telling her about the Illuminati's hidden agenda.If you don't expect much more but a fast-paced and action-filled adventure movie (you could compare it to the Indiana Jones movies), than this is exactly the movie to watch. OK, it may not be the most intellectual experience of your life, but it offers good fun and some decent acting. And that is also worth something. I give it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"The best movie adaptation of a video game ever!","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I am a big fan of the Tomb Raider video games, and always thought it would be cool if they made a movie out of it.  Then when I heard they were making a movie, I thought the most difficult thing would be to find the right actress to play Lara Croft.  For anyone who's played the game would know that those are some difficult shoes to fill, but  Oscar winner Angelina Jolie successfully did that.  I can't imagine anyone else who could have. As for the film itself, well, I was quite impressed with it from beginning to end.  I've never really been an action film fan, because they're usually mindless and overloaded with special effects which bury any possible story there.  Tomb Raider, like most other action films, didn't really have much of a storyline, but since I didn't expect it to, I wasn't disappointed.  Instead, I was in awe over the successful bringing of the game to life.  Unlike many other movie adaptations of video games, Tomb Raider wasn't cartoonish looking or silly.  To me it came across as real, but still having the fantasy element.  I was impressed with how Jolie pulled off being Croft and not just looking like her.  Since Jolie did most of her stunts, it was impressive to see her move and jump and flip and fight like Lara does in the game. I also have a lot of respect for Jolie for taking this role, since a lot of other Oscar winners stay with the stuffy Oscar-worthy roles. I'd also like to add that although many see Lara Croft as the female Indiana Jones or the female equivelent to other action heroes, I feel that she is an action hero of her own.  She may posess some similar qualities, but she's still unique, and I don't think there's anyone else like her.  "},{"Title":"a kick ass film","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought that this was a pretty good movie.  The special effects were awesome, and Angelina Jolie just flat out kicked ass.  I wouldn't mind being Lara Croft myself....so I could kick ass as good as she does! "},{"Title":"IN MY TOP 10 FOR SURE!","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, what can I say?  Angelina Jolie plays the perfect part as Lara Croft, the rich born, combat trained adventurer.  Her character is perfect! Everything I liked about the game is in this film, even the not-so-clever Larson is a good role.  John Voight plays the perfect role as Lord Croft, Lara's father.  If you've played the game, watch the movie, YOU WILL NOT BE DISAPPOINTED!!! I GUARANTEE IT!!! "},{"Title":"Good translation from game to movie","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I actually liked this movie. I think I liked it because Angelina Jolie was believable as Lara Croft, and director Simon West put in enough fills into the story to really make this game character come to life.Cinematography was easy par with any James Bond movies, and locations and special effects were beautiful. Acting was good too. There was no camp about the way they told the story, and they were careful not to get too serious either.I only wish that they kept in the deleted scenes, and made this a 2 hr. movie. From the comments of director Simon West, it would have enhanced the enjoyability of this movie 100% "},{"Title":"The best video game-turned-movie","Date":"18 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Being a nerdy addict of the game, I personally couldn't wait for the film, so I'm glad that I wasn't disappointed. True, Tomb Raider comes from a long line of games that are turned into movies - but I definitely think that this is by far the best.I thought Angelina's acting and accent was brilliant, and I can't think of anyone else who would've been more suited to playing Lara. The chemistry between her and Daniel Craig was so good.The plot line was good too, and stayed loyal to the general idea of the game - in fact, I think the film should have been made into a game in it's own right! Another thing I liked about this movie was the soundtrack - the right music was fitted into the right places, and I think it is one of the best movie soundtracks available. "},{"Title":"God, Angelina is hot!","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I just recently bought this movie on DVD without even previously seen it. I haven't even really played the video.  I am very familiar with the game but never have actually sat down to play it.  But this movie was a lot better than expected. I mean A LOT better.  I can't think of any other actress to be Lara Croft other than Jolie.  She is unbelievably hot and a fantastic actress.  I think it's the lips that do it for me.   "},{"Title":"Better Than I Thought!","Date":"2 November 2008","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Lara Croft Tomb Raider is a great movie. I was actually shocked how this movie turned out to be. Is this Indiana Jones? Not at all, but still great. Is this better than the video games? How the heck would I know. This movie follows a tomb raider who must travel to opposite places of the world to find two mysterious pieces of the Triangle of Light. Whoever possesses the power will have control over time. Lara Croft must find a way to keep these pieces away from Manfred Powell and his Illuminati. Angelina Jolie seems like the perfect girl to play Jolie. She really knows her fighting moves. I do wish that Jon Voight's character would be developed more. He is a great actor. The action was very good. The special effects were great but not worthy of an Oscar. Overall, this is a great movie. I hope that the sequel is even better. I rate this film a 9/10. "}{"Title":"Noisy, pointless film that relies on so-so special effects to hold the interest","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Aristocrat Lara Croft is a `tomb raider', an archaeologist who risks their life to collect artefacts.  With the planets due to align, a secret society known as the Illuminati are seeking an ancient artefact that will allow them to control time and be all powerful.  When Lara finds one piece of the artefact hidden by her deceased father in their house, she becomes a target for the group.  When the artefact is stolen she sets out to recover it and stop the Illuminati from using it's dark powers.My wife and I rented this as we suspected we might go to the cinema and see the sequel (slow week!).  Not being bothered myself I didn't expect too much but wasn't prepared for just how dreary, lifeless and, unbelievably, dull the whole affair actually was.  The plot is meaningless and pretty hard to get into, not because it is complex but the fact that the film is set out to be fast and noisy, the cumbersome plot is made to feel out of place and soon becomes secondary.In it's place we are given eye candy and noise.  The most disappointing eye candy are the special effects.  I think they were meant to be impressive but they are not.  They never seem to be anything other than computer graphics and do not interact well with the `real' world. The action scenes rely wholly on effects and thus seem to lack any sense of tension or excitement.  The one action sequence that doesn't is the raid on the Croft mansion &#150; although silly, this is the most enjoyable scene of the film.  The other eye candy, Croft herself, is OK but not so much sexual as just glossy.  Physically Jolie looks great and is very easy on the eye, but I didn't get a feel for real sexuality coming out of her &#150; or at least not as much as I expected from a film which was so very heavily marketed on the back of a pair of shorts and a pair of breasts!As an actress Jolie does OK but doesn't have to try hard to outshine the support cast who are mainly goons or cardboard cut out bad guys.  Surprising additions to the cast are Chris Barrie (Rimmer!) and a meritless cameo from Leslie Phillips.Overall I found this to be a fairly ho-hum, noisy affair.  Typical summer blockbuster fare &#150; all mouth and no trousers, the action is all very flat and nothing else steps up to fill the gap that the poor CGI monsters leave.  I rented this on a DVD which also had the video for U2's `elevation' on it &#150; I enjoyed the video a lot more than the movie. "},{"Title":"An Interesting Adventure Film, Even if a bit Silly","Date":"5 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Video game adventuress Lara Croft (Angelina Jolie) comes to life in a movie where she races against time and villains to recover powerful ancient artifacts.Angelina Jolie has had a strange career. She started out as the daughter of Jon Voight (who plays her father here). Whether that helped her or not, I do not know. But she landed some roles in Hackers and Lara Croft. She married Brad Pitt, the king of Hollywood. She is seen as a humanitarian and is now (2015) establishing herself as a director. What a career! This film is a little bit silly. The adventure and action is not realistic, but being based on a video game, it probably shouldn't be. Fun? Yes. And apparently quite successful, since it spawned at least one sequel. "},{"Title":"Some fun stuff at the tomb.","Date":"10 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is a video game-based movie, a story where British archaeologist/tomb raider Lara Croft (Angelina Jolie) races against time to thwart a secret villainous cult in order to find powerful ancient artifacts that holds unlimited power that could be used to control the world.Filmed in the style of an Indiana Jones like adventure, this film has some neat suspense and action, with death-defying stunts, heroic characters and an adventure in a darkened tomb and cave-like structure, reminiscence of those found in Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom and Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade. However, director Simon West gave the film his unique flavor and twist that made this a good stand-alone movie.The movie's special effects were good for the most part, but thought that the CGI effects for some of the moving cave creatures were too unrealistic, and the acting was also OK for the most part, sans some campy dialog. The plot has its ups and downs, but still offered some fun stuff to watch nonetheless.Overall, a good fantasy movie to take you away from reality for 100 minutes.Grade B- "},{"Title":"Action good, Story slow","Date":"29 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" All the planets of the solar system are going into planetary alignment once every 5,000 years. The Illuminati is searching for an ancient artifact to control time which is time sensitive.Angelina Jolie is Lara Croft a rich adventurer based on the video game. She definitely has the build to be Lara Croft. And she has the presence and the strength of will. She is the best person for the job. The villains are forgettable. Jon Voight plays Lara's dead father. Daniel Craig plays her competitor/love interest Alex West.The action is over the top thrilling stuff. But without the action, the story is prodding and stumbling. Let's face it. The story matters very little just like the video game. It's the action that's the most fun. "},{"Title":"Lara's Craft","Date":"2 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Just watched Lara Croft Tomb Raider on BluRay...easily the best of all video game-turned-movie films.(Uh, but stay far and clear of the horrible follow-up.) Sure, it's silly, toned down and incredibly basic...and still a lot of fun. And NO ONE could have pulled off Lara like Angelina.Pre-Bond Daniel Craig was interesting, and you can see why he was picked years later. And it was an interesting pick for father/daughter, but then, that really didn't work &#x96; them working together.While it's a good Indiana Jones lite, it's mindless, leave-your-brain-at-the-door fun... 4/5 stars. "},{"Title":"The raider of the lost eye (dvd)","Date":"26 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Say like this, this movie has already less appeal than the classic Indy movie but it gives me the opportunity to compare the two heroes Miss Croft is rich and idle while Indy must work to earn his living. Miss Croft is a loner almost neurotic while Indy is a sociable fellow. Miss Croft relies too much on her guns while Indy relies too much on his whip. Indy goes after an iconic relic while Croft runs after an exotic gadget.But i don't want to break this movie because I liked it. It's the only franchise i saw totally abroad, this first part in Netherlands, the sequel in Madrid.If the story is really less thrilling than the real raider, lacks a big showdown and have dull clichés (the missing mother, the missing father, the ex-boyfriend turned traitor), nevertheless, the cast, the directing and the locations are top notch.For one time, the action is very well sequenced because we can follow easily what happens. The villain is well portrayed because he got style. I really like the Cambodgian and British atmospheres and it's funny to see that a tomb raider can have some lost items in her own manor or that Bond can be a mere supporter. "},{"Title":"Film Review for IMDb","Date":"20 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The movie Lara Croft Tomb Raider (2001) is an action based video game brought to life with amazing CGI. Tomb Raider the first in a set of movies about a woman, Lara Croft, (played by Angelina Jolie) that takes jobs based on their level of excitement rather than their monetary value or acknowledgment but because she is world known as the best of the raiders. The theme of this movie is focus on plot and the plot of this film is to locate the pieces of the Triangle of Light before it falls into the evil hands of Manfred Powell (Iain Glen). The film starts with Lara fighting a robot designed by her tech buddy Bryce. (Noah Taylor). The purpose of this robot is to challenge her and help train her for her tomb raiding adventures. One night, while dreaming about her father, who went missing in the field, she awakens and is lead to a hidden compartment where she finds a clock that is counting down time. In her search to find out what this clock means she turns to her father's friend Mr. Wilson (Leslie Phillips) during which she runs into a fellow tomb raider Alex West (Daniel Craig). Mr. Wilson refers her to see Powell but during their meeting Lara was able to determine he was a lying about his interest in the clock. The first real action scene in the plot that was not the intro takes place in Lara mansion that night when Powell has his men break in to steal the clock. During this scene the director was able to use an array of techniques ranging from slow motion to jump cuts. The use of these techniques helped the view be attracted to the action and follow the plot. Another action scene that plays a significant role in the plot is when they are in the tomb placing the clock in the puzzle to release the first half of the Triangle of Light. The effects such as lighting and tone helped draw the audience into the scene as if they were standing in the tomb watching all the action. The whole movie was building up to the scene of the alignment of planets and the events that take place at that moment. During this time a sequence of events happen that help explain the main purpose of Lara's intentions. Powell throws a knife and kills West, it is then time stops and Lara is in a different place with her father. She talks with her father and he urges her to destroy the Triangle of Light and not use it to turn back time to bring him back to life. The scene jumps back to the tomb and Lara turns the knife around and it strikes Powell instead of West. The scene ends with an epic fist fight between Lara and Powell, Lara wins the battle and barely escapes the tomb with her own life. The final scene in the movie is Bryce introducing Lara to another robot he built for her for training. The different steps and elements used to create this movie were all part of getting the viewer to focus on the plot of the movie. By the use of the different editing techniques and a creative story line, an action based adventure was created. This movie reminded me of another movie called The Mummy. It's the same basic story line; everyone fights to find the treasure in the tomb. Reference West, S. (2001) Lara Croft Tomb Raider. Los Angeles, California. Paramount Pictures "},{"Title":"Not all video game movies are worthless; this was quite fun","Date":"14 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Lara Croft Tomb Raider is the latest movie from a video game franchise to hit the big screen where unlike many video game movies from Double Dragon and Street Fighter to fail moviegoers and fan expectations, I found this film to be quite kick-ass.Based on the popular Tomb Raider video games where Lara Croft is the female version of Indiana Jones going through many adventures finding artifacts and battling many enemies from prehistoric creatures to man, the strapping woman who has been a sex appeal to many video gamers around the world is being played by a sex appeal to many moviegoers where you don't have to care what's going on but have a good time. Angelina Jolie was the perfect choice though in high school my teacher thought that Catherine Zeta Jones fit the part better due to her Welsh accent, I beg to differ. Jolie, who is known to being rebellious, performed most of her own stunts while going through gun training at the same time where in this film she's off to find an important artifact that can make people go back in time. The plot could only matter to those who feel like paying attention, but in the end it's really the action sequences with Jolie and lots of visual effects that matter. "},{"Title":"The first 2/3 of the movie is great, but the last 1/3 is not so good","Date":"30 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Like the title, most of the stuff in the first 2/3 is great. There are 3 great scenes 1) Lara fighting the robot, 2) Lara doing the bungee exercise, 3) the Cambodian Tomb.The Last scene is disappointing. There are some not so big balls moving as constellation objects. As an audience, I expect a more thrilling scene after the breath-taking struggle in Cambodian Tomb.The body shape and stylish outfit of Lara is pleasing to watch. But, I don't like the two servants of Lara. They are too clownish, lack of taste. I have played the video game of Lara Croft. I think the movie is kind of satisfied to the gamer in terms of action. But there is not enough meat for mind bogging puzzles. Every time, Lara seams to know the answer by instinct, makes the puzzling part too easy. "},{"Title":"Not to be taken seriously.","Date":"16 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Lara Croft Tomb Raider is neither the best nor the most intelligent video game film I've seen, but as a no-brainer action flick it succeeds in all areas. Amazing action sequences, impressive CGI and light-hearted humour to balance it all out.Undoubtedly the plot and narrative could have been a little more coherent, but the movie undoubtedly has a nice feeling of mystery with the artifacts and things. The only area where the film truly fails is to produce anything deep or meaningful, except for Lara's relationship with her father.The reason I'm not such a big fan of the film comes from the reason I don't enjoy the games. They're both essentially no-brainers and there's little to nothing in them to make them very distinct. Still as an action-flick Tomb Raider fills its purpose, being entertaining. "}{"Title":"A somewhat flawed, but entertaining popcorn flick","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" When it was announced that the popular video game series Tomb Raider was to be made into a film, I was all excited. When it debuted, it was well received at the box office, but the film did not come without flaws. Angelina Jolie is the perfect Lara Croft for the live action movie. Her face, body (aside from smaller boobs), and lips do resemble the Lara of the games. Her British accent is unbelievable as well. Her supporting cast in the film is OK, though it is obvious that some characters were not treated with more respect. Chris Barrie is hilarious as Hilary, Lara Croft's butler. Noah Taylor is great as Bryce. And John Voight is fantastic, as always. Iain Glen's villain, Manfred Powell, is over the top, and this really doesn't fit a live action film. It is almost laughable. The story is fascinating, with a lot of the game action and mystery. The slow mode camera shots are not a favorite of mine, and both the Lara shower scene and Alex West's shower scene were not needed for the film in any way. Still, it accomplished what it set out to do, be a fun, action adventure. Don't take it seriously is my advice. It's great for what it is. "},{"Title":"Much better than expected.","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" When I was going to see this movie, i feared it would be a bit of a ridiculous movie, but I was truly surprised! In the first scene of the movie I had a feeling my fears would become true, but luckily this didn't happen. After that scene the movie became much better. The movie is also beautifully filmed, it's exciting and the acting is also not bad. Also the music was surprisingly good, the soundtrack improved the movie a lot. This movie is good entertainment,with beautiful cinematography and music, the acting is o.k.. If you watch it, you will have to withstand a few stupid scenes, but generally spoken it's a good movie! Naturally, not everyone will like this type of movie, but, when it comes on T.V., try it you probably won't find it so bad as thought it would be. "},{"Title":"What's the big deal?","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I'm sorry, but guys have always told me that if they could bring a video character to life because she's so hot, it was always Lara Croft, now is it just me or isn't that incredibly wrong? But I gave Tomb Raider a chance and over all it's one of the better video game adaptations I have seen in a while. Angelina, I'm sorry to the fans, she's not that hot in my opinion, and probably the only reason she got a boost of fame was because of that shower scene. P But anywho, the stunts she did were incredible and she did a very decent job of acting and kicking butt. With a decent and over all believable story line, Tomb Raider is a fun action movie that I think most can enjoy. But I'd still rather go with Mortal Kombat.6/10 "},{"Title":"Well done.","Date":"17 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Good plot, good characters, good Lara. The dominant word here is good. Not great but certainly good. The movie started with a bang. Lara was immediately in a mysterious setting and soon she was unloading innumerable gun clips into a killer machine from her two Smith & Wesson guns formerly strapped onto two leg holsters that look curiously like leather guarders(sp?). You immediately know that this woman should not be messed with. From there it's mystery, adventure, gun battles and giant globes. Well made, good humor and excellent action (although the fight scenes were a tad bit disappointing). The sequel is a different story, however. The only down side to the first movie is that they got you all revved up for the sequel but the sequel was worse than Charlie's Angels.  "},{"Title":"LARA CROFT TOMB RAIDER....WOW!!!!!!(spoilers)","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Lara Croft Tomb Raider-a Review by Jonathan CasoDirected by Simon West Written by Simon West, Patrick Masset, & John Zinnman Starring Angelina Jolie (Lady Lara Croft), Daniel Craig (Alex West), Jon Voight (Lord Richard Croft), Iain Glenn (Manfred Powell), & Noah Taylor (Bryce)	From the wonderfully action-packed and edge-of-you-seat beginning, Lara Croft Tomb Raider, is probably one of my favorite and one of the best films this year.  Though it essentially rings the bell of `popcorn-flick,' it has those moments where it essentially rises to be an arcade of great fun.	Angelina Jolie after her Oscar win for Girl, Interrupted, gave in a big flop with a terrible performance, in Original Sin, but I found her performance here to be pure fun and truly a joy to watch.  She equally and essentially balances the two sides, conflicted British girl with the loss of her father, and `Tomb Raider' needing to save the world.  I personally would give her an award for this one.  She really also saves the film from almost pure destruction.    	Though it can easily be mistaken as single action flick with one long special effect, I must say that it is nothing of the sort.  Though I cannot deny the fact that the effects are amazing and worthy of a nomination, it has long periods of thought-provoking silence where they ponder their answers to unanswered questions.  I also thought that the performance of Noah Taylor was rather good with the right comedic timing and Angelina there to back him up, this film scores with me. 	The only two performances that brought the film down were Jon Voight, and Iain Glenn's which are both rather embarrassing to watch.  Especially since Jon Voight is, as many know, one of the best out there.  It's just here he seems to abandon it all and give a C grade performance.  When you compare it here to the one in Midnight Cowboy, you wonder how in the hell he is the same actor.  But you can look past it since he is sort of not in too much.	Other than a few performances, I believe the film is worthy of the title, `Indiana Jones's daughter.' She was amazingly brave (though who isn't in films like this), and had this spunk, which shines through in the film.  I have played the video games so I sort of knew what to expect, but this was actually better than I expected.  Though I loved the film there was this one scene that almost made me change my mind.  Jolie is fighting intruders in her home and as she walks around walls on a bungee cord they fire at her with bullets flying a mile a minute?!?!?  Also right after that scene she is in her garage and to get away from the intruders must take her motorcycle and jump it off one of her cars while firing her gun and killing them. Also?!?!?  	Either way I loved this film, especially compared to the let down that was Pearl Harbor and The Mummy Returns.  Though I gave The Mummy Returns some points for having a tough act to follow, there was no excuse for the badness of Pearl Harbor which should have been good considering the fact that they had a screenplay from the great Randall Wallace to work off of.  Too sad, but Tomb Raider, pulls up the summer slump to fine form as this film makes my top ten of the year. A-      (****) An Excellent Film "},{"Title":"stop knocking it, it's meant to be fun!","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  **SPOILER**I have a confession to make.  I want to be Lara Croft.  I always have.  Ever since I first played Tomb Raider all those years ago on my PC, I have  thought he to be one of the coolest characters created in any genre.  OK, so she owes a huge debt to Indiana Jones, but don't get me started on that Indy thing as well . . . . When I first heard that Angelina had been cast as Lara, I was shocked.  Even though I couldn't think of an appropriate British actress to play her, I really objected to an American being cast as a quintessentially British character.  And then I saw the film.  BRILLIANT!Enigmatic, sexy, athletic - Jolie really made the role her own.  All those out there who hated the film really need to take a step back from themselves.  Some movies are made to be analysed, discussed and thought about.  Tomb Raider, like The Mummy is pure entertainment.  Yes, the characters are a little one dimensional, yes the plot is a bit shoddy, but who really cares when you've got a sassy female lead tearing around a winecellar on a concept Norton?West doesn't just make it for the boys though.  One of my favourite things about the film was his use of shower scenes.  We get the first shower scene with Lara, and all the men in the cinema sit up, all the women roll their eyes and sigh.  Then three quarters of the way through the film, the shower appears again.  All the men sit up, all the women roll their eyes and sigh 'is this REALLY necessary . . .HELLO!! It's Alex!!!!'To summarise then, I love this film, I don't care if it's silly.  And I still want to be Lara Croft! "},{"Title":"Atlantis Legend","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Star Angelina Jolie is In Search Of two halfs of a Triangle one the past and one the present.  This Motion Picture is really well made for the budget they had to work with.  I only hope that the upcoming Tomb Raider 2 has better Visual Effects! "},{"Title":"All right,could have been better","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is a part of a new breed of action films,The Matrix,Fast,and Furious,Scorpion King. I think all of those movies are good,but when they try to pull of action scenes,it's power packed,what ever happened to the good action movies of the 80's? Lethal Weapon,Aliens,Predator,Running Man,all those great ones,I`m not saying it's bad Jolie gives a great performance,full of great special effects,and fun scenes,and kick ass killer monkeys. Good for your 90's/00's action fan,but I still like action films made in the 80's.3.5/5  "},{"Title":"I liked it - but I don't know why...","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There are many reasons (for me, at least) to dislike this film.  The plot is sketchy at best, the characters in general are one dimensional, it's based on a game (always a warning)...But I liked it, and if there's nothing else on TV, the video often seems to float into my hand.  And I enjoy it every time.Why?  Possibly the fact that Angelina Jolie has made here a great *female* action hero someone who just does what she does without especial reference to her gender.  Possibly also the great (and unusual) locations that the film is set in.  Possibly the magnificent cinematography.  And possibly - and perhaps more probably than the other reasons - that despite the many flaws in this film, it does succeed in getting you in.  You become immersed in Lara Croft's world, you actually begin to *care* about these cardboard cut-out characters, and you enjoy the experience.I'd love to be able to write a review where I completely dish this film, because it is so flawed in many ways; where I use biting sarcasm and ravaging wit to tear apart every cliche and unsurprising twist in both plot and dialogue; where I pour vitriol on the terrible use of fantasy elements within the film which are completely unbelievable -  but I can't.  I like it.  And I keep rewatching it.A perfect chance to write a killing review, and I have to pass it by. That depresses me more than the flaws in the movie. "},{"Title":"Action Spectacle(And not much else!)","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  You definitely have to turn you brain off for this one,as once the basic plot is revealed the rest of the story goes completely scattershot!.  But it does have some fine effects and action sequences and should surely please those who have DVD/Home Theatre surround sound systems for an aggressive surround sound experience.  Truly a brainless action spectacle,but for fans of the action genre,it's worth a look. "}{"Title":"Nice, nice, nice and even nicer","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, everybody knows that Angelina Jolie is one sexy lady. She´s that kindow woman that can make allmost any film worth seeing. Tomb Raider is a nice movie eventhough it´s plot is pretty poor. Jolie is the BEST actress to play Lara Croft... krhm... I mean, not only because of her... krhm... big... well... because she´s pretty. She´s a good actress also... you know in acting... you know what I mean!!!  Tomb Raider is little bit same as Charlies Angels. Good looking babe kicking bad guys but. Nice and entertaining film but something happens in the last 20 minutes. The story starts to lose it´s feeling and the part where Lara talks with her father is SO cliche.  Tomb Raider is entertainment from start to finnish.  6/10    "},{"Title":"Good movie with lots of action","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The acting was excellent. Angelina Jolie provided greatly to the movie and fits her character well. The storyline could have been more revealing but was still acceptable. I have all the games for the Playstation so naturally I loved the movie. A++ "},{"Title":"Great female action film but at least it is not on breasts!","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is good. It has great action scenes. Like there is one with at the beginning where she is fighting the robot. Lara did a summersault scene(Take that Bad Blade Runner movie). Then there was this good fight scene where they were about to fight the statues and before the fight started the movie was setting up the atmosphere with the bad guys putting the giant swords in the slots at the tomb of Archielles. The movie is also good because Angelina Jolie was chosen as the perfect actress for the action movie queen.It is just like choosing Sean Connery in 1962 James Bond Dr.No. At least this movie better than watching that awful Crouching Tiger which had no storyline at all. While this one had killing and at least some storyline even if it wasn't that too much better. If you like action/drama movies then this is the film to watch. It is even better than X-Men How could people say this movie is bad. People like watching killing and at least it is still good to watch. People were saying that the reviews were wrong but it is the people that are wrong because the reason Tomb Raider got a better review than that garbage Pearl Harbour movie because Tomb Raider was better. Pearl Harbour deserves to get a bad review, it is considered to be the worst war film in the entire world. While this may not be the best movie but it is the best female action film ever. The movie started off really good especially since Lara had to get information about the key. Because if they don't find it they'll have to wait for another 5,000 years. I can't wait for Tomb Raider 2 to come out. I will be seeing you In TOMB 2 ANGELINA.Rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"Not Too Bad","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie had some obvious plot flaws, but for a fantasy action-adventure, it was not too bad.  I was especially impressed with the strong, cool leading lady.  They couldn't have picked a better player for the part!  I saw this movie under protest (I wouldn't have chosen it myself), but enjoyed it nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Angelina Jolie brings Laura Croft to life in Tomb Raider!","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It amazes me to see all the negative comments made about this film. You either like action films or not. Angelina Joile works so well as the intrepid, intelligent, tough, refined and VERY HEAVILY ARMED character of Laura Croft; the daughter of an archeologist who died some years earlier. She is thrust into an intriguing chain of events that involve a mysterious artifact that has the power to alter space and time and the secret evil society known as the Illuminati that seek to appropriate it from her. She adapts to the role flawlessly and fights, shoots, swims, jumps and even showers (in the water closet)(wink-wink) to the delight of all those who play the Tomb Raider games and those othes who do not but may start after seeing this movie. This is another movie that HAS to be added to all our collections of action films. Angelina worked so hard making the film and she deserves kudos for her performance. So stop being jealous of her and try to be a little more like her. Playing the PC based computer game can help. It is a GREAT way to relax after a long day at the office. Just have fun with the thing and remember that no one ever erected a statue to a critic! "},{"Title":"Has More Action Than The Video Game!","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"    Wow, what an action packed movie. This movie was so packed with action you felt like you were actually there. Angelina Jolie was terrific and was perfect for Lara Croft, and the brilliant Jon Voight made a great performance as Lara's father. This movie was plenty packed with action, and was highly entertaining. I give Lara Croft Tomb Raider a 10 out of 10!!!!!!!!  ) "},{"Title":"Fun as Generic Action Goes","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Not since THE AVENGERS in 1998 have I seen a movie that so seems to smack of genericized action-adventure. But whereas that genericization seemed to virtually smother all substance out of THE AVENGERS, this time it lets the movie be a more routinely enjoyable action flick . No real strong characterizations this time, but that can be a good thing. When attempts are made to integrate intense human drama with exotic high adventure, sometimes the two mesh well. But at least as often they clash and make a muddled mess. Angelina Jolie as the title character (in some versions of the title), Lara Croft, is in keeping with that generic quality. Never does she become an unforgettable character to either love or tolerate flaws in. She rolls with the action. If you like this Indiana Jones-esque sort of thing -- exotic locations, fearsome supernatural forces not altogether subject to comprehension, and giant stone contraptions in caves and rocky places, then this could be an enjoyable flick. Angelina Jolie is certainly a paradoxical actress. She won one of the best deserved Oscars in years for GIRL, INTERRUPTED. But much more often she seems to settle into the kind of persona much more like we see here. In this case she seems to be largely going along for the ride, not working hard at putting her heart into the role. Maybe that's a good thing -- an action hero needs to not remind us too much of Lisa in GIRL, INTERRUPTED. I'd give this three and a half stars. "},{"Title":"Rousing adventure!","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Not having played the game, I cannot speak to it's authenticity.The film is beautiful, and Angeline Jolie does a marvelous job of bringing Lara Croft to life as a realistic, if larger than life heroine.There are minor plot problems, as with most adventure films, if the Charactors actually thought to solve their problems, there would be no adventure...Paced well (as Indiana Jones and Romancing the Stone were) the film balances the action/adventure scenes well with slower paced plot development.Suspend disbelief and enjoy, as the film is great fun, despite what might otherwise be glaring unrealities.The interior bungee cord fight scene is awesome! "},{"Title":"Angelina's best movie so far.","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Spoilers??Unlike most people, I didn't think Angelina did well in Girl Interrupted.  Good movie but not for her.  But in this movie she pushes the limit.  And lets the female movement sore.  It's like a little of a female Bond and Mrs. Indiana Jones.  I found it more entertaining than the game.  I never really liked playing the video game anyway.  The controls are a little cocky.It's rather thin on plot, so some people might hate it for that, but I found it just totally fun to watch.  Must see for fans of the female hero. You go girl!!!7/10Quality 4/10 Entertainment 10/10 Replayable 10/10 "},{"Title":"A Satisfying Good Movie","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Man I noticed nowadays everyone has such high expectations and also take movies waaay too seriously. I found this movie entertaining from beginning to end. I am not a big Jolie fan at all, but she rocks in this flick as Lara Croft. So what that you have to always notice her breasts, but hey she is sexy as Lara Croft. Isn't that what the makers of the video game made her look in animation? Also what do you want in script wise? I found the story ok. But remember, do storylines really matter that much in movies nowadays? It is all about who is in the movie and that is all. The movie sold entirely on two factors here, the video game made into a movie and a bankable sexy star Angelina Jolie. The action scenes are all great and I found maybe a few boring parts that may have lasted all about 5 minutes each. So stop whining people about character development and storylines cuz Hollywwod banks on the stars to sell a movie not a script. I hope Jolie will make another installment sometime in the future, it is a bankable series if they will continue it that way. "}{"Title":"great action pic with fantasy plot","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  i liked this one very much. can´t uunderstand why many people thought it to be mediocre. the action scenes are fantastic, the effects superb. i rather liked the mythological fantasy plot. and angelina joli is perfect as lara. thumbs up for this movie! "},{"Title":"Angelina Jolie is FANTASTIC!","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Based on the popular video games Tomb Raider, about the adventuress Lara Croft. The plot reminds of the games, here Lara finds an ancient clock who lets its user travel through time, if he or she has the right tools. Lara gets a good opportunity to finally see her long dead dad again, and tries to find out how the clock works. But evil forces want to lay their hands on the clock as well.Director Simon West has said that if Angelina Jolie wouldn´t had accepted the role as Lara Croft, the movie wouldn´t have been made. This is perfectly understandable, as Angelina Jolie is easily the best thing in Lara Croft Tomb Raider. I mean, she IS Lara Croft. I am perfectly honest when I say that I think Jolie deserves another Oscar nomination, because this is the strongest performance by a lady I´ve seen all year. The rest of the cast is, understandably, not as interesting as Lara. So is the plot. Over-complicated and not believable at all, one might think the script was written in an afternoon. The jokes are lame and the drama parts doesn´t convince. The ending is pure rubbish. But in spite of all this the movie is salvaged, thanks to Angelina Jolie and three magnificent action scenes, where Lara fights a robot, a bunch of bad guys breaking into her mansion and finally a group on stone statues. Wow! And the soundtrack (with acts like Chemical Brothers, U2, Missy Elliot and Basement Jaxx) certainly rocks the house.3/5 "},{"Title":"Not bad,really not bad","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  After hearing and reading many negative reviews about this movie,I thought it 'd be a big mistake to go and  see it .To my great surprise ,I must admit I found it quite exciting.Maybe it'll never become a masterpiece in the history of the cinema,but it's worth watching.Angelina's toughness is really remarkable, The plot is poor and not all new (a daughter  who  meets her father in a strange dimension's not original;see Mortal Kombat 1 when Liu Kang meets his deceased brother who had been killed by Shang  Tsung).It could have been far more interesting if Lara had fought against worthier opponents.Great special effects.It needs a sequel "},{"Title":"A video-game figure that become human in a movie.","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Great movie if you are a tomb-raider game addict. Angelina Julie is a perfect for playing as Lara Croft. If you like a movie for its effects and action, this movie may be for you... but if you are looking for a good story behind it, you may not like it. "},{"Title":"That's what I get for reading po-faced critics","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I missed this in the cinema because I believed the reviews. The bottom line is that this film is on a par with the year's other big blockbusters like The Mummy Returns. It is dumb. The acting is frequently off beat. Accents come and go. Only Jolie has any star power amongst the main characters. BUT the editing is excellent, the action well realised (and all the better for being relatively bloodless) and the plot is at least borderline original. Jolie *is* Lara Croft and the world she inhabits is true to the game. I enjoyed all 95 minutes of this admirably concise film. If, like me, you were expecting Lara Croft Tomb Raider to be Avengers level bad you may be in for a pleasant surprise. "},{"Title":"Tomb Raider was okay, but I think it lacked a lot","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I liked Tomb Raider. I thought it was a good movie, but it wasn't an excellent movie. Sure, it had a lot of action in it, some really good scenes and awesome gadgets. However, I felt that the movie moved too fast. It was like Lara had too easy of a time finding where the two temples were and solving the problem of the eye. That's my only complaint about the movie, but for me it took some of the enjoyment out of Tomb Raider. "},{"Title":"One of the best...","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  For all the video games and cartoon hero's that have attempted to crossover to the big screen, this has got to be one of the best crossover attempts.  This movie was well mixed with plenty of action and and developing story line.  Granted it is no Indian Jones, but it is a fine movie in it's own right.  Jolie was especially impressive with the stunts that she accomplished.  I am not sure what folks who gave this movie a low rating were expecting, but to me this movie rates a 10. "},{"Title":"Angelina's Great, but that's about it","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Now that the summer season's over, I can look back and say that Summer 2001 was full of High Hopes and Short Comings. Nearly every movie fell short of expectations, and Tomb Raider was no exception.I can't blame them for trying to put out a Tomb Raider movie, video game movies are, I think, the most difficult adaption to pull off. The handful of video game movies that have been made gained a cult following at best and may show late at night on cable TV, but other than that haven't done too well. 2001's other video game movie, Final Fantasy, fell wildly short of expectations despite the great reputation of the Final Fantasy Games. In that respect, Tombraider may be the best video game movie ever at this point, but it still falls short of being a good movie.Like so many summer flicks, Tomb Raider is all eye-candy, but no substance. It had a wide variety of locals, good special effects, and Angelina Jolie as a pitch perfect Lara Croft. But the story's too simple, the supporting characters are too cardboard, and you feel you might as well have spent your two hours playing the game.If you like Angelina, you'll at least be able to watch this film, otherwise, wait till it's on TNT after Street Fighter or something. "},{"Title":"This movie was awesome","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was so great. I loved the hole thing. I think that the casting director picked the right actress to play Lara in Tomb Raider. I have been playing tomb raider video games ever since the first game came out. And I told my self I think they should make a movie out of this game. Because they had made one for mortal kombat why not a this one. When I watch this movie it was go great because Angelina did the same moves and the same voice the the really character as the video game. And I Angelina look just like lara croft in the video games. I cant wait until a next tomb raider comes out. Well I hope that another one comes out because theres a lot of video games about lara croft. I give this move to thumbs up and a 10/10 rating. "},{"Title":"A surprisingly...okay flick.","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  LARA CROFT TOMB RAIDER (2001) Rating 6/10I was not disappointed with this flick. Considering I had low expectations for it to begin with. Even before Tomb Raider got bad reviews I thought the TV ads weren't that striking, they never made me wanna see it. But, since somebody in my household rented it the last time I rented films, I thought I'd give it a chance. It's still not a good movie, but it's okay, better than I thought at least.The movie starts out with a bang. With a very cool action scene between Lara and a giant four armed robot. And there are a few good action scenes spread throughout the movie. Those are undeniably the best parts of this rather okay movie. And Angelina Jolie kicks ass. She plays Lara Croft very well. She has some humorous moments, sexiness, and she does all her action scenes dead on. Jolie definitely saves the movie. She really got into the spirit of Lara Croft. I've never played the game, from which this movies is based upon, but I found Lara Croft an interesting, rich and cool character and the director has a lot of fun with her action scenes. Seeing this great character leap around supported by a bungee cord in her silk pajamas late at night is pretty cool. Add to that the film had some pretty neat ideas and was quite smart in places.On the downside, I found this movie surprisingly dull in parts and the plot sucked big time. The film wasn't as exciting as it could have been, the script was mucked up, the director, although he does great with his action scenes, doesn't really know where he is taking the film, the whole father story didn't hit the right notes and the ending is bad, confusing and leaves the film on an unenergetic and dissatisfying note.So, I guess Lara Croft Tomb Raider gets a place somewhere in the middle. I thought lots of stuff about this movie, particularly Angelina Jolie, was sweet and impressed me. Then again, a lot of things weren't so good and the film will probably just be another loud, silly yet nice to look at summer film experience that people will enjoy but probably wont find to be a masterpiece of a movie. "}{"Title":"Updated Indiana Jones","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Folks, let's keep this movie in our hearts as exactly what it is...a female rendering of Indiana Jones.  The plot does not intend to be perfect or solid.  It is a duplication of a video game, and to that end achieves it's goal.  Some of the action or tasks are a little far fetched but that is to be expected.  Angelina Jolie is perfect in this role.  All of the villains in this movie have the conflict we have come to expect from action movies. Purely evil, but sly...weak and money hungry, and internally conflicted.Sadly the worst performance in the movie is by Voight.  He is totally unbelievable as her father.  His performance was without emotion or interest.As a final note the shameful prosthetic breasts Angelina was wearing were insulting.  We all know she is endowed well enough anyway and that embellishment on the character was unnecessary.  She looked out of proportion in some scenes and a natural badass would have been just fine by me. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Not only is she hot, but she a really good actress. Her real father makes an appearance, and adds a personal story to a action packed epic. Bing on the sequels! (and that tight black shirt) She's like the modern day Indy. They went all out and it shows.  "},{"Title":"the movie rulz!!! I give it two gun's up!!!!!","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Angelia Jolie plays the part of Lara Croft well as She does in all of Her movies...Gotta love that girl!!!!! I agree, it's like watching the game with real life character's.... I recognized part's of the game in the the film!Such as the all seeing eye and swinging beam she had to ride.. The movie rocked My world and If You haven't seen it before it leaves theatre's, buy it when it hit's shelves!!!!!  "},{"Title":"She climbs, swings and shoots. Now she is real.","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I really wanted to hate this film. I loved the game. Part of me didn't want this film to be any good because I didn't want the good name of gaming be sullied by movie madness. I didn't want anything to take away from the gaming experience I had had. Lara was personal from a long time ago and the masses really didn't deserve her. So I hoped people would deride the movie and keep Lara firmly on the small screen, where she could be properly appreciated. The sets in this picture are truly astonishing and capture the spirit of Tomb Raider excellently. Hardened TR fans cannot complain that every effort hasn't been put into making this as close to the original as possible. Angelina Jolie makes an excellent Lara Croft with a credible English accent. Chris Barrie plays a likeable butler. The plot zips along at a pace and it needs to be fairly simple to accommodate this, which it is, in fairness. The SFX are not groundbreaking with a scene reminiscent of 'The Mummy' to name but one of the few all-action sequences, but they thrill, nonetheless. A fantastic Indiana Jones-athon, almost worthy of the name.  "},{"Title":"Coulda been great action/adventure trash, but.....","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Lara Croft Tomb Raider is not nearly as bad as the major critics are making it out to be (except for Roger Ebert, who liked it--but then again he likes any movie with a hot chick in it).The film has a very mid-sixties/early seventies feel about it. Tomb Raiders closest film relatives are not the Indiana Jones movies, as is always written. No, the makers of Tomb Raider are not aiming that high. The kind of movies Tomb Raider is most reminiscent of are relatively low-budget flicks like Ray Harryhausen's Sinbad movies from the 60's and 70's, AIP's Doug McClure People That Time Forgot flicks, and the James Bond Movies and their 60's copycats (and, yes, compared to a modern day action-fest like TR the James Bond films were relatively low budget). Throw in a few emphatic nods to Jackie Chan style Hong Kong cinema, a teasing-but-sexless pinch of Barbarella and you've got Tomb Raider.So, there is a cheesiness and a lack of logic--but there is also a childlike sense of good old-fashioned fun. And when was the last time you saw a fun American action movie that wasn't marketed to kids?Two major flaws keep TR from being a classic of this nameless action genre#1 The filmmakers in charge of TR don't have the storytelling sense that even the hacks who cranked out the low-budget films I've previously mentioned did. And I'm not talking about plot--I'm talking about the audience being able to tell what exactly is going on up on the screen at any given moment. Director Simon West attempts several major action sequences in TR and, unfortunately, none of them work as well as they could. In fact, two Jackie Chan influenced stunt-action set pieces are so incomprehensibly edited that it is only long after the scene is over that you can piece together what you just saw. And this is a shame, because once you do, you can appreciate how clever it all must have seemed on paper--especially for a sequence involving Lara fighting dozens of men while bouncing up and down in a high-ceilinged room on a giant bungee. Now, if West, his cinematographer, and his editor had found a way to at least fake the look he's really doing that effect of a Chan action scene, the sequence would have been phenomenal. As it is, however, they favor nonsensical motion over exciting coherence--the scene is nothing but a bunch of very quick cuts of body parts zooming by, squibs blowing holes in walls, and bodies falling from high places. As I said, it is only after the hubbub that you piece it together. So, why go to the trouble to choreograph a cool and elaborate action/stunt scene if you're only going to shoot it in a way that makes it seem as though you simply threw dozens of rolling cameras in the air at once, and then edit the footage in a blender? It is hard to understand why western action filmmakers, with all their technology, still completely fail when they try to absorb (rip-off) Hong Kong action film styles.#2 Too many nonsensical plot details. Again, West and his fellow filmmakers display a standard of story-sense that is way below that of the low-budget journeymen writers and directors of the recent past. This is especially true during the idiotic and incomprehensible climax, involving a thingamajig that controls time.And again, it is not the plot that is bad--a gizmo that controls time, the mysteriously evil Illuminati out to conquer the world, magic keys, planetary alignment, statues that magically come to life. No, its the fact that the screenwriters obviously didn't know that--no matter what is going on, no matter how weird or goofy or outta this world or even illogical it is--the audience still needs to know what's going on up on the screen for full enjoyment. You have to build your film's logic, especially if it operates outside the logic of the real world. I won't spoil any of it for you by providing details of the movie's loads of faux-mystical hoo-ha here. Beside, its already kinda spoiled up there on the screen by the idiotically poor writing).But, having said that, Tomb Raider is fun. Its just that, for someone like me who was brought up on action/adventure/fantasy films where the makers had 1/100th the amount of money to spend on their thrills (or less) it hurts when I see filmmakers with tens upon tens of millions of dollars at their disposal flush so much of it down the john. "},{"Title":"This film accomplishes everything it sets out to do.","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In an action film based on a video game you can only hope that the cinematic rendition is true to the original feel of the game. In this instance I feel that the film has captured the essence of the Tomb Raider setting almost more so than the game itself. The problem solving element of the game is still there, yet it is less disjointed because it runs as a story, instead of an interface that arguably left a lot to be desired.Fantastic sets, attention to costuming, inventive choreography and CGI allow contrast enough that action scenes are both interesting and easy to follow. As you would hope, this is a film with great visuals.The plot is easy to follow and segmented into levels much in the same way that the video game was, yet this is not to the detriment of the pace of the film.The soundtrack is contemporary and helps maintain the action.Angelina Jolie has the accent of Lara Croft down brilliantly. She is as much like the game character as any human would want to be. What she lacks in the bustline she makes up for with onscreen charisma. The casting of her real life father (Jon Voigt) as her onscreen father is a nice touch.The plot is not deep, but it doesn't have to be. If you have heard rumours of the plot containing time travel elements, rest assured that this is barely touched on and does not make the movie any cheesier than it already is.If you are after a deep plot, full frontal nudity and huge breasts, this is not the film for you, but if you are prepared to take your action with a grain of salt then you can expect an entertaining film that achieves everything it sets out to do. "},{"Title":"Angelina Jolie is good. Too bad they didn't make a decent story.","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The good part about this movie is Angelina Jolie. Jolie is the one who is like a real Lara Croft and making this movie good. She is Sexy and Cool in that character. The Soundtrack is good, a perfect match for this kind of movie. The characters are 100% well chosen. The Sounds are worthy to experience.But the problem of this movie is there is not a decent story! The movie is totally like when you are playing a game and sometimes they don't focus on the story! When they are on this mission, It's like you are sitting down on the couch and playing a cool game! The scenery is like what you see on the game so this movie scenery is not that good. It's not that realistic enough. They should have made this movie longer as they jump to the conclusion too soon. If this movie was about 2 hours, I will be more satisfied.So as a matter in fact, Jolie is excellent, soundtrack and the characters are good but need to work on the story a bit. On the other hand, It might be better just to play the game instead.But this movie is worth watching, only it doesn't have a decent story. Rating B- or 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"The two biggest stars in this movie...","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" ...is not Angelina Jolie and Jon Voight.  It's Angelina's breasts!  My God, could director Simon West have ANY MORE gratuitous shots of Mrs. Billy Bob's fun bags in one movie?  After a while, it just kind of became a joke--almost like how movies today try to subtly sneak in certain product placement.  I mean come on--Lara Croft riding a dog sled in the dead of a Siberian winter while wearing a heavy coat THAT SHE CHOOSES TO LEAVE UNBUTTONED?!  Can you say hypothermia?  This scene was even more ridiculous than the one in Backdraft, when Kurt Russell and (Billy?  Stephen?  Daniel?) Baldwin run into the towering inferno with no helmets and their coats unbuttoned.  Hey guys--why not just go in wearing shorts and a T-shirt?! In any event, there weren't many redeeming qualities in this flick as far as I was concerned--basically just one big commercial for the video game.  Think of a cross between The Mummy Returns and The Avengers, and you can come to your own conclusions. "},{"Title":"Remember, Lara; you must... indistinct  and always... indistinct  ...do you understand?  Good, now... indistinct","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  You might call me a fan of the EIDOS PSX series.  Having played and finished the first four games (while not perhaps liking them all, I figured I paid for them, I may as well finish them), I had to go and see the Hollywood Movie upon its release.  Lara Croft Tomb Raider is your basic sort of strut&poise action flick, which differs from the games in the most major way in that Lara is surrounded by people most of the time in the film, whereas in the game, she is usually completely ALONE.  That Aspect Of Solitude gave the games a flavor of absurdity, like, What would such a hot young thing be doing all alone in such a place?  And; How many times can she keep trying to grab on a ledge and keep missing?  I'm certain it would have caused an uproar, but it would have magnified the quality of this movie untold amounts if she had missed ONE jump and splashed into the water!  In Hollywood films such as these, moments of quirkiness are exceptionally rare, and I always have contests with myself to see what brief moments of quirkiness that the latest big-budget Hollywood spectacle has to offer. Curiously enough, there isn't really THAT MUCH Tomb-Raiding in the movie, one puzzle is soon solved, and there's a pendulum ride, but the Harryhausen-inspired attack scene is a lot of fun.  Perhaps the best sequence in the movie.  The robot was too reminiscent of Lost in Space. Jon Voight's role was indeed two-sided.  Yes, he's Angelina's real father, and yes, his part inspires the title for this review.  It may have been hastily underwritten.  In any case, I appreciated his inclusion, yet it seemed weak.I expected more out of my movie, I always joke, It should have been more like Castaway!  But not a lot of people liked Castaway, so -- "},{"Title":"IS THIS THE NEW INDIANA JONES? I THINK NOT!","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I am not particularly fond of 'video-game-made-to-movies' (re Final Fantasy). They are usually hideously presented when transferred to the Big Screen. This movie was disappointing in that respect, but I wasn't expecting much and I got exactly what I expected.It was, however, better than Mummy Returns.The games' story lines are much more involving (for obvious reasons, dhuh!!!) But like a game, the plot simply revolves around 'finding an artifact, killing off the bad guys while searching for it, and preventing the head bad guy from using said artifact because if he does, he'll destroy the world'. So your character has to... (yawn) save the world... again. (ZZZZZZZzzzzzz!)This flick meanders all over the world. Each location is pretty eye-candy. But they look more like fake sets on a huge sound stage instead of real live locales. This movie plays like the new age version of Indiana Jones, but is not as exciting. This is what I found most disappointing. Instead we endure what we already saw in Mission Impossible II. Now I can sit and watch impossible stunts being performed quite happily, mind (The Matrix)! But when they're performed a la Tom Cruise Style, my 2 brain cells deconstruct and my butt falls asleep!BUT Ms Jolie was cast perfectly as Lara Croft. She gets 10/10 for her performance. I doubt another actress could play Lara as well! She out shines stiff, boring Ethan Hunt in the I'm Cool Department hands down.The ending is a major let down. WHY DOES HOLLYWOOD FORCE FEED US SUCH BUTTOCK-NUMBING ENDINGS? DOES HOLLYWOOD THINK AUDIENCES HAVE THE I.Q OF A WOODEN SPOON?? I rate this flick 5/10, mostly for Ms Jolie's performance and the nice C.G.I effects. DEAR HOLLYWOOD The 'End Bit' of a Movie is Just As Important as the Beginning and Middle Bits! "}{"Title":"Good action sequences are ruined by a bad ending and an uninvolving plot.","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  LARA CROFT TOMB RAIDER (2001) Rating 6/10Lara Croft Tomb Raider starts very well. It is quite good in the middle. At the end, it isn't so good. I guess the film just keeps going down and down as time proceeds. Anyway, I wonder if there will ever be any good video game-to-movie films? Final Fantasy The Spirits Within wasn't too good, and this is the second movie in one year that is a full-on disappointment. I found this movie surprisingly dull in parts and the plot sucked big time. On the plus side, I did find all the action sequences extremely entertaining. Lara Croft is an interesting, rich and cool character and the director has a lot of fun with her action scenes. Seeing this great character leap around supported by a bungee cord in her silk pyjamas late at night is undeniably special and lets face it, who couldn't love those 36D breasts? Yummy. Angelina was fantastic and saved the movie. She really got into the spirit of Lara Croft. Add to that the film had some pretty neat ideas and was quite smart in places. But, the film wasn't as exciting as I thought it was, the script was mucked up, the director &#150; although he does great with his action scenes &#150; doesn't really know where he is taking the film, the whole `father' story didn't hit the right notes and the ending is really bad, confusing and leaves the film on an unenergetic and dissatisfying note. So, I guess Lara Croft Tomb Raider gets a place somewhere in the middle. I thought lots of stuff about this movie, particularly Angelina, were sweet and impressed me. Then again, a lot of things disappointed me and the film will probably just be another loud, silly yet nice to look at summer film experience that people will enjoy but probably won't find to be a masterpiece of a movie.   "},{"Title":"RAIDERS!","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There was alot of action in this movie. And I liked it alot. That is the sort of thing that I like in a movie. This has got to be one of my favourite movies this year.And I have to admit, Angelina Jolie gave Lara a kind of James Bond crossed with Indiana Jones type feel to the character of Lara Croft. Cool but at the same time rugged. And that is the sort of thing the movie industry has needed to put in a movie character.Overall I would have to say that it was a really good movie. "},{"Title":"Go, AJ","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, Angelina is truly something. Incredibly hot-n-juicy, definitely the best action heroine, probably ever. She alone is probably the reason to see this movie. As for the rest, there are some great action sequences, some not so great, and everything truly looks like a video game-turned-movie nervous plot, not too much brain involved, lots of bangs. Maybe the sequel won't be a Video game movie, but rather an adventure epic starring Angelina Jolie as Lara Croft. That would be cool. "},{"Title":"Not good enough!","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  First of all, i am a huge fan of all the tomb raider games.  I am not a great fan of this film.  The plot was pretty weak and it just didn't feel like tomb raider should.  I know thats a poor reason for not liking the movie but its just the way i feel!  On the plus side  there is Angelina Jolie.  She looked amazing, acted amazing - she was Lara Croft.  I suppose the film was worth watching for Jolie alone.5/10 "},{"Title":"WOW!!","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Yeah WOW that was the first thought i had when i started too see the movie. When i heard Angelina Jolie would get the role of Lara Croft I knew it was going to be a great movie, but then just for watching the 1st action scene I knew it would be more then a great movie...would be excelente! I loved the all movie, the action scenes were awsome, the plot was great, the cast was excelent! This is the best movie i ever saw till now! "},{"Title":"For diehard fans (JolieCroft) only","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This was a very contrived attempt to cash in on the popularity of the Tomb Raider\Lara Croft video game series.  Take one by-the-numbers script. Add one gorgeous and somewhat talented actress. Pace it poorly. (At least The Mummy Returns gave you nearly non-stop action) You'll end up with a serviceable but very uninspiring outing, that will probably only entertain younger teenage boys.  "},{"Title":"It's a game made into a movie.  What else?","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It was a video game brought to the big screen.From that perspective, it was OK.  But it wasn't anything greater or anything deeper.I enjoyed it merely because of the novelty of the game made movie.  Well, that and Angelina Jolie with slightly (though not enough for the role) pumped up muscles.  Jolie was a perfect Lara.I just wish when they created this film a LITTLE appreciation for good writing would have been considered.  I actually thought the plot to the game was more interesting (perhaps because the expectations were lower from a computer game than from a multi-multi million dollar big name flick)  "},{"Title":"A FUN MOVIE, I WOULD WATCH AGAIN","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This was a really fun movie;  you can pick it apart all you want, but it was pure fun, the way Charlie's Angels was fun.  Even the rock like creatures were fun; they were an hommage to the early Hercules/Steve Reeves/Jason and the Argonauts Italian productions.Angelina Jolie was great;  she is able to express entire sentences with her eyes or a curl of her mouth.  This was a great movie just for the fact that you got to see her for an hour and 33 minutes.  (and this was the first film I've seen her in).   "},{"Title":"She is gorgeous, but that is all","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Angelina did her job very well! She is the only bright side of this horrible movie. The story is very bed and action scenes are almost boring. It is bad for movie industry, that woman must rescue the movie. The producers were so happy, when they found right actress, that they forgot to make a movie. We saw the result! "},{"Title":"They've got to be joking... If tomb raider's a movie, then i'm an eggplant(spoiler warning)","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  WARNING, LOTS OF SPOILERS OK, where to start? All right, from the first minute i was expecting a terrible movie, cuz let's face it, video games just dont make good movies. But no one had prepared me for the absolute monstrosity that is lara croft. I was left utterly destroyed. What was wrong with this film??? everything. Like the first scene... Lara vs assasin robot/jukebox. right... this mechanic horror can bore through stone walls and can take countless rounds of bullets, yet somehow lara manages to summon the power of a thousand bears, and wards off the vicious robot... uhu, i do that every day before going to school. That wasn't so bad though. the movie in general has NO plot, the acters are disgracefull, including, yes, agelina...im sorry guys, the woman is sexy and all, but as lara croft she was a total turn off... also the dialogue is pathetic-with, a few exceptions. the action scenes were a total deja-vu, and the bad guy was just plain annoying. let's take it frame by frame the scene were lara discovers the clock. that was a total rip-off of superman and the crystal thingie he finds in the barn. then, the dialogue between lara-the bad dude was so ridiculous i couldn't believe it. then the second action scene lara in her pj's wasting a batalion. that was just too fake, im sorry but ****#@!##@%$ then the part where they find the first piece of that omnipotent triangle thingie. nobody can figure anything out except lara! oh my god, besides kicking absolute ass, she can also think out the best of them. Ok, further down lara meets the buhdists er whatever they are. that's sad. and the mystical tea lara drinks and is cured from her injuries? why didnt modern scientists/doctors think of magic tea? we could cure aids with that s***! Then the whole business with her father. i remain unconvinced and untouched by the drama of lara-daddy. i dont care if it's her real life dad lpaying the part, it's just so CORNY,DRIPPY,TACKY!! And here comes the worst part the final scene where lara finds out her father was murrdered by the bad guy. tha is such a cliche!!!!!!!!!!!! LUKE, I AM YOUR FATHER!  and the action scenes were insulting. i mean come on, people, am i really to believe that all the stuff lara does can be accomplished? GIVE ME A BREAK!!!!!!SUMMARY when i left the movie theater i thought to myself, there is no way that movie SUCKED that bad, they were just kidding to p*** me off! people it was terrible. i dont care if the game's good, i dont care if u see angelina in your wet-dreams, this movie is just FRAGANTLY HORRIBLE..A MODERN ATROCITY. DO NOT SEE IT! "}{"Title":"Excellent Movie!","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I went and saw Tomb Raider at the theater and thought it was an excellent movie. Jolie played her character very well, and was very awesome in the action scenes. She was also very well spoken about her father whom she cared for very much. I give this movie a  8/10. "},{"Title":"THe best movie of 2001!","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is great! It had a nice touch of humor. I don't know why some say that this movie isn't good, considering all the work Angelina put into it, and Simon West is practically a beginner in directing. I don't see how people could see this movie and not know how much work was put into it. If I could I'd give it a 20 or even more! "},{"Title":"Perfect actress,perfect plot,perfect movie!","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  WarningMinor spoilers ahead.I seriously believe that Angelina Jolie was the perfect actress for the role of a hard-bodied,gun-toting,outta-my-way-before-i-kick-your-butt- i'm-doing-my-job-here kind of woman.She makes the character more realistic that way.On the subject of the actual movie,it was awesome.Everything from the opening scene where she's raiding a tomb (or is she?) to the last scene where she becomes a lady is done with stunning special effects (you have to see what she does for bedtime relaxation) and humour,however sarcastic or twisted.It has one of those nice little twists to it,as well.So rush to the nearest theater that's still playing it before you have to wait those 6 long months before it comes out on video. "},{"Title":"Good effort but must try harder.","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie could have been so much better if it stayed truer to its source material.The adventures that cyber heroine Lara Croft undergoes here are small beer compared to the game and seem over too quickly.A couple of fight sequences(albeit well done)and a few chases in darkened tombs would be far better if they were much longer and put Lara in the same kind of lengthily prolonged jeopardy that the game does. However,I cannot fault Angelina Jolie in this role although I wish she had been playing Modesty Blaise instead.Jolie's English accent is very well done and she makes as believable a titled lady as she does a kick-ass adventuress which is something a lot of actresses would be incapable of achieving.Unfortunately the rest of the cast,even Jon Voight as Lara's father are mostly expendable and the villains are completely nondescript.Overall the movie just about passes muster as a brainless summer blockbuster but if Lara is to return to the big screen let us see tons more action and less repetitive chit-chat than we do here otherwise we would do just as well to stick to TV and to watch the splendid Tia Carrere in the similarly themed series Relic Hunter. "},{"Title":"Perfect Casting, But What About A Plot?","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There are far too few strong roles for women in the cinema, so bringing electronic game icon Lara Croft to the big screen was a wonderful idea and 26 year old American actress Angelina Jolie is perfect physically for the role, even managing a competent English accent, like her compatriots Gwyneth Paltrow (`Sliding Doors') and Renee Zellweger (`Bridget Jones's Diary') before her. Her sardonic tone and sassy swagger are just right. In another neat bit of casting, real life dad Jon Voight plays her deceased father in flash backs.The locations are wonderful &#150; most notably the temples of Angkor Wat in Cambodia, but also Iceland, Venice and Hartfield House in rural England &#150; and the action scenes are fast, furious and fun. A pity then that the plot is so weak (finding the key to time and space before the wicked Illuminati get hold of it) and some characterisation would certainly have been in order (where did Lara learn to shot two huge guns simultaneously?). Jolie has signed a two-sequel contract, so let's hope that the franchise will become better.  "},{"Title":"A disappointing adaptation!","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I am a Tomb Raider fan, I started playing Tomb Raider game series since Tomb Raider II. BUT, this movie of adaptation disappointed me. I think perhaps director Simon West is too busy to play the game himself. The movie can not reappear the real fetching points of the games. It's myth, mentally challenging problems, and splendent scenes are not adequately shown in the movie. By the way, Lady Lara Croft will never fight barehanded in the game, she only uses her various guns and artful skills to cope with her enemy. The movie's only appreciable point is Angelina Jolie, she is the perfect person to play Lara Croft. Anyway, as a Tomb Raider fan, I am expecting Tomb Raider 2 and wish it will be better.  "},{"Title":"A movie based on a video game..what do you expect?","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  God!  Billy Bob Thorton HAD to of sold his soul to the devil.  How else can you explain his marriage to Jolie??  Man, she is smokin' throughout this flick, even without any real nudity!  What was the movie about?&#133;umm&#133;I think it involves some evil man trying to get an evil power from and ancient evil stone, while Jolie tries to stop all the evil&#133;..but I could be wrong.  All I know is that I have to figure out a way to hang two bungee cords from my ceiling!  (Have to see movie to understand)  Oh yeah, See You in Hell, Billy Bob!!  B- "},{"Title":"A Jolie good time","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Lara Croft Tomb Raider has a truly moronic, muddled, and atrociously stupid plot. But honestly, this movie is based on a video game, how much plot are we looking for? Exactly. So this movie must be evaluated by other criteria. First, Angelina Jolie as the famed Lara Croft surprisingly, Jolie is quite apt for an action movie role - she attacks the stunts and action sequences with the perfect amount of physical believability, slick attitude, and energy. She rolls, leaps, shoots, kicks, etc. etc. without evoking the usual reaction of, Yeah, right. Plus, you might be shocked at how well she pulls off the British accent. Because of Jolie's interesting portrayal as Croft, despite the nonsensical story, this movie comes off as pretty easy to sit through. The settings are actually quite good, and the action takes place in a wide variety of places ancient tombs and musty caverns and British mansions and so on. Some of the monsters within the tombs are a throwback to much better adventure films of the past, but even this sort of gives the whole thing a slightly more authentic feel. Sure, there is a lot of bad here. Much could have done better. There are 40 unneccesary close-ups of Jolie's breasts and thighs, and 12 unneeded shower scenes. The plot could have been written by chimps randomly banging their hands on a typewriter. But, in the end, we can no forget that it is movie that draws its origins from a video game, so just go with the flow and you'll come out amused enough. "},{"Title":"Do people still fall for this stuff?","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I never understood where the concept for creating movies from video games ever originated from, or why people think there's any chance those movies will be any good. It's shameful that it is even done. There is not an ounce of credibility in a movie that is made from a game. Tomb Raider was probably one of the worst of them all. With constant corporate sponsorship finding its way all over this movie, I'm surprised the film wasn't just a ninety minute Pepsi commercial. As a matter of fact, I don't remember a single normal preview for this movie when it was first coming out. There were only product advertisements. And of course, Lara Croft just happened to use those products.  I was extremely disappointed when I found that Angelina Jolie was doing this movie. She had done terrible films before, for example, Gone In Sixty Seconds, but this was sinking to a whole new low. She used to be an actress I could respect. But now, it's difficult to keep from laughing when I hear her name.  And the one thing this movie could have had going for it, the special effects, were also a total let down. The scenes looked ridiculous, and I wondered if they were intentionally amusing, or maybe the director realized his career was gone when he was doing video game inspired movies and he just didn't care anymore. Either way, this whole movie felt like a big joke. "},{"Title":"Dazzling and colourful like any other soap bubble","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Tomb Raider is as a movie as dazzling and colourful as a soap bubble, and with the same lasting effect none. The minute you walk out of the theatre it erases itself from memory. Another sad example of what seems to be a Hollywood law you cannot have special effects as well as a scenario or a good cast. In Tomb Raider it is all about the effects, which are dazzling, that must be said. But the scenario is ridiculous, the dialogues are a shambles and really, when do moviemakers stop insulting the intelligence of the public? I know, I know, it is all about our own willingness to suspend our disbelief. In Tomb Raider that willingness dries out after the first five minutes, and from that moment on it is like one of those really BAD roller coaster rides that makes you yearn for the end. And the sad thing is that it could have been so much better, yes, even a new Indiana Jones. With a less contrived plot and with some real dialogues for instance. And with a grade-A cast instead of the long list of complete nobodies. Angelina Jolie is fine, of course, though personally I found her Lara Croft a bit too much built up of acting cliches. Jon Voight really had only eight lines of text or so and they were so inanely stupid that I felt sorry for him.  Of course a sequel is inevitable. I hope that the producers will grab the chance to set things right and to make a better film than Tomb Raider. It can be done. It just needs more imagination and less commercialism. 5/10. "}{"Title":"Good entertainment, but with no greater depth","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The story in Tomb Raider is fairly cheesy and is absolutely only used as an excuse to make some nice action-scenes. But since it doesn't pretend to be something it's not, I don't mind the story. TR is supposed to be entertaining and it is. The movie is probably only (well, maybe not only...) for boys who likes guns and funny exploding gadgets. The special effects were nothing new, but still nice to watch, not to mention Angelina Jolie...! In overall a fairly cheesy story but with an ok entertaining-value.6,5 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Funny, Sexy, Cool","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Tomb Raider is really a good movie. This films just got it all, action, comedy, emotions, adventure, exotic locations and a pretty leading lady. This film is, you might say a combination of Indiana Jones and James Bond only with a lot more fictional elements. I overall thought this was a good film which had some great moments and only one weak moment. (WARNING SPOILER AHEAD!!!) This would be the moment in the ending, when Lara (Angelina Jolie) kills the bad guy by going back in time, turning around a knife he thrown and thus letting him kill himself. (SPOILERS END!!!)The direction was good, although sometimes I found the action hard to follow, but I did not expect less from a graduate of the &#145;Jerry Bruckheimer School of Actionmovie making'. Well Done.All in all I feel that this movie could not have been as good without Angelina Jolie in the leading role. I mean, the British accent she learned for this movie, her appeal, her coolness, her sexyness, her toughness, her cleverness and her humor all make her a worthy Lara Croft. But not only that, they also make her a likeable person and I must say one which I would love to have as a girlfriend (no offense!). I hope to see a sequel, made by the same crew (and some of the cast), that is even better. For I hope the scriptwriter learns from his mistakes. I believe a better sequel is a possibility and a must with such a great character and such a great leading &#145;Lady'.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Great Lara soso script","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I give this one a vote of 7 but this is mainly for a great Lara Croft. I cant think of a better Lara than Jolie. I played all the games and the way you imagine Lara would look and act in real life, is just right. There are great action scenes (mind you a bit unrealistic to say the least), and technically the movie is okay. It´s only held down by a bad script. But now they have seen it´s possible to make money on these kinds of movies, so my guesh is that Tomb Raider The Sequel will have a way better script, and possibly another director. "},{"Title":"The picture-book compliment for Foucault's Pendulum","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I think I loved it, but I'll see it again just to make sure.Those who criticize this film are wrong.  When tackling a story line that includes time-travel and the Illuminati, it is better to say too little rather than too much.  The story is not self-contradictory and does not implode as does the bungled Jurassic Park III.For pure fun,  It is a wonderful picture-book companion for Umberto Eco's Foucault's Pendulum, or for true believers, professor Quigley's Tragedy and Hope.Just enough of everything so that nothing is overdone and we are left pleasantly full but wanting more. Well done as to face and form and voice, amply providing gadget and vehicle and bouncing-bullet ballet.If you have not seen Jurassic Park III, save time and angst.  See Raider again.  "},{"Title":"Good action, but a bit far fetched","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was really looking forward to this movie.  The action was a little far fetched and the story was the same.  Angelina Jolie looks good and there probably will be a sequel or two to follow.  Good fight scene in the opening shots with the robot.7/10 "},{"Title":"Good potential, now when's the sequel?","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  With the superb choice of Angelina Jolie to play the eponymous role, they were obvoiusly half way there to creating a great adaption of the computer game.The producers succeeded admirably to bring the puzzle elements found in the game to the big screen, however, everything else seemed strangely empty. And the statue sequence was completely devoid of any tension.  Nowhere in the film did Lara seem under any sort of real threat.As a fan of the games, I was un-offended by this first attempt, but I look forward to the sequel.The music was crap.  Listen to the music on its own and it doesn't bring visions of adventure and mystery like a soundtrack should.Nathan McRee, the (first three) game's composer, is sorely, sorely missed. "},{"Title":"doesn't get going","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was hoping this would be a non-stop thrill fest. To my suprise themovie was a lot of plot. A lot of conversations, explanations to astory that isn't really engrossing to begin with.Action sequences are nice. Angelina Jolie is nice. Some nicecomedic touches but as a whole, it's just dragging on.I've never played a lot of Tomb Raider so maybe I'm missing someinside jokes but the best computer-game movie is still PaulAnderson's MORTAL KOMBAT. "},{"Title":"Deserves a sequel","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I went to see two films last week 2001 and Tomb Raider (don't laugh!).2001 is a brilliant brilliant film but almost totally devoid of any characterisations whatsoever. The acting is purely functional, like an illustration from a science textbook. Despite this, it's a good film because the story and the direction are perfectly executed.Tomb Raider on the other hand is a film with a very badly executed plot. Ms Croft's motives become very unclear towards the end, where the narrative seems to fall apart from the moment Ms Croft simply hands over to her enemies a vital artefact she's been fighting for. The climax is especially muddled, with tension in the finale practically non-existent. Earlier set pieces are much more impressive and exciting, especially the raid on Croft Manor.However, for some reason I really liked the film, and I think I know why. Even most of the bad reviews mentioned that Angelina Jolie was the best woman for the job, and I'd have to agree. Jolie conveys something no actress since Diana Rigg has managed, to be a convincing independent action heroine who isn't driven by some po-faced desire for power or a wish to be a man. The director of the film compared Jolie to Sigourney Weaver, but I think Weaver is much more serious and much less charismatic. Jolie in this film presents something unique at the moment, a non-serious strong and playful leading woman who doesn't turn to anyone else to solve her problems. I might also add that it's a very new and strange (but probably also extremely healthy) experience to heroine-worship a woman you're also lusting over.For me, the height of the characterisation is right at the end, where Croft is in the middle of fleeing a collapsing cave and for no particular reason she starts to beam a satisfied smile, as if she's getting off on the jeopardy.The way Jolie's Croft just cheerfully goes ahead and does things is reminiscent of Sean Connery's Bond, and this is why I think it deserves a sequel. The first Bond film, Dr No, was pretty dull and derivative, but Connery and the whole formula of camp adventure well delivered was the thing reviewers at the time picked up on. The set-up in Tomb Raider is good too, and I could well see Croft Manor and Chris Barrie's butler being a nice equivalent to M, Q and Moneypenny.The characters are good, the premise is good, the setting is good, Angelina Jolie is excellent (and essential to any sequel). If they could just nail down a better script and some more tension-building direction as well, I'd be first in line to see Tomb Raider II. "},{"Title":"Sweet Sweet Angelina","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  A great film if you're after a simple fantastic sci-fi style adventure.Angelina Jolie is the ONLY choice to play Lara and she does a wonderful job.Rated as my best film of the year so far. "},{"Title":"Cool effects, great acting, but criticized WAY to much!","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I really liked Tomb Raider. It was an awesome movie, and worth my time and money. Angelina Jolie (luv that name!) was a perfect choice for Lara Croft, and while a few scenes of the movie center around her sex appeal, there is a lot more to it.Tomb Raider has special effects that will remind you of great classics like Indiana Jones and other super action films. They were quite impressive. People will tell you they were mediocre, but remember that really good special effects you hardly even notice, because they are realistic. Thats what I saw in Tomb Raider.The acting was, in a word, wonderful. I was truly impressed. While I already knew how good Angelina Jolie was, I had not heard of many of the other people in the film (not including, of course, the extremely talented Jon Voight). Alex West's character really added to the movie, as the money loving Tomb Raider who wasn't sure what side he was on. And Ian Glenn (I'm sorry, I'm sure I spelled that wrong) stepped in as the power hungry Manfred Powell. Contrary to what a lot of people say, he is a calm, manipulative villain who is very convincing.The only crappy thing about this movie isn't its fault at all. It's been criticized to death! People have said it was a rip off of Indiana Jones, except a different plot and with a woman. Um... that would make it kinda different, wouldn't it?! Duh! Others say the villain is flat and dull, but just because he isn't loud and gun trigger-happy, doesn't mean he's not evil. He's just quiet. But the most common complaint is that it is dull and confusing. Not to be rude, but if YOU are scratching your head at the end of this flick, pay more attention to it next time, and don't blame the creators. They don't deserve flack because somebody didn't understand the intricate plot. It's fun and exciting and well done. Don't screw it up.8/10 (A) "}{"Title":"Mind-numbing!  (Huge, huge spoilers!!)","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** I've never played any of the Tomb Raider games so I can't say how the film works as an adaptation, but it sounds so ridiculous to talk about how a game can be adapted into a film I wouldn't want to bother anyway.  A game is a game, a film is a film - they have nothing in common and they work on completely different levels.  It would be like making a movie based on MTV, or writing a novel that was inspired by a pack of crisps. I just don't understand the genre in the first place.For Tomb Raider to work as a movie, the production team needed to flesh out the characters, they needed to show us interesting locations and give us a plot that could fill the running time, and above all they had to make it more interesting than hitting buttons on a joypad.  That they failed to do any of this was less surprising than seeing Woody Allen give himself all the best lines in his last movie.Director Simon West has something of a muddled record, having made the great Con Air and the cack General's Daughter, and here he flushes his potential further down the toilet with an absolute stinker.  He tries to inject the movie with a manic energy, but instead gives it A.D.D., directing most of the action scenes blindfold.The plot is so stupid that if it were a person it would walk into glass doors thinking they were open.  In case you had trouble figuring it out yourself, the basic outline... is all there is.  But the basic outline is that Lara Croft, played by Angelina Jolie's boobs, has to find a couple of pieces of a triangle which, when joined, give the power to control time. It must take a hell of a nerve to have a story that's already been spoofed in Hudson Hawk and deliver it straight-faced.  That they can spend 90 minutes looking for pieces of a mystical object that, when joined, release a powerful and dangerous force, and think the audience would find it even remotely original or entertaining suggests the writer has only seen about seven films in his life.  My guess is those were the first few Police Academies, and a couple of Ernest movies. There is not a single moment of originality, not a single departure from banality, not a single surprise or unexpected twist.Angelina Jolie gives a performance so forgettable you'll worry you have Altzeimers, and her continual pout is ridiculous and irritating.  Angelina Jolie's boobs give the only performance necessary - they be boobies. That's all the executives were asking for, and that's all the pubescent audience is asking for.  That there was no obvious product placement for Kleenex was a welcome point of subtlety. Jolie's Lara Croft is best described as a big-titted Bruce Wayne, and is so smug that you'd root for the bad guys if it didn't mean first having to care.  The attempts to develop character outside her bra fall flat, and are not helped by their lack of originality. Lara has real feelings, you see - she misses her daddy.  That's pretty much it.  This is a character so shallow, if you jumped in you'd break your legs on the bottom.The most irritating aspect is that she's completely indestructible.  When a couple dozen soldiers, all dressed in black, all armed with machine guns, break into her house while she dangles on a bungee rope in a bright white outfit, she manages to dodge every bullet and kill them all.  It's just ridiculous, and an action movie cliché that was subverted at least thirteen years ago by a guy in a dirty white vest.  That it's resurrected here shows not just the stupidity of the writers, but the perceived stupidity of the audience.  Worse still, it takes any tension out of the scenes that follow; we realise that the bullets will bounce off Croft and the worst injury she'll suffer will be back strain from carrying round that huge chest of hers.Aside from the invincibility, Croft is apparently psychic.  This is a useful trait that saves effort with the exposition.  Two days after discovering the clock that kicks off the plot, she is a master of the subject, outsmarting the bad guys with no effort and driving the movie on with no mystery. There are countless examples; while her geeky sidekick (presumably intended as a `comedy' sidekick) is carefully examining the clock, she takes a hammer to it and finds the key she was looking for; while the bad guys think they've found where to use the key, she tells them they're wrong and shows them what they should really be doing; when the bad guy fails to fit the two halves of the triangle together, she knows that a grain of sand hidden within the clock will seal them, and that if she throws the clock at some poor CGI it will be carefully pulled apart so she can pluck the sand from the air. This is insultingly bad.Tomb Raider is a film that will be remembered as a major event in the history of cinema in the same terms as Fred Savage's directorial debut.  I know I'm being snobby, I know I'm expecting too much, and I know I'm over-analysing a movie that was always meant to be disposable.  I know it's like looking for emotion in a Westlife song, or flavour in cinema popcorn, but it's depressing to think that this is the same medium that gave us The Shawshank Redemption or Twelve Angry Men or Pulp Fiction.  Until the next film of that calibre comes along, I'll try not to get too depressed by cack like this, and go join the queue for Tetris The Movie. "},{"Title":"Great for fans of the video games","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Lara Croft Tomb Raider was, in my opinion, a great movie. However, I'm also a huge fan of the video games and I have been ever since they came out on the market.Some of the people who have not played the games may find themselves a little confused at first, but they should easily pick up with the story without problems.But, even with the hard work that was put into this movie, there are still a few loose things that even I disagree with. Simple things like name changes of the characters (Lara Croft's father's name in the video games was Lord Henshingly Croft; the movie dubs him as Richard) are understandable, but the changes with entire characters, such as the change of her butler,  seems entirely pointless.The locations in the movie are fabulous, and the tombs seem to come directly from the video games we love so much. There's some great work that's been put together for this movie. Plus, a lot of the locations in the movie, we've seen before in the games, and it's good to see them again; this time for real. -)In conclusion, I believe that Lara Croft Tomb Raider, should be a movie enjoyed by every person that loves action movies with a great twist of magic, science fiction and a little comedy. But, play the video games first if you want a more in-depth look at Lady Croft and all of her terrific adventures around the world!  "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was basically a modern day Raiders of the Lost Ark, Indiana Jones but with a female star. However, I still found the movie really good, and had quite a few good one liners in it.I am not a particularly fond of Anjelina Jolie, however, I thought that in this movie she played the part very well. She pulls off the English accent superbly. She was definetaly the best actress for the part.This movie is action from begining to end. I think that is great because it keeps you into the movie.I definetaly think that it is worth going to see, because it is a movie that anyone can enjoy.Well, that is all from me, sorry for any spelling mistakes.  "},{"Title":"The digital fantasy becomes reality","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Hang on to the testosterone lads 'cause here she is!  Yes, the embodiment of all that is male fantasy, rendered from virtual to reality in the form of Angelina Jolie, and what a Jolie experience it is as well.Well, that's enough of that.  If you are not already a Lara (D) Croft fan (er.. that's 'D' for digital folks) then you might find that Lara (R) Croft (you can work it out!) has not got the in-built history for you to appreciate her character.  But then again, LC is not really about character. She's really about bosoms that ridicule the laws of physics, danger and death-defying action.  So, how does the film shape up?  Well  2 out of 4 (think about it) is not bad, and to be fair, there probably isn't an actress living that could 'measure' up to L(D)C and still be able to stand upright.If you think of this film as Indiana Jones on Oestrogen you'll be pretty much there. Angelina Jolie does a very commendable job of being LC.  It is reported that she did a lot of physical training before the film, and it paid off, for the character is physically credible. The set piece action scenes are visually excellent, but never really had the sense of danger you'd expect. LC seems to be almost invulnerable.  At least Indiana Jones looked a bit scared now and then and occasionally broke sweat!The climactic scene where the statues come to life was fun, but Ray Harryhausen has been there and done that a long time ago with plasticine models.There is a sense of 'Batman' hovering in the background when you look at her aristocratic background complete with caring, sharing butler (Barrie without the 'H' on his head - Red Dwarf) and, an almost, Bat Cave, where all sorts of stuff goes on.There were a number of puzzles about this film, why was the most exciting fight sequence right at the beginning of the film - which then proves to only be a training exercise - there was nothing that quite matched up to this later on; what happened to a number of interesting bits from the previews which seemed to have vanished from the film itself; what was the techy nerd there for; and what did Angelina Jolie do to deserve such big lips, even allowing for the fact that Jon Voight is her father?  Someone described her looking like a 'Stunned Mullett', and this might not be too far from the truth.If you have spent much of your early years glued to a computer console playing with L(D)C through all her Tomb Raider incarnations, then you will probably not want to miss this filmatic outing.  For everyone else who has a life, it makes an interesting diversion from urban living and junk TV. "},{"Title":"Angelina Jolie, left &right these were the three main reasons to see this film.","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I went to see an adventure movie in which everything I saw would be great. I was expecting an adventure movie á la Indiana Jones and that was what I got. But there was an added bonus Angelina Jolie, left &right. Those were the three main reasons to see this film. But It was simple entertainment and easy to watch.Simple fun, simple plot, fast moves, fast laughs, but I liked it! "},{"Title":"Angelina is great-with a bit more script-a brilliant film","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was really looking forward to this film being a fan of action/adventure/mythology and loving The Mummy and its sequel.  I have to say that all credit goes to Angelina Jolie who was made for the role and gave the film much more credibility.The plot could have been a bit more detailed and the script would have been better containing more interaction between characters especially Jolie and her tomb raider friend.  But apart from a bit of sketchy characterisation, the stunts and set pieces were amazing and it was a thoroughly enjoyable film, even if i have never played the game. "},{"Title":"Really a must-see for Indiana Jones fans, somewhat disappointing for gamers","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is probably one of the best adventure movies since some time and competes very well with all three Indy movies. However, it's nothing like the game at all. No mazes, only a very limited amount of opponents and only quite a few different locations. Angelina Jolie does her very best to be as sportive and sexy as the digital Lara we all know... However, what really strikes me as odd is the scene in the shower. First of all, it should have been let out of the movie entirely, and secondly, they shouldn't have given a short backside glimpse at her, ehm..., breast. That's really not like Lara Croft. Anyway, it's nice 1 and a half hours of entertainment and absolutely worth watching it, at least once. "},{"Title":"Good for special effects and action - the restforget it!","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I basically went to see the film because of Angelina Jolie because I liked her in Gone in 60 seconds and could imagine her well in this kind of film. However, you'd never guess she's a good actress from this movie. All characters are totally flat, including her, and there's not a single interesting person in it. I think that's the main difference to Indiana Jones. The characters are also types there but Harrison Ford manages to give him a human touch. So I think this film is basically about action and special effects and this is where it does well. However, in the end the film is not half as exciting and convincing as Raiders of the Lost Arc or a James Bond film.  "},{"Title":"It certainly has its plus points","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Make no mistake - Angelina Jolie is very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very nice to look at.That I particularly enjoyed, although what was basically a wet T-Shirt bit at the end was rather gratuitous.It's not particularly high brow, then again you wouldn't expect it to be.  Jolie is in great shape and does well, her acting ability shines through in what is a bit of a lame script.I don't play the game, but Tomb Raider is crying out for a trip to Egypt - to, er, raid a tomb.  Interestingly they avoided the obvious here, which means that a sequel is as certain as Jon Voight being terrible, which he was again here.One to see for a bit of fun, you'd definitely not take it seriously! "},{"Title":"Fun... simply fun, but nothing more","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I think that this is a classic summer movie. It is funny, entertaining and really well-made, but the story is simple. Don't get me wrong, it's a lot of fun watching the beautiful Angelina Jolie taking adventures Lara Croft-style, but although half the movie is credible, the second half simply goes over the top, and the ending is really unbelievable. Even though is an entertaining movie with great stunts and a great sense of adventure. And, who would criticize a movie with Miss Jolie in it, dressing like Lara Croft? "}{"Title":"Big on action and top marks for Jolie","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  OK, let's get one thing straight this film has no plot, non-believable characters (including the standard issue well acted but cliched bad guy) and requires no intelligence to watch but to be frank, this is an action film through and through and it's not as if this film particularly cares or is pretending otherwise.This film will not disappoint fans of the computer game. It is cool, action-packed and captures its style very well indeed. The special effects are bang up to today's usual standard and the whole thing has tremendous atmosphere, just like the game before it.Angelina Jolie deserves special credit for this film. She performs Lara exceptionally well. She's sexy, strong, kicks butt and has the sort of upper-class English accent that fits the part perfectly. She manages to recreate the actions as seen on the computer game brilliantly, from the continuous pistol firing while walking at the same time right down to the stopping square on at a ledge then having a look around movement that players of the computer game will be so used to. On a more subtle level, she adds a dark, mysterious aspect to the character, giving the impression that she is ever so slightly unhinged. This harks to a Bruce Wayne-esque facet of her persona, which makes the whole thing more interesting. They could not have made a better choice for the role. OK, so the emotional scenes aren't brilliant but you cannot possibly take a flick like this seriously.One big criticism I could level at this film is to do with the ending. The fist half of the film has some absolutely blistering action scenes and tons of originality but it all looses momentum at the distinctly average and entirely predictable climax. That left me feeling more than a little let down. Also, some of the sub-plots regarding Lara are really flimsy, as if they are there just for the sake of having some non-action in the film.If no-brainer gunfest films aren't your thing then you don't need me to tell you to avoid this like the plague. If they are, then I would rate this above average. If you're a fan of the computer game or Angelina Jolie, it's a must-see. "},{"Title":"It all depends on your expectations","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If you go into this movie expecting incredible dialogue and an intricate plot then you will be disappointed. If your purpose in going is to have fun and enjoy the action, special effects, and sexy Angelina Jolie, then you will have a good time. Personally, I enjoyed the movie, but I did go on half-price Tuesday ). If I had paid full price maybe I'd be a little more critical. "},{"Title":"Great special effects","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw some harsh criticism of this movie and don't quite understand it. I mean this is a movie made from a video game and a character Lara Croft.  I thought Angelina Jolie brought Lara Croft to life and the sets and the backdrops brought the sets in the game to life and gave it such a new dimension.  I liked the movie, it's not like this is one of the best movies I've ever seen, but I thought they did a good job of scenery, acting, special effects--it was what I expected.  Its very visually impressive. Angelina plays Lara Croft as I would expect her to be cool, low key, you don't really get to know that much about her because she is a pretty mysterious person.  Good job. "},{"Title":"Does have potential, but the ending is an anti-climax","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Tomb Raider is not a bad movie, and by no means is it a thinker.  The thing is, it is not trying to be.  A pure action, hi octane ride, which is enjoyable up until the end, where the plot becomes too hard to swallow. Angelina Jolie and the rest of the cast are perfect for the roles assigned and with the dry off centre humor running throughout the movie, it has made it's presence know, ultimately paving the way for the sequel. "},{"Title":"Not as good as it could have easily been, but worth a view.","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Angelina Jolie, other than the too English English accent (how can Americans, in this day and age, still stereo-type the English so much like they did back when they made Mary Poppins?), was made to play Lara, and does a good job of it. The action sequences are great, and the plot just about solid enough to get by. However, the film is broken up into sections of great action, interspersed with not interesting enough plot and dialogue.The opening sequence, the soldiers raid to steal the amulet/clock and the Cambodia action is all excellent, and if only these were stiched together better by a more coherent plot and better characters it could have been a classic. Jolie's portrayal of Lara is very good, and she has captured the style of the character well. I'd like to have seen more weaponry and more tomb raiding.At the end of the day you just don't care enough about the characters - not like you do in say, Raiders of the Lost Ark - so the plot just loses, well, the plot!Lara is great, her dad is a non-entity, the gizmo guy is a bore, the villains are okay, but not fleshed out enough.  All in all a great opportunity missed, but an entertaining little film nonetheless. Now I hope they make a second and actually employ a scriptwriter next time. "},{"Title":"Never make a movie from a video game; like The SS Titanic it will sink","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Tomb Raider joins the ranks of the many movies that try and remake a successful game; eg. Street Fighter, Super Mario Bros. and Mortal Kombat. I had high hopes for the film, it sounded promising with Simon West directing, and a wide range of cast. With the success of Con Air, how could he go wrong.(This review does have some parts that may slightly spoil the movie if you have not seen it).Easy with a story that is too sentimental and convoluted, a bad guy that seems apathetic, and special effects that come close in the worse special effects award 2001, coming closely to The Mummy Returns. The polystyrene rocks falling on her were probably the most danger she was ever in. Then there are the parallels that are hard not make Raiders of the Lost Ark and James Bond. There is a sense that she is never really in danger, or is going to get hurt, only when she holds a knife by the blade, duh!ANGELINA JOLIE has the aristocratic english accent perfect, but her acting as the all action, kick ass, armed to the teeth girl who takes no ****, is just rather dull, as the film reveals she is actually a loner who wants her Father back, what about her Mother?The locations were promising; Cambodia, Iceland and England. Iceland filming was boring, the trek across the waste lands, Cambodia; the jeep was good, the walk around the temple, the child giving her strange mystical advice, follow the butterflies was not, but atleast the little girl had a good laugh. The sets were so set like, they had no realism, or gripping images.Contrary to the views you now must have on me. I do have some good points about the film. IAIN GLEN, even though he came across as a dull enemy delivered his lines well. Angelina's chest gets a special merit award, for having to cope with a padded bra, and all those stairs! The action sequences were good, especially the bungee ballet sequence which is the movie's highlight. Simon West's directing certainly was not dull when it came to action the bike, the jeep, the bungee, the huskees, the shower scene! CHRIS BARRIE as Hilary the butler was a good character, as the comic input. DANIEL CRAIG as the good/bad character Alex West, was ok, his accent was good. NOAH TAYLOR as Bryce, was the most certain and interesting character. LESLIE PHILIPS part was disappointing as it was about 5 minutes of screen time. The music was great, it helped the action, and made certain scenes very exciting.Overall a movie that will go to number one in the UK as it did in the US. The sequel will almost certainly be made. What can I say, other than that it had an excellent advertising campaign that has worked drawing in huge audiences. MINDLESS ENTERTAINMENT- is the key word I would give to this movie, it is'nt terrible, and it is certainly not an award winning masterpiece. I would give this 6 OUT OF 10! "},{"Title":"An action fantasy with a soul!","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Not just a cardboard character, Angelina Jolie made me care about Lady Lara Croft. The action sequences were furious and just over the top enough to feel like a comic book. Locations and sets were exotic, effects were flawless, sound track hip but not intrusive. Plot was fantastical, convoluted, but never silly. Dialogue cagey and only bit parts had some questionable lines. What more could you ask? The best popcorn movie since MI1 and Phantom Menace! "},{"Title":"Lara Croft Lives","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There is an inherent problem in bringing a video game to life. Trying to expand a 2-D world into 3-D is more challenging than You might think. You have to extrapolate an action game made for Playing, into a 120 min. (or so) feast for the eyes and senses that the Viewer has no control over whatsoever. Some people are bound to be disappointed. i wasn't. Angelina Jolie (as always) delivers as Lady Lara Croft. Played mostly straight, this film delivers, considering the latitude the filmmakers could have taken with this character. My 12 and 13 Year old Sons were a bit bored until the action sequences, I enjoyed the Whole film. Hopefully, If there is a sequel, Jolie will return. If She won't; Don't bother. "},{"Title":"fast paced and action-packed!! )","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I would recommend this movie to people who enjoy a fast moving plot, also people who are a fan of the video game on the playstation. At times I found the plot a bit confusing but there is non-stop action from start to finish! With its effective graphics and the sense of adventure in the story line, people will enjoy this stunning movie if they like sad, yet action-packed movies. this movie really reflects the adventury air of the game and will automatically bring it to life on your box. I give it a whopping 8/10, as I am a huge fan of Lara and her video games, and I liked the plot and the genre. "},{"Title":"This is a movie you DON'T take your girlfriend to...","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Obviously, just by putting either Tomb Raider or Lara Croft into anything would give you an automatic massive market into males age 14-25... a sure one for roping in the money for Paramount.But what did we get for our £3 a ticket? More clevage than a wonderbra advert, predicatable good guy kills bad guy story and massive effects... don't get me wrong... I did enjoy the movie (even if it was just for Angelia Jolie) as I am in this market bracket myself... but what annoys me is the sure lack of good, original film which is being made. 'Sixth Sense', 'The Matrix' are all examples of modern films which are original, clever and ground-breaking... 'Tomb Raider' however is not in this category.The one thing that annoyed me about this movie was it's massive budget showing off in a useless effect that was used as a wipe between two locations... if you've seen it you'll know what I'm on about. I was sat in the cinema thinking... And the point of that thousand-dollar two second effects was.....As you can see I have mixed feelings about this movie. Go see it, anyway... sure you'll enjoy it... or your pants will! LOL! "}{"Title":"Audience Cheered and applauded","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film was very popular with the audience.  after the movie many said they had seen Tomb Raider many times.  Obviously this film is not going to do well with the cynical types.  But all and all it was a fun and interesting film.  we are going to see it again.  the best part is that my young kids, teenage kids and my wife and I all liked it.  It is not a matter of age but what type of film you like.  Tomb Raider is pretty good. "},{"Title":"plot holes big enough to fit a continent","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I had already heard from people that this was a bad movie before i watched this, so i refrained from seeing it. Then i was bored, and thoughthey, its an action movie, and i dig action movies so i decided to give it a go anyway and boy was i shocked.Tomb Raider was even worse than i thought. Angelina Jolie's acting is so wooden and stiff, and her character's personality is atrocious. Not once in the movie did Lara EVER get into a sticky situation. She is so overconfident that she makes me sick, as if cheating death was as regular as breathing. In the entire movie, she retains her blank, half-witted expression on her face.The plot and the action scenes were ridiculous1. Highly trained and geared up troops infiltrate Lara's house, and though each one of the dozens and dozens of troopers emptied clip after clip of bullets at Lara(who was, by the way, running around in an open area in a conspicuous white dress)not ONE bullet touched her at all. In real life, a trained soldier has a good chance of hitting a moving target like that, but since this movie was made for the sake of Lara Croft kicking ass, i guess that's explainable.2. The statue warriors in the underground cave were ridiculous. A simple punch, and they completely dissolve into dirt. If they were solid rock in the first place, why were they like sand when they became alive?3. When fighting the robot in the beginning, why did Lara waste so many bullets on the robot even though she could clearly see that they had no effect on it? Couldn't she just have ripped out its circuits without having to pointlessly shoot at it? Again, i guess its just for the sake of seeing Lara use her ever famous akimbo pistols.4. Whats with the children in the jungle that laugh and disappear here and there? The movie never explains why they are there or what's the story behind them.5.When the knife is frozen in time, why did Lara turn it around by gripping on the blade, thus cutting her hands? Couldn't she have just gripped the handle instead? Is she impervious to pain, or addicted to pain? And when time returned to normal, shouldn't the knife have still shot back and hit the friend still, regardless of which way the blade is facing?These are just a few of the many plot errors in Tomb Raider. I can see why this is so because the film makers tailored the movie to meet the expectations of the video games' fans, and not those expecting a good movie. Only a die-hard Tomb Raider fan will like this. For other people, this is only good if you really have nothing better to do. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as expected","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I've been playing Tomb Raider games on my PC since the start. I used to be an avid fan of the series, but four sequels on, the formula of the game has got very tired and overused.I still remember three years ago reading in a magazine, news of an upcoming Tomb Raider movie. I refused to believe it, a ridiculous rumour, surely? More news was reported as time went by, disbelief followed. Then last year, I saw pictures of Jolie as Lara. Oh my God, they were serious. I was certain of its failure.I downloaded the trailer. A pathetic trailer to put it lightly. It was the final step in convincing me... this film will fail. The film was released, bad reviews followed, I was as smug as ever.It was out of sheer boredom that motivated me to actually see it.The final verdict? Not that bad. My low expectations probably fuelled my opinion to a more positive level. Don't get me wrong, I like my movies to have a plot, which was strangely absent in this movie. I guess I was just too much of a sucker for the brilliant action scenes. Angelina portrays Lara brilliantly and it was nice to see Red Dwarf's Chris Barrie on the big screen, although I feel he was kinda wasted, he has the potential of being a genuinely funny actor.A 6/10 from me. The plot was the missing keystone of making this movie more of a success. "},{"Title":"Very underrated","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I came into Tomb Raider after having read very harsh reviews, many giving the film two or less stars, and obviously, they have missed the point of Tomb Raider.Basically a fun adaption of the video game, and Angelina Jolie is not only hot in the role but convincing as Lara Croft. There isn't much plot, some of it is too unbelievable, but what Simon West and the writer(s) meant to do was make an entertaining, 'fun' action/adventure film (even though most of the jokes fall flat) that would make the viewer stay glued to his/her seat, and in that aspect Tomb Raider succeeds and is easily the best 'popcorn movie' of the summer so far (A.I. doesn't count as a 'popcorn flick').Leave your brain at the door, grab an extra-large popcorn and expect along the lines of Con Air and not Raiders of the Lost Ark, and you will not be disappointed.8/10One final note - all of the many action scenes are amazingly choreographed by Jolie - no fakeness here, and are the best I've seen since The Matrix. "},{"Title":"Action/adventure delivers what it promises - and then some","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Lara Croft, of computer animated Tomb Raider fame, is brought to life in this fast paced adventure which owes quite a lot to the Indiana Jones-films. No surprise there, as the computer game itself was a homage to the Steven Spielberg trilogy. Angelina Jolie is perfect in the role as the beautiful Lara, and the rest of the cast is well put together - notice Chris Barrie as the butler and Noah Taylor as Lara's comedic sidekick. The major let-down of this movie is the action-sequences. Director West attempts to put the viewer into the action, but the result is at times confusing and tiresome - especially the scene in Lara's mansion is a disgrace. Other than that, Tomb Raider gives us heaps of action, fun, and a somewhat intriguing storyline, along with Jolie's always charismatic and sensual performance. And that is all I expected from this movie.  "},{"Title":"Excellent!!  NOT just for game players!","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In true Indiana Jones style, Angelina Jolie kicks major hiney in this one!  She has all the charm and ability of the Action Hero with brains to boot!  I was a little reluctant to go see this one, as I do not play the game, but I was in no way disappointed with any aspect of this movie.  It RAWKED! "},{"Title":"Watch the movie, not the hype","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I read a lot of the comments before I went to see the movie, and as it happens so often, it was a love/hate relationship.  I guess the people in the middle between love it and hate it didn't think it was good enough or bad enough to comment on.  Having only played Tomb Raider a short while and not playing any of the sequels, I didn't have any huge expectations for the movie.  I knew it was an action/adventure movie with AJ in it, and I knew the background behind Tomb Raider but I wasn't a fanatic about.  What I saw was a pretty good movie, I gave it an 8.  It wasn't outstanding, it didn't change my life, it didn't make me want to run out and buy up all of the TR games. It was just a pretty good movie I shelled out $5 for (the matinee) and got what I expected a pleasant afternoon in some air conditioning watching something enjoyable to pass some time.  I didn't go hoping to alter my life's path, and for those of you who think movies are going to do that for you, they have some really good professional help nowadays you really should look into. For all those who complained about it, I liken you to people who go to a really good steak house and order the only fish dish on the menu and then complain about it.  If you didn't want to see a crash-bang shootem' up movie, then why did you go?  If you don't want steak, then don't go to the steak house. "},{"Title":"The Playstation addicts Holy Grail is now a fun film showing all of Lara's best moves.","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film ain't gonna please the average critic or win any awards, but it is a whole heap of fun to watch.I was expecting the film of the game Tomb Raider to be as poor as almost all other game/film conversions have been.Saw the film last night and thought it was great. I have played all five Tomb Raider games (2 and 5 are the best), and the film includes all of Lara's moves, tools, vehicles and epic style.Just like in the games. You solve the puzzle, you get the jewel and then the tomb doors shut and out come the bad guys to spoil your party. After Lara has polished off the gooks, out comes the daddy of them all, the end of level boss. And he's mad as hell.If you've played the games, you'll love the film. Its got the Land Rover, the bike, the exotic locations (Italy, Cambodia, Antartica), and guns, lots of guns.The tombs are so vast and impressive that you can see where every one of the 100 million dollars was spent.Angelina Jolie kicks ass as Lara Croft and boy is she hot in this movie.This is a more than capable conversion to film of the game and should be successfull enough to spawn many a sequel, just like the computer program its derived from.Tomb Raider fans will certainly not be disappointed with this movie, and it will convert the uninitiated to the delights of Lara Croft. "},{"Title":"havent they learned yet?","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  hollywood these days cant even emulate its past successes. tomb raider was never going to be anything more than an update of the indiana jones formula. the success of the video games are based on the popularity of indy in conjunction with the popularity of pneumatic women amongst 10-16 year old boys. so all the film makers had to was update indy (ie woman in the lead role, keep the bad guys english, up the technology and SFX quotient, techno soundtrack...i could go on but u know what i mean) but they failed to even do that.actors should act...remember olivier's comments during the filming of marathon man? well, similarly, a script needs writing, and a screenplay needs forming. even without these, a group of actors and a talented director can make something interesting...2001 had 40mins of dialogue only. ok this is unfair, but...what is the point of modernising action movies when such boring camerawork permeates this film? the bungee scene almost had some interesting camera, but are action film-makers unaware of the fact that films like the matrix and crouching tiger hidden dragon have been made? though x-men was written much better than this (in its genre) even that movie suffered from such pedestrian choreography and camerawork that potentially exciting scenes are never fully realised.watch any decent hong kong action movie for style, and witness the matrix and crouching tiger for camera work. really we've come too far for action movies to look this boring. scripts and screenplays and things help even more. "},{"Title":"Despite bad reviews and put downs prior to the release Tombraider pulls through.","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  TOMBRAIDER was awesome. GREAT,FANTASTIC, and EXCELLENT. I knew it would be, and I knew it would be put down. It was a summer movie and would be trashed by most critics like one. I liked it, I liked ANGELINA JOLIE, I liked the games. Others didn't. They have little taste. It was good. It was a movie. Stop harrasing it. Let it be, a good movie. TOMBRAIDER WAS GOD-LIKE!!!!!!!!!!! "}{"Title":"My 2nd favorite movie, thanks to fact that I love the game+the actress.","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I cannot beleive how many people tell me that it's cheesy.  That's impossible because they just haven't tried the game.  CHEESY would be Charlie's Angels.  Tomb Raider was a brilliant, fun, awesome movie for fans ONLY.  Other people will bomb this movie like the war site in Saving Private Ryan. Lara Croft, our smart sassy heroine, has to find the two peices of a magical triangle.  This triangle gives it's possessor the power of Time.  Lara Croft(my favorite game hero) is portrayed by my favorite actress, so what, in God's name, can go wrong? MAN, I cannot beleive how many people say it's brainless.  Maybe THEY should get a brain because this movie is awesome and lovable, and YES, it HAS A BRAIN, OK? Some people compare it to Indiana Jones, but unlike Indy, Tomb Raider has heart and the heroine is a great icon.  Angelina Jolie is just perfect. Jon Voigt(her real father), comes along as her father(Lord Richard Croft) in the movie. The movie, also, was a perfect action movie.  It's not an adrenaline rush like Gone in 60 Seconds, but it's good ol' tomb raiding fun.Oh, and did I mention the soundtrack kicks a**?10/10 "},{"Title":"If you play the game you will like the movie","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If you like me have spent hours in front of the monitor playing Tomb Raider you will enjoy this movie. The levels (er.. scenes) follow the typical TR formula complete with secrets, bosses, and lots of gun fire. While some have complained that the movie has no plot or a plot that is hard to follow most of this comes from the way the movie is put together, but any fan of the game will feel right at home. Overall it was a truthful adaptation of the game, a series of nearly impossible levels with scenes joining them to move the story along. For those not familiar with the game, the only advice I can give is wait for the movie to come out on video and in the mean time play some TR. "},{"Title":"A Decent Movie That Could Have Been Better","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I gave this movie seven stars out of 10.  Alot of people try to compare Tomb Raider to Indiana Jones, but that's like trying to compare the Lost in Space Movie to Star Wars.  Both were quality, but one was the ultimate in its genre.  The characters in Tomb Raider were lacking in depth, you had your bad guy and you had your good guys, that was that.  Also, I couldn't help but feel that the end was a bit rushed, the whole movie promises a big, major, dramatic showdown at the end, or at least some interesting usage of the device that was the prize sought throughout the entire movie.  All in all, however, the movie was what I was expecting an adventure movie with alot of action and a semi-decent plot.  You can't expect a movie like Citizen Kane from an adventure movie, it just doesn't happen.  Adventure movies are meant to entertain without making us think too hard.  This one could have used a little more thought behind it, however, and there were alot of things that the writers never clued us in on.  Lara's old... nemesis? Love interest? Both?  All I can say is that I hated the character, and if I were Lara, I would have let him die, but that's just my opinion. Other than the lack of deep thought, I found the movie quite enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Lots of Action and effects but a better script would help.","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Overall, we liked this movie.  Angelina was Very good in a somewhat un-defined part.  Not enough depth to really truly like her.  Beautiful but not always convincing.  The only men in her life besides her devoted assistants (Real characters!) all made you wonder if she had been shallow growing up. Some special effects were unusual and interesting.  Others were almost cartoonish.(Genetic defects from spawning out of a Video Game perhaps?) The clock was good.  The gizmo at the end was not.We think she was Noble.  Her father maybe.  No information about why she had no mother.  This was a BIG hole in her background.  Then to try and sum up her search and her Father's reasons for his actions in one scene was too much.If they make a sequel, spend more money on the screenplay.  She CAN Act. Just give her something to work with. "},{"Title":"GOOD","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie got exactly what I had expected good action.  That's it.  It reminded me Raiders of the Lost Ark and those action scenes were that good.  I wish I were a high school student so that I could have enjoyed this movie even more.  I'm not sure if those teenagers, in this everything is done by computer era, can enjoy this type of special effects as much as I used to do, though.And just wondering... are those breasts real?? "},{"Title":"Angelina Jolie a new star.","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Jolie has a real star presentation.  Tomb Raider was a good flick and actually drew applause in the theater that I was at.  It did not have the interesting and strong supporting cast that the Mummy Returns had but it still was not bad.  Jolie has also signed for two sequels to this which may be even better.  It is nice to see people of all ages liked this movie.  If a movie is exciting it does not matter whether your young or old, male or female or what.  No one needs to be limited by any labels.  Tomb Raider fits in with some real good summer films this year like Fast and Furious, Atlantis and Mummy Returns.    "},{"Title":"Jolie has a blast, and if you don't take it to serious you will too","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"   In the opening scene you see Lara Croft (Jolie) fighting some type of robot with this mystical glass thing her goal to capture after she gets it it says on it Lara's party mix, she inserts it into the robot and it starts playing party tunes. Just by telling you that you Lara is one kick ass chick.  If you're looking  movie or one which makes sense don't go, but if you're just looking to have a fun romp with great action scenes and aren't offended that the movie uses Jolie's breasts to sell tickets. I am also happy to tell you that unlike the Mummy returns this movie has great special effects and a killer set.   "},{"Title":"It's still permitted to be entertained at the cinema!","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Apart from the fact that I fall in love with Mrs Jolie each time I see her on the silver screen, was this an over-in-an-instant-movie. I had the feeling that it had lasted for about 45 minutes when it was finished. That must say something about the entertainment level of this movie. I know that most film-reviewers mean this is a political incorrect movie, but the movie is entertaining, and if that's not what a GREAT part of the audience want, then what DO they want? I must admit though, that the dialogues and the `emotional acting' doesn't reach the peaks in this movie, but then again, it's an adventure movie. The visual experience is smashing; not only Lara herself, but also the settings in which the movie has been shot. This is a movie in the same lane as `X-Men', which I also enjoyed and thought was a lot of fun. So, even though I'm 25 years old, it's no problem to watch what many has called a `child's film' and `cartoon'. It's nice to step out of the cinema for once without having to speculate about what `they REALLY meant when they said that and that...'. Instead just talking about all the beauty, adrenaline and action that is what the game Tomb Raider is about &#150; That's why I think it great that Simon West has managed to give Lara and her horde of enemies a really good transition to the not-so-interactive media "},{"Title":"Loved it","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Okay, folks, I just saw this movie yesterday, and honestly, I thought it was THE best Video-Game-To-Movie conversion I'd ever seen.  Let me state first and foremost I am NOT a fan in any way of Angelina Jolie and had my doubts about her carrying the role of Lara Croft.  As a huge fan of the video game series, I must say that Ms. Jolie did a fantastic job with the part.  She fit Lara Croft near perfectly, and those are some big shoes to fill.  I was also happy to see that they did not try to emulate one of the games itself in the story, which would have been a failure.  Yes, in some ways, it was like watching the cut scenes of one of the games, but... honestly... that's a MAJOR reason I play the games! I think they did a really good job of giving a personality to the character, which, as we all have seen with other game-to-movie conversions, is not always easy.  One point I thought was extremely impressive was that they did a wonderful job of toning down the sex appeal of the character and kept her from becoming TOO much of a drool-over for the male audience.  I know, the film was rated PG-13 so they couldn't do TOO much, and for that I'm GLAD!  IMHO, this film was a great adventure film, equally the rival of Raiders.  Lara Croft is depicted as a Bruce Wayne/Indiana Jones-type mix.  Both personalities represented really well.  All I can say is Indy, look out... Lara's on the scene now. "},{"Title":"What was I expecting?","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  People who took in this film as a guilty pleasure, or who saw it not for it's content but based upon their devotion to the Tomb Raider game or Angelina Jolie react to negative reviews of this film by asking What were you expecting?  Not, What were you expecting, 'The English Patient' or What were you expecting, 'Citizen Kane' mind you, because they haven't the intelligence to have seen or remembered those films, but simply What were you expecting?  Well, I'll tell you what I was expecting.  I was expecting a brainless film that would at least keep me entertained.  I was expecting riveting action sequences.  I was expecting convincing special effects.  I was expecting a highly improbably story, but I WAS expecting a story.  I was expecting some novelty.  I was expecting that if they were going to try and include subtext, there'd actually be a reason for it, and there'd actually be something it was in reference to, and that it would be done well.  I was expecting blood and guts.  I was expecting AT LEAST one exciting fight scene.  I was expecting a film that stayed where it was supposed to and didn't add extraneous crap better done in other movies for the sake of looking 'cool' and having meaning.  I was expecting the loose threads to be tied up and the plot holes filled in, because I deserve at least that much for volunteering to put my brain on hold for the sake of 'entertainment.' I was not entertained.  I was not amused.  I didn't expect this to be 'The English Patient,' but I did expect it to be at least on par with 'Judge Dredd' or 'Mortal Combat' or even 'Street Fighter.'  It wasn't.  It was abominable.  Do not see this movie. "}{"Title":"Indiana Jones...Move over","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie comes off as a female version of Raiders of the Lost Ark, but that's okay with me.  Hollywood needs to put out some good Fantasy/Adventure films every few years to feed that itch in the adventurous movie goer. This movie has style, great special effects, and a fun comic book style story. Good actors help to round out the quality of the film.  I just hope they don't sequel it to death.  That is Hollywood's worst sin.  "},{"Title":"This movie is bad for humans and other living things.","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Every summer I hear the same complaints about the sorry state of summer movies, that they get more shallow every year. This movie made me believe it. I have never in my life seen such thin characters, such insipid dialogue, or such a ridiculous and uninteresting plot.Believe me, I'm not some high-brow, pretentious film buff. I actually enjoyed The Mummy Returns and Charlie's Angels. This piece of crap makes those movies look like Hamlet.Really- I'm not exaggerating- this is the worst movie I've seen in years.Listen to me. I'm not just trying to save you $8 here, I'm trying to save you from this film, which is the cinema version of a swift kick to the groin. Let me put it this way- if I had the opportunity to see this movie again for free, or nail my own toes to the floor, I'd grab a hammer and get to pounding. It's that bad. "},{"Title":"I wish I was this cool","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'll admit, this was different than I expected.     But that's okay I liked it anyways. Cheesy? No Good Filmmaking? No Entertaining?  YesIt was a very hip flick.  Has a good soundtrack.  Good characters.  Even better outfits. What appeared to me as shortcomings and things that disturbed me about the film I later recognized as the fault of the director.  (And yes I realize some of you all see Com-Air as the greatest action flick of all time) There seemed to me a few shots that could have worked better (i.e. just before she jumps in the river).  It seemed to me he was perhaps trying to copy John Woo.  Then again, who am I to judge?Anyhow ultra cool flick.  Very sly smile worthy. Very fast paced.  Simple plot. (So us girls don't have to worry our pretty little heads about it.)  I do miss some of the lines used in the promotions such as this is where I start to have fun and I said you would try to kill me but the movie worked well without it them.  And I do wish they would have had an actual conversation between Alex and Lara.Their isn't a whole lot of humor nor Die Hard type sympathy for the heroin.  It has a rock and roll type attitude.  I do find it fascinating that the girl actually gets to kick butt here. In Matrix, Trinity was allowed to do some shooting, but no fighting and Neo kills more than her 3 to 1. Ripley, of the Alien series, is a lonely heroin of the movies, but she has reservations.  She is driven more by her emotions and the need to survive. G.I. Jane kicked butt but the public rejected her.  We could go on.  But this is new.  Lara is really allowed to be smarter, better, and faster than everyone else.Cool movie. "},{"Title":"Great Effects, Great locations","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Yes, it is the same old same old for an action adventure. But the pure rush received was almost as good, if not better than an Indiana Jones.Jolie may not get my vote for best actress, but other than Hacker's I think I have finally seen her act! Good mix in locations, design and outfits were almost 5 *'s. I relent 5 *'s it is. . . A must for any action junkie, a must for any Jolie fan, and a must for all movie junkies that saw Gladiator just for the Art Effects. "},{"Title":"Inexcusable","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There can simply be no excuse for a film this terrible. It lacks character development, any kind of coherent or interesting storyline and even the action sequences are utterly predictable and boring. To anyone else who suffered through it, my heart goes out to you. I too can feel your pain. To the others who have not wasted their time and money, stay away. Save yourselves. While die hard fans of Jolie and the Tomb Raider video games will ensure this film's box office success, the rest of the movie-going public will surely remember it as the least enjoyable film to be unleashed for several years. I only wish that the voting section of this internet site allowed a vote of zero to be registered, because awarding this film 1/10 is an insult to films like 'Kazaam' which have shared this dubious honor. "},{"Title":"Oh, come on, it wasn't that bad!","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I went to see the matinee because, hey, it's a video game movie. They aren't SUPPOSED to be good. They're supposed to be entertaining. I got precisely what I expected- Hot girl strutting around in tight clothing and shooting guns. I thought Jolie made just the perfect noises, but then again, when I played the game, all I ever did was run her into walls to make her grunt.And hey, her accent wasn't so bad. I mean, Liz Hurley (who was up for the part also) would have done the voice better, I guess, but I thought Angie's tough bitch look was perfect.Overall, the movie was worth the $4.50, which wasn't much more than the soda I bought at the theater. "},{"Title":"If you like the game and Lara go and see!","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I enjoyed this action packed adventure. Move over Indy... Lara is out to save the world this time... not just some artifacts. Imagine if time could be stopped... the bad guys would find a way to stop it wouldn't they! Angelina does a believable British accent as well.  "},{"Title":"Shiva in a Buddhist temple","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It was thusly I entered the theatre, a feeling of doom nibbling on my entrails.  As I took my ticket from the neandrethal at the booth, I nearly asked Does this make me a bad person?  The answer, I learned, was yes.A truly detestable summer movie of the worst type.  Looking over the comments, I see most people pass it off as a fun movie making no attempt to be anything else.  No.  Mummy Returns was a fun movie and made no bones about it.  Tomb Raider hurt.Case in point; there was a statue of SHIVA (a very Hindu god for you proletarians) in a temple occupied by decidedly Buddhist monks.  Upon this realization, I screamed.  Nobody in the theatre noticed; they were either too busy pounding in their heads, entertaining sexual fantasy of Angelina Jolie, or absorbing themselves to the point of salivial excretions in the action. "},{"Title":"Tomb Raider Rocks!","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Don't listen to the whiny reviewers who have bashed this movie. Angelina Jolie IS Lara Croft.  She could not have been better.  The story revolves around a classic quest, the stuff adventure games like Tomb Raider are made of.   Perhaps those who criticize the story were expecting 'War and Peace' ... but hey ... it's a video game, bucko, not a literary work!In short, the action scenes, stunts and locations are excellent -- at least as good as most James Bond flicks.  Lara keeps her cool throughout, challenging aggressors with an enticing grin on her drop-dead gorgeous face.  She's as independent, unstoppable and hard to control in the movie as she is in the game.  My only complaint is that the plot is too predictable at times.  A bit more suspense here and there would have made it a better film.If you've played the game (as I have), you gotta LOVE it! If not, enjoy the action ... THEN buy one of the games. "},{"Title":"A Waste Of A Huge Potential - Hope The Inevitable Sequal Improves","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This was a very poor film. Angelina Jolie was perfect as Lara Croft in both performance and looks. I did not have a problem with her! What I did have a problem with was the plot which was of more or less the same quality as the computer games.  Everyone expected Tomb Raider to be Indiana Jones with breasts and if it had been then it would have been a far superior movie.  What we have ended up with is more Street Fighter than Raiders of the Lost Ark.  It is to all intents and purposes just a big screen version of the cut-scene sections from the computer game.Everyone knew the potential to make a great film of Tomb Raider.  There will inevitably be a sequal.  Lets just hope they pick out the best bits from this film (i.e. Angelina Jolie) and give her half decent direction and storyline and make the film this should have been.Oh, and how could they go to venice without recreating the speedboat/ramp scene from the second level of TombRaider II is beyond me.  "}{"Title":"nice action, lousy story","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Sigh, it's the same old story Tomb Raider is full of good action sequences and has nice (but not average) special effects. But it suffers the same problem as many other films the story is lousy, too obvious. Hopefully they're going to learn something before starting to produce the sequel. "},{"Title":"Top notch fun!  At last, a female hero I can watch over and over and...","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm a Lara fan and I'm not 14 nor male.  In fact, I'm a 49-year-old mother of two, and a professional woman.  Everyone needs heroes, and Lara is mine. I've spent a lifetime watching female leads who whine, scream, faint, and occasionally get a good line or face down a bad guy with some witty dialogue.  But nothing like this!  Some guy doesn't end up protecting Lara, she holds her own.  With finesse, guts, and power.  I love it.  And I love the effects and the action scenes.  Sure the plot is straight out of the game (i.e. Save The World, the end), but I have played all the games (but one so far) and it's the action and staying one step ahead of the bad guys that counts.  The TR game moves and Lara trademarks that are incorporated into the movie gave me a sense of connection--sprint and slide; side-flip and shoot; the pleasure was all mine; run, grab, and pull up--I could see myself running Lara through the movie.  And Angelina is perfect.  The attitude and the physicality make it all totally Lara.  I've seen it 6 times so far and plan on more.  I'm not the fan type.  But for Angelina/Lara, I am.  "},{"Title":"What a shame.","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I really cannot think of a worse thing to do to a movie than put it on my Worst Movies Ever List.  Unfortunately the crap that I had the interest to even think of watching has been branded one of the worst movies I've ever seen in my life.  Angelina Jolie, one who I have great respect for as an actress seems to fit the role of Laura Croft perfectly.  I thought that if she played her part well enough she could carry the script no matter how bad it was...unfortunately like a Geo Metro trying to carry Roseanne, it can't be done.Laura Croft Tomb Raider shares a lot in common with Raiders of the Lost Ark, it has some mindlessness thrown in with good old action.  But unlike Raiders, it fails to make any sense whatsoever and also have its own stylish feel.Instead, we watch as Jolie runs, shoots, jumps, and *insert verb here*, throughout the entire movie without even taking a second to reflect on how utterly terrible the action plays out.  Some stunts are respectable, but mostly less than adequate.  Thus the lack of style.  And it all seems to be thrown in at the last moment with techno music blasting and Jolie shooting. Some scenes, however, do warrant a smile, but they are too far and few between (two scenes to be exact).One could argue that Jolie gives a decent performance and brightens up the scene, one could also argue that there should never be a sequel, except there's more evidence toward the latter.  She should stick to the dramas.I was actually looking forward to this movie.  I thought that it had potential to break the video game to movie curse shown by Mortal Kombat, Street Fighter, and Super Mario Bros.  I had hoped the action scenes would be good enough so I can say it's worth seeing just for mindless fun.  Yet it fails to do so.Avoid this movie or you'll wish you had. "},{"Title":"Great Actress in a horrible story","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I must say, that I didn´t expect that much of Tomb Raider. A movie of a videogame couldn´t be that good. But I still got hope, because of this great actress - Angelina Jolie - who proved her sense on good movies. But it came as I expected, Angelina was great, really great, you couldn´t find anyone better for Lara than her...she got style, she got the quotes and she got moves... But the story of this movie is too strange, too freaky for me; absolutly not Lara style, and not for this world !!!!  "},{"Title":"Top notch fun!  At last, a female hero I can watch over and over and...","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm a Lara fan and I'm not 14 nor male.  In fact, I'm a 49-year-old mother of two, and a professional woman.  Everyone needs heroes, and Lara is mine. I've spent a lifetime watching female leads who whine, scream, faint, and occasionally get a good line or face down a bad guy with some witty dialogue.  But nothing like this!  Some guy doesn't end up protecting Lara, she holds her own.  With finesse, guts, and power.  I love it.  And I love the effects and the action scenes.  Sure the plot is straight out of the game (i.e. Save The World, the end), but I have played all the games (but one so far) and it's the action and staying one step ahead of the bad guys that counts.  The TR game moves and Lara trademarks that are incorporated into the movie gave me a sense of connection--sprint and slide; side-flip and shoot; the pleasure was all mine; run, grab, and pull up--I could see myself running Lara through the movie.  And Angelina is perfect.  The attitude and the physicality make it all totally Lara.  I've seen it 6 times so far and plan on more.  I'm not the fan type.  But for Angelina/Lara, I am.  "},{"Title":"Perfect Lara, but does not fullfill it's potential.","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't this review has any real spoilers, but proceed at own risk (> I went to see this movie last night, and upon seeing it, I got pretty much what I expected from a game to movie conversion.The first good thing to mention about the movie is that Angelina does a near perfect Lara Croft.  She has facial similarities, and a body to match (well, at least as close as one could physically get to the CGI character of the games), and does a almost convincing job as a action hero.  I think she could do more films like this, but then again, after this film she will forever be Lara Croft on the silver screen, no matter what action movie she's in...Being based on a game, I felt it would be natural to compare Tomb Raider to Street Fighter and Mortal Combat (maybe Super Mario Bros., but that was kind of different...), and from that perspective that, I got exactly what I was prepared for. After seeing the movie however, I think it is clear that there was an entire goldmine of possibilities available that the people who made the movie missed out on.The Lara Croft character is a much more exiting character, looking at her personality, than one might think, and this could have been used in a better way.  The sideplot of her father is like shot into the film after the standard Hollywood idea that there should be something like this in every film.  Personally, I don't think it works at all here...The few attempts at humour never really did strike the audience where I was, and I feel they missed out on a large potential here as well.An additional note may be that the action sequences, especially early on, is almost to chaotic.  What The Matrix did so well with the slow motion, was to show all the action in detail.  The early scenes here are to fast, and this has to be the perfect slow-mo movie!So, was it worth the time to see it?   Yes, I got what I expected, and liked what I saw, but it was not enough to be a bright star in the line of action movies...Five out of ten stars. "},{"Title":"This rocks!","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I managed to sneak a preview of this film before being reduced to the general public. I was expecting a film of childish rubbish coupled with a story line that wouldn't be far removed from a Mr.Man book. How wrong I was.Jolie rocks as Lara croft in this high spirited action adventure. Lara's character is full of the sophistication of Bond and the cheek of Indiana, all wrapped up in a much prettier parcel for us guys!!The action scenes leave you breath taken and when it comes out on July 6th for the general UK I will be there front row!!  "},{"Title":"Finally a sucessful movie based on a videogame.","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Finally a movie based on video game that is actually worth seeing. Tomb Raider the video game was such a smash hit that it left making a movie for it with high expectations. Simon West pulled it off and directed an excellent film and Angelina Jolie's portrayal of Lara Croft was phenomenal.Of course no film is without its faults, so to is Tomb Raider. The two main faults I thought that TR had was both the character development and storyline development. Both were good but I feel that with a little work both could be excellent. I hope that the sequel succeeds where Tomb Raider failed (even as little as it did) And now all thats left to say like those who came before me; Bring on Angelina, Lara Croft and Tomb Raider 2!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"What were you looking for?","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Hey, if you have at least seen one preview for this movie, you'd know it was going to be cheesy. I'm a bit irritated that you expect to go in there and see some emotional flick. You're a bit stupid if that's what you had imagined. First of all, it's based on a video game. There's two elements to this fact. 1) You probably won't think it makes alot of sense if you've never played a video game. 2) Whatsmore, who says all action movies have to be realistic? I'm listening to you guys moan about how unreal the movie was, but  ITS A MOVIE. I'm not at all implying however that you should have to play the video games in order to understand the movie. But it helps in this scenario.One last thing, don't whine about how they showed too many breast shots. Lara croft is supposed to be a sexy woman who's not afraid to have her curves be shown. If this makes 14 year old boys like the movie more, so be it. But it's not a sex capade.  I give it a 10/10. Why? Because I enjoyed it, just as much as i enjoyed the games.Looking for A Green Mile flick? Here's an idea Go rent the green mile.  "},{"Title":"What The Hell Were You Expecting?","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I waited for a long time to see this movie, I'm a fan of the video games and an even bigger fan of Angelina Jolie.  I went into the movie expecting a fun,cheesy action movie, What were all u people who didnt like this movie expecting?..Obvously this is no Amercian Beauty but it was still a fun movie to watch. I dont understand why everything has to be so amazing these days. Movies are supposed to be fun to watch and this one sure was. Sure the writing and some of the acting wasnt that great but who cares. its fun and thats the bottom line.  And plus if you play the video games you would know that most of the stuff in the games is far fetched like the movie,it doesnt matter if it was far fetched ITS A MOVIE.  "}{"Title":"Not just Angelina Jolie!","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Tomb Raider was an excellent movie, but even though Angelina was good, she was not the only character in the movie.  Daniel Craig gave a good showing as Alex West, the man you wanted to trust, but weren't sure if you could (who looked very good coming out of a shower).  Iain Glen also made an excellent choice as Manfred Powell, the nemesis in the flick.  Chris Barrie had some good scenes as the butler Hillary.  So, as a female, I can say that there's more to the movie than Angelina's big pouty lips. "},{"Title":"100 minutes of high-octane action...","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  After sitting through this movie you wonder where the heck those 100 minutes of screen-time went?  It's like that.  One big roller-coaster ride that zooms off right from the start.  100 minutes of high-octane action...I liked this movie.  I had heard mixed reviews, ranging from it's a bomb to it was great! so I was a little worried about wasting my ten bucks, but I'm glad to say I was rather entertained. The action was fast and furious (almost too fast at times) and the visuals were pretty much spectacular, as you would expect.  But don't go in expecting a meaty story with lots of character development and such.  This is where Tomb Raider falls flat, and it's almost to be expected.  Lara Croft (Angelina Jolie) is a woman of little words and she didn't seem to have much dialogue at all which was surprising 'cos hey, she is the lead character.  It's just action, action and more action...which is good if that's what you're after.  As such, my only gripe with the movie was that most of the characters were too flat and the story seemed secondary to the visuals...The soundtrack was rocking and perfectly fit all the action.  The camera work is fast and frenetic, lending itself to the MTV-style-movie-stuff we've become accustomed too.  The only letdown in the visual department were the computer generated effects, they seemed just a little too yesterday (the quality that is)...weird considering this is one of the big Hollywood Summer blockbusters...Fantastic on the big screen...I wont say go see it, rather, decide for yourself...    "},{"Title":"If you like good movies, then by all means, stay away","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Hmmmm, I'll admit that I was excited to hear that Lara Croft was going to hit the big screen.  However, after sitting through 10 minutes of this atrocity, I knew the remaining seventy minutes were going to be much worse, exponentially even.  This movie starts out bad, gets worse, and, get this, ends horribly.  Talk about a twist ending.  If you want to see a movie this summer, and you have to choose between Tomb Raider or your sister's first lecture at university, there is no competition  the latter of the two may not keep you entertained, but at least you will not have paid money to see it. "},{"Title":"Big, loud, mindless fun","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Ah, the summer movie season. Is there anything greater? You're treated to a myriad of big, dumb action movies that would suck if released any other time, but accheive a form of greatness in the summer. Tomb Raider embodies these traits to a T. It's a sloppily written, clumsily plotted piece of garbage, but it's so much fun that filmakers are able to get away with murder. Like he proved in Con Air, director Simon West demonstrates that he's a crappy director who has no idea what to do with his charecters, but can make a great action scene. Tomb Raider is chock full of these, the best being a showdown in a mansion garage between buxom heroine Lara Croft and a gang of black-suited baddies and a battle between Croft and a slew of living statues. So, large-breasted women, oodles of mythology, and living statues with swords should make for a great summer flick. Unfortunately, the FX are sort of lackluster, which could spell doom for most action movies. However, Tomb Raider has something that those other films do not, something that sets it apart from the rest. That magical ingrediant is Angelina Jolie. She brings Croft to life so convincingly and so powerfully that Tomb Raider reaches an almost artistic state of being. She has a sly way of looking at people, a wonderfully passe accent and is painfully sexy throughout. She dominates every scene she's in, and that, friends, more than compensates for Tomb Raiders many, many flaws. So, sit back, set your mind in cruise control and enjoy all the bountiful glory that Jolie provides. "},{"Title":"A missed opportunity - waiting for TR II!","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is cool and bollocks and therefore a missed opportunity. Why? It's a missed opportunity because (1) Angelina Jolie IS Lara Croft, NO doubt about it! (this is the cool part) but (2) West & the scenarists simply do nothing with it! (which is the bollocks part).Don't take me too much for a TR-freak (which, in fact, I clearly am), but they just didn't play the game often enough. Is Tomb Raider about action? No! Tomb Raider is about mystery and movement (in a gorgeous environment). And mystery is not just having an old fellow say This clock is truly a mystery, Lara, just as movement is not putting Lara in a big room, let her fight some baddies and be done with it. Face it the film is just Lara fighting in 4 big spaces (opening sequence/Lara's home/Khmer temple/Siberian ice cave) with some gimmics in between, with which West et al. try to show us that they did indeed play the games (the outfits/locations/vehicles/the six-armed buddah).If I am a freak, then there it goes I say, they probably played TR III, which is probably the most erotic version and has some of the nicest levels, but has virtually no plot, except for looking for artifacts. But that's not the main problem. The problem is movement. I mean, in Tomb Raider you MOVE AROUND CONSTANTLY, pulling switches, getting keys, solving puzzles etc., whilst occasionally shooting some wretched animal (only TRII has comparatively a lot of shoot-em-up to do). So WHY DOESN'T SHE MOVE AROUND? There is NOT ONE mystery that has to be solved. Apart from some swords that have to be put in slits and a (one, yes) key that has to be fit in some lock, nothing happens, but fighting. And what about the location of the triangle halves that wasn't known in the beginning? I mean, christ, they just DROP her in the fighting spot (even literally in the khmer temple)... Ok, one can't build a movie on some chick running around pulling switches, but I say look at INDIANA JONES. Yeppa, the male variant. Those movies (especially the first two) have a lot of action, tons of mystery and all this whilst keeping hold of one- (or two-)dimensional characters. They have movement - take the plane scene, where Ford & Co jump out in a rubber boat, sledge down the entire himalaya and finally end up floating on some Indian Ganghes. Now that's Tomb Raiding! I say this Tomb Raider-the movie tried to stay a game, in stead of trying to be true/close to the game. Take any Schwarzenegger movie (say, the 6th Day, which wasn't even that good) and you can see how to be entertaining with a two page script and a cardboard lead character done by an actor who can't act.But Angeline Jolie was Divine and Vintage Lara Croft. The actors weren't that bad, overall; it's just the writers (especially) and the director who deserve a spanking. I mean, the action parts weren't even filmed that well. Especially in the ice cave (ridiculous camera work).Conclusion Angelina in Tomb Raider-the movie II! "},{"Title":"Popcorn, Robots and Boobs-A-Plenty!","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Tomb Raider is the kind of movie that would've knocked me on my ass had I been 10. When I was ten, I admired movies like Police Academy and The Little Rascals. When I was 10, I probably enjoyed the Mario Bros. Movie too. So when I went to see Tomb Raider, I wasn't expecting to be knocked on my ass. I expected to be kept woken up for an hour and a half. And it worked. And I liked the movie.The movie drops you in the heat of the action from the beginning. Lara Croft is supposedly raiding a huge tomb when a large robot attacks her. She does the usual stuff you'd expect from a pouty 36D heroine. She shoots it into a wreck, gets into the robot's computer and plays her party mix with it. We then realize that she is only training and she has just shot up her mansion's nerd programmer's (Noah Wyle) robot. She then cools off in a shower (ha-ma-ma-ma-ma!) and then the movie starts for real. On the night of the solar eclipse, Lara can hear a ticking in her mansion. She smashes up a wall and finds a clock. She then smashes up the clock (she does a lot of smashing in this movie) and finds a key inside. She then remembers her father, Lord Croft (Jon Voight) telling her that this key holds the power to use time as they please once it is put in the right place. So Lara gets really excited because now she go back in time and talk to her dead dad. But she's not alone on this. The Illuminati also want a piece of the pie. So begins Lara's adventures, which will take her into Asia and Antartica.Yeah, the plot doesn't make much sense and in fact it makes for much less tomb raiding than you'd expect. In fact, I counted only five action scenes in the movie, and one of them included giant stone monkeys. It's true that these sequences are pretty well made and lots of fun to watch, but I was expecting more action. And somehow, in the midst of all this, there never is a dull moment. The movie is only an hour and a half long (quite long enough, I suppose). The trailer says Angelina Jolie IS Lara Croft, and by golly, it's right. Jolie's role might not be very developed but she milks it for all its worth. She shows an actual talent (and two other talents, if you know what I mean) at playing an empty character. Taking a lame character and crafting an acceptable performance is a talent that not many people possess. The rest of the cast ham it up horribly, especially Iain Glen as another tomb raider. Jon Voight (Jolie's real-life father) shows up in a few scenes as Lord Croft.The special effects of Tomb Raider are well-done, and serve their purpose well. There are also some great locations and some beautiful scenery. Tomb Raider delivers the popcorn goods. It might not be very smart, it might exploit the beautiful Jolie by adding big Barbie doll breasts to her already beautiful figure, but if you go in expecting popcorn, you'll come out having seen popcorn. And pretty great popcorn at that. 6/10  "},{"Title":"Lighten up, people.","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Good grief. I think some of my fellow reviewers have some wider issues for which they blame this movie.Nice pace, beautiful woman, some cool gadgetry and steam punk. What's the beef?When all we have are movies that please folks like mournfoul (the moniker is a clue), what a dreary place this world will be.I do not require character development, intricate plot or deeper meaning in a movie. Just honesty. This movie is exactly as advertised. I paid my money and was duly entertained.I will always love The Godfather, Rear Window, The 39 Steps and I thought Memento was outstanding. All honest movies which delivered on their promise. As does Tomb Raider. "},{"Title":"Nice visuals, terrible script","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Tomb Raider. Highly anticipated movie based on the video game of the same name. I admit I was expecting quite a bit from this movie, as it had a very good background to work on, the main character's history having already been written and proven to be quite attractive to an immense crowd due to the popularity of the video game. It had the potential to rival Indiana Jones in exotic adventures and action. It may be unfair to compare it to the Indy trilogy but let's face it; the type of adventures, settings, time-frames in history, even characters, are very similar and comparisons are inevitable. I'll jump the gun and tell you my conclusion; it's bad. It's very bad. And I'll tell you why.Let's start with the story. Simply horrid. Many events happen for no explainable reason and, though it seems obvious to the characters where the answers are, the audience is mostly taken by surprise at the ease Lara Croft possesses in solving problems. Sure, she's supposed to be a hero, but there's usually a logical path from A to B. The movie essentially foregoes the explanation path and forces the audience to take things for granted. Not a good thing. Anyhow, I was willing to let it slide as long as the movie fulfilled it's promise as a good action flick. Again, I was disappointed. There was NO chemistry between the actors. The supposed love story chemistry between Lara and the other tomb raider, Alex, does not exist. It is unbelievable and quite dumb really. The chemistry between Jolie and her father, Voigt, again is non-existent. I think they have managed to make me believe that they are NOT father and daughter. Ugh. There's more. Cambodian Buddhist monk with perfect english. Little Asian girl appears everywhere for no reason. Dumb enemies. This last one is very apparent when enemies drop into Lara's mansion through ceiling skylights hanging on cables. Now, who in the world hangs on cables to shoot, like a sitting duck with no mobility? Stupid.Now, for the slightly redeeming aspects, if any. Nice effects, the sets were nicely designed, always love Chris Barrie (Rimmer in Red Dwarf) and some of the action is relatively well choreographed. Still, in conclusion, this is quite a bad movie, and I find it hard to recommend wasting money on it. Maybe for a rental only. Even then... "},{"Title":"the movie made me go back and replay the games all over again","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  awesome, right down to the special effects. I knew Angelina Jolie was right for the part, she brought out the realistic beauty and sexuality that we all knew Lara Croft to have. I hope a sequel is somewhere in the making. "},{"Title":"A big disgrace, huge disappointment!","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Tomb Raider, does not deliver in any sense.  It is made up of pure blah.  The action sequences and special effects are surprisingly bad.  In this day and age, I thought they could do better with CGI.  The script, however, is the major downfall.  This movie has so many stupid one-liners, that you feel like you're in a conversation with Steven Seagal.  Angelina Jolie does the best with what she is given.  I don't blame her, I think that she could've been a real good Lara Croft.  However, due to bad lines and a bad accent, the audience doesn't see her capability.  Tomb Raider, is disappointing and futile.  Thank God they only made it 96 minutes, otherwise it would've been real hell.  Don't go see this movie, if you're a big fan of the video game.  In fact, the general public should not go see the film whether they've heard of Lara Croft or not.  I hate to say it, but this movie stunk.  *--D+ "}{"Title":"A mix of action/adventure/beauty/mystique","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I love this movie since minute one. Angelina Jolie controlled scene after scene and I've never seen an action movie quite like this one. I really loved the special effect and the martial arts. She really fit for this role and I can't imagine of anyone better to play the character. The storyline was also amusing because it has that kind of surprising ending. Just watch and enjoy! "},{"Title":"little fluffy clouds","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is the perfect movie for a hot summer day when it's over 90 degrees outside and you just need to sit in an air-conditioned theater and turn yer brains off for a few hours.  A word of advice don't go in to see a movie based on a video game and expect to see Shakespeare.The comparisons to Indiana Jones are a bit off; Spielberg, Lucas, and company were starting with a blank slate.  If Indy had been a character in a video game first, they'd have looked ridiculous trying to flesh him out into a real person.  I think the makers of this fine product made a wise decision in leaving Lara Croft one-dimensional (excepting her lips and chestal area).Angelina Jolie works wonders with the limited material here, and brings more energy to the action scenes than any woman this side of Hong Kong.  Jon Voight lends some dignity to the proceedings, and unlike some viewers here, I found both his and Jolie's Brit accents acceptable.  Chris Barrie (the hologram-guy from TV's Red Dwarf) has some fun moments as Lara's prissy butler, and the rest of the cast does a good job of looking like they're straight out of a video game.The special effects are decent, especially the six-armed sword monster (too bad its appearance is rather short).  The scenery in Cambodia and Iceland is stunning and probably belongs in a better movie than this one.  The action sequences are nothing we haven't seen before, and if you get antsy, you can pass the time figuring out where they borrowed each shot from.  I spotted lifts from John Woo, Quentin Tarantino, Jackie Chan, and even a few bits of good old Indy.The Illuminati appear somewhere in the nonsense, and I'm wondering where the writers came up with the material on them.  No matter where they show up, they're always depicted as old European aristocrats and they always use the scary-pyramid-with-the-eye from the back of the dollar bill as their symbol.  Just once I'd like to see the super-secret evil society that rules the world portrayed as a bunch of blue-collar guys from Nebraska.  Please?Anyway, get out of the heat for a few hours, lower your cinematic expectations, turn your brain off, and enjoy.  Shakespeare will still be there when you get out. "},{"Title":"A comic book film","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Although it's based on a video game, Tomb Raider really falls into a category of bringing a comic book character, i.e. Superman or Wonder Woman, to the screen. For that reason, it's important to fill the audience in on the character's background early and then develop some concern for what happens to that individual (or at least for the individual's purpose in life, if not for the character as a person). Two movies that did this well were Superman and Batman. You could never had read a comic book about either and still understand early into the film how and why they were what they were. Unfortunately, we don't get that type of presentation about Lara Croft, although the script tried to do so. I think presenting some of her history in chronological order, rather than as flashbacks, would have helped. Also, making the butler into a hunk of questionable sexual orientation instead of the dottering old guy from the video game was a mistake, as it created a new relationship element that raised more questions rather than develop the character's role. (The older butler also would have provided a link to Lara's past, no doubt having worked originally for her father.) Adding the nerd/techno whiz was also a mistake, as it made Lara's home into a giant laboratory with a bedroom attached. Finally, the plot could have been smaller in scope, in that Lara didn't have to be saving the world from ultimate destruction. This doesn't leave much for a sequel or sequels, which can become repetitious. To paraphrase Captain Kirk in one of the latter Star Trek movies, Once more, we're off to save the Universe! "},{"Title":"A mix of action/adventure/beauty/mystique","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I love this movie since minute one. Angelina Jolie controlled scene after scene and I've never seen an action movie quite like this one. I really loved the special effect and the martial arts. She really fit for this role and I can't imagine of anyone better to play the character. The storyline was also amusing because it has that kind of surprising ending. Just watch and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Fun, but something was lacking.","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Based on the very popular video game, Tomb Raider plays out exactly like one of Lara Croft's digital  adventures.  True there is more to the movie than Lara running around the world with pistols ablazin', but  there seemed to be something lacking.  Angelina Jolie was the perfect choice for the flesh and blood Lara  Croft though.   With her dual pistols, tight clothes and long braid of hair, Jolie is ready for whatever is  thrown at her.  The plot deals with an ancient clock that has begun counting down on the first day of  planetary alignment.  The clock is the key to finding two pieces of the Triangle of Light.  Once whole again, it  will give its possesor the ability to move through time.  So, it is up to Lara Croft to save the world, and the  universe from ultimate doom.   The effects and stunt work are first rate.  I did enjoy the sequence where  Lara is jumping around her mansion and has to fend off a horde of armed men storming her home.  Probably  the best visual effect, or at least my favorite, is in the Cambodian temple.  A statue comes to life and  naturally, goes after anyone within sight.  Overall, Tomb Raider isn't a bad film.  It does offer some thrills  and Angelina Jolie is probably the best thing about the movie.  What I felt was lacking was the sense of fun  that was very prevalent in the Indiana Jones films.  Those still hold up to multiple viewings, but I think one  may become as bored as Lara does after watching this one more than twice.         "},{"Title":"kick butt movie","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  this movie was well worth the money i paid to see it! it was inventive and funny. Angelina Jolie is one of my favorite actresses and i loved watching her as Lara. she performed mostofthe stunts which i think is fantastic, considering the amount of action in the film. SPOILER ALERT. my favorite scenes were the motorcycle scene,where she tips the bike on its front wheel and spins it causing the back wheel to smack up a bad guy, and the scene near the end where she is dog sled skiing! i also loved when she was bungeeing from the cieling. that looked like a lot of fun! i would reccomend this movie to anyone who loves action, action,and more action!(and a lot of Jolie as well! she is an awesome actress!) "},{"Title":"A praise for the film and criticism for those who hated it.","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"      Despite the horrible reviews it's receiving (surprisingly, Ebert enjoyed this flick), Tomb Raider proves that video game based movies can find the balance between content and action.  Unlike the dark and grimy Super Mario Brothers or the overdone and poorly written Mortal Kombat Annihilation, Tomb Raider maintains the feel of the video games and adds the content a movie needs.  I was especially surprised with the storyline; I came expecting a fight fest with minimal characters and trite one-liners.  Instead I see a tough as nails woman with a soft side, a devious enemy with an obsession, and a lover that Lara can't let go.  Oh, and two token characters that didn't add or detract from the movie (which, along with a couple slow scenes, made me give this film a 9).  The story does clash slightly with the plot in the games, since Lord Croft was alive when Lara was in her late teens, but no more than can be expected.  The music was appropriate, fast and intense when needed.  All these elements combined made the experience feel less like watching a video game (which is what I expected) and more like a base movie that an exciting and fun-filled franchise can develop from.     Now, addressing all the people who criticize this movie, I say Come on!  Did you come expecting Gladiator?  Paramount asserted that this film would be an action flick and West delivered.  Jolie demonstrates a versatility from drama to action with smooth Croft-like confidence, adding to her repertoire.  Sure the CGI's weren't fantastic, but it was still eye-candy and entertaining to see.  Of course some of the stuff that happens is incredible - have you even played the games?  They have her shooting walking mummies and pushing 8-ton statues on a regular basis.  You don't come to a movie like Tomb Raider expecting a gripping story with authenticity and believability; you go to see an action-packed adventure that doesn't maim the game characters you enjoy, and that is what Tomb Raider does.  Lara was still Lara, only with a new look (black outfit, instead of blue and khaki).  She still kicked ass, was trigger-happy, and was highly erotic without trying.  And it had serious action, with a refreshing amount of plot.  How you could view this movie as terrible is beyond me, unless you've never seen the games, were asleep, or really, really hated The Mummy. "},{"Title":"great action film!!","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  i`ve never really liked films where a woman plays a masculine role? but this is a good movie!! in fact i liked it more than the mummy 2, which is not saying much but TR does have more substance than M2 does!!i noticed some of the other critics around here didn`t like the plot?? come on for an action movie this is the best your going to get!! a sacred clock that controls time and lara croft must stop the evil ones from getting their hands on it!! that`s really about as good as your going to get for an action film. and when the clock is put to use the special effects are outstanding!! as far as the TR video game goes -- well let`s just say the movie is a lot better than the game!!if your really into action films you will enjoy this movie! and if you`re not into action films it is still a good way to kill time!rating (best of 5 stars) .....3 1/2.... "},{"Title":"Who in the **** edited this?","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Wow!  This movie has some excellent fight sequences.  Whoeverwas the fight choreographer deserves applause.  Hip Hip Hooray. Wow!  This movie has some horrible editing.  Whoever was theeditor deserves to be shot.   Now that I got your attention, 'cause the movie won't, I'll give youthe rundown.   A)  Decent script - good idea with interesting characters thatalways seem to surprise.   B)  Fair directing - we're talking about Simon West here folks. Remember Con Air?   C)  Cheesy Special Effects - cut scenes in the game were throwntogether faster and better than this.   D) Horrendous use of blue screen - Horrendous use of bluescreen.   E) BAD EDITING.Let's face it people.  This movie was rushed.  It was actually apretty good idea.  But as is obvious, the studio only put so muchmoney towards it.  The production team knew that they could onlysell it with a big name because it's based on a game.  So theyspent half the budget on Angelina.  The other half, they had tomake sacrifices with.  A bad editor, a bad effects team, and anawful, cut-rate, film-school cinematographer. I was a film student myself and the shots in this film are what wewere told never to do!  Ever! Bye. "},{"Title":"Tomb Raider is meant to entertain; not solve world hunger","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Tomb Raider is to be taken with a grain of salt. It is a movie based on a video game... what should you expect?I did not go into this movie thinking that I would walk out learning something insightful about the world or mankind. I went in thinking hey, this is a movie based on a video game, and Angelina Jolie is an amazing actress (not to mention hot) It is what it is; a movie meant to entertain and take you away from your ordinary life.With that in mind, I walked out of the movie theatre, with a smile. I was entertained for a solid 1 1/2 hours. The movie has a great soundtrack, excellent action sequences & fun special effects.Many critics have trashed it, saying that it is not a very intelligent movie. Only one reviewer got the point. Roger Ebert. Citing that it was a fun a popcorn movie This movie was meant to entertain me, and it fufilled its obligation.If you want to see a movie that will make you think about humanity, rent Crime and Punishment. If you want to be entertained for a few hours, in a MTv sort of way, go see Tomb Raider. You won't be disappointed. "}{"Title":"Absolutely horrible pap","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm not going to go deeply into this movie, which I found incoherent at times, but here's a list of things that completely annoyed me-The laughable scene where Croft reads the letter from her father regarding the triangle (is that some deep stuff or what, a triangle. I liked it better when it was in Legend of Zelda).  Listen as the typically horrid Jon Voigt rings off about 20 different obscure locations, names, rivers, jungles, people, etc., as if we're supposed to go, Oh yeah, of course.-One liners I am assuming we were supposed to laugh at during the brief pause after the one-liner was said.  Nobody in my theater laughed....not once.-Lara Croft doing some sort of bungee cord ballet exercises.  My girlfriend leaned over to me and asked, What the hell is that supposed to be?-THe usual seizure-inducing action sequences, with an average of 137 camera angle changes per second.-The fact that one would need both parts of this triangle thingee to wreak havoc.  Lara Croft holds one piece.  Why doesn't she just, say, flush it down the toilet or something? I mean, duh.-The whole climactic last scene, where Lara unites the triangle parts and sorta dashes through time for approximately 25 seconds.  I mean, huh? This is a climax? She meets her father who says I love you and then she is back in the present, helps her friend who got stabbed, and......that's it. Wow. Her father was somehow important yet that is it?-Characters that have zero development, disappear, and appear for no reason. The little asian girl, the Illuminati, the other archaeologists seeming to turn bad then good.This film was an absolute mess, but the ADD, video game geeek crowd should pop some big box office numbers for at least the first week.  "},{"Title":"A great adaptation Congratulations Mr West.","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't understand why people are so negative about the film ?. Everyone is comparing it over and over with the Indiana Jones series. Well this is not Indy, never was and never will be. It is based on a video game I love and played with for the past 5 years. Does anyone remember how awful the last Indiana Jones was, especially the special effects ?. For Lara CroftTomb Raider, There is a script(maybe a tiny bit slow in explanations I agree but the film is mostly aimed at kids and teenagers. Remember it is a Video Game to start with and who plays video games ?). I was personally amazed at how good the film was(They did not rush on anything and it shows). You feel the storyboard work. I would give a special mention to the following 4 people Kirk Petrucelli for his amazing production designing(The Cambodian temple is ma-gni-fi-cent), Cinematographer Peter Menzies Jr. who shot it just right(Especially how he photographed A. Jolie)without overdoing anything, director Simon West for feeling the story and its main Character and not making an awful Hollywood version and destroying one of the world's greatest video game ever, and Angelina Jolie for portraying Lara Croft as real and true as she is in game. Go see this film, expect an entertaining-well-crafted show. In short Congratulations for the whole cast and crew for one of the best films of the summer 2001.  "},{"Title":"What fun!  Not a great movie, but a great diversion.","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Granted there were holes in the plot; and it borrowed a lot from Raiders of the Lost Ark, The Dark Crystal (I kept expecting Aughra to show up with the spinning planetary thingy), and probably more.  There was plenty of improbable action - too bad for those who don't want to let go of logic and what passes for reality.  But in the end, it was just plain fun to watch. "},{"Title":"It sucked!!","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Do yourselves a favour, rent any of the Indiana Jones films if you want a really good action adventure. Honestly, it makes little to no sense, and you never ever get the sense that the title character is ever in any peril whatsoever. At least, I didn't. You always knew she would get out of it with a quick grin and a gun or weapon of some kind. Nothing seemed to be a real threat to her IMO. The difference between Lara Croft and Indiana Jones is basically this, Harrison Ford honestly gave you the impression that he was in honest to God danger, and that even he didn't know if he was going to get out of it. Lara Croft is basically invincible from the beginning. It ain't Jolie's fault, either. She is actually the one redeeming quality of the story other than the fantastic locales. "},{"Title":"Don't expect what it isn't","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought this was a great movie. Angelina Jolie does an awesome job. Just don't go into the movie hoping for Indiana Jones or James Bond. It isn't either one of those. It is its own mix. Light hearted and fun. The story line is just okay and there is definitely some whole. But all together it is fun to watch with some good action scenes.  "},{"Title":"'Indiana Jones' with a heroine","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"   I saw this movie on the spur of the moment, having no familiarity with the video game of the same name. It proved to be very 'Indiana Jones'-like with plenty of action and a very easy on the eyes heroine (Jolie is 'pretty' in French). If you can accommodate the unbelievable skills of the lead and not be disappointed by the stretched story line - not uncommon in movies of this type - you'll be entertained for 1 1/2 hours without having to think too deeply. The special effects, as expected, were excellent. I gave this movie a 7, higher than the average, because I simply wanted to be entertained, not challenged, for the evening. "},{"Title":"The greatest Tomb Raider","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I really enjoyed the movie, good effects, great actors. Not too much violence and good sense of humor. Great fighting techniques and tricks. This is kind of movie that inspires you to do something great with your life, to start an adventure or just to be more active! Thanks to the film makers, thanks to all actors! "},{"Title":"Tomb Raider = Visual Chewing Gum","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Tomb Raider is a nice piece of visual chewing gum! It bears a similarity to The Mummy 2 and obviously the Indiana  Jones films from which the original computer games derived. Angelina Jolie and Jon Voigt working together is a nice touch but the relationship is a reworking of the one between Indy and his father in The Last Crusade. The action sequences are entertaining, if a little blurred on occasion, Jolie is fine as Lara Croft as she has the smirk down to a tee! The mythological plot-line is the latest in a series of such to come out of Hollywood recently, re The Mummy and the Matrix to name just a couple. Perhaps this taps into generational discontent at the start of the new millennium as these films are obviously targeted at the late-teen/student gen Y audience. Whatever, what is assured is that a series of sequels will follow. I just hope that they develop the Lara Croft character just a little so that we can have a third dimension to what is at the moment nothing more than a computer game made flesh!! Jolie deserves better than this as in this film a fine actress is being wasted purely because she has a fantastic body and easily resembles Lara. In fact at times, especially in the slo-mo sequences, it isn't really Jolie at all that is the centre of the camera's attention, it is her breasts!! "},{"Title":"Lara kicks ass !","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought this was an excellent, for once an action hero who actually get's hurt !! I got tired of the whole yeah I've completely been belted yet my hair is in tact and not a scratch on my perfect face routine. Angelina Jolie does a great job as Lara Croft, I can see no other person playing the role. I thought everyone did a great job, and Lara and Alex Cross had chemistry, it would be great to see a return of Lord Croft. Looking forward to a sequel... "},{"Title":"Tomb Raider Movie Average. Angelina Jolie Perfect.","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  After reading the reviews on Tomb Raider on IMDB, there is no doubt that this movie received mixed reviews. Many people loved it and many people hated it. My state newspaper gave it 4 stars. Not sure what movie he was watching. Tomb Raider is NOT a 4 star movie. The Matrix is a 4 Star Movie. What really hurts this movie is the terrible plot and all the loop holes it provides. Why the hell would the ancients break a key  artifact into 2 pieces if they didn't want people to piece it back together? They could have easily smashed it into a thousand pieces. And what's up with the stone guards who protect these pieces? You shoot them once and they shatter into a million pieces. How stupid is this? The plot bounces around so much, it's ridiculous. One minute Lara is in her house, the next time she's half-way across the world. The time machine looked like the octopus ride at Six Flags.  The movie started out pretty strong. Lara fighting an agile robot monster in a dungeon lair was very cool. *SPOILER COMING*  Then we find out it's just a training room and the robot was designed by her assistant. From there the movie starts to go downhill. Lara finds a unique key in an old clock under the main stairs in her home. Apparently it was left there by her father and she was able to find it by hearing it tick all the way from her bedroom (100 yards away). In any case more research is done and they find out that this device is the key to finding the 2 pyramid pieces that when pieced together during the planets alignment, can control time. The main adventure is Lara traveling from one ends of the Earth to the other to find the pieces.Of course there is a bad guy in all of this named Alex Marrs who will stop at nothing to get these pieces before Lara. Some of the action scenes are decent, but a bit far-fetched. True, this is a movie based on a video game, but even the games weren't this unbelievable. Then again.. The only shining part of this movie is Angelina Jolie who does a great job portraying Lara Croft. Those poutty lips and busty front is Lara all the way and Angelina is great with the guns. Angelina has Lara's English accent down perfectly. The only thing Angelina doesn't have is Lara's hips and butt. Unfortunately Angelina can't save this movie from mediocrity and old school story-telling. If you do plan to see this movie, see the Matinee..please. I spent $18 seeing this mess with my girlfriend. I gave this movie a 6. It would have gotten less if it weren't for Mrs. Jolie and a few good action scenes. Nuff said.  "}{"Title":"Better than I thought it would be.","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Finally got around to seeing Tomb Raider.  My hope was that the plot, action and Jolie's acting would be enough to erase the picture in my mind of she and her brother French kissing.  Thank God it was.  I have no interest in the video game so for me it was basic Saturday afternoon popcorn fodder. It was much better than I had expected after reading several negative reviews. The plot was weak but come on, it's based on a friggin' video game.  Who was expecting War & Peace?  If this had been released in the 1940's it would have been in 12 episodes.  So my one burning question is, why would a woman who undresses in front of her (uninterested) butler and is scolded for being less than modest ALWAYS be wearing a sports bra under a spandex tank top? The movie already has an R rating for violence, is it asking toooooooooooooooo much to at least see as much of Jolie as we have in past movies? "},{"Title":"Good affects, disappointing plot.","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was hoping Tomb Raider would not fall into the same trap as other movies that were derived from video games like Street Fighter did.  The special affects for this movie were very good and this is what kept my interest in the film.  However, the story line and the plot were poorly presented.  This hurt the film tremendously.  Your interest is held by the action and affects, which rarely stopped and that is, for the most part, the only thing keeping your interest.   This one could have been much better with a better plot and a better presentation of the story.Overall, a rental (6 out of 10). "},{"Title":"Lack of Imagination","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  As an avid Tomb Raider fan, I can honestly say this movie leaves one holding his/her head while trying to piece together the reasoning behind this movie. I NEVER pay to see a movie opting to purchase it at a later date but due to the title of this one, I felt, at the time, that this is one movie I would pay to see over and over again. That is, until I actually saw it.Looking for the plot was tedious enough without trying to figure out who is Alex. This movie lead me to think that the Director wanted to give us a buxom beauty with loaded guns to distract us from the poor storyline.Compared to the action in this movie and the action in Charlie's Angels, I'll see Charlie's Angels over and over again before I even consider wasting another dime on Tombraider.If you haven't seen it, don't waste your brain cells. If you have...I can only offer my condolences. "},{"Title":"you need the right outlook","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie.  I think that Angelina Jolie does a good job and her stunts are incredibly fun to watch.  The thing is I went into it thinking that it wasn't going to be a serious movie, just a fun action movie.  It definitely lived up to that description.Some things that I noticed while watching  The entire movie is about making Angelina look cool.  She is wearing a skin tight tank top while everybody else is in down jackets.  The other thing is look at her, you will notice that she looks bruised in some sequences.  I think that those bruises might be her loads of tattooes under the body makeup. "},{"Title":"Awesome, absolutely smashing","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well. Tomb Raider - A movie based on the multi million selling video game character in history. Those who didn't like this film, bear with me. As my comment might displease you.I went into Tomb Raider knowing that in Action films, certain things shown in the film, don't neccesarily always represent what would occur in real life. Knowing this I wasn't in my chair going oh come off it, that wouldn't happen. I was totally emersed in the action and the character, Lara Croft, also I thought that the plot fit the Tomb Raider environment quite effectively. My main comment is that Tomb Raider the movie, should open a doorway for other Video Games to be made into films. I am hoping for the sequel - Simon West, Angelina Jolie - and all those involved in this film. It was a great visual experience and a thrill of a ride - THANK YOU. "},{"Title":"The Avengers Meets Nintendo","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Slight Spoilers aheadHoping to catapult this video game adaptation out of the Super Mario Bros. depths and into Mortal Kombat territory, director Simon West makes a valiant attempt, only to emerge with egg all over his smug face.  I read press about how brilliant and visually masterful the director said this picture was going to be, and all I can say is, I'll bet Mr. West is wishing he kept his mouth shut.  Slow, droll, dry and strangely devoid of energy, Tomb Raider is a huge disappointment in much the same way the big screen Avengers (with Uma Thurman and Ralph Fiennes) was when it was released.To be sure, it is one flashy piece of eye candy, bolstered by an enthusiastic soundtrack filled with electronica dance music and competent special effects work.  Unfortunately, after a promising opening, the film is simply an empty exercise of flashy visuals with zero substance, making Tomb Raider a ninety minute excuse to showcase Angelina Jolie's stunning beauty and physicality.  To wit, many shots are devoted to either close ups of her face and luscious lips or medium shots of her running as her breasts bounce up and down and up and down&#133;Baywatch meets John Woo.  Credit Mrs. Jolie for actually creating some kind of depth to Croft's character, despite a terrible script, albeit mainly in wordless flashbacks and introspective stares, a testament to her power as an actress.  And yes, some of the scenes work &#150; take for instance Croft's escape from temple as reanimated god statues come to life to attack the tomb raiders and a beautiful setup to a bungee filled action sequence where Croft is taking the edge off of the day by doing bungee ballet in her living room.  The serenity, peace and elegance of those few minutes makes me really ponder where Simon West went wrong.The problem is in the script which foists a skeleton of a plot with which to hang the film on with little creativity, consistency or direction.  Add to that the fact that, like the Mummy Returns, it's just a mess of action sequences strung together and lame one-liners, insipid dialogue and characters that serve as merely cardboard devices to advance the plot and you have the makings of HUGE summer disappointment.  And everyone just seems to be sleepwalking through the film, going through the motions.  Jolie, with her beauty and charisma, is the only one who registers here&#133;everyone else is simply forgettable in an over-priced, over-hyped forgettable disappointment (excepting of course the equal opportunity male shower scene that showcases Daniel Craig's impressive body&#133;arguably a male Lara Croft-esque physique).On the plus side, as I said, it is good eye candy with amazing production design from genius Kirk Petruccelli, who has so excellently made an amazing visual landscape for filmgoers in both Blade and Mystery Men.  Credit should also go to Peter Menzies and his excellent lighting and photography skills. (Note to whoever did Ms. Croft's makeup what's with the dark circles that were evident under Ms. Jolie's eyes in several sequences? Try some concealer!)  "},{"Title":"great movie, but be sure to be a fan of the videogame","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was great, and extremely fun to watch. Even if it's not your cup of tea, I don't see how anyone can think it's so horrible, decent if anything. I think some people just took it too seriously. But Angelina's portrayal was great, she nailed lara croft perfectly(although i still would have preferred a recreation by Elizabeth Hurley). Some problems that were ran into though were by people that I know weren't videogame fanatics. One of my friends that I saw this movie with was not familiar with tomb raider outside of watching me play it a few minutes on my PC, did not understand the movie. It wasn't the story or situation, but the general purpose of one artifact leading to another, and things like that. If he were a big fan of the game, I'm sure he would not be questioning the purpose and the way it was put together. But he enjoyed it nonetheless, and so did I. I give it an 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Great action scenes, great visual effects, great job by Angelina Jolie, plot was hoaky.","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The action scenes in this were incredible. Angelnia Jolie Played this part great. The script called for a bada** and she gave us a bada**. The visual effects were wonderful. Whoever did the set did a great job.The plot on the other hand, was kinda hoaky. They could have done something better. "},{"Title":"It's a video game adaptation for goodness sake!","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Angelina Jolie plays Lady Lara Croft in Tomb Raider, an action film based on a popular video game.  That being said, Simon West's challenge was to give Lara Croft a real life character while keeping the action sequence in line with the video game.The film warms up with an action clip showing Lady Croft combating a robot in a tomb setting.  After she turns the heavy metal into scrap, the scene quickly changes to Lady Croft resting in her castle in England lamenting the loss of her father, archaeologist genius, Lord Croft (Jon Voight).  (Isn't it interesting that Angelina Jolie is playing opposite her real life dad, Jon Voight?)The loss of her father fuels her adventure which begins when the planetary alignment takes place, an event that occurs only once every 5,000 years. The planetary alignment sets the scene for the discovery of a mysterious object, which legend has it serves as the key to controlling time.  Not surprisingly, there is a secret society at work to obtain this power.  As with any action flick, it is the hero's mission, or heroine in this case, to save the world.If you have played the video game, you will agree that Angelina Jolie is truly the perfect pick for the Lara Croft role.  She's sassy, clever, fearless, invincible, and she exudes sexuality in everything that she does. With every victory, she radiates a sensual glow as if she has conquered. Who needs a man when you're a tomb raider!Just as all video games switch to different levels, the film also changes scenes quite often.  One moment you're in England and the next you're in Cambodia.  Don't be surprised that Lara can speak the native language in every country she visits.  She has the amazing ability to dodge bullets as well!  And one more thing, don't be alarmed that Lara is clad so scantily throughout the film.  Lara Croft is a fantasy adaptation.  If you can maintain this perspective then you just might be entertained!  "},{"Title":"If You Didn't Like It, Then You Didn't Know What You Were Going To See","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't get folks that do not prepare themselves for the movie they are going to see and then comment negatively when it doesn't meet some unrealistic expectation. As far as representing the game on the big screen, it is well done. There is a beautiful and bountiful Lara. There are exotic locales. There are absurd action sequences. Voila, Tomb Raider.I'm not sure how one can comment if you haven't played the game. I have read comments such as unrealistic action sequences and defy the laws of physics and 10000 shots of her breasts. And the point there would be...OF COURSE it is unrealistic and defies the laws of physics. OF COURSE you see many shots of Lara's breasts. THAT IS THE POINT OF THE GAME - ERGO THE MOVIE. The movie demonstrated all of the relevant aspects of the game, in a tone consistent with the game. I doesn't have the absolute best graphics, but it is done consistently with the game context. It doesn't have the best character development, but I didn't really experience that in the game either.Indy was Indy, The Matrix was the Matrix, Tron was (well, the best there ever was) this however, IS Lara Croft AND Tombraider!! "}{"Title":"Ms. Croft Saves The World With Two Very Large Guns","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Man this movie is a lot of fun.  Jolie proves she has all the charisma needed to pull something like this off - she's dynamite.  The script.. well, I guess Croft just HAD to save the entire universe and all space and time in the very first installment of the series.  Hmmm but what's left to top that for Tomb Raider #2?  Lara stops a very bad man from poisoning the slurpie machine at a Quick-E-Mart?I do think the writers tried to give Lara more dimension than the average paper-thin action hero but, honestly, only Jolie's charisma and obvious talent saves the MTV-like depth of the presentation.  They just refuse to really introduce us to the various characters and make us care... no time! no time! gotta move! the audience will get bored!The special effects in the Cambodian tomb are good fun, in fact, many of the scenes are imaginative and very much in keeping with the computer/video game.One thing that does tend to torpedo the suspense in movies of this genre is that you just KNOW there's no way that the hero is going to die.  Lara just has too many tricks up her sleeve; a hundred baddies with automatic weapons and swat training can blast into her castle at night while she's barefoot and (yawn) she might need to reweave her ponytail when it's all over.  Not to say that the ride she takes to knock all the baddies flat isn't fun to hop on, it is, it is.You know what would be great that will never happen?  The next installment will be a bit slower-paced, grittier, with more emotion and characters you can sink your teeth into a bit.  Will that happen?  Can we all say NO! bzzzzzzz wrong-o together?3 stars for the storyline, 5 stars for the writers and director trying to give Lara some dimension, 11 stars for Jolie who is absurdly sexy just staring down the camera lens and winking.  Bravo. "},{"Title":"Which came first, the video game Lara or Angelina Jolie Lara?","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  We all know which was first, but if someone didn't know, they might think that video Lara was modeled after Jolie's portrayal.  SHE NAILED IT.  I can't imagine anyone ever having brought a character to life as well as Jolie did in this case.As for the movie, keep in mind that this film is based on a video game.  They're not going for the academy award here.  And, it would be a disservice to the fans of that game series if the movie didn't bring the flavor of the games to the screen.  Hell, there'd be no movie if the games didn't have so many fans.  Once again, score!Almost all the elements of a Tomb Raider game were in this movie.  Exotic places, ancient secrets and Lara tough as nails.  I will say that I wanted more complex secrets, and that I would rather have seen Lara do more of the figuring out, but maybe they'll get that in the sequel.  They should also try and give the audience an opportunity to figure things out at the same time.  I was a little surprised at how they chose to have Lara collaborate with the enemy even though you knew that she was never on their side.  Lara doesn't do that.  She's always one step ahead, then she gets caught and falls behind.  Then she catches back up, dispatches the bad guys, and solves the mystery.  That's not quite how you'll get it in this film, but it's not something that will kill the film.They had to establish a character for Lara.  She couldn't just be the fabulously gorgeous girl archeologist.  She had to have more to her than that.  They established a few things to give her more character.All in all, I think that if you're a fan of these video games, it'll be hard to disappoint you with this movie.  If not, you may come away thinking that you didn't see much. "},{"Title":"Exactly what I expected.","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was exactly what I thought it would be.  It wasn't superb, but hey, it's based off a computer game.  Angelina Jolie was remarkably well-cast.  The plot was interesting, but not fabulous.  The scenery was beautiful, and the sets were absolutely fascinating.  But the best part of that movie for me was noticing all the similarities to the computer game. I'm not the expert on the Tomb Raider games since I've only played the second one, but I must say, I absolutely grinned with delight when I saw Angelina Jolie in the first scene in her famous shorts and tank top, her long braid swaying back and forth across her back.  The little sighs and grunts that she makes when discovering something or exerting herself are priceless, and even the way she pulls out her guns reflected on the game and brought a smile to my face.The reason that Tomb Raider was pretty much the only computer game I've ever played was mostly based on the fact that I like to see women portrayed in the action hero role, considering how rare that is.  Watching Trinity in The Matrix and Michelle Yeoh or Ziyi Zhang in Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon is similar, though of course no where near as good.The bad things about this movie are mostly that there really are quite a few holes in the plot, and the climax was pretty disappointing.  It was one of the few movies I've seen where the first two thirds of the movie were better than the last third.  This, however, does not destroy the purpose of the movie.  I think it was mostly for people who went into the theater hoping to see Lara Croft back swinging, this time on the big screen.  I'd bet that most of the people who didn't enjoy this film were just forgetting that it was molded after a computer game, and was unrealistic and exaggerated because that's exactly what the audience would be expecting.  So for those of you who liked the game, this is definitely worth seeing, if not in the theater, at least on video.Rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"No man (or woman) is an island.","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"    What immediately struck me is how reminiscent this film is of the Mortal Kombat pair of films (of course I might be a little biased given I was a fan of the games and the movies).  Not to mention that they couldn't have picked anyone better than Angelina Jolie for the part of Lara (or her father as Lara's father!).   I am not a fan of the Tomb Raider series of video games... but I eagerly anticipated this film.  But this may be why I may not know what I'm talking about when I say that the character cannot be exactly as she is in the video games... but I believe that would get repetitive quickly.   I didn't expect anything else... and the story was better than I was led to believe.  It's exactly what it's supposed to be.    On a final note, even as a woman, I can acknowledge when another woman is hot.  And she is.  Let's hope the sequels turn out just as good. "},{"Title":"S'okay, I suppose.","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I just saw this movie, and it certainly did not meet its hype, as I was expecting.  Even as I decided to see this movie, I did not expect to rate it as a perfect 10 (I gave it a 7).Personally, I'm getting tired of these Hollywood-type movies where the protagonist fights several small armies and comes out of these encounters with little more than a scratch or two.  I prefer the ones where it becomes a team effort.Not only that, but I had difficulties believing that these tomb raiders can solve the mysteries of a tomb in matter of moments, when in reality it may take archaeologists weeks, months or even a year to accomplish the same thing.  I guess they had to speed things up or else we would all fall asleep as they deciphered runes, etc.In any case, Angelina gave us one hell of a show (also, it doesn't hurt that she's easy on the eyes).  According to reports I heard on the television, she had undergone extensive training for this part and performed many of her own stunts.  Kudos, Angelina, kudos.All in all, it was a nice little adventure, and I imagine I will purchase it when released on video.Personally, I still prefer the Indiana Jones movies. "},{"Title":"Calling Tim Burton...Calling Tim Burton...","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  	She's got the attitude, she's got the moves, she's got the--well, she's got the look; Angelina Jolie is Lara Croft, in `Tomb Raider,' the action film adapted from the popular video game, directed by Simon West.  Like Indiana Jones and James Bond, Lara Croft is larger than life, and she had to be to bring this film to life.  After a slam-bang opening, we find Lady Croft at home in England, where the game is about to begin.  Still lamenting the loss some years earlier of her father, archeologist Lord Croft (Jon Voight), Lara comes across a certain object among his effects one day that had been hidden away in a secret place in their mansion.  Unsure of what it is, or of it's value, she seeks the counsel of a friend of her father's, and soon learns that whatever the piece is, it's somehow the key to an undertaking of dubious merit which has long been sought by a gentleman by the name of Manfred Powell (Iain Glen), who must have it in order to complete his quest.  Lara, however, has no intention of parting with it, but Powell is a man of persuasive means and is determined to have it at any cost.  But his methods of bargaining do not sit well with Lara Croft, and they are soon at it head to head.  And it's only the beginning of an adventure that will ultimately take them to opposite ends of the earth and into some ancient and exotic tombs, as Lara strives to uncover the mystery behind this cryptic antiquity.	Jolie was the perfect choice to embody Lara Croft, from the confident swagger she affects, right on down to her articulate British accent and the riveting glare she uses to such great effect.  Her Lara is fearless and appealing, and director West allowed enough time in between the action for the character development that makes her more than just an action figure, and Jolie put the time to good use to flesh her out and create a well rounded character, and not just a one dimensional caricature; and the movie is all the better for it, as it provided the substance the film needed to make it fly.  Lara is actually a fairly complex character, in fact; possibly more than you would expect in a movie like this.  She's daring, yet vulnerable, but with a sleek exterior like tempered steel.  And watching her, you get the feeling that there's nothing she couldn't do, which gives her something of an invincible quality.  Even when she's immersed in the action and the excitement gets intense, there's no denying that she is absolutely the star of the show.  	This film has all the ingredients with which West should have been able to whip up a veritable banquet for the senses; but unfortunately, he came up a bit short-- as if he did everything right, but failed to add that extra pinch of spice that would've made it sumptuous and lip-smacking good.  What the film lacks is atmosphere and that special touch that someone like Tim Burton always brings to his films, like what he did with `Batman,' for example, which took you a step beyond what you were actually seeing on the screen.  West had a decent story, magnificent special effects and the kind of leading lady directors dream of having; but he brought it all to fruition with a bare modicum of imagination, presenting it with a kind of straightforward what-you-see-is-what-you-get style, which worked well enough for him with `Con Air,' but wasn't enough for this kind of film, which desperately needed some nuance to really sell it.  Not that this is a bad movie, by any means; it just lacks that spark of life that would've made it special.  In retrospect, West was probably not the best choice to put at the helm of this picture.	The supporting cast includes Daniel Craig (Alex), Leslie Phillips (Wilson), Mark Collie (Larson), Chris Barrie (Hilary) Julian Rhind-Tutt (Pimms) and Noah Taylor (Bryce).  Hopefully, there will be a sequel to this film; Jolie's Lara Croft is just too good a character to leave alone, and `Tomb Raider' is like an appetizer-- once you've sampled it you're going to want the full meal.  And Jolie is an actor who will deliver the goods if given the chance; she certainly did more than enough in this one to make it work, and her performance alone makes it worth seeing.  Now if they can only come up with a director who can measure up to her for the next one, and can deliver on the promise this film made but failed to fully realize.  Now THAT would be a sequel worth waiting for.  I rate this one 7/10.         	          "},{"Title":"I liked it...","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm not an Angelina Jolie fan, per se, but I have played Tomb Raider.  With that in mind, I'd have to say I enjoyed watching this movie.  Those critical of action movies, however, should probably avoid it.  This IS an action movie and that's what it does best!  I think they did a great job of bringing Lara Croft to life and showing Tomb Raider on the big screen.  I read about some of the difficulties in doing so, but they seem to have made the right decisions.  The initial action scene was sooo representative of the game, I was leaning this way and that way in my seat!  Angelina had the right amount of sassiness, but don't expect much character development.  About the only thing I didn't like was her, evidently, ex-boyfriend.  I guess I would have expected Lara to have a little more taste.  Also, our initial meeting suggestions Lara distains him but, then, near the end of the movie we get the feeling that she really loves him - only to be left in the air at film's end.  Oh well, what do you expect for an action movie?!  Go with some friends and have fun! "},{"Title":"Exactly the fun movie I expected.","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I am completed confused.  People are really HATING this movie.  Did anyone bother to look at the poster and read the title before entering the theater?  The movie is called TOMB RAIDER and it's based on a video game!  Wanna know what other gems were based on video games?  SUPER MARIO BROS, DOUBLE DRAGON, and MORTAL KOMBAT.  Okay, so MORTAL KOMBAT was fun, but come on!  I don't know about you, but I had a ton more fun in this movie than in THE MUMMY RETURNS.  Angelina Jolie is perfect as Lara Croft - yes, she's all attitude and one note, but she kicks BUTT, and isn't that what she's supposed to do?  The plot is slight, yes, but you have your goal, your bad guys, your good guys, and heavy machinery.  The dialogue is decent, keeps things moving along, and the CGI is actually quite good (as a comparison, see the embarassing rush job in MUMMY RETURNS).  I know I'm all over the map with this review, but I'm so confused as to how people can hate something with a passion as much as so many seem to with this movie.  It's NOT INDIANA JONES - It never claimed to be.  It's NOT THE MATRIX - It's not supposed to be.  but it seems in this era of advances in the action film genre LIKE MATRIX, people will settle for nothing less (how they settled just fine with MUMMY RETURNS, I'll never know)...  Just see the movie.  If you know what you're buying a ticket to, and lower the expectations slightly, and just go have a good time, I don't think you'll be disappointed.  But what do I know?  I liked it. "},{"Title":"This avid Tomb Raider player and Angelina Jolie fan's expectations were met and exceeded.","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I just returned from seeing the flick at Mann's Chinese Theatre, here in Hollywood, and I have to say, I am impressed!Being an avid player and fan of the Tomb Raider games, by Eidos Interactive, I had rather strict criteria for the film, most of which were met, and some were exceeded.First, I have to give a standing ovation to Peter Menzies, Jr. cinematographer, John Fenner, David Lee, Leslie Tomkins, Su Whitaker art direction & the rest of the art department, with special notice of Simon Bowles concept artist and Sonja Klaus set decoration for the breathtaking visuals.I was particularly impressed by the Dead Zone scenes at the ice lake, and the Temple designs throughout. As a graphic designer, the visual effect of the colors, shapes and settings chosen were not wasted on me.Chris Corbould, Jeremy Pelzer, Steven Begg and the rest of the Special & Visual Effects departments were equally skilled in their portrayal of truly supernatural events. The most memorable effects scene, for me, was the final scene in the ice lake temple when the stone gods and guardians come to life, surrounded by the light, fire & water explosions of the Planetary Clock. A close tie for second were the opening Kill Lara Croft training scene and the Midnight Raid scene in Lara's mansion.Now.. for the cast. Angelina Jolie was perfect, but I expected nothing less. Physically, she matched Lara Croft to a tea with her mix of exotic beauty and macho sexiness.The other thing that impressed me was the fact that Jolie, after three months of strict training and high-protein diet, did the bulk of her own stunts, which is no small feat. According to Simon Crane stunt co-ordinator, Jolie wanted to do even more than she did, but he matched her stubborness and kept her out of direct danger.Enter Jon Voight.. Jolie's real life father, who portrayed Lord Croft, the missing-in-action father of Lara Croft. Though his screen-time was limited, there was a feeling of his presence throughout the production. No doubt, in part, due to his real life connection with the star.In a recent NBC Dateline interview, Jolie said that she and her father had a hard time getting through the dramatic tent scene towards the end of the film, many aspects of the scene seeming true to life for the pair.The remainder of the cast.. well.. unfortunately, I was not impressed by the performace of Daniel Craig. However, the smaller parts, such as the buddhist monk, the mysterious little girl, and larger parts such as Bryce Noah Taylor, supported the story-line with ease and skill.All in all, I feel the film met most of my needs for this overly-critical game player. I'm sure it will do quite well for the remains of its run in theatres. "},{"Title":"The Stalest Popcorn Movie of the Summer!","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Tomb Raider is perhaps the worst film I have viewed in a long time...and this says a lot.  I have always had a guilty pleasure for big budget, mindless action movies (I've seen the Mummy Returns twice and loved it and I'm even willing to admit that I own the Charlie's Angels DVD).  So, I entered the film, knowing that what I was to see was a fun, effects filled, Hollywood, popcorn flick, and I can appreciate films like that knowing that Angelina Jolie was not going to find an Oscar hidden away in any of those tombs.  What I expected was to be simply entertained.  This did not happen.For one, the plot was rancid even by big budget Hollywood terms, and at times was down right confusing.  I'm still trying to figure out what the $80 million budget went to because the special effects were less than stellar (The walking monkey statue things, anyone?)Jolie, a good actress in the right role, is given very little in terms of script to work with.  During the entire film I kept hoping that maybe when breaking into a tomb she might find a better script inside, but no such luck.  As for the rest of the cast of virtual unknowns, I imagine that even the CGI characters from the upcoming Final Fantasy film will have more substance and dimensions.  As with most action films, there is the faithful sidekick, who also works as comedic relief but I've heard funnier one liners in previous Arnold movies than in this film.It's disappointing because this film could have been great with the Lara Croft back story already written from the games and a tough, sexy heroine as the lead but Tomb Raider is instead a ridiculously boring film, with poor acting, and an extremely high cheese factor.  Avoid and see one of the films it imitates instead. "}{"Title":"This Movie is terribly disappointing.","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I had high hopes for Tomb Raider, but unfortunately my hopes were quickly dashed.  While Angelina Jolie looks the part, she's just a puppet that is on-screen to pout her full lips and show off a sexy wardrobe.  The movie is a mish-mash of poorly edited action scenes involving a ridiculous clock that gives someone the ability to travel through time.  Tomb Raider tries so hard to be hip and cool but fails on all levels.  The characters are paper thin, the music is mind-numbingly lame and the dialogue tries so desperately to be hip but flounders throughout.  Fortunately the movie is not very long, but unfortunately we'll get a spate of sequels equally disappointing.  "},{"Title":"Tomb Raider the movie is better than the PC because you don't get stuck!!!","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Tomb Raider is awesome!!!  I watched the movie with the same energy as I did playing the game on PC.  Action is high throttle with Angelina playing a tough yet sophisticated Brit.  The look of all the characters and the sets are incredible.  I thought Simon West said he didn't play the game!!!  The moves of Lara are amazingly similar to the game that I was pratically acting like a kid pointing to the screen and leaning over to my girlfriend saying this is soooooooo coooooool. I expected the movie to be completely different from the game, which takes many nights to play in itself.  Changes in the transition include eliminating deadly traps and including a techno soundtrack compared to a symphonic.  It's all good.  I actually bought the CD before seeing the movie since I own TR II, III, Last Revelation, and Chronicles.  I asked my girlfriend, who adores Angelina what she thought after the movie.  She said it was ok, and wouldn't recommend it.  She didn't understand the scenes with the children at first.  I told her it was the supernatural mix about her father.  Simon said he would differentiate the film from the other Indy and Mummy movies with modern gadgetry and a kick-ass female lead.  My girlfriend didn't like The Mummy Returns either.  She said the movie is for guys just as the game is for guys with Lara shaking her bootie.  She'd rather watch Gone in 60 Seconds over and over since she's into cars and not video games.  I hope that gives the females a perspective.  I, on the other hand, LOVE Tomb Raider.  Go see it.  "},{"Title":"Kick in the gut!","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well,well,well..... blow me over with a four leaf clover! This was great entertainment. From the movies kick in the gut opening sequence, to the gameesque finale, you will not be bored. Angelina, sorry I ever doubted you. If you haven´t played the game, do not let it keep you from seeing the movie. It is a great flick in it´s own right. Pleasingly free of references to it´s game ancestry. (Although some of the callisthenics are a bit larger than life). But you are happy to forgive it, since it is Angelina Jolie swinging across the screen. I say, jolly good romp! "},{"Title":"Fun and exciting","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I loved it.  Unashamedly loved it.  You can't be a girl and not feel totally powerful and beautiful after seeing it.  The plot was goofy, the dialogue was okay but hokey in places, but you cannot deny that Angelina Jolie is the PERFECT Lara Croft.  I mean, you can't do a movie like Tomb Raider and expect an Oscar film.  You just can't.  But you can expect lots of action. If you have a good star who can still be believeable in an over-the-top role, you can have something really fun.  Don't go to be challenged.  Go because Angelina is fun and sexy and just plain cool, and you will have a great time!  "},{"Title":"A Fun Movie","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Now alot of people have chosen to not like this movie for reasons of major plotholes and other things.  This movie is entertaining if you look at it as entertaining and don't critique every single thing that doesn't fit reality. Lara Croft is basically a female Indiana Jones.  I like the movie.  Most of it was ridiculous but there are a lot of movies out there that are supposed to be taken seriously and is plain stupid.  Independence Day was one.  It was way too ridiculous.  Tomb Raider is meant to be taken as an entertaining fun movie and that is as far as you are supposed to go.  You are not supposed to critique it.  I laughed more than anything else when I saw this movie. The +'s on the movie are the following  Beautiful actress to play the lead character, Daniel Craig played his part well as Alex West, and the Powell guy was a decent actor also.  Everybody else was mediocre, but then again they aren't the ones who are supposed to lead the movie anyway.  The Soundtrack and Special Effects were awesome too.Now the -'s are there was plotholes but who cares, it is basically a damn video game.  When has a video game had a decent realistic storyline.  I mean, think honestly.  Another bad thing was all these new characters coming out of nowhere.  Who the hell is Mr. Pimms, the Powell guy, Alex West, and the doctor.  These people were never mentioned.  They said Larson was in the movie but I didn't know who he was.  They should have used the other characters from the game like, Pierre, Larson being a bit bigger role, Jacqueline Natla, Von Croy, The Russian Guy in Tomb Raider Chronicles and probably the characters from Tomb Raider 2 through 3.  Another thing is what happened to the killing of the animals, not saying that I would like to see animals killed, but that was a bit part of the game at least the first one.But, all in all I give this movie an 8 because it did entertain me for what it was.  Slow in some areas but not too slow.  You should at least see it once and don't take it seriously at all when you do or you will ruin the experience. "},{"Title":"Time to raid the box office","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Going to see this movie, I really expected a lot. And I was overall pleased with the outcome. The effects were great, the action was breath-taking, and Angelina Jolie did an incredible job as the heroin (including a spectacular, British accent). The disappointments in the movie came when the filmmakers decided to make the villains stone monkeys. What is this about??? They could have really done without them. Compared to Indiana Jones, Lara Croft has nothing. But it is good to see women taking a stronger leading role in action cinema. They tried to capture it in the recent past with Charlie's Angels, but this (Along with Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon) are worth taking note of. Definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"SELL OUT!!","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm a big fan of X-men, I expected the movie to suck, but it was fantastic.  I'm a huge fan of Tomb Raider and I expected the movie to suck as well..... well, after thinking a little bit about it, I changed my expectations.  I only thought that Eidos and Core wouldnt allow 2nd grade material.  Boy was I wrong!  The storyline was largely predictable and made simplistic to capture a larger audience, for those who are not familiar with the Game.  This was a Sell Out and a half.  As for the action?? Textbook late 90's - early 2000 stuff.  Nothing special.  Same with the computerised special effects. I will not comment on Angelina Jolie because IMDB would refuse to put my comments up if i did. Despite all this, it is the best Video Game to Movie adaptation so far.  I only hope Final Fantasy will be much better.  "},{"Title":"Kick-Ass Woman, Kick-Ass Action.... but still a deception.","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Wow where to start?...  With the wonderful Angelina Jolie ofcourse, she was the only and perfect woman to become LaraCroft, she is so beautiful, so talented, and a great physical shape. The idea of the story was great, i loved it, the action scene werealso very good, Angelina was stunning, the gadgets where cool,the cast was pretty amazing, the special effects... humm thosewere actually pretty bad, the robot Simon was very nice, but all therest was made like what we were doing 10 years ago, in a bigmovie like this it is sometimes better to put more money inrealistic special effects than advertisement...   but what wasmissing damn, something big was missing in this picture, i can'tget it, it is like if the movie was to short, their is something missingto make it smooth and all together.  Remember Blade in thismovie the story in like a river, it goes somewhere and it is welldone for a comic book brought up to the screen, but Tomb Raidershould be the same...  sorry for that movie but i rated it a big 6being generous...  maybe i am to hard on movies, but it is far to geta 7. If i am talking for the performance of Angelina i give her a 10. "},{"Title":"Angelina was great!","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought the movie was great. I have seen a lot of reviews that have totally knocked the movie. You have to go in there and take it for what it is... a movie based on a video game not some amazing life altering master piece. Just a couple of hours of entertainment with Angelina playing the action hero.... kicking butt! It was a good movie... I thought well done and yeah most things are not realistic but hey it is BASED ON A VIDEO GAME. The makers and actors of Tomb Raider did a great job. So go watch the movie and enjoy!  "},{"Title":"You get what you pay for...","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Is anybody really surprised that this is not the deepest, darkest or most superbly acted movies of this year?  Please, people, grow up in a hurry. TR was fine for what you're expecting -- a loud, video-game style movie. Although it was not as good as say The X-Men or The Mummy, it was a thousand times better than Face Off or Mission Impossible 2.  Angelina Jolie looked like Lara right down to the super-big feet -- even her expression was perfect.  It could have been faster and darker -- sure, any movie could be -- but it's a teen-focused movie that I'd actually feel comfortable showing to a teen.  The violence was cartoony, A-Team style stuff -- which is fine. I had a good time, and that's all I was expecting.  A suggestion to the whiners is go see cheesy movies at a matinee or a dollar theater, so you can spare yourself the heartbreak of blowing eight dollars and then needing to come here and complain. "}{"Title":"Never a Dull Moment","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"   Angelina Jolie is simply captivating. Her real stunts and action sequences are simply among the best ever put on film. Add to this her personal controversy, and you simply have to see this film. I was unaware that her real Father Jon Voight plays her real father in the film. A bit of irony. The plot a little contrived and rambling but worth the wait and the action. Again, not an award winner by any means but a real action/money maker....See it for sure.. "},{"Title":"Decent.","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Jolie plays the well chested video game character,Lara Croft,in this decent adaptation of the popular video game.Despite some good action scenes & neat F/X ,the best thing about the movie is seeing Jolie in a tight shirt & very small shorts.Rating***1/2 (out of five) "},{"Title":"Wasn't that great, in fact, it pretty much sucked","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I went to see this movie, keeping in mind all the reviews I read trashing it (and believe me, there were a lot). I really didn't expect anything out of it. Most mythological movies always fail to deliver a good show, and this one certainly did.The movie, as you may have or may have not heard, is about this (put in simple words) triangle thingy which gives whoever owns it the ability to control time, but once in the past, it caused a disaster, so it was split into two pieces and buried into two opposite sides of the world. Lara Croft is on the run for it, and so is the movie's villain, Manfred Powell, who wants to possess it for himself.Angelina Jolie acts well in this movie, but doesn't deliver a stunning performance like you'll hear a lot. Unlike it seemed in the previews, they didn't really expose her body as much as you thought they would, but still, there's this one scene that is really... You'll also hear that the rest of the actors don't act well, which to me, they did a pretty good job, except for Jon Voight. He really didn't have his coffee in the morning.I myself was not entertained by this movie. The plot is original, but is displayed throughout the movie in a poor way. The special effects were not thrilling, except this one scene with these huge stone monsters chasing Lara, that scene was fantastic and can really scare you at times. But for the whole rest, I couldn't wait for the movie to end and go back home.Now, many people have enjoyed the movie, but I didn't. My advice to you is, if you want to go see a movie on this one special Sunday, but you don't know which one to choose, do not choose Tomb Raider. Go with 'Evolution'. It is a basic, simple film, but it's packed with entertainment. Don't be fooled by 'Shrek'. It's a good story, but it is not as funny as you think it is. 'The Animal' is a kick-a** movie to see on a tuesday when you've got nothing to do. But Tomb Raider is out. That scene with the stone monsters ain't worth it, also because there's a lot of better ones on 'Evolution'. "},{"Title":"Anti-Climatic End (spoiler)","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I didn't expect much from the movie, but still feel less than thrilled afterwards. The ridicules plot only serves to join the four action sequences, but that's okay, plots for this type of movies ain't always necessary. Actings are mediocre at best, but that's okay, the script doesn't gives the actors anything to act for. Angelina constantly flashes her boobs at you, but I guess that's okay too, that ain't much different from the game where Lara constantly flashes her behind at you. What I'm most disappointed is the last action sequence. The first three builds up quite nicely, each one more exciting than the previous, so I expected Lara to battle impossible odds against a demi-god at the end, but no, we are left with a quick hand-to-hand that can't even match that of Charlie's Angels, let along Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon or Matrix. Since the trailers gives away much of the action in the first three sequences, the last one was especially anti-climatic. Recent movies of this type, Mission Impossible 2 and Charlie's Angels are all done better with less FX. Jeez, I was very much surprised by my indifference at the end of the movie. "},{"Title":"It's what we all expected","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Everybody who has any sense about and who had seen the trailers for Tomb Raider knew that it wasn't exactly the next Schindler's List.  In one simple explanation, it was the average action movie.  People didn't see it for any deep theme or insight into life, they either saw it for the fact that it had a lot of cool special effects or the fact that Angelina Jolie was in a lot of provocative and sexy shots (or both).  Personally, I saw it because I had nothing better to do (not to mention a little leaning toward the aforementioned latter reason).The plot was simple in one sense but in lot's of ways it was confusing and didn't at all times make sense.  It was pretty easy to piece together a really hip, strong, and witty protagonistic heroine has to save the world from an elite secret society who opt to take control of an ancient artifact capable of navigating through time, etc, etc.  What was confusing was not the how or the where, it was the who and the why.  First of all, the Illuminati, the elite secret society, are the who.  But, really, who are they?  They mentioned that they are the descendants of the artifact worshipers.  That kind of makes sense, but parts of the movie say that the society worshiping the benevolent artifact were all dstroyed centuries ago. Okay, okay, we're not going to delve.  What do we get from delving other than unnesecary irritation.  After all, ignorance is bliss.  Sorry for digressing.  The next part is the why.  Why did these people want to take control of the artifact?  True, it could navigate through time, but it seemd that when the main charcater finally got control of the artifact, she only used it one time.  Maybe that's saying you can only use it one time.  And besides, why does the secret society need anything more than they already have?  They languish comfortably in their cavernous, Western-European chambers, supported by a very conspicuous staff of unquestioning loyal waiters.  What more could they possibly need?Well, as I said before, there's really no reason to plunge into the obvious but oddly confusing.  Simply put, Tomb Raider should be seen by only a certain crowd either those heavily sedated or self medicated, or those who really have trouble insulting things, like white-eyed children not yet familiarized with the grand concept of critiquing.  So, do as you please, if you want to see this movie based merely on cool-looking special effects or sometimes lacking provocative looking scenes with the gorgeous and well proportioned (BUT TAKEN!) Angelina Jolie, go ahead, enjoy!  But if you want substance, not just flashy glam, or glammy flash, please save yourself and see something not so closely resembling a boat-load of vomit filled tripe. "},{"Title":"Hey, they should make a game based on this...","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I liked the first Tomb Raider game and stopped playing the second half-way through.  I enjoyed the movie as an adaptation of video-game style action to real life.  Certainly a more novel direction for action movies than adapting comic books.  Now if we could only dispense with the paper-thin plots and simply keep movie, I think we would hit a new cinematic genre, that's not about words and people so much as movement, visuals, and pace. "},{"Title":"Perfect","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The only people who will be disappointed in this movie will be delusional idiots who expect realism.  This was a video game.  If you don't go into this movie with a suspension of disbelief and an expectation for James Bondish action, you will feel like you have wasted money.  However, if you are in for action-packed, kick-butt, edge-of-your-seat thrills you will be satisfied. "},{"Title":"More entertaining than expected","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  As usual, the critics are off base (they must watch way too many movies for their own good).  While a far fetched fantasy, it was extremely entertaining.  The casting of Jon Voight as her father was genius and added a little needed pathos to the plot.  The plot was straight forward but allowed Croft to venture to exotic and interesting locations.  A love interest would have added zing to the movie.  I expect that will come in the sequels.  All in all, it was a fun hour and half with plenty of eye candy. "},{"Title":"Big Action, Little Plot","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was expecting big things from this movie.  While many of the action sequences were quite thrilling, there was very little in the way of story.  Who were the Illuminati?  How were they supposed to control time with the Triangle?  All in all, it was pretty harmless fun.  As good as the opening sequence was (it did go on a bit long), I would have sacrificed the CGI for some PLOT. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie that is true to the game series.","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of the best movies that have ever been made from a game (remember Tron).  The heart is there and Angelina Jolie plays the part well.  There is very little plot here, but what do you want?  It is based on a game after all.  What Women Want is a chick-flick.  What men want is to see Angelina Jolique in her Tomb Raider outfit! "}{"Title":"Indiana Jane?","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Story was a little predictable, but great action through and through the movie. Take the kids along to this one. All the kids I saw leaving the theatre were smiling from ear to ear. It had a great adventure feel with all the different locations you would expect in this kind of genre. "},{"Title":"Disappointing, even when I wasn't expecting much. (minor spoiler)","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I wasn't planning on paying money to see this movie. The only way I'd planned on seeing it was when it came out on video, and even then, only if a friend rented it and invited me over. However, a friend invited me to see it on opening night, and, as I'd had to turn him down several previous invitations for other events, I didn't want to let him down this time. Too bad the movie didn't feel the same obligation.It's strange. The stakes in this movie were higher than most. The heroine didn't have to save just herself or her family or a whole town, it was the world and all time. Yet, somehow, I found myself not caring, even near the end in the scene with her father, where you're *supposed* to care.Maybe it was because the characters were flat and uninteresting. (Okay, so maybe you couldn't call Angelina Jolie flat, but you know what I mean.) Jolie as Croft was *convincing*, sure, but that doesn't make the character *interesting* beyond her physical attractiveness. All the characters were pretty two-dimensional You have your typical, aggressive heroine with a chip on her shoulder; your typical, stuffy butler who is trying to be a civilizing influence on her; your typical, clumsy, whiny computer geek and your typical, megalomaniacal bad guy and his flunkies. It's all been done before, and there was no depth to any of them.The heroine, of course, is incapable of making a mistake. The antagonist, of course, is incapable of achieving his goals without coercing the heroine to help him. Not for a second did I ever think he'd win.And then there are the action scenes. The camera work was horrible; very jerky and disorienting. It was like watching a foot chase scene on COPS, except that on the COPS scenes you can at least tell what's going on half the time. In Tomb Raider, you didn't know where anyone was in relation to anyone else during an action sequence. It was just blurs of one person or another, the camera jerking in any direction except one that makes sense. The decent special effects would probably have been a lot more enjoyable if it weren't for the horrendous camera direction.The fight between Lara and the bad guy at the end was fairly unbelievable. I'm sure there are plenty of women that could beat up most guys, but she just did not look like she had the upper-body strength necessary to slug that guy like she did. It was not convincing at all. I've no problem with a woman beating a man in a fight scene, but she should either look like she actually could do it, or have superior weaponry.One pleasant surprise was the appearance of Chris Barrie (best known as Rimmer of Red Dwarf) as the butler, who would have been better comic relief than the whiny computer geek. Unfortunately, he was woefully underused and, try as he might, the character was still two-dimensional. The other thing the movie had going for it was scenery. It was, although not breathtaking, very good.Overall, I wasn't expecting much from this movie, and boy, did I get it. "},{"Title":"Kicked A$$!","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I absolutely loved this movie. It was just a ton of fun and had some good laughs and Angelina Jolie is great has Lara. But what suprised me was that there was in fact a sense of character. Which is not what I was expecting.Non-stop action + Humor + Good Acting + Great sets and F/X + Angelina Jolie =KICK A$$ MOVIE!!! "},{"Title":"It's Worth The Wait","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The villain is properly villainous, the heroine is properly heroic, and the whole movie is properly entertaining.  All the hype has been worth it.  Tomb Raider even has a plot,incredible as that may seem.  Angelina Jolie interprets Lara Croft to perfection, and she maintains her English accent throughout -- good for her.  The MTV-style editing is annoying at times; I wanted to see more of the aftermath of the firefights and temple scenes, but that seems to be the way that movies are being edited these days.  The only real criticism I had is that Noah Taylor looks like he's been rode hard and put away wet.  The smashing star of Flirting and the best thing about Shine looks a little the worse for wear these days.  Other than that, I had no complaints.  Go see it -- you'll enjoy it. "},{"Title":"If only ...","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  First thing, I am a big Tomb Raider fan, so a lot of the movie was acceptable to  me as a reflection of scenes and situations that occur in the game. Next, if I  were going to make a Tomb Raider movie, it would be computer animated (a no-brainer, from my point-of-view). But, they decided to do a live action picture. So, for live actor to play Lara Croft, my first choice was always Elisabeth Hurley - but Angelina Jolie was just fine, she looks great as Lara, and she puts  across Lara's ruthless, menacing manner in a way I doubt Hurley could have. So  the casting of Jolie was an inspired choice after all. But the story is a muddle, it's true, and there is a clutter of flat and superfluous  characters (like, was that Pimms guy there for the product placement, or what?), and some really, really bad plot and character motivation holes - some  of which have been detailed by other users, and others I won't go into details  about. Any discerning viewer will be more than aware of them. Yes, the action sequences did seem a bit disjointed (no editing Oscars here), the  special effects were not what would be called groundbreaking, but they were  fine, and appropriate to the plot - I liked the orrery (even with nine planets -  you might figure if the ancient ones could do that time-control thing, maybe they looked ahead and saw Pluto.) So while I was more than prepared for the picture to be complete crap, I was also prepared to enjoy it as much as possible. It's not complete crap, but it is no  action-adventure masterpiece either. Buy a biiiiig thing of popcorn when you go. Everything bad and good you might have so far heard about it is true. BTW, as a once and future Land Rover owner, I thought Lara's was pretty cool,  too (another gratuitous but acceptable product placement - unlike that can of  Pepsi-Cola that gets shot in a closeup). "},{"Title":"I want a crack at the cutting room floor...","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  First, a gratuitous and sexist comment, but it had to be saidIt's high time the two greatest performers in Hollywood got their due, and in this movie, Angelina's breasts stole the show; they jiggled, they bounced, they displayed an amazing range.  They left me slack jawed, opened mouth and a believer in the miracle of Hollywood magic and they deserved to steal the show.Okay, chauvinist pig mode is off.  On with the review.I've been following the development of this movie with interest for a few months, and as all the craziness mounted, I decided to go easy on it.  Considering the kind of problems they've had during the production of this movie, I'm surprised that it turned as well as it did.This does not mean the movie isn't problematic.  It is.  Very.  But I can understand why.My hat goes off to Graeme Revell  Considering that he go dragged in at the last minute to rescore this movie, he did a very impressive job, even if we were denied the usual orchestration that you expect from a film with this budget.  But to Simon West, the director... Ah, Simon, what can I say?  I feel for you, man.  To have your movie cut and then show it to the studio only to have them recoil in horror and order the movie to be entirely recut with a new editor a handful of weeks before release...Well, let's just say it shows.  I don't know what Paramount was thinking, but without giving anything away, there are major, MAJOR plot and continuity issues at work in this movie that leave me seriously wondering just what ended up not going in.  I expect (Or at least hope) that when the DVD comes out, there's gonna' be a HUGE deleted scenes sequence, because this is the first time in recent memory I recall so many sequences shown in the trailer not appearing in the film. Angelina's performance is passable, although she really comes into her own when she's grimacing or bouncing around.  This is what we want from Angelina, so that's just fine.  Everyone else is, for the most part, forgettable and probably just cashing in the checks and waiting to collect action figures of themselves when the inevitable marketing onslaught gets into full swing.  The special effects are occasionally Okay, though for the most part that CGI leaves one with a kind of bored, Dude, that is like, SO 1993.  In a world of bullet time and hyper real character a la Final Fantasy  The Spirits Within there's just no more excuse for CGI effects to look plasticky and not in synch with the real world environments they're layered against.  The set pieces of the film are, of course, the breasts.  No, the action sequences.  Yeah, that's it.  And while a few, such as famous bungee sequence from the trailers are VERY well done, I couldn't help but feel that perhaps they took wrong approach.  It seems like all the truly amazing action takes place in the first half of the film and gradually goes downhill.  Perhaps they should have reversed the order of their action gradient, 'cause ending the movie on the bungee fight would have been MUCH more satisfying than the poorly cut resolution we saw.I feel this could have been a much better movie.  It's obvious there was a lot of material that wasn't used and was hastily recut for God knows whatever reason.  It ain't no block buster, but if you want to believe that breasts can fly, this is definitely a film to put on your pubescent, Set-The-Woman's-Movement-Back-About-30-Years must see list of the summer... "},{"Title":"Good for a video-game adaption","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is probably the best movie adaption of a video game yet.  The movie is well-done for the most part.  The bad parts are the boring plot-building sequences and some of the cheesy CGI effects in certain scenes.  While I am not a fan of Angelina Jolie, I must admit she did a great job in this role.  I need to play the video games now to see how close they kept this movie to the original idea.  The main problem I had was Jolie's obviously enhanced breasts.  Weird shapes protruded from her shirts in scenes, and sometimes, her breasts would be absurdly lopsided.  When portraying Lara Croft, I firmly believe this is an area that deserves perfection...  Other than that, a pretty decent video game adaption. "},{"Title":"Lara Croft is a worthy successor to Indiana Jones...","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie. I didnt really know anything about the film except what I'd seen from the trailers and it delivered what I think it set out to do.Jolie was absolutely dripping with femme fatale charisma.The action was great and the story simple enough to pull the audience along. Awesome cinematography and great visuals throughout.Lara Croft is a worthy successor to Indiana Jones!Bottom Line Great film! "},{"Title":"This movie is God-awful!","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Let me get this out of the way. I hate this video game series. They all went downhill after the first one (which was actually all right). But I wanted to see this movie. I really believed that Tomb Raider might stand apart from its gaming heritage as a really good action/adventure movie in the same vein as Indiana Jones, despite the history of horrific video game-to-movie translations over the past 10 years. It looked good on paper Angelina Jolie, high production values, a competent director (sort of) At its most base level I thought that TR might provide a good mindless action flick. However, the story is so terrible and unoriginal that it takes away from what might be considered entertaining action sequences. Characters are part of the fundamental reasons for enjoying movies and these cookie cutter characters the script offers us are atrociously bland and hard to care about. I kept watching the movie waiting for any sort of pay off and it never came. Basically, I felt like I was watching a 2-hour music video that I should have walked out on.  "},{"Title":"Fun, Action packed Adventure!","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was really looking forward to this one! And I was amazed at how well the video game has become an even better movie! This one will definitely become a franchised series! Angelina Jolie is a perfect Laura Croft! She brings in all the looks, sex appeal, and attitude that the fictional character portrays in the ever so popular video game Tomb Raider. She is one beautiful A$$ kicking 007 meets Indiana Jones action hero! If you want to have some fun and see a great action-adventure, then GO SEE ANGELINA JOLIE transform Laura Croft into a real life silver screen action queen! If you enjoy movies like The Matrix, James Bond, and Mission Impossible, then you'll love this movie!  "}{"Title":"Was this the same Academy Award winner I saw in Girl, Interrupted?","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I had such great anticipation for this film.  First we had Angelina Jolie, a stunning actress from Girl,Interrupted who won Best Supporting Actress for er role in the film. Second, the film had an $80 million dollar budget, bigger than any of the other video game to film adaptations. And third, the writers of the film's screenplay also wrote Face/Off, one of my favorite action films that was released a few years ago.  Unfortunately, this film was my summer's first disappointment in movie going.I really wanted to like this film as much as I did with the only other video game to film adaptation worth mentioning, Mortal Kombat I (budget only $20 million).  Unfortunately, even with an $80 million dollar budget I saw relatively less than spectacular special effects.  I really wanted to like Angelina Jolie who stunned me with her breakthrough performance in previous work such as her roles in Gia or in Girl,Interrupted but I couldn't get past the camera constantly shifting attention from the plot and her acting to her half cocked posture showing the viewers her full breasted figure which she noted in several interviews was actually padded.  I really wanted to like the script since the writers had pulled off one of my favorite action films, Face/Off but instead I found myself in a state of wanting to get excited but never achieving it.While Tomb Raider is not a total waste of time and money, I find it hard to believe that this movie will be remembered much past this summer. And even with an impressive opening weekend, I can see this movie quickly passing from the big screen to your own screen at home in not too long of a time. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Ok, I've seen most of the big new releases this summer, and I have to say the one that I most enjoyed was probably SWORDFISH or BLOW, not to mention THE FORSAKEN, which I liked a lot.  PEARL HARBOR, and this one, TOMB RAIDER, I have to say were highly disappointing.  In fact this movie, I would have to say, probably is one of the worst movie-based-on-video-game flicks I've ever seen.  The effects were outstanding, and Angelina Jolie was hot as f--k, but that's not enough to carry this movie.  It plays almost like a female version of INDIANA JONES, which has already been attempted numerous times, to little success. The only thing carrying the film, it seemed, was what was hidden under Lara's TIGHT, and I do mean TIGHT tops; Jolie's T&A is what kept this one going.  Fans of the game will find it interesting at least.  I thought it was a joke. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I thought it would be","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I went to this movie having seen none of the previews, and knowing only of the game and who the star of the movie was. I expected it to be pretty awful, and luckily it wasn't.However, it wasn't great either.I was encouraged by the first few minutes of the movie that maybe Lara Croft would be portrayed as a self-reliant woman, able to handle on her own whatever was thrown at her. However, by the end of the film it was obvious that the men in her life (her father, her potential love interest, and the Big Bad Guy) were the motivation for her actions. That, combined with the shameless way her body was put on display (here I refer directly to the hackneyed shower scene, included for the sole purpose of exciting the prurient interest of the teen-age males in the audience) puts Lara Croft far outside the reaches of the strong female action character she could have been. (Think Ellen Ripley in the Alien series.) Hollywood needs to learn that female characters can have strength of character which is not directly linked to their sexuality. (Though our society says otherwise.)In any case, the action scenes were well done and the film kept me interested, if not exactly enthralled. I give it a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I Thought it would be horrible but was very pleasantly surprised!","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  After reading a few reviews, I really thought this would be another (heaven forbid) Dungeons and Dragons movie.  I had played most of the Tomb Raider games, and even my wife had played them and wanted to see the movie.  I was pleasantly surprised to find the show amusing, fun, and much more believable and entertaining than the Mummy Returns or other such shows.  The acting was decent, particularly from Jolie and her father (John Voight).  The action sequences were a lot of fun to watch, and even the story kept you into it. It isn't any more far fetched than any Indiana Jones movie, and it has great potential for sequels.  Hopefully, they will make one. "},{"Title":"Uh!! Hello people, it's a video game?!","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I find it humorous to read these reviews.  Did anyone realize that this movie is about a video game, with established ways of doing things and a backstory, no matter how slight?  Lara does things a certain way, because that's how she does them in the game.  No one complains when a movie follows the plot of a book without a major re-write, but when a movie about a video game is made we should change the characters relationship to her father, how she moves, what she does?  Obviously she finds objects conveniently, just as she needs them, JUST AS she does in the game!  Obviously, she appears confident and smug instead of scared and real, just as she does in the video game.  If you ever played Tomb Raider, Lara does not quiver in fear as things attack her.  She smirks and blasts away!I really found the reviewer who focused on how the robot was not based in reality or how could they use time travel because it's not real!  Hello!  A video game is not real!  Did you ever hear of science fiction?  You know what, I bet there is not a planet with apes out there, or if you really flew around the South Pacific, I bet you would not find an island filled with dinosaurs that were created from mosquito DNA.  Does this make these movies less enjoyable?  Whatever happened to gold old-fashioned escapism.  You don't sit down at your computer and rip out Tomb Raider to have an intellectual discussion.  You load it up to kick some ass and take names.  Contrary to those who think that hard core players would hate this movie because they don't have the joystick in hand, I say you're nuts!  I've played all the versions of Lara and her crazy adventures.  I enjoyed this movie for exactly that.  If you've not played the games, it may not make sense, it's just a weird movie with loose ends.  However, if you have, then maybe you'll notice the little things that did it for me, like how Jolie sighs every time she finds something, just like the game, or how when she stops walking, she stands with here feet apart and in line, or how when main scenes start, the camera will sweep in from behind her and place her full screen in the center.  I think the movie is great at what it was meant to be, a movie version of a video game.  Should Eidos have allowed more license to be used with Lara?  Maybe, but then again then maybe we would have been p***ed at the results.  If you have any interest in this movie, give it a try.  Yes, things appear conveniently, and things are handy when needed, and you know what will happen next, and gee, you know Lara will win in the end.  Do you know anything different when you play the games?  There is a straight progression through the game.  You must find this object and use it with this one to do this.  Once you are done you move to the next level.  In the end Lara wins and you feel great.  Why expect the movie to be different? "},{"Title":"Not great, but quite good","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Some people seem to have hated this movie... I personally think it was a good one. It's quite like the game, has many good action scenes, and Angelina Jolie was great as Lara Croft.The action scenes (most of them) were really good. Great special effects, not so many stupid lies, and of course Angelina showing pretty much everything she could during fighting scenes. I'm not sure if the movie was too much of an adventure movie, especially because they focused more on Lara than in the adventure itself, but the story was all right.Anyway, my suggestion is if you like the game and usually enjoy action movies you'll probably have a lot of fun. And if you like Angelina and want to see the movie more because of the special effects than the plot (like myself) you'll like it even more.  "},{"Title":"One of the most fun movies I've ever watched.","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Let's face it.  Some of the movies appearing during the past few years have been lackluster, if not fun.  Tomb Raider on the other hand managed to interest me throughout the storyline regardless of its thin plot and iffy moments.  Even with these facts involved, I must say that Tomb Raider, with its fun moments and action packed gun play (against monsters - not people, mind you) is truly exciting to see.A very good video game to movie translation, Tomb Raider manages not to overdo what made the series famous and sticks with the formula like glue.  The plot is basically simple and doesn't become as convoluted as other action based movies that came before it (dare I mention names?).  As Roger Ebert would say, THIS is a popcorn movie... and I smiled at the absurdity of it all and yes, the movie is fun and if anything, this movie managed to bring Lara Croft to life with all her antics, stunts, and true to her adventures.With that being said, don't expect to remember a lot of lines or things of note while watching Tomb Raider... enjoy it as it is for its a great action flick mixed with fantasy and special effects.  Oh, and of course gun play as well. "},{"Title":"Jolie Rocks, however the rest of the cast does not.","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Angelina Jolie did a wonderful job playing Lara Croft.  She was sexy and she played the part well.  She suit this role.  The action sequences in the film were pretty good.  However, the final action sequence could of been better.  Also, the other characters were not very good.  Her butler and sidekick computer wiz were terrible.  Because of the bad acting of the others and a very bad plot, I only gave this a 7 out of 10.  The 7 rating is mostly because of Jolie.  Or else, this rating would have been worse.  I hope they pick a better cast with Jolie for the sequel. "},{"Title":"Two Guns Up!!!","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  After reading other reviews about Tomb Raider I have decided that I must have seen a different film than most of these critics.  Maybe I just fell into some parallel universe.  They complain about the plot, about the film being a mere rip off of Indiana Jones but little do they remember that Indiana Jones was but a rip off of the serials of the 40's and 50's. I get the feeling that most of them have never even seen these.Tomb Raider is much fun as an action adventure flick can be.  Dodging bullets and saving the world are the schedule of the day.  Sure it sounds like a video game plot but that's because it is a video game.  Cool stunts, over the top action, game style music, nice camera work, and angles add to the overall slick feel of the film.  Its Indiana Jones and Duran Duran videos all wrapped up in a 1 hour 40 minute package.Many do not like Angelina Jolie as an actress but I think that she embodies the character of Lara Croft.  Her mysterious, and even wild nature, is put to good use as a female action lead.  Young girls, such as myself, who enjoyed action films, were rarely allowed to witness women characters beyond the whine ones created by filmmakers and writers.  Well, here is a character that embodies many young women's fancies of adventure and thrillsFor any action adventure fan this is a must see theater film.  Much of the wonderful visuals and effects will be lost on the small screen as well as the rocking soundtrack.  Those of you who are ambivalent about this style may just want to wait for the video release.Move over Indian Jones, Lara Croft is here!!!  I give this film two guns up!!!  "},{"Title":"Am I the only one who didn't think it made any sense?","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Angelina looks great, but thank goodness they took mercy on the audience and kept it short...The plot doesn't make any sense, and has holes, making most of the exploratory scenes hard to sit through...The movie delivers on the action scenes, though, and for PG-13 fights (very few deaths, not much blood) they're still exciting.  Cool locations, although the ancient city did look like a rejected model from Mortal Kombat.  The acting is good, her accent is passable, although I found Jon Voight a little sappy...I'd still go see the sequel if they get a better script...If you dig Angelina you'll prolly like it... "}{"Title":"A Fun Adventure","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is obviously not intended to be taken seriously. The film is very good, but not as fun as The Mummy Returns. However, it does have dialogue, thought the critics are saying it doesn't. And here is a warning to everyone there is not an action scene every five minutes! They come well spaced out, like in the fun X-Men. It leaves room for more development and normally a better movie. Though this may be less deep than Moulin Rouge, it is still a fun summer blockbuster that should be watched while eating salty popcorn; you cannot walk into the theatre expecting a mind blowing oscar contender. "},{"Title":"Two thumbs up.","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I never played the game tomb raider but I loved the movie.If she really existed, she'd be my hero. I love a movie that makes the woman beautiful,smart and can kick some butt. If Indiana Jones had a daughter it'd be Laura Croft.  "},{"Title":"Smiles all the way through...","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was no big switch for Angelina Jolie. You can expect her to be beautiful, strong, beautiful, (Sorry; did I say that already?) and stunning in every one of her movies. The plot is very good especially if you already know the Tomb Raider story from the video games. If not, I'm sure you'll still love it or at least admire Angelina's (shall we say) stamina. Anyhow, it's an enlightening movie in the sense it gives you a look at the wonderful special effects that went into this movie and that great English accent that Angelina gives us...  "},{"Title":"Didn't expect much and yet I got less","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What!? No plot?! I knew that. No acting?! I knew that! This bad?!! I didn't know.  An incomphrehensible, wrong headed, waste of time. Not even campy. No sense of humor.  Lara is leading a dog pack caravan across the frozen tundra! The comic relief is fecklessly whining about how cold it is, as he is well bundled  in his parka! But the Tomb raider cooly mushes her team, her unfastened long coat flapping in the wind with her spandex encased breasts leading the way!With no sign of pea smuggling! Hey it's cold, and all this movie had going for it were these puppies! A waste of time! "},{"Title":"Action packed awesome movie!","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is amazing, it is really, really good and one of my all-time favorite movies. Tomb Raider is so action packed starting from the first scene and the acting is great. The only violence is with the use of guns, but it's not gory, so it's nice! The plot and directing is really good and the movie never gets confusing. It all makes for an awesome movie that is very entertaining to watch. "},{"Title":"Pointless","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Why?  Why would anyone want to see this movie?  Do people like bad acting, silly and predictable plots, stereotype characters, and events that take place with absolutely no explanation?  Is that really what we loyal moviegoers seek?  I would like to think not...Instead, my theory is that there are two reasons men went to see this movie Angelina Jolie's right and left breasts.  The guy behind me told his buddy they should have called the movie Boob Raider, and he couldn't be more right.I never played the video games, but I would assume that would make little difference.  The movie would remain the pitiful piece of Hollywood fluff it is. "},{"Title":"I So Wanted This Movie To Be A Better Movie Than It Was","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  But...  Having said that,I've played Tomb Raider I, II, III, and Last Revelation.  My love of Lara and my love of Angelina are separate, of course.  Angelina was a  perfect Lara.  Even though I wanted a real Brit to play the part.  I can't believe they searched the world and couldn't find a British Lara.Tomb Raider was disappointing, depending upon whether you play the game or not.  And if Lara Croft is new to you...the game is still better than the movie! The movie set us up for something imperically nasty to happen.  But I wanted it to be deeper and nastier than it ended up being, and I wanted to see Lara more affected by her father.  Like Speilberg, and certain others, the director tried to give us a Lara Croft that kids from 13 to 43 might appreciate.  The ending felt too clean, too settled.What do I want?  A sequel? "},{"Title":"What it should have been.","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Tomb raider movie delivers everything it should have.  Being based on a video game it should have that video game vibe to it and it had just that. It had a good guy and bad guy, a plot about getting superhuman powers and taking over the world, and lots of action.  The movie was also perfect in terms of length, it's not long at all which it shouldn't be.  It's based on a video game so it shouldn't be a long and detailed plotted movie.  There's also never a boring point in the film just like there's no boring point in any video game.  You're always into it and it's always in your face. "},{"Title":"Great action for most part of the movie, plot is fine.","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't see what some people are complaining about with regard to the plot, it's quite straight forward  Lara Croft is fulfilling her dad's wish to save the world, and to meet him if she's successful.  The story is not complicated, but it's not bad like some people are complaining.Angelina Jolie is awesome as Lara Croft, in fact, she's much better looking and sexier than the Lara I remember from the game.If you like action movie like the Matrix, I think Tomb Raider serves up pretty good action for the first half of the movie.  The second half is less interesting, due to the weak opponent Lara faces at the end.For second Tomb Raider movie, I hope Lara goes on greater quests.  Looks to me like another successful franchise in the making like the Indiana Jones series. "},{"Title":"This Movie is Wicked. It's a Action Movie.","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  All I will say is the hype spoils most films, people dont know what to expect. I have read all the reviews so far and on the whole I disagree. Tell me how many good action flicks there have been, ok I will tell you. Face Off, Terminator, Con Air, Indiana Jones and the Matrix. Dont be to Critical it's an action movie everyone has there own views.  This film is just pure entertainment what movies are made for. So cheer up and try and enjoy yourself. This movie is class. If you want it to be perfect in script and acting, which is good, then watch Elizabeth or Hamlet. "}{"Title":"Talents on Display","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Lara Croft- Tomb Raider is surprisingly great escapist diversion. Never before in recent memory has a film been so dominated by the star's breasts-- that of Angelina Jolie. This is a good thing... Director Simon West is a genius. Actually Tomb Raider is a brilliant display of ultra cool and style overcoming all resistance. This is an amazing feat. Afterall the movie has a very convoluted writing credit involving West and others based on the interactive game. Given further examination this gets interesting. Tomb Raider, the game, was based on Indiana Jones. So really Angelina Jolie is a version of Harrison Ford-- not bad for legacy. Angelina Jolie as Lara Croft sports the English accent and is the icon of Milennium ultra cool and style. She looks stunning, and is in great shape for the movie. The martial arts fighting she does is very impressive-- she did train. It is no joke that her breasts are on display in every shot. Lara Croft is always sporting a tight top whether she is in the jungle or icy wasteland. Once again, genius. The movie has a strong villain in Powell played with calculation and charisma by Iain Glen. Powell is slick malevolence and he says he is a lawyer-- go figure. Lara Croft must save the world from the clutches of evil during the Grand Alignment (i.e. from Powell), and complete her relationship with her dead father (played by her real father, John Voight). Will she? Who cares. Just have fun with it. "},{"Title":"What?","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I just don't know what some of these people are looking for in a movie!  I just came back from seeing TR with the kids.  We are all as pleased as can be that we saw it.  I must say I read all the reviews I could before I went and they almost robbed me of a good time.  There is nothing wrong with this film at all.  Having said that I have to add that if you never saw Batman or Superman or game/established character situations before - I would recommend that you do your work in the trenches first and get some background. Don't go see things you know nothing about once they hit the big screen.  If your going to do math, I don't recommend you start with calculus.  Having said that, you should really play the game before you go to see that it has been nailed down by the director.  The scenes jump around like they would in the game and they assume you have intelligence and don't need filler to be satisfied.  This is a real cut to the chase director and he leaves fluff like sex scenes and small talk aside and give a fine portrayal of a video game character coming to life.  Lara speaks with her actions and not her words and if you want dialog, I'm sure you can hit the PBS stations as soon as you get home.  This movie is about re-creating a character known to the game players and it's about flash and action.  It's grittier than I thought it would be since most reviews made it seem light weight but it's not. Enough said.  Grab some corn and a big drink and sit back and enjoy a fine action flick.  Worth the bucks and worthy of a sequel for sure.  Memorable to those who are fans of a great video game.  Angelina nailed it and she's hot. Enjoy!  "},{"Title":"Better than I thought it would be","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  When I walked into this movie, I did not know what to expect.  I have played some Tomb Raider 2 before, but I gave up trying to figure out the controls for that game after a couple of hours and have never touched a Tomb Raider product since.  In fact, I only saw this movie because a friend of mine wanted to see it.As far as video-game based movies go, you can't expect much along the lines of character development and plot.  And you won't get much along those lines in Tomb Raider.  The story is merely a clothesline to hang one spectacular action sequence after another onto, and as thus, serves its purpose efficiently.What you will get is lots of Lara Croft fan-service (suggestive camera angles, pans, and the like), and the aforementioned spectacular action sequences.It throws in some good humor and does not dare to try to take itself seriously for one moment - and that it part of what makes it all work as well as it does.  It also has an attractive cast that gives mostly serviceable performances.What you have here is a thoroughly entertaining picture that delivers the goods that it promises without pretending to be anything more than it is.  It promises action, and it promises Lara Croft fan service, and that is exactly what the viewer gets in very large amounts, without any pretense.  True, it's no classic, and it is destined to be forgotten two years from now - but it does its job well.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"What a waste of roll of an 8 millimeter film","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Ok, first off that was complete crap, I mean I've played and beaten every game and this was nothing like it.  I mean when in any of the games was she surrouned by a cache of armed guards unless she was killing them, she always worked alone and hated working with other tomb raider/archeologists.  I mean it just wasn't fun to watch.  The only reason I'm giving it a one is because Angelina Jolie is in it.  She was definitely Lara Croft I'm thinking if some of the guys at Eidos wrote the script it would have been excellent, I really loved the way she did the lara croft gun style, I always have, I mean she was great , but it just didn't sit well with me when there was always 80 people with her, the game was so invloving and mysterious because it was so suspenseful  too what was going to pop out of the wall and try to kill her next, I know of course that I'll be bombarded with email from stalker fan boys about how I'm wrong but as you can see I've backed up every argument here.  I mean hell I could have written a better screen play.  I mean the time clock plot was great but the fact that there was no suspense just didn't do it for me.  I mean the game was 80 suspense it was fun to have to run hide and watch out for traps there were no traps in the movie in any of the tombs she was in.  I mean the Shiva/Buddha statue stomach-sword thing was cool, but other than that it just wasn't fun to watch. Angelina Jolie was great and the Alex character shower scene with Lara was actually a great ploy to their relationship.  But they never really showed them getting together or anything.  The butler was great too especially in the final scene, and the shotgun scene, well played I think, so maybe I shouldn't give it a one, maybe a three for Angelina Jolie, her voiced cracked a couple of times with the British Accent tho.   "},{"Title":"HOT!!","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is the most Hottest movie I've ever seen,  not just Laura Croft (Angelina Jolie) the movie itself too. This movie actually has the same story line as Tomb Raider games. Impressive!! Also there are a lot of sequences that I never have seen in any movie before. This movie is totally creative and challenge.  To be honest, the story line is very simple. There's no puzzle to figure, just like Indian Jones. But sexier ;).  I totally recommend everyone to watch this hot movie.  "},{"Title":"7/10 It's an ACTION movie. It's what the ads say it is.","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Having never seen or played the video game I was more open to the ride than it seems many of the reviewers were. I think it's more fun than the 'Mummy 2'. Angelina plays it with just the right tongue-in-cheek. It also seems that the director has done something to p*** off many of the reviewers because they accepted the 'Mummy 2' with all it's faults and didn't trash it like they have 'Tomb Raider'???????????????? "},{"Title":"Another 2 dimensional, boring, long action trailer.","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I really wanted this movie to be good or at least entertaining. Unfortunately it doesn't go beyond boring. Even in video game there is more suspense. You never feel that the characters are in danger, so all the action sequences become just another hollywood SFX showoff (not even a good one). Sad.... "},{"Title":"Indiana Jones with curves!","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Ok-it's just a movie.  It's not going to cure cancer or solve world hunger...it's JUST A MOVIE!  So sit back, relax, and enjoy the phenomenal Ms. Jolie take over the screen with her portrayal of Lara Croft.  This is not your typical bomb movie inspired by a video game.  Angelina has got the acting talent to pull this off and she does so marvelously.  Her accent is flawless and she looks wonderful-it's nice to see a woman kick ass!  I'm glad that a sequel is already planned-I look forward to it already! "},{"Title":"So much potential, so little delivered...","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Tomb Raider had an interesting plot... But it was barely there. Tomb Raider had great stars... But they barely acted. Tomb Raider had great special effects... But we've seen them all before.Unfortunately, the makers of Tomb Raider took what could have been an intriguing story and shoved it in the background in their efforts to show a few more shots of Angelina Jolie in the shower.It was no secret what Tomb Raider was about Lara Croft/Angelina Jolie. Not about raiding tombs or finding treasure. Far from it. If it had, we would have seen a plot that actually explained the Illuminati. We would have seen a movie with more than 5 actors with major parts. We would have seen a real movie.Instead, we saw what Jolie does when she takes a shower, how well her breasts hang (and they do hang well), how cool she can look in black sunglasses and how well she can pull off that suave English accent.Not that it's Jolie's fault. We know she can act (Gone in 60 Seconds, Girl Interrupted), but this movie just didn't call for it. Tomb Raider's weak script and lazily thought out plot called for nothing but Angelina Jolie to look gorgeous while a bunch of stunt doubles took care of the rest.If you want a good archaeological movie with excitement and a real plot, try Indiana Jones or even the modern Mummy movies. At least you can say you saw a real movie.2/10 for effort.  "},{"Title":"I think everyone should see this movie!","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I think Tomb raider was an Awesome movie. The action was unbelievable. I had heard a lot of negative things at first about how it was okay but not Indiana Jones. It is unfair to compare the two because Indiana Jones has already had a sequel and Tomb Raider has not also Indiana Jones was a man and Lara Croft is a woman! That alone make Tomb Raider a better movie...I'm sure all women agree. Men are just upset because It's hard to believe that a woman can kick butt just as much if not better than any man. Wouldn't it be nice to see a movie with Lara Croft and Indian Jones side by side where she ends up kicking his butt too?You must see this movie, It's great! "}{"Title":"Angelina Jolie looks great","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Angelina Jolie is cast perfect.  She looks great and proves she can be a great action star.  However, the movie is flat, lifeless and very, very dull.  I found myself just watching Angelina all the time.  Her facial expressions were good and the way she moved was great. I can't remember anything else about the movie so that's my review. "},{"Title":"Hollywood crap at it's purest","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Tombraider is probably the worst movie of the year so far (probably the rest of the year too!), do not see it. Why, oh why would U2 put their name to something so bad.  Basically, and i mean basically it sticks ridgedly to the orginal playstation games premise, that's all - there is no story, no characterisation no nothing.  Hollywood needs to wake up and see that people need narrative, not excuses to show washed out old action scenes over an over.  The only reason anyone would want to see this movie is because of angelina's hign sex appeal, i mean who wouldn't get anell-e-vation, whhhooooooooo! "},{"Title":"Not a perfect movie, but a great live version of Lara Croft.","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Ok, I don't know why this movie is getting trashed as bad as it is.  Don't get me wrong, it is by no means a great film.  However it is great fun to watch.  Angelina does a superb job bringing Lara Croft to life.  I have been playing the Tomb Raider games every since the first one in 1996. The film even has the feel of a Tomb Raider game, right down to the quirky bad guys. Believe me, if you are a true Tomb Raider fan, you will not be let down. This movie is an hour and forty minutes of pure entertainment.  Don't believe all the negative reviews, go see it and make your own decision. "},{"Title":"winner for worst movie of 2001!!!","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  this movie is BEYOND BAD! NO wonder why the studio wouldn't allow reviewers to see the this abomination before it's release date! They would spill the secret that this is a horrible movie. First the pacing is soooo slow, you'll want to peel out your eyes. I don't mind a good build up but there is nothing going on screen. this is not even just fun to watch summer movie even the action scenes are DULL, DULL, DULL! Not one of the characters are interesting, they all lack depth, hell...the villain isn't even very evil. It's all very bland, by the numbers and an insult to the viewer. If you don't believe me go see the movie! just be sure to bring a razor to kill yourself with just to escape the boredom. One more thing...the only good thing about this movie is that it's a lesson for future filmmakers that techno music and jump cuts do NOT make a good action scene. do yourself a favor and look at something more entertaining...like watching paint dry. "},{"Title":"hollywood, we have a problem","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Tomb Raider tells the story of Lara Croft (Angelina Jolie) a heroin that discovers a mysterious clock hidden in her mansion that holds a mysterious time piece that will give her the information as to the burial place of two sides of a power rewarding triangle. It turns out that the odd timepiece was placed there by her late father Richard Croft (Jon Voight), who realized its true power....it gives its possessor the ability to control time when the two piece are reunited during a planetary alignment that happens every five thousand years. Now Lara must search for the two pieces while fighting off the competition of Manfred Powell, a money and power hungry henchman whom is also searching for the triangle for the Illuminati (people of the light) but plans to keep it for himself and her male tomb raiding cognate Alex West (Daniel Craig). Helping Lara in her adventures Bryce (Noah Taylor)is a computer geek to the tenth power and Hilary (Chris Barrie)her butler. Watching Tomb Raider is like watching Raiders of the Lost Ark, Batman and Star Wars at the same time.  You have this heroin that lives in a Gothic mansion (batman), that is incredibly intelligent (batman), has connections around the world (batman), is mourning her dead parents (batman) a garage of cool cars and unique weaponry and a house full of cool gadgets(batman). When she goes in search of the triangle, she falls through the ceiling of a mystical tomb (some what like Raiders) and is later fighting for her life against mystical monkey statues and ticked off Hindu gods (some what like Raiders). Lara is also assisted by her dead father in his Obi Wan Kenobi after death scenes (Star Wars).   Visually, Tomb Raider is an eye catcher. The action scenes are superb and are very John Woo in style. There were a few actress' picked to play Mrs. Croft. Outside of Angelina, other actresses picked to kick butt were, Ashley Judd, Liv Tyler, and Shannon Elizabeth.  The best woman won. Jolie was very good in this. She was so good that she almost made me forget this bad script and interrupted directing. She's sexy, cunning, and lovable at the same time. Whereas she was interesting, the other characters were boring. I found the butler more interesting than the hacker or the evil guys. As a matter of fact, the evil guys are written so stereotypically that you can guess there next move. What's funny about my adoration for Mrs. Jolie  is that girlfriend rarely talks in this thing. She's this mechanical robot like heroin that speaks with her actions. I don't know if the director wanted her to remain a mystery or what but we know nothing about her what so ever, therefore we can't relate to her. The bland supporting characters have more lines than Lara does. The script is in need of a lot of work. There is no humanity written in this thing. As I stated earlier, Lara is a robot, Bryce is a cartoonish geek, and Hilary is bland. There are no human attachments, or kinships in this movie.  Apparently, the writer forgot to write in the peril or the danger that Lara faces. I felt like she was waiting on all the mishaps that got in her way. Even Batman got in sticky situations that he didn't know were there.In closing, the summer is full of movies that are expensive, flashy, sexy, fast paced  and explosive fluff that is written to be nothing more than a nice piece of shiny jewelry guaranteed to catch the eye of the movie going audience without stimulating their brains at all. Tomb Raider lives up to this definition.  I will say that it, like Moulin Rouge, is a movie that plays better on the big screen. Tomb Raider isn't a travesty. It isn't shouldn't be put in the same category as `Swordfish' but it isn't `The Animal' either.Out of four stars I give it **1/2 "},{"Title":"Angelina Jolie IS Lara Croft!","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm not a huge fan of the actual Tomb Raider game, but I VERY MUCH enjoyed the Tomb Raider movie.  The action sequences and special effects were second to none, and Angeline is THE BOMB!  I was VERY impressed to find out the Ms. Jolie performed ALL of her own stunts - she did an incredible job!  For any action/adventure/sci-fi fans, I would HIGHLY recommend this film! "},{"Title":"video game was great, movie sorely lacks.","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  this movie reminds me of the batman and robin movie with george clooney because it is the same kind of lame attempt at action but it doesnt work. the acting is ok but the script blows.  jon voight is in the flick all of 5 minutes and shouldnt even be credited as an actor in it.  the action is very anticlimactic and so unrealistic at times that it detracts from the feel of the movie.  remember that motorcycle scene in mission impossible II?  there the same typre of deal, of even less realistic.  angelina jolie is georgeous in the flick but the padded bra's she wears are far too outlandish.  there are a couple scenes, especially the shower scene, that really dont fit in the movie.  also at the end of the movie, when shes running and her breasts are hitting her forehead and knees really dissapointed me.  is this a movie about her body or tomb raiding? C-/D+ "},{"Title":"Pretty Good Adaptation of the Game","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The movie was a pretty good adaptation of the game, though it could have had more game-like action scenes (figuring out death traps, jumping onto awnings, speed-boating, etc.) Still, a pretty decent movie, and with some human drama throw in as well. Angelina Jolie is a good choice for Lara in that she looks likes like the character and she can act. We went to the movie not expecting much so we were pleasantly surprised. If you have high expectations for this one, you'll probably be disappointed.THE BEST SURPRISE by far was seeing Chris Barrie playing Lara Croft's butler, Hillary! As big Red Dwarf fans eagerly awaiting that show's leap onto the big screen next year, it was a special treat -- we had no idea he was in it! Chris' performance as Lara's caring and protective butler was GREAT and we look forward to seeing him in the sequels. "},{"Title":"Stays true to the game","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  One of the diciest parts about going to see a movie based on a game is the translation of the feel of the game to the screen.  Tomb Raider does an excellent job of this, giving those of us die-hard game players a right-at-home kind of feeling.  Don't go looking for deep plot or complex subtext.  This movie is all about action.  And, the center of it all is Angelina Jolie, who really makes us believe that she is Lara Croft.The supporting cast does not always live up to her, but some of them truly shine, such as the urbane butler Henry and the roguish love interest Alex. But the main focus is always on Lara and that's the way it should be.  "},{"Title":"Oh, what delusion!","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I have been waiting for this movie four years. I have been dreaming to watch a great great movie from when I saw the trailer for the first time. What delusion!  The scene-painting is the only great thing in this movie. The story is old fashion, stupid and boring. The way to shot remember me the old (too old) 007 movies. Angelina Jolie (before this movie I loved her) is pathetic in acting and runs like a paralyzed woman. Action is too little, also if is not so little as Pearl Harbor (which is the The battlefield hearth of the 2001, the scam of the year, the delusion of the delusions). The director, Simon West, should go back to shot advertising spots forhomekeeper women, the real target of this movie, which we have to don't forget that comes from an action videogame. Now I hope that Final Fantasy and The fast and the Furious will be not the same delusion. Oh Shrek where are you? I want see you other ten times if my destiny is that. My vote is 5 on 10, my rate is C- and I'm generous. Go and see but without great illusions. "}{"Title":"Mostly Fan Appreciation than story focussed.","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Being a Red Dwarf fan, I went to see the movie because of ChrisBarrie, not Angelina Jolie.  I'm very glad he had a reasonableamount of screen time than to have him in the background all thetime, with no speaking role.  I have played the first two videogames of Tomb Raider and themovie does live up to what most fan-boys want, lots of shots withLara Croft, her bosum, her legs, and etc.  while doing those funkyacrobatic jumps and Tomb Raider videogame style action.  Themovie does a great job in making Lara do stuff that is not possiblein the videogame.As for the rest of the movie, interesting idea.  The story shouldhave focussed more on the mystery of the Illumanati (yet anotherreason I wanted to see this movie) than Lara.   There were shadesof archeological adventure and an attempt to pay tribute to afamous scene in Golden Voyage of Sindbad with the multi-armedKali-wannabe, but its very weak in comparison.  Lost is theexcitement and creepiness that the original Golden Voyage fightscene had.  The finale was even poor, but I won't give away detailson what happens there.If I had to choose between Mummy Returns and Tomb Raider forarcheological adventure and nonstop action, I prefer MummyReturns more.   "},{"Title":"What more could you ask of a summer action flick?","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Plot - A little weak, to be sure, but it's a summer action movie.  I'm impressed that I got any plot at all, especially after seeing The Mummy Returns.   Uggghhhh...Action - Awesome.  Not there all the time (which is a good thing), but more than enough to keep my blood pumping.  The action in Cambodia reminded me sooooo much of the Tomb Raider PC games (which is also a good thing).Acting - Certainly not Jolie's finest hour, but she wasn't given much to work with.  The scenes involving her father were touching, though I thought Jon Voight was at his weakest.  Other characters are actually caricatures, which is typical for this type of movie.  I did love the Hilary the butler, though.Tomb Raiding - Not enough puzzle solving, with the exception of the final tomb.  That's my only complaint in this category.  UNBELIEVABLE Art Direction / Set Design.  I wish those places were real...they were both very beautiful and deeply mysterious.All in all, I got what I was hoping for from this movie  big action, a small plot, a gorgeous heroine, and some laughs.  Summer fun doesn't get much finer.8/10 "},{"Title":"It ain't Chaucer but it ain't bad....","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It was with some trepidation I went to see Tomb Raider.....Not being familiar with the video game I wondered if I would wind up sitting in the dark wondering what was going on. So, with no expectations in mind, I sat back and said OK, entertain me. I wasn't disappointed.There's no need to go into the story, there really isn't much of one, or the plot, also notably absent. But hey, it's OK . We're not dealing with Gone with the Wind or To Kill a Mocking Bird, it's a movie based on a VIDEO GAME for crying out loud! Sit back and enjoy the ride!I can't brag about the writing, there's very little dialog. At least what is there isn't inane (Mummy Returns) or insipid (Moulin Rouge). Ms Jolie delivers her lines with a simple, crisp British accent (much more believable than Uma Thurman's in The Avengers) and plays her character perfectly. It would have been easy to go over the top with her line delivery but restraint kept her character very cool and in control. Laura Croft was nobody's fool and no victim in anyone's scenario.The movie was well edited, the sets were very visual. I loved the monochromatic feel of the location shots in Iceland and Cambodia. It was a subtle trick that really added to the atmosphere of the movie.All in all the movie was fun. My only regret is for Laura Croft. We can only hope that had her mother lived a little bit longer, she would have taught her daughter to keep her bosom as well holstered as her firearms! "},{"Title":"A great movie for Lara fans.","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I felt that this was a great video game to movie. Great special effects and the plot had a mythological sting to it. I will go see it again. And again. I would recommend going and seeing this movie. Angelina Jolie makes a great Lara Croft. And she is put in a great good vs. evil situation. "},{"Title":"Angie won't take the Oscar, but the MTV Movie Award is hers","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Ah, now that is what an absolutely ridiculous video-game-based action movie is supposed to be like!  It ain't Raiders, but it sure is a darn sight better than The Mummy Returns.  Why?  Well, for starters, there is the plot.  It is so ludicrously convoluted in premise, I bet it would take me the whole thousand words to explain that universal-alignment/key-to-time thing that they are chasing after.  Nothing on the level of the race for the Ark of the Covenant, but far more entertaining than a big hunt for the CGI-version of the Rock.  In structure, however, the plotting is very simple  actionscene-otherstuff-actionscene-otherstuff, etc.  That's not a complaint; that's as it should be. Some will say this movie is cheesy.  Yeah, it is.  Is that a problem? Then why are you going to see this?  Merchant/Ivory has something opening this weekend, too.  Go see that. Next, the acting.  Well, Jon Voight is one of my favorite actors who went MIA in the mid-'80's.  10 years later, he came back, and although he isn't making anything on the level of Midnight Cowboy, Deliverance, or Runaway Train, his acting hasn't dropped a notch.  He may have only fifteen minutes onscreen in this movie, but they are fifteen good ones. Any great actor can do Shakespeare; it takes someone special to play a video game character explaining the complexities of the Key to Time and actually make it effective. However, none of this amounts to a hill of beans, because, really, this movie is all about one thing, and her name's Angelina.  And, oh man, does she rule.  You think playing a kick-butt female action hero is easy? Before a few years ago, only Sigourney and Linda had pulled it off.  This movie may not be in that league, but Angie sure is.  She pouts, she flips, she gets as naked as possible in a PG-13 movie, beats up a 40-foot 6-armed statue, and she even has one of those all-out mano-a-mano fights to the death with the villain that movies have been lacking lately. Put simply, she rocks.  "},{"Title":"One great Movie and game!!!","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Hey all. This movie is one of the best movies made. Yeah I like other ones but for starters the game rocks. All of them. Then they make a movie to top it off and it is sweet. So to all that want a long thing short here it is. GO SEE THIS MOVIE! You'll be kicking yourself later if you wait for it to come out on video or DVD. "},{"Title":"Good fun","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  See this movie for what it is -- a video game come to life -- and it's great fun. It has great fight scenes which are nicely offset by more serene ones. The plot, even if totally silly, serves well to move the action along. I can't decide if Lara Croft is more like James Bond -- with all that shooting -- or like Batman, with only a butler and one side-kick in that huge house. "},{"Title":"Not bad for a summer action flick.","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  People expecting a masterpiece will be disappointed.  You just have to accept it's s summer movie that is there to entertain as a popcorn movie. I liked it.  I just wish it was a little longer.  It's better than The mummy Returns or Pearl Harbor for that matter.  Just be careful about what expectations you have about this movie.  I like this one better than last summer's X-Men which was too slow because they cut the characterization out where Tomb Raider is just balls to the wall action held together by character and plot points to move the story to the next action scene.  I liked this one better than Simon West's two examples of cinematic trash the dumb Con Air and the really muddled mess called The General's Daughter. "},{"Title":"Big, dumb, dumb, dumb, dumb, dumb, dumb, fun","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Let me get this out of the way Angelina Jolie is hot.  She is amazingly hot.  She is possibly the hottest woman I have ever seen.  I don't know why. She just is.Now with that out of the way, Tomb Raider is an amazingly stupid movie.  It really is.  It has some of the biggest logic holes I have ever seen.  It has some of the dumbest characters ever portrayed on screen.  It's filled stupid with British clichés.  For example, someone says, Oh bugger, every five seconds.  And lastly, some of the special effects just downright suck. What is the deal with that?  The Mummy Returns had really crappy effects, and now Tomb Raider.  Are we going through an effects depression?  Well there is Pearl Harbor&#133;Now, is the movie any good?  Actually, yes.  I thought it was entertaining. Honestly, this is one of those movies you see, like, and never see again. Don't get me wrong, it's a bad movie.  Hell, it's downright stupid.  But it's a fun summer movie.  Every summer is filled with stupid but fun movies, and we just need to lie back and relax.  This is not the time of the year for solid gold movies.  The production companies hold onto all the Oscar movies until the fall.To be honest, I really didn't like The Mummy Returns.  I thought it was too stupid for its own.  I liked Pearl Harbor, but it was too long for its own good.  But, for some reason, Tomb Raider had just the right amount of really cool action sequences to back up for its stupidity.  I gave The Mummy Returns a 5, though I would now give it a 4.  I gave Pearl Harbor a 6, and I'm not too sure where to put Tomb Raider.  I hate reviewing these types of movies because they're not obviously good or bad.  They're somewhere in the middle.  While Tomb Raider is not too good, it was fun.  Besides, the Tomb Raider video games where dumb, so what where you expecting?  I think Mortal Kombat still holds the best game-to-movie conversion, (though that's not really saying anything because all game-to-movie conversions suck).6/10 (I guess)  "},{"Title":"If they didn't want the pieces to be joined, why make a key?","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  So there is this triangle which has the ability to give the posessor powers to control time. It was abused, and caused an ancient city to be destroyed. A group of (never named) ancients had it split up into two pieces, and hid it in elaborate tombs on opposite ends of the world. Now these ancients went to a huge amount of effort to hide this thing. Why in the world would they even bother to make a key for it? Also why only two pieces? Why not complete distruction. These thoughts were plaguing me throughout the entire film.Now i can sit back, suspend reality, and enjoy some of the most ridiculous of films. I am a big pro-wrestling fan after all if that says anything about my ability to ignore obvious fakeness. However, there is a threshold which this film crossed many times - compounded by the fact that the film was taking itself seriously.The characters have no depth, and you're never really allowed to know anything about them. Even Laura Croft is a mystery with the only real development into why she is the way she is being a couple of flashback scenes. Over-all very little effort is made to make interesting characters. Really the most development you see is the constant effort to show off Angelina Jolie's bust, as it is accentuated in just about every way possible.The Illuminati sub-plot had the potential to be interesting but had next to no expansion other than about 5 minutes worth of screen time. Once again going back to the lack of character depth.One final gripe was that the CG was for the most part very intrusive, and looked at many times to be blue screen'ed on.I will say that Jolie looked and played the part of Laura Croft well, but the fact that someone here said that it was an Oscar-worthy performance is absolutely ludicrous. An accurate portrayal of an already very one-dimensional video game character is really no challenge.Good enough for a rental, or bargain matinee. Don't pay full price to see this turkey though. "}{"Title":"Absolutely Fascinating","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Tomb Raider is my favorite video game of all time, and when I found out they were coming out with a movie, I was stoked. I saw the movie today, and I am glad to see I wasn't let down. Angelina IS Laura Croft. She was right on the money, right down to the action movies and the way she used her weapons. I recommend this movie to die hard Tomb Raider fans, Angelina FAns, or anyone that likes a good kick-ass action flick. This movie definitly has 'Girls Rule' all of it. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is awesome! The special fx and story are amazing and Jolie is so hot. The critics hate this movie because it's not one of those artsy fartsy movies that make you cry or some bull crap like that. Movies are not supposed to make you think or cry, they are supposed to entertain and Tomb Raider does just that....BIG TIME! "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this movie the first day it was out, and I gotta tell you, it wasn't bad. Kind of Indiana Jones-ish, which I like. It has a whole lot of action, which is also a good thing. Angelina Jolie acted the part very well I thought. I'd see it again or recommend it.  "},{"Title":"Not a bad effort as far as games to movies are concerned.","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Remember Street Fighter??  This movie was nothing like that.  Go see this expecting nothing but action and fun.  Nothing too serious here.  Angeline Jolie is believable as an ass-kicking, sexy as hell adventurer.  I love the fact that she wears a tight t-shirt and thin overcoat, while the hardened mercenaries are all wearing heavy parkas (wimps).  Great special effects that weren't over the top or there because the technology was available.  I haven't really played the game that much but the movie did seem to have an adventure game feel to it, which was a nice touch.  If you like the action/adventure genre, go see this film. "},{"Title":"Just barely worth taking out of the Tomb","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Video games are now a multi-billion dollar industry, with a fan base Numbering in the millions.  So its no surprise that Hollywood has tried to tap into this audience.  However with the exception of 1995's Mortal Kombat, their attempts have mostly been met with dismal failure. Remember Street Fighter,  Wing Commander or the embarrassment that was the Super Mario brother's movie?  I didn't think so.  Audiences stayed away in droves from these bottom feeding movies.   And this really shouldn't be a surprise.  Most of the games in question have exceedingly thin storylines.  However, this is not a problem with the `Tomb Raider' series.Lara croft is a wealthy, globe-trotting archeologist in the vein of Indiana Jones.  Plenty of opportunity for intriguing storylines here.And indeed the movie's plot is fairly interesting.  But its not riveting either.  And this is a problem that plagues the entire movie.I was strangely ambivalent throughout the entire film.  While I enjoyed Angelina Jolie's performance -- the rest of the cast's was nothing to write home about.  The action scene's were well done -- but too few and far between.  In the final analysis -- director Simon west should have taken a cue from the video game -- and pumped up the pacing of the movie.  As it plays now -- Tomb Raider the movie isn't the most exciting game in town.  3 STARS OUT OF 5.    "},{"Title":"WHAT A WASTE!","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm typically quite generous with my attitude toward movies and will find SOMETHING to like about them.  Well I can honestly say that the CGI in this movie is at times fascinating.  The action sequences (which make up approx. 90% of the whole thing - the other 10% are closeups of Angelina Jolie making cute faces and expressing herself in short sentences with a very well trained generic English accent) - the action sequences were somewhat inventive at times.  At maybe 2 or 3 times.  But otherwise -THIS MOVIE WAS A TOTAL WASTE OF TALENT!Angelina Jolie is an immensely talented actress with a bright future ahead of her as long as she stays away from scripts as foolish and empty as this one.  Please don't encourage an equally bad sequel by running out to see Lara Croft in the theaters (like I did).  Save your money and buy the game - its more fun (unless you're one who gets a big kick out of shredding a very poorly done movie).What a disappointment. "},{"Title":"Fairly standard, typical femme-action flick...","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Take a generic video game and turn it into a movie and it become, well, generic...;)Insert Angelina Jolie into said film, and it becomes more visually stimulating...but that doesn't help the film much. The plot was predictable and standard (it was too video game, considering Sommers wanted to make it more plotworthy and less gamish), the CGIs were mostly yawnable, the final scene dragged on *way* too long...and Angelina's padded bosom was so obviously padded it was laughable...and come on, I know millions of teenaged gamer-geekboys are paying to see it, and I know it's Lara Croft, but the bounce-factor was amusingly high...There were a couple of really good scenes, on the other hand. The mansion fight scene was *really* sweet for example...and I liked the Cambodian temple scene (even though it said The Mummy in really big letters;), and the scenery was mostly really pat. And Angelina did inject a lot of charisma into Lara, she has the athleticism, looks and charm to pull it off well enough. Unfortunately she was pretty much the shining light in a very poor stable of actors...Jon Voight has seen better days (and what was with that ET meets Obi-Wan scene near the end...UGH!!) although it was kinda cool seeing Angelina's daddy playing her daddy;) The only actor outside of Jolie worth watching was Chris Barrie (the hilarious Arnold Rimmer on Red Dwarf...I was *very* pleasantly surprised to see him there...)Overall About what I expected...pretty much a James Bond/Indiana Jones/Mummy rehash, but it had its moments. And it could have been *much* worse. Worth seeing it just for Angelina (get yer mind out the gutter! I was thinking *beyond* than the cleavage...mostly;) 6/10. "},{"Title":"This movie is good if you like the game!","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this movie and liked it.  I agreed with the critics in that it lacked a definitive storyline or even that the characters were not fully developed. To appeal to the folks who have never played TombRaider, the characters in the movie have no depth.I am a TombRaider player and enjoyed the movie immensely.  It followed the game quite well and of course Miss Jolie was quite perfect as Lara Croft. For anyone who has ever played the game, I would recommend it. "},{"Title":"I hated it.......then I loved it!","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  You can't just hate this movie, you gotta love it too. Many aspects of this film made me wonder why I came but other aspects answered it for me. Don't expect five stars but do expect action and adventure, lots of that. Jolie is beautiful (pun) in the role and fits well (in all places) with the surrounding exotic scenery. I hate it when she always wins, but I loved the way she does it! Hate it , Love it , see it for yourself. You may be disappointed and surprised at the same time.  "},{"Title":"Wow....","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  So I am a HUGE Tomb Raider fan. I love the games, love the comic books and I love the mythos that surrounds the character of Lara Croft. And when I heard that Angelina Jolie had been cast I have to say that I had my reservations. Don't get me wrong, I LOVE Angelina but I was not sure how I felt about an american playing Lara. But after just seeing the first preview my interest was definatly peaked. And now that I have seen the movie I can't wait for the next film ( hopefully in 2003 or sooner ) to continue the life of Lara. Angelina manages to capture to almost perfection all the things I have loved about Lara Croft ever since the first time I picked up one of the playstation games. She conveys all the strength, intelegence and sex appeal that game and comic fans have grown to love.  "}{"Title":"Not bad for a film made from a game","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Having read some of the previous reviews, I understand that people are entitled to their opinions. I, for one, didn't think the movie was that bad. Then again, I happen to own Simon West's 2 previous attempts at film making, Con Air and The General's Daughter. Angelina Jolie was very realistic in her portrayal of Lara Croft. I went to see the movie with my six year old son, and he thought it was a hoot. We own most of the games, so for him it was like a big real life video game. I just went to see Angie. She was beautiful, as always. The sets were amazing. I dont think Eidos knew what they had when they started this series. I see quite a few more of these movies being made if it grosses what I think it will this weekend. Go see this movie, without expecting Shakesperian(sp) trained actors. Its meant to be seen in fun, and if you dont expect Oscar calibur acting you wont be disappointed. ***GET OVER IT**** "},{"Title":"A sinful pleasure..","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Predictably, many people have commented on the lack of real plot, the low quality dialogue, and many other downfalls of this movie, but I've decided that it was all worthwhile for one reason - Angelina Jolie as Lara Croft. To *see*, and I emphasize *see* Angelina Jolie play this part is so very pleasing, regardless of how the dialogue is.  Angelina Jolie on a motorcycle, in leather.  Angelina Jolie in trademark Lara Croft outfits. Enough said.The action was good, and it kept me entertained.. well, she kept me entertained - entertained enough to give it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Great for a video game movie, But thats not saying much!","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In the summers latest box office smash hit, we have Angelina Jolie playing the sexy Tomb Raider. She is a super rich archeoligist who resides in England and has nothing better to do with her time than to wallow in grief over her fathers death and explore ancient places looking for artifacts. Well, In this movie she stumbles across a clock that is counting down to the exact time when all of the planets align. When this happens, the person holding a certain triangle thing can manipulate time. Lara visits many places and goes through many stunts and outfits throughout the course of this film.Angelina's portrayal of Lara Croft is very well done and she gives a 3rd dimension to the paper thin star of the popular video game. Actually her performance may very well be oscar worthy. Now for the bad parts of this film, because there are alot. The villain is not scary at all. The other costars of the film are poorly developed and the bad script is to blame. Another thing that got me is a certain location in this film. Its the Illuminati cathedral in Venice. Normally in cathedrals in Venice you would find candles on the walls which are standard for the time that it was built. But in this cathedral for some reason, the candles are electrical. Why is this? who installed these electrical candles in a cathedral? Is it because the makers of this film didnt want to pay fire guards? probably. But if the makers were thinking that these electrical light bulbs on sticks looked like real candles, they were wrong. Now for the good parts of this film. The action is spectacular! The script may be bad but the action rocks! And since about a full hour of this film is action, I must say I enjoyed about an hour of this film. All in all, this was a very sloppily made film with some great action sequences. I would like to see a sequel get made because it is almost bound to be better than this one! 2 and half out of four stars! "},{"Title":"Great for the Role,but very weak!(major spoilers!)","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  A soon as the Movie starts you think your in for something special untill you realize that it's like any other action movie.  Angelina Jolie stars as the entrepid Tomb Raider Lara Croft.  The story basis around a clock which if put together in enough time can let you travel back in time.  What makes this movie so weak is the fact that Lara seems to beat everyone to the punch.  I mean she has every thing handed to her in the first few seconds. The only real good thing is that Angelina Plays the part real we'll if you have ever played the game it's a perfect fit ,but just at the beggining of the film it just goes way to fast and get's really cheesy in the beggininng and the get's a little better when Lara actually start traveling and fighting ,but she just in there beacuse she looks good and I guess that's all  you need.  Basically if you like the game you will be hugely disapointed in the movie.7/10 grade  "},{"Title":"Eye candy","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Was the plot somewhat contrived?  Yes. Was the editing a little choppy at times?  Yes. Was the action a little blurred at times?  Yes. Was Angelina Jolie rather stunning?  Yes. This is an eye candy movie.  If you're a fan of the computer game, this is a treat.  See it, but don't pay over $6 to see it. "},{"Title":"Better Than I Expected","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I went to this movie thinking This is probably gonna be the crappiest two hours of my life. I was wrong, it was only an hour and a half, and I enjoyed it. First of all, Angelina Jolie is amazing as Lara Croft, and she's one of the sexiest actresses in Hollywood. Second, the action sequences are unbeleivable (my favourite being the opening sequence). So what if it's plot is unoriginal? This movie is still entertaining. This movie does have it's faults too. Like, every character other than Lara is dull and uninteresting. And it does get a bit silly. Well, the plot has to do with the clock of ages which is activated during a planetary alignment that occurs once every 5000 years. The clock has the power to cause great evil, and Lara can't let that happen. Well, if you loved the video game or just like action/adventure, go see this movie! "},{"Title":"Wonderfully cast action-packed movie","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this movie tonight, on opening night. The theater wasn't as packed as I was expecting, but maybe that's a good thing. ;) I liked how this movie started out- fast, drawing us in quickly, making us savor every moment. Angelina Jolie portrayed Lara Croft wonderfully. Simon West's casting of her was absolutely perfect. I couldn't imagine anyone else playing the video-game vixen nearly as well as she. The action in this movie was phenomenal. Quick, swift camera movements that didn't make me overly dizzy or reaching for my drink. It had just the right amount of weapons and sexual fervor to give chills to the audience and keep their eyes glued to the screen. Speaking of sexual fervor, the movie is filled with it, but it wasn't as revealing as I had perceived. I thought that Angelina would be stripping this way and that, very obviously (e.g. think Charlie's Angels). Instead, they played her upon her beauty in a very smart way, I believe. It wasn't so much how beautiful she was; it was what she said, how she said it, how she carried herself, what she did. That essence is what made the movie great. It's what made us care for Lara Croft.  The plot, on the other hand, I didn't care for as much. Slightly tedious and confusing at times, it didn't interest me as much as the action movements and scenes.  All in all, a very good achievement on Simon West's part, and, not to mention, Angelina Jolie and her father, Jon Voight. ) I give it a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Steam Punk has little steam for the little punks.","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Disappointing steam punk with same ol' FX (think post-Matrix), and a plot not fully realized on screen.  More of a TV show (think a cross between Black Scorpion and Dark Angel) than a summer blockbuster.  Jolie is perfect as Lara Croft, but for this movie, that's not a compliment.  Wait for TETRIS THE MOVIE. "},{"Title":"Good Summer Action","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I've seen the models for the original Tomb Raider games and didn't think that anyone else would fit the part as well.  But Angelina Jolie proved me wrong.  She definitely plays the part well, and looks great doing it.  I definitely agree with the other reviews that the plot was choppy, but I liked it.  The action was fun and cool looking.  The fact that Lara could take on so many people and not break a sweat added to the video game quality of it.  Overall I thought the movie was fun and worth seeing.   "},{"Title":"A firecracker!","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't know what I was expecting when I went to the sneak preview, but boy!!  was I ever glad I went!  This film is first-rate fun!  The perfect summer movie!  Nothing serious or life-altering, but a wonderful 2 hours of excitement and great fx!  I wasn't too sure I'd like Angelina Jolie, but she is absolutely perfect as Lara Croft.  Do yourself a favor and go sit in a nice dark cool theatre and prepare to be entertained!!! "}{"Title":"That Girl kicks ass..","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  From the computer screen to the big screen; Tomb Raider is kicking butt. The Action sequences are awesome and very original. There is quite a bit of humor in it, as well as mystery and spirituality. The story is ok... they added some sentimental value to Lora with the disappearance of her dead, which is acceptable. Locations are amazing and the overall look of the film is great! This movie is pure entertainment and a lot of fun! We needed this new heroine!!! "},{"Title":"Fogged with frenzied actions...","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  BEWARE  SOME MINOR SPOILERS!Hurray for Angelina Jolie... this flick confirms that she certainly has fast action talent! Of course this is not the movie for the `art-house' crowd, nor is it for those who have been fixated with the video game and love having their sweaty palms in control of the joysticks! Nevertheless, watching a curvy, ferocious goddess jumping over sharp protrusions, side stepping a tumbling boulder, climbing on top of crates and leaping to grab far-off ledges is entertaining! Yep, Jolie is pugnacious, puissant and pulchritudinous and her series of combats are filled with delicious surprises. The Croft-robot battle display and Jolie's acrobatic stunts are electrically charged with unpredictability.  Yep, these are immensely thrilling scenes.  But, neither Jolie nor her distinguished father has pulled off the true English aristocratic personage despite the glorious decor of their classy English homestead.  Chris Barrie's Hilary is also a lame image of an English butler. And Noah Taylor's role seems far-fetched and questionable. And the rest of the characters are equally uninteresting.  The action sequences throughout the movie come across as messy and confusing. Perhaps, Simon West is more interested in his flirtations with creative weaponry, or it may be simply his desire to plunge the audience into the illusion of watching a video game being played.  Whatever his intentions, he certainly has created a string of underdeveloped characters and a poor storyline.  Sure, there are some great memorable one-liners and breathtaking and magical geographical wonders. But, overall, this is just a flick with the adrenaline-blast formula of eye-popping fast actions and a beautiful female Indiana Jones-James Bond-Rick O'Connell reincarnation to hold the viewers' interest. And there's not a single creepy-crawly creature to make anyone wince!   "},{"Title":"They picked the right one","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There is nobody more perfect to play the role of Lara Croft as Angelina Jolie.She's got that something .The action is on the newest level and the acting is good could be better ( I meant Jon Voight ) .I specialy liked the scenes where Lara was dressed in an ..... Ohh  I am not going to destroy the suprise.This really is this sommers finnest "},{"Title":"Tomb Raider Review","Date":"25 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Since its initial release in 1996, Tomb Raider is one of the most prominent video game franchises. It did to games what Indiana Jones did to movies and what Clive Cussler did to books they all tap into a certain sense of adventure, with ties in archeology and ancient history, and with liberal amounts of action and peril, to immerse the audience in a thrilling experience. Lara Croft may be well-known for her...ahem...bodily proportions...but she is an action heroine who could stand shoulder-to-shoulder with Indy and Dirk Pitt, in terms of physique, confidence, knowledge, and wit.Inevitably, the live-action film for Tomb Raider was released in 2001, with enough hype to build it up as one of the biggest action hits of the year. The film definitely tries its hardest to be cool and hip; right from the start, it's loaded with unusual camera tricks and movements, with lots of frivolous time-lapse shots and fast cuts. A high-tempo soundtrack accentuates the small wealth of shoot-outs, chases, fights, and athletic stunts. The film does entertain, and there are moments where the action does come off as being cool and still holds up. A lot of it is pretty senseless and frivolous, and there is an underlying impression that the film is merely emulating a game experience, boss fights and all. Regardless, the film is successful at being stylish and fun.On the other hand, the style becomes so heavy-handed that it does bring down the experience a notch. Frequent flashbacks and other random scenes disrupt the flow of the film. Some scenes, especially toward the end, become so surreal and weird, they further disrupt what should otherwise be a straightforward adventure flick.With these random scenes, however, the film does try its best to dig up some solid substance. The story is not bad, per se, and it does its best to add some backstory and relevance to the characters and plot. I'm certain the filmmakers (and some audiences too) geeked out when they saw John Voight playing Lara Croft's father. The actual plot line, however, is pretty screwy, and follows the exact same structure as a video game (cut-scene, enter new area, fight bad guys, fight boss, obtain artifact, continue to next zone). Lara Croft is a two-dimensional character at best, for even with a backstory, there's never really enough to flesh her out and illicit much empathy for her or her struggles.As mentioned above, the film has style, for better or for worse. Acting is a strange animal to judge here; Angelina Jolie is easily the centerpiece of the show, and she fits the part physically. She also does inject her character with a certain playfulness and wit that suits the character. Now that the games have evolved in so many different ways, however, I can't help but to regard Jolie's performance as an antiquated one-dimensional portrayal of Lara, same as it was in the 90s, lacking in nuanced depth or emotion. Emulating the classic Lara Croft, Jolie does a good job, but in the future, I'm certain that she'll be supplanted very easily (especially if the 2013 game is any indication). As far as everybody else goes, they're serviceable at best. Except for a few witty lines, the writing is pretty bad. This production has decent sets, props, and costumes, but also some rather aged and bad special effects. Music tries its best to seem cool; the soundtrack is a favorite of mine, but it can serve as a distraction during the actual movie. The score is alright.With all the style and action, and with the promise of seeing the classic video game character brought to life, the Tomb Raider movie seemed like a big movie event of my generation. It did its part well enough, but it remains a rather shallow and uneven experience. It would be worth a look for fans and anybody interested in adventure flicks.3.5/5 (Entertainment Good | Story Average | Film Average) "},{"Title":"A great Angelina Jolie in an OK adventure","Date":"23 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" As many others have said, the best thing about the first Tomb Raider movie is by far its leading star, Angelina Jolie. She does a great job with both the physical and the emotional aspects of Lara Croft her training and conditioning paid off, and she manages to give flesh and blood to a video game character. Her supporting cast is much like the movie OK but nothing special. Iain Glen is an adequately slimy villain, but James Bond-to-be Daniel Craig doesn't really strike much of an impact. There are some cool action sequences (when they don't go overboard with CGI), with Lara counting in equal parts on her skills and her smarts, but the story lacks the urgency it should have (considering the entire course of history is supposed to be at stake), and its most interesting mystical parts (like a mysterious ghost-like little girl who is able to read Lara's thoughts) are under-developed. Even the time-manipulation rules are not very clear - Lara is told by her father that she is not allowed to use the power of the Triangle and yet she does use it once before destroying it. To repeat my opening statement Jolie is wonderful to watch, the movie is just passable. **1/2 out of 4. "},{"Title":"Not nearly as bad as its reputation","Date":"19 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Lara Croft Tomb Raider is one of those films that really doesn't live down to its reputation as one of the worst blockbusters of recent years, although an unfamiliarity probably helps lower expectations. True it does boast the usually reliable Daniel Craig's worst performance and least convincing accent, but approached without any expectations as an undemanding action movie it fills the spot between better films even if Stuart Baird's slick uncredited editing can't entirely hide the fact that Angeline Jolie is very obviously doubled by a man in some stunts. Still, in the not particularly distinguished cannon of films based on video games it's definitely better than most. "},{"Title":"Great Fun!  Totally Underrated.","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" My family borrowed this movie from a close friend and watched it, and we all enjoyed it quite much. It was even very much enjoyed by my mother, who usually discards movies like these. I very much suggest this movie to you, if you like great action, great acting, and you think Angelina Jolie is hot (woops, did I just say that?) It's about a British woman named Lara Croft (Jolie) who would do anything to bring her deceased father (Jon Voight) back to life. When she finds a mysterious artifact that can control time, she grabs at the chance to see her father again. Along the way she has to battle a rich villain and his henchmen (who, of course, only exist to get their butts kicked and shot by Croft). It's a great action movie that will be enjoyed by the whole family, and the lack of sexual junk makes it all the better (except for an absolutely useless shower scene). It's even better than the second one.3/4 "},{"Title":"Enjoyable silly action movie.","Date":"17 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is good as pure mindless entertainment.Yes, of course it's a complete Indiana Jones wannabee and rip-off at times but just like the movies made in the same period, The Mummy and The Mummy Returns, it's a fun and at times good rip-off.It amazes me to be honest how many people complain about the plot holes and the lack of realism of the movie. Well no offense but when you want realism you shouldn't watch a movie based on a video game in the first place. The story of the movie isn't really of much importance, it's just an excuse to bring some action to the screen and the action is something that most certainly does not disappoint. The action sequences are nicely executed and highly original. So the movie just simply serves its purpose; to bring some mindless entertainment.This movie is much better than its sequel Lara Croft Tomb Raider The Cradle of Life, even though both movies are just silly, this movie at least isn't sloppy made and has far superior action sequences and less silly and unlikely moments. Guess that means that Simon West is a better action director as Jan de Bont is.The cast & crew are great. Angelina Jolie is a great and wonderful Lara Croft and the movie has a nice atmosphere and is edited well together. The special effects were good and enjoyable and never were overused in any scene.The villains are a bit underused and uninteresting but somehow in this case it doesn't disturb me. I also missed some good humor at times, for some reason I have a feeling that the movie would had been better if it was written by British writers. But the mindless and great action sequences truly compensates for all the flaws.Just sit back and enjoy this movie!7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"True to Game","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Angelina Jolie as the tomb raider Lara Croft is perfect and remains true to the PC game. I can't imagine a better actress for this role as Ms. Jolie....by the way, I am no fan of strong women movies b/c it is a complete exaggeration. But she is so perfect at this role that it is easy to see that these movies are more plausible - one just needs to find the right actress in the right role.The supporting roles as well are aptly filled by all. I suspect that a great movie starts with proper casting, continues with photography, production, directing and acting. In this case all were top notch. 10/10-ZafoidPS I don't understand why the IMDb.com general populace would rate this so low with an average rating of 5/10! Trust me this is an A+ movie.-Z "},{"Title":"Smashing!","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Before seeing this movie I wasn't really a Lara Croft nutter; now I am! The action in this movie is superb and so are the actors/actresses. Although the real highlight of the movie is Angelina. She pulls off the role of Lara Croft in a suave, sexy manner, not to mention doing a great impersonation of an English aristocrat (voice included). Chris Barrie is excellent as Not so soft butler Hillary. It also has some of the best choreography in a movie ever. Best scene is the massive Brahman statue which comes to life and is subsequently killed by a swinging log. The villain, Powell is also very good. This film will stay in my good books any day. "}{"Title":"Real action!","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I really loved the action sequence at the beginning! In other music there is always this boring intruducing and that for a very long time. Here it starts directly. Angelina Jolie let Lara Croft live and she's very sexy in her costumes. A real good action movie!! "},{"Title":"Good, until the last 20 minutes","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  LARA CROFT TOMB RAIDER(2001)Angelina Jolie. In this film, which is  based on the video game, Lara Croft(angelina jolie) must retreve both halves on a triangle, which are on opposite sides of the earth. This was enjoyable and had cool action scenes, until the last 20 minutes. In just didn't work. Just recently, I saw the sequel to this(Lara Croft Tomb RaiderThe Cradle of Life) and it was better than this one. In this one, the action was cool, but if it wasn't at full throttle, the movie was kind of bore. Not very many parts fit into that category, but a few did. Anyway, I recommend this to anyone who expects plain action. If you expect more, then you might not enjoy this as much. Still, it was an above average adventure film.I give Lara Croft Tomb Raider a 6 out of 10.PG-13; action/violence, brief profaintity, and some sensuality. "},{"Title":"Lara Croft Got Real Sexy!","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  First off Angelina Jolie is a hot actress and she made the movie big she was Sexy and a great Lara Croft!But the movie was also very good it had  alot of action and had a great story behind it.I myself really do not like the Tomb Raider games but the movie definetly was awesome! "},{"Title":"Hmmmm, yumm, yumm","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I´ve seen this one about 37 times so one might consider I like it. And I do. I`ve never expected a great story or any story at all. These movies don`t work like that. They should be exciting and nicely set and adventurous and very fast. Tomb Raider has all this and I love watching it because of its speed.And of course because of Angelina Jolie who looks great but also enacts as Lara as no one else could have. What I say is its not a Shakespeare Play, it`s an äktschn-movie. It hasnt great dialogue but its fun anyway.Hamlet "},{"Title":"Can't believe you lot!!!","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  How dare you all only give this film an average of 5 out of 10!!!?!!! How dare you all criticise it!? This film lives up to everything it should have. It is the female version of Indiana Jones. How can any man rate it poor!? it has action, plot, suspense, drama, boobs, nakedness and....all by Angelina Jolie!!! I must admit, the director could have done a little better, but hopefully he won't get a secoind chance with any others! but the film was GOOD! it matched the games-that's what it intended to do and thats what it did. please, please, please...watch it again and reconsider. you have 3 months to open your mind before the 2nd one! "},{"Title":"2 Guns Up","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Angelina Jolies performance is simply flawless.  She gives Lara Croft the charming elegance and feminine grit that makes her classy yet badass.  The action scenes in the film were very well done.  Even the more far fetched fantasy elements were made to be believable.  For 100 minutes the film  runs full throttle.  More action movies should follow suit, because it will be hard to top this sexy, dynamic, witty joy ride. "},{"Title":"highly enjoyable entertainment","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  lara crofttomb raider truely is a very good movie. although not a critical masterpiece it manages to deliver 100 minutes of action and entertainment. i enjoyed the way it wasnt too long and didnt evolve into pointless drivel,i.e.mission impossible 2. it was a movie with a heroine that actually had a plot, unlike charlies angels which was nothing but a battle of the sexes. angelina jolie was the personification of lara croft. overall it is a fast-paced movie that is well written and well acted. from a critical point of view i would give it 6.9 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Good film","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What's the big deal about bad reviews for this film. This film never pretended to be a masterpiece it was supposed just to be a good and entertaining action/adventure film and they achieved that. How could they fail indeed when Angelina was the leading actress. One more time she proved that she's one of the best actresses and that she can play every kind of role(crazy girl in GIRL INTERRUPTED, narko-lesbian in GIA, heroin in TOMB RAIDER, and a simple drama role in THE SIN). And she also proved that she's very hot. The movie itself looks like another INDIANA JONES but basically it's based on the videogame. Being a huge fan of TR videogame(I finished all five of them) I liked the movie quite much. It was entertaining and not boring. Very good way to spend one and a half hour. I recommend it. It's for damn sure worth of its price.  "},{"Title":"An irreplaceable strong character with a stunning pack of action at the most unusual but amazing settings.","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Angelina Jolie, is the sole actress who can be positioned in the strong role of Lady Lara Croft, the Tomb Raider. Lara is famous character based on full action PlayStation serial game Tomb Raider. Lara is the remaining famous character among world gamers with her authentic personality; bold, straight-forward, brave, smart and ready to kick some ass. Lara never answers to anyone, speaks several languages, is surrounded by high-tech, owns a large mansion, and people just love the bathroom scene. Simon West picked every bits that familiar with the character, from deep and cool voice and accent, to the many languages she speaks and even the everyone's favourite scene; the bathroom scene. Angelina Jolie is so Lara Croft. She acted well as Lara and she absolutely kicked butt. Simon grabbed the audience fast and kept them glued until the end. What is so good about the movie? It is more than James Bond or Indiana Jones? Well, since these characters are males, a female hero would be really a shocking breakthru in the industry of adventurer-sort-of-film. It is more than Bond because this lady is a LADY and she kicks ass better than Bond. She jumps, she rolls, she slides, she swings, she runs and she rotates. She bleeds, she DOESNT run away, she wears really short shorts. Is she better than Jones too? She only gets herself in unusual cases, that involves unrealistic event, such as the triangle and the power of the time. She's also smart and knows what she's doing. Why do I comment on Lara Croft more than the film itself? Because this is my personal opinion after I watch the movie several times, I DON'T play the game, but I did see my friends playing it some times ago. This film has got everything; unusual action with a lot of kicking and punching, and still (unlike charlie's angels) cocking the guns are the main idea, Simon West did a great job in making how shooting a robot could be that interesting and a really pleasant scene to watch too, there were no matrix scene which has the person flies and kicking in slow motion and shows the bullets shooting slowly, no, Simon did it all his way, it also has comedy with Bryce and Hillary, and the short conversation between them are actually funny, the opening sequence really connected with the ending sequence, and more, it has drama, the story about Lara and her father, the story about Lara saving Alex's life and even the scene where Alex was standing naked in front of Lara reveals her character so much. The music was perfect and the story is more than realistic. I beg Simon West to create the second one and please bring Miss jolie back with you. "},{"Title":"this is one of the worlds best action adventures Angelina Jolie was the best possible Lara Croft","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If you like action adventures where you are impressed by gunfights, awesome special effects, and awesome characters, and some comical querks, your prayers are answered, tomb raider is your type of movie... And, Lara Croft is your type of hero. Angelina Jolie was the best possible Lara Croft. "}{"Title":"I think this movie rocks!","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Angelina is awsome!this shows true girl power.I hope they make a Tomb Raider 2!Angelina is my new role model.I think Angelina is really pretty.She kicked butt in this movie.She trained so hard for this,I think it was awesome. "},{"Title":"An excellent adaption, all in all just excellent","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was a great adaption to the video game. Angelina Jolie is Lara Croft. Her house is the same and is very good. Her costumes are excellent. This may be different from the video game but that is a very good thing. It makes it more interesting and mysterious. The clock in the movie is very beautiful and so is the cinematography. Angelina Jolie is beautiful. This is on my top 100 at number 3. The first time i saw which was on the opening day i did not pay much attention because i just got out of school but it was still interesting. The second time i saw it i loved this movie. It was my favorite. Until Rush Hour 2 and then Ali but it is still awesome. It did not do very well here in america. I mean it did do well but the director thought it would do much better. "},{"Title":"Croft. Lara Croft.","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I really liked this movie and I can't see why so many people trashed it. Hey ... Maybe it was dissed because the Illuminati didn't want people to see it? ... That it exposed them ... and they got served a major dose of whup-ass.I saw the making of it and a great deal of work and research went into it. The scenery and effects were fantastic and it had a great storyline. The temples were gorgeous as well.The movie showed Lara Croft (Angelina) and both as action hero and serene soul, which was a nice twist, as at first I thought she'd be a bitchy, superfluous version of Indiana Jones (even if her boobs were CGI enhanced ;) And it was nice to see her as action hero and real person. And Chris (Christopher) Barrie as her friend, aide and butler, Hillary was gorgeous too. It was lovely to see him in a production again. I miss his as Rimmer from Red Dwarf! *) (He's also fantastic in Brittas Empire) I'm also ecstatic to find, doing net searches, that I'm not the only one who sees the amor between Lara & Hillary... ;) They worked so well together as actors and on screen characters.Wish I had one of those cool suspension swing things! And I thought my living room was big! I adore that scene, so soft and elegant in contrast to the fast action, dark fight scenes. I like how they brought sensitivity to Lara and seeing all the work that went into making the movie, even making the white pyjamas so they would flutter as she swung... And how much work, physical and emotional Angelina did to prepare for the role and how she really took it to heart, was really great to learn from the extra footage on the DVD.I wanted to see a bit more action, more of Lara pyjama fluttering and more scenes with her and Hillary, but apart from that it was awesome! Off to whup-ass in the games now! And sweep Hillary off his feet! Hehe ;) "},{"Title":"ANGELINA JOLIE IS SO HOT IM ENVIOUS OF BILLY BOB!!!","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I am like the world's biggest Angelina Jolie supporter! She has a wild life apparently behind the scenes but i think she is one of the best actors in the world today! I liked Tomb Raider, I havent really played any of the games but i thought the movie was phenomenal! Great sound for all you DVD supporters! Sounds great on any system that sponsers 5.1 digital surround ! I just watched this movie that was recently purchased by a family member and we had the bonus of being able to view it on a 50inch t.v which just goes to show that the more people buy these big t.v's the more the local theatres will be forced to reduce these crazy admission prices!Now for the movie i saw alot of indiana jones in this film which is ok cause i am a fan of that series too.  Great special effects, watch for the scene in which lara(jolie) is bungee jumping within her own house. Goes to show you the size of house she owns. I liked the fact she had lots of money in the movie it made me want her even more ha! A definate rent it wont disappoint you! Till' next time see ya! "},{"Title":"This movie was really good","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I wish i would have seen this in the theater because it was a good action movie. It was very fast paced and Angelina Jolie was perfect for her role. The movie never lets you down for an hour and a half and will keep your attention. "},{"Title":"one of the most original movies I've ever seen...","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" ...which is pretty sad, considering how very derivative it is.  How can a movie with such a bad script, tacky one-liners, and an obvious rip-off of Indiana Jones be original?  Because of the female star, of course.  Angelina Jolie is perfect as Lara Croft, a woman who really kicks a** (literally, of course!) and never needs to rely on a man to do it.  She's smart, strong, cheerfully independent, and never has to fall back on sex appeal or any so-called feminine wiles to get what she wants--finally a female action hero girls everywhere can look up to!  Even the requisite shower scene is more than made up for by Daniel Craig's shower scene later in the movie (a real treat for us gals!).  Truly, this was a milestone in the action genre, showing that women can be bad-a** adventurers (NOT adventuresses), too.  "},{"Title":"Lock the Tombs...Here comes Jolie!","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Angelina Jolie plays an excellent Part for possibly the Hardest Position to play...The Infamous Lara Croft. Lara is possibly the World Renowned character before the Film, and she is only a Computer Character!If she can do it, So can i...Only Joking. The Stunts she does are amazing, and they are all done by herself. If the Stunts in this are any reflection on her talent, watch out all you female actors...Lara is coming! "},{"Title":"Everything you ever need!","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  As a gamer, who was only mildly impressed with the Tomb Raider series, especially the later ones, this film is a breath of fresh air. While it is not a complex plot, nor a surprising one, the action sequences make up for it.Jolie as Lara is perfect, and her character is portrayed excellently. The action sequences top those that were lavished on The Matrix. She oozes charisma, and sequel-ability.This is the 2001+ female James Bond in the making. We want more! Although not everyone will succumb to Jolie's charms I can guarentee that if you are male and you play games, you will appreciate this film. Perhaps I am biased, being a gamer, but this film has made me take another look at the TR games available and will make me keep an eye out on the future releases.Nicely paced action, stunning effects, real gnarly characterisations, makes this film the tops. Watch it, if you have any interest in the action/gaming genres. "},{"Title":"The best female James Bond ever! (alert minor spoilers)","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  First, I'm not a fan of Tomb Raider the game I went to see this film on the basis of the trailer. If you are prepared to suspend disbelief to the same extent as you would for a James Bond flick, it's a great film. In fact, if you imagine Lara Croft (whoops, sorry - *Lady* Croft) as a female James Bond, you've pretty much got the idea. The action may be Indiana Jones, but Lara's weaponry, martial arts, encyclopaedic knowledge and cool-headed self confidence are pure Bond. And did I mention rapidly changing spectacular locations world-wide?Yet below the surface, Croft never loses her femininity, and it's that distinguishing characteristic which makes me expect not just one sequel, but several. She's fully in control of romantic encounters (which means getting into bed with no-one, rather than Bond who gets into bed with everyone), but she's vulnerable to manipulative words that are formed of carefully selected truths. She respects spirituality, and the film leaves unexplained the degree to which it affects her. Perhaps it's unfortunate for the film makers that the big issue for Lara in this film is the number one issue for many women's femininity; Lara's relationship with her (now deceased) father. They'll have trouble thinking of something else equally poignant and yet realistic for the sequel .... unless Lara marries and then has to rescue her kids (please! No !!!)Yet this film was never going to be about deep character studies. Indeed, it's a tribute to the film makers that they didn't play it for laughs, Indiana Jones-style; the biggest struggle for an implausibly-built cyber-babe is being taken seriously, and there's always time for lampooning in the future (aka Star Trek IV). The film makers allow themselves to steal ideas from other films (notably Crouching Tiger and Raiders of the Lost Ark), and characters from TV sci-fi (well, one - Chris Barrie, the hologram from Red Dwarf, is Lara's butler), but no-one is playing for laughs, except by acting their stereotypes to the hilt.Oh, and don't wait for this one to come out on video - it's big-screen big entertainment. "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, this movie was better than I thought. Actually A LOT better than I thought. Angelina Jolie is one of my favorite actresses and again she shows that she can play any role out there. This movie has a lot of fighting sequences that were amazing although they seemed endless. The plot wasn't what I expected but I think that Angelina and the rest of the cast played it out pretty good and she showed that even girls can overpower the boys. Her English accent wasn't too appealing to me, but I didn't let that ruin an otherwise great movie. I recommend that you all go see this movie and find out for yourself how great an actress Angelina Jolie is.All in all I give Tomb Raider an 8.5/10 "}{"Title":"A spectacular adventure!","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was a spectacular adventure! Angelina Jolie scores big time! She was great! It was her best performance since Girl, Interrupted. There was a rather nice supporting cast to go with her. The film had a suspenseful plot, & was unpredictable in some parts, which I like. Then the details were good too. The art direction was great! So were the cinematography, sound, and music. I now it's a bit early, but I think this film will definitely rake in some Oscar nominations.I would have to saw one of my favorite scenes was when Laura was skiing in her boots in the cave and is being pulled by the dogs. I also liked her underwater kiss with Alex. I recommend this movie to anyone seeking a great adventure. It's now one of my favorite movies ever!  "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I loved the film, definitely better than I had expected.  Cool actions scenes, great scenery.I only wish the script writer had researched LARA a bit better.  What happened to Winston, her butler.  And the deal with her father?  Anyone who's played the games knows her father's name is Lord HENSHINGLY Croft, who disowned her because of her choice of lifestyle.Oh well, can't have everything.  I'll still probably see the film about twenty times before I've got enough of it.Can't wait for the sequel! "},{"Title":"Totally Excellent !!!","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie kicks some serious butt !!! it was AWESOME !!!!!! Angelica was Great in this movie.. its the second time ive seen her in a movie. i saw her in Girl Interrupted and she was very good in that one too.. i wouldnt mind her on my side in a fight.. that lady can kick butt !!when i first heard about this movie being made, i wondered who'd be good in the role of Lara Croft and once i found it was Angelica.. i thought ... good choice.. the special effects were great and it had lots of action too.. it was Well worth the admission price, and whenever this movie comes out on video , im buying it !!!i would Highly recommend this movie.. even if your not a fan of Lara Croft already , this movie will make you one for sure !! "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Tomb Raider has been the best movie i've seen so far this year, the action is great! Angelina Jolie is by far the best actress today with the diversity of characters she portrays, from a hacker to a drug-addicted model to a mental-ward patient and now an action heroine. If you haven't seen any movies she has been in, RENT SOME!Dancing in the Dark,Gone in Sixty Seconds,Girl, Interrupted,The Bone Collector,Pushing Tin,Playing By Heart,Hell's Kitchen,Gia (TV),True Women (TV),Playing God,George Wallace (TV),Love Is All There Is,Foxfire,Mojave Moon,Hackers,Without Evidence,Cyborg 2 Glass Shadow,Lookin' To Get OutThen go see Tomb Raider!!! "},{"Title":"Dumb fun, but (in this case) still dumb","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If there's one thing I can't stand, it's a movie with a stupid plot that takes itself too seriously.  I like to call it Matrix / Twister disease.  While Tomb Raider does have a very stupid plot, it does not suffer such an affliction.  However, it's still doesn't even qualify as the kind of mindless fun that was so well displayed in both of the recent Mummy films.  While the movie was completely aware that the plot was silly and really didn't make much sense at all, the action was just so franticly directed that you had no idea what was going on.Good action has been hard to come by since we've abandoned the action movie in this country.  Around ten years ago, we stopped making action movies and starting making comedies or dramas that contain 'action sequences.'  Say what you want about how bad Rambo movies are, but at least they don't try to be anything more than simple action movies.  The problem with the action sequence is that so few people know how to make it.  Tomb Raider is filled with action sequences that I'm sure a lot of time went into choreographing.  Unfortunately it was all wasted with a bunch of quick cuts and close ups.  It was edited so that you never get a feel for exactly what the characters are doing at that moment.  Your understanding of what's occurring is reduced to simply 'Action is taking place.'  And you get most of that from the fact that the music was just turned up.Movies filled with quick cuts can be quite good.  Look at Requiem for a Dream and Moulin Rouge.  But neither of those are action movies.  I understand the need to give Tomb Raider a fast paced, high energy feel.  But a couple wide shots of the 'Action Area' would have been nice. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If you have an open mind or are a Tomb Raider fan, then it may be worth your while to check this movie out.  But if you have no imagination for fantasy or take things seriously (remember, this flick is a fun one, not to be taken seriously) then don't waste your breath or your bucks.  In my opinion, the movie was excellent, but keep in mind that these words are coming from a die-hard Tomb Raider fan.  I have all the games and have played them over and over again.  I eat, sleep and breathe Lara.  So, yes, I loved the movie. I have waited a few years for it and was not disappointed at all.  It actually exceeded my expectations.  I had my doubts about Angelina at first, but once I saw the movie my doubts had vanished.  No one could have played a better Lara.  She looks like her, talks like her and has her attitude and all her charms.  A lot of people say she was too kissy-faced, but in my opinion, the Lara Croft of the legendary series of video games is the same. Lara is coy, sexy, clever, playful yet serious and puts out a mean punch when necessary; all of which qualities Angelina portrayed quite nicely. The story was a little confusing to some, especially those that didn't know who Lara Croft was, but as other reviews have stated, what movie made after a video game has a plot that is good by itself when you take away all the glamour?  None that I have seen.  And not every good movie gets an Oscar. My advice to you if you want to have some fun then go see it; if you are more into movies with a more realistic nature, then don't.   And if you are planning on seeing this movie and don't know a thing about Lara, then you may want to get a little background information first.  Check out a few Tomb Raider sites for her bio before digging out your wallet to buy your ticket.All we Lara fans wanted to see was Lara in the flesh and on the big screen.  And that is what we saw. Her character was neither embellished nor underdeveloped for the movie.  Paramount Pictures and Simon West and his crew (and of course, the lovely Angelina Jolie and all the other actors and actresses) did a fine job.  They have successfully brought her into our world.  And I can't wait until she visits us again.  "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought it was awesome. The sets and the special effects were unbelievable. I am  a huge Angelina Jolie fan. Hence my nickname my friends gave me. She did a kick butt job on this role and I am happy to hear there is a sequeal. I know there are a large number of skeptics but I just think this is a good way for young girls to see a woman in control. I am also glad they didn't make it as campy as I thought they would. True they padded Angelina's chest but they could have given her cleavage and less clothing they didn't. They gave Lara Croft dignity. I'm also glad they didn't play up any romance in some cases it takes away from they action in the movie. And there was plenty of action. I recommend it for any Angelina fan, teenage boys and girls, and fans of  "},{"Title":"Simply Lara.","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Simply Lara....Simply superb. I read the comments here prior to seeing this,i went in expecting an average re working of Indiana Jones,sure there were one or two reworkings from his original crusade but Tomb Raider the movie was nothing like him or his crusades,closer to The Mummy Returns if anything Anyway the movie was a roller coaster ride filled with great action sequences,beautiful locations and some average acting by the support cast but it's star Angelica Jolie shined all the way through,being sexy and beautiful and at the same time jumping from one  location to the other in fine style,shooting,fighting and blasting her way back to her father and being the not so tough Lara Croft. Go see this,it's a real thriller..... "},{"Title":"LOVED this movie AND ALWAYS WILL LOVE this movie","Date":"17 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Angelina Jolie fits perfectly with the character of Lara Croft. I can't see anyone playing that part, and I am a big fan of Jolie herself. I've also always loved Lara Croft and the video games and the movie does stay true to the characters and background of Lara Croft.The storyline is interesting but nothing mind tripping. It really gets you thinking about the Illuminati (if you're into stuff like that)From England to Cambodia, Venice and Siberia. All of these locations also fits very well with the storyline.Some people may have issues with the fact that she wears tight fitted tops and short shorts but considering that a good chunk of the movie does take place in a hot Cambodian jungle it really isn't that big of a deal.I definitely disagree with the overall rating on this website of this movie. It's an 8 out 10 for me ) p.s Lara Croft Tomb Raider the Cradle of Life is also pretty good, but definitely not better than the original. "},{"Title":"Lara Croft Tomb Raider is a revolution of Movie Magic","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Lara croft tomb raider is based around the extremely popular video game Tomb Raider and so a bold director set out to make it into a movie.With spine tingling mystery, action , guns, yummy Daniel (The new James Bond to be Presice) and a plot that changes almost instantly...Tomb Raider is definitely a movie that deserves allot of respect in my books. The director set out to do justice to the game and express it to the world and pretty much put Lara Croft into the public eye...and he did just that.I commend this movie greatly and i encourage anyone out there who is willing to give this movie a go to watch it...you won't be disappointed "}{"Title":"Lara Croft","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Personally,I loved the movie..and I don't care what anyone says about it. I thought the actions sequences were good...because Angelina did most of them herself. The gun sequences were awesome as well. I think Angelina did a wonderful job as Lara Croft and I couldn't see anyone else playing the part...they would have been awful. I can only hope they do a few more Tomb Raider movies. There needs to be more Girl-starring action movies that are good. (unlike the recently released on DVD movie ULTRAVIOLET..which was a sad, pathetic attempt ) I loved the second one as well. I thought the action was well done..and I like Jolie's accent..I thought it was rather good. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Brilliant !!!!","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of the most under-rated movies ever !I think it is fantasticNo spoilers whatsoeverAngelina is sexy,cool and she is tougher than all the guysMy rating 8 out of 10 ! "},{"Title":"Superb","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"    I started playing the Tomb Raider games in March, 2000. By June, I had played at least one demo of each game, had every picture off the internet and put about three hundred sites on Tomb Raider and Lara Croft in my Favourites list. Now I own every game plus the gold versions.  I was ecstatic when I found out about the movie, and needed to know everything about it. My sisters and I went to see Bring It On and they had a trailer for it, and I only remembered the trailer not anything about the actual movie I saw.  I won advanced screening tickets to Tomb Raider, and although I was mildly disappointed that it wasn't as action packed as the trailer made it out to be, I still loved it.  I like the fact that they incorporated Lara Croft's emotional side into the movie, which is something that you don't see in the games, and they gave her a development throughout the film - she went from being a very cold closed off person to being a warm open one, etc. etc.  This movie has a killer soundtrack (especially Terra Firma by Delerium) and it is definitely worth a watch. I give it 10/10  "},{"Title":"Indiana Jolie kicks butt bigtime","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Jolie fleshes out busty, badass computer game tomb raiding icon Lara Croft well in this action/adventure flick from a similar but somewhat lesser mold as Indiana Jones. A not-to-be-taken-seriously convoluted conglomeration of special effects and bigger-than-your-imagination plot nonsense, Lara Croft Tomb Raider is all about the ever cool English Lady Lara romping and stomping through a variety of foes and creatures to save the world from the mysterious omnipotent forces of the ancients...um, something like that anyway. Should be a fun watch for gamers, chicks into girl power, and anyone who digs on butt kicking action babes. "},{"Title":"This Movie Rocks","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie totally rocks. I love this movie. I think it does have its set of problems. Some of the dialogue in this movie was pretty flat and some of the acting was kind of poor. There was lots of action and awesome sets. The people spent so much time on the sets that there is an excuse for the mediocre script. Jolie was the best actor in this movie, she looked like and acted like Lara Croft. She did a great job and must have gotten alot of exercise. "},{"Title":"Good looks alone could not save this film","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film has a Bad script, lots of very poor humour (token idiot sidekick), ok acting but let down by the direction. Even the absolutely stunning body of Anglina Jolie's body is not enough to save this film.  The best bit of going to see this film was the trailer for Final Fantasy 7. "},{"Title":"confusion of plots and forced brit accent","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  While I'm a fan of Angelina Joli, her accent seemed quite forced, even when whispering, everything about it seemed fake.  While great for some action sequences, this story made no sense, and it was hard to tell if Laura was really out to reunite herself with her father, or if she was out for a good time.  And what is with the kid? For no explained reason, there's a kid in the story, that appears from nowhere from time to time and tells Laura that she's senselessly risking everything to see her father again.  And whenever the kid disappears, there's always flowers where she was standing.  What the hell?  It was originally a good idea to make a movie out of the game, but the story should've been written a hell of a lot better. "},{"Title":"Action adventure or complete disaster?","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I wanted to love it.  Love the games.  I am Lara Croft.  But I hated it. It was bad in every way I can think of, from plot to dialogue, to casting. I gave it such a low score (1) because I am punishing them for my extreme disappointment.  So much potential.  How did it all go so wrong? "},{"Title":"She looks great.. but absolutely NOTHING else...","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Two wordsSKIP IT! This film, once again, proves Hollywood thinks people will continue buying all look and no substance.But yes, it did look good... "},{"Title":"Worst summer movie since Speed 2","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Ever since seeing the greatly hyped sequel to Speed, Speed 2 - Cruise Control I thought Hollywood would ever create a summer that terrible again. I was wrong. Yes, despite that summer movies are made for their popcorn, eye-catching appeal and do you rarely see an academy award nomination other than best sound or visual effects, Tomb Raider has to be the worst summer movie since Speed 2. Where one feature of the movie was lacking (such as the storyline), I looked to another feature of the movie (the action scenes) just to be as disappointed.To begin with lets begin with the terrible storyline and characters. The storyline lacks in any intensity or danger. Not once did I ever feel that Laura Croft was ever in any danger or even got really that beat up. Other than that scratch on her arm that the Monk's tea healed and a bloody lip. Also the characters where terrible accept for Jolie's. And even then the fake English accent and the bad azz attitude about where ever she just decided to parade through was ridiculous. Indi at least had to sneak around for fear of being caught or killed. Then there is her little buddy who designed all her gizmo's and lived in a trailer thats right out of Charlie's Angels. Oh and that is gizmo, the only cool thing about her gear was the backpack that she reloads her guns with. I was hoping for at least a wide range of gizmos and gadgets or something. Who know hand held lanterns with no off switch (remember she had to hide it behind a rock) were so new aged technology. Furthermore who was Powell and who was West? You never know if there was any romantic past or not between West and Croft. All you know is that West is the ever redundant, In it for the money character. Also why is Powell so bad, other than being a lawyer (Baa Baa Ching....groan, lame overdone joke). But seriously if Powell was to obtain the triangle what was he going to do with it? He never said, other than let Laura see her father. Heck Powell was kind of a nice guy in that aspect. Other than that it just seemed that Powell wanted a little triangle to add to his collection, nothing more. So I never really felt like the rest of the world was ever in any danger. I could have been eating my Frosted Flakes and never of known the difference.Now for the worst part of the movie the action sequences! COMPLETELY UNORIGINAL!!!!!!! To begin with the action scene in the beginning is straight out of the opening action scenes of Indiana Jones. Next we move to the bungee scene. Here we have a rip off of the pulley scene in the computer room from the first Mission Impossible. Then we go to the car garage of Crofts's abode. And here we find more James Bond 007 cars than I've ever seen. Not to mention the McGuyver like drill gun. Then the motorcycle up on one wheel n' all again Mission Impossible but this time the Part 2. Where to next ahh yes the actually original fight scenes that were lame. I never knew fighting a 5000-year-old armed statue could be so easy. Just one good whack to the gut and down they go. What else..... ah yes, the Back to the Future references. I believe I remember Doc Brown telling Marty McFly Destroy the time machine it brings nothing but trouble, and can bring nothing but evil if to fall into the wrong hands. Now Biff did some damage if I remember correctly. Anyway here we are with Lord Croft telling Laura Destroy the Triangle it brings nothing but trouble, and can bring nothing but evil if in the wrong hands. You know the whole time I'm thinking why didn't she destroy the one part of the triangle in the first place. The Aluminate would just be running around looking for the other piece of a triangle. Not knowing that Laura had already destroyed the other half. Bada bing, movie over. BUT NO, being led out of the ice cavern by the team of dogs. Hmmmm again I think of Indi being dragged behind the Nazi truck by his whip.I'm sorry if you have found my rantings offensive if you really liked the movie that much. I am aware that this is a summer movie, but as far as summer movies go this ranks down there with Speed 2. This movie is just plain terrible! I didn't find anything really that interesting or exciting about it. It's a movie that I left feeling like I've seen hundreds of times before. At least this wasn't as bad as Speed 2, but it's the worst one I've seen since it. I'm dreading the sequel, I don't know why Paramount is going to want to make another installment, but hey sometimes you get lucky. That is if you have better writers, director, and actors. Video game movies should stay where they belong in my opinion, on our televisions and PC's. I was hoping that perhaps this time they could make something out of it, I've been let down again. Although that Final Fantasy might be good..... lets hope for Video game movie's sake.Tomb Raider - (1.5/10)  "}{"Title":"No excuses!","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was really sad by how awful Tomb Raider was... there was no excuse for it to have been so bad.  Angelina was PERFECT for the role of Laura Croft, but the astonishingly bad plot, script and direction destroyed a movie with at least moderate potential.  I think monkeys could have brainstormed a better storyline than that which we were presented.   "},{"Title":"This movie just falls flat (pun intended)","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If I can save one person from having to see this incredibly bad movie, my work here is done. I admit my expectations are normally low for summer action flicks but this one went way beyond bad.THE GOOD In the movie, Jolie looks great but then why wouldn't she? That's it.THE BAD The opening action sequence was the best one in the movie and it stunk up the place.  There must have been 5000 jump-cuts I was dizzy.  The robot was kind of a Matrix looking rip off and it just made no sense at all. Not that it had to but come on! Prepare for robbing tombs by fighting a high-tech robot? There is zero character development except for Lara and very little at that.  There are about 6 sub-plots none of which are fleshed out. The dialog is so cliche and stale it may have been cut and pasted from other bad action movies.  I can't say the acting was bad because there was very little acting going on in this lame script.  Even Jon Voight's lines must have made him cringe.THE REST Its too bad really, Jolie could have been a great action hero as Lara.  The movie just falls flat (pun intended).  The breasts are just a joke and not needed at all. Wasn't Angelina Jolie beautiful already?  They should have been more concerned with the quality of the script and less with Lara's chest. "},{"Title":"You should pay the price of a full admission to avoid this movie.","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If you should not see some movies even if they paid you, for this one you should go even further and pay money to avoid it! Tomb Raider is grotesque parody of a movie, a gross insult thrown to the moviegoers across the world. Action movies are bad nowadays, but Tomb Raider beats everything by its stupidity. There is nothing that could justify such a failure. At least the industry is true to its style and proves that video-to-movie schemes never work (Street Fighter, anyone? Or Wing Commander? At least the last one came with a Star Wars preview). Anyway, back to the Tomb Raider, the plot is non-existent, the actors are flat, the word acting cannot be associated to this production, the fighting scenes are ridiculous. People, The Matrix was The Matrix, no need to endlessly rip it off, you can't just reproduce it! Even the russian girl was speaking a terrible russian... could not they hire a real? Conclusion Run screaming! Or do yourself a favor and see Return of the Mummy (silly, yet entertaining). "},{"Title":"Far Out Dude...Yeah TOO Far","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What a waste of film.  This has to be one of the worse films I've ever seen.  'Course every teenage boy from 13-17 will give this one a 10, Jolie is a total joke as a video heroine...I really can't comment further because I am getting sick just thinking about this tripe.  You want to make a fun film about a video game?...try TAXI!! "},{"Title":"Utterly disappointed by plot/characters","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Yes, Angelina Jolie is a really beautiful woman with a nice figure.However, that seemed to be the ONLY reason to see this movie.They really padded her chest, which I guess was understandableconsidering Lara Croft's impossible figure, but the padding wasso obvious it was distracting!The plot was horribly contrived, even for a movie based on avideogame. This movie tried to be on the level of Indiana Jonesand the Mummy/Mummy 2 and failed miserably. My husbandturned to me  30 minutes into it and apologized for suggesting wesee it. We did not leave but the movie was in general sopredictable, we could have and would have been no worse off. Theacting jobs were OK, but with such a throwaway plot, who cares?There's nothing new in this movie, nothing you haven't seenbefore. You definitely get more out of playing the game thanwatching the movie. "},{"Title":"This movie is BAD","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was absolutely horrible.  There was little to no plot, the special effects were special.  The action was nothing to go screaming through the hills about either.  This movie was so bad that after seeing it me and my friend had to rent a decent action movie to purge the memory of ever seeing Tomb Raider from our memories.  Avoid this one like the plague, it can and will cause brain damage.  "},{"Title":"A waste of time and money!","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Few times in my life I have seen such a poor movie. I was so naive that seeing the theater totally full and having to wait for a long time because all was sold out, I had the strange feeling that this would be a great movie.  I was wrong. The movie is a failure and my opinion is not based in my dislike for video games.  My daughter who is fifteen years old and her best friends dislike this movie as much as I do. My good advice don't waste your time and money.  Watch anything else. Even the most mediocre movie made for television may excel this piece of garbage. "},{"Title":"Those who say they hate this movie are being too kind.","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  For over an hour this movie extends its middle finger to the audience in every way possible. The waste of money making this will be only matched by the waste of money spent watching this. This isn't a bad movie - bad movies are made by the likes of Adam Sandler and David Spade. This is a new breed of movie - so bad, so atrocious, so needlessly loud, so offensive and so grotesquely a vigorously insulting parody of what a movie can be that it could have only have been made by a person who hates and despises both the audience and the whole experience of going to the movies. This is the sort of movie that makes Elizabeth Berkley weep tears of relief; no-one will ever, in his wildest dreams, think of Showgirls as the worst movie in the world any more. And Warren Beatty must be on his knees thanking God that Town and Country will attract no attention for being a terrible steaming heap of a movie, not while this baby's in town. Make no mistake; to call this movie a dog is an insult to the ugliest, most vicious, rabid, smelly, incontinent and lice-ridden canine on this planet.SPOILER - SPOILER - SPOILERShe drops the big diamond in the ocean at the end. So there. "},{"Title":"Why, oh, Why?","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Take an infinite number of monkeys, give them an infinite number of typewriters and and infinite amount of time and one of them will write Hamlet.  Yet it took five monkeys to write this GARBAGE!An impossibly bad plot with no explanation of what the Illuminati intend to do with the infinite power of time once it's in their control.  Action sequences shot with such confusion that at several points I was hoping one of the millions of fired bullets would leap out of the screen and put me out of my misery.A terrible movie and a great disappointment. "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Oh my God. This movie is one of the worst. It's all about the action, but even the action sucks in this movie. Angeline doesn't even look like she can throw a good punch or a kick. The martial arts was horrible too. This story will drive you crazy. The writers misleads the whole point of the movie and throw you off the chart. You won't be able to understand, but if you do, you won't see any good plot in the movie. The acting was good, but it was still wrong to make this. It wasn't there fault at all, it was the dialogue and the director. Avoid this movie at all costs.  "}{"Title":"MST3K Material","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Angelina Jolie was perfectly cast for the role of Lara Croft.  She has the looks and the presence to play this wealthy, eclectic explorer. Too bad the script did nothing interesting with the character or story. Within 20 minutes of watching Tomb Raider, I decide this would make a GREAT movie for Mystery Science Theater. I went in not expecting anything wonderful, just a fun action movie.  The problem was that the action sequences were not fun at all to watch.  They were the most horribly choreographed pieces of combat I have ever seen on screen. There are about 20 people running around in any given action sequence and the camera can't decide which ones you should look at, so it jumps around endlessly.  The special effects, given the ammount of money spent on this film, were ludicrous. The character concept is the only good thing in this movie, and maybe it's not too late to rescue the franchise if the script and direction are handed over to a more capable action director.  We can only hope. "},{"Title":"DREADFUL. ABSOLUTELY DREADFUL!","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I rated this a 1 because there was nothing lower. Easily the WORST MOVIE I have seen in a long time. No story; lousy action sequences; bad acting; run-of-the-mill special effects...We should have known it was going to be bad, with the press blackout and the freebies to lure you into the theater. "},{"Title":"I want my money back and an apology from the production studio.","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  For its budget, this has to be the worst movie ever made.  No one in Hollywood can get away with a movie with such diverse topics as living stone warriors, the Illuminati, planetary alignment, giant robots, and time travel.  What has obviously happened is that the production studio realized people would see it based on the name and not the plot, so they hired first-time writers who were paid less.  The writers came up with an outlandish movie and the director did a mediocre job.  All the characters were underdeveloped, the dialogue was poor, the action scenes were hard to follow, and the plot was confusing and seemed to be written by a five year-old.  If you enjoyed this, see some real movies and then see Wallet Raider again.  The movie was just too over the top and it is amazing what people in Hollywood can get away with nowadays. "},{"Title":"A surprising letdown","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I didn't go into this movie with high expectations, however the directory somehow surprised me with how badly he made this movie. I have no clue what Steven West was thinking, but this is one of the worst directed movies I've ever seen. The dialogue is horrendous, and the explanations in the movie boggle me with how incredibly generic and lame they are. As I was saying, I wasn't expecting much from this movie, but it turned out to be way worse than I could have expected. Unless you are satisfied by just looking at Angelina Jolie, this movie is not the one to see. "},{"Title":"As dumb as they come","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If a major studio gave me 8o million dollars to make a video game adaption of Lara Croft's Tomb Raider, I could have made a better movie than this. You see its not the directors fault or the actors. I must admit Agelina Jolie is the perfect Lara Croft. Its the writers fault. The script just fell through, a movie with such a budget just gets swept under with a lousy script. Good special effects though, but thats about it.                       3/10 "},{"Title":"Utter Rubbish!!  Horrible!!  Complete waste of money!!!!!!","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  OK... This movie is out of control.  It has no plot, no story and not a single character that you could believe in even for the length of the movie. Its poorly acted with sloppy special effects with no flow what so ever in the movie.  Anyone seen Crow City of Angels; this movie was as bad as that.  And that was terrible.  Avoid this like a plague.  Watch mummy instead.... even pearl harbor is better that this crap.  And if you really want entertainment... go for SHREK. -) "},{"Title":"Boob Raider","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  When movies get made from other forms of media (i.e. video games, comics, books, etc), a clear goal should be established  Make a film that will appeal to both fans of the original source, and that will not completely alienate new viewers.  This has been done with some consistencey in the past, Tomb Raider does not fall into this category.If I took the time to list all the things that were wrong with the movie in relation to the video game, I would be sitting here three days, so I will try to summarize what was accurate.  Her name was Lara Croft, she did some tomb raiding, she was british.  That about covers it.The plot was horendous, boring, predictable, and generally pointless. These phrases could also be used to describe most of the characters and their acting, I'm not sure whether to blame them or the director on that note. Though I have seen most of the actors give far better performances.  I kept thinking to myself, why didn't they just use the plot from the first game, it would have translated well to the big screen, or at the very least found some writers who could, you know, write.The action sequences were tolerable, I will give it that, though after a while they got a bit tiring and I lost count as to how many times Lara defies the laws of physics, I guess that's a bit consistant with the games, at any rate.Lastly this movie pandered to the worst thing about the Tomb Raider franchise.  Lara Croft's breasts.  Yes, i know, she's attractive, she has breasts that defie gravity and a few other physical constants, but please, get over it, if this is the most interesting part of the Tomb Raider sage, just turn the game into a lame porno flick and get on with your lives, it's not worth wasting our time with bad writing and dialogue just so angelina jolie can flash her breasts to the camera some six hundred times in the span of two hours.To conclude  As a Tomb Raider fan, this movie made me ill and I feel I wasted six bucks and a quarter on it.  If you're interested in action, rent something with better acting, or play the games, if you're interested in boobs, the adult section is usually to the back of the video store.  "},{"Title":"Indiana Jones wanna-be!","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, what can I say?  Angelia Jolie is one fine babe and is a very good actress.  That's about all I can say that is good about Tomb Raider.  Most of the time viewing this film I was telling myself I would get more enjoyment out of renting Raiders of the Lost Ark.  In that film the action sequences were more original, the plot was infinitely better, and the acting itself was ten times more impressive than they were in Tomb Raider.  I was very disappointed in this film.  I wanted an original film not a Indiana Jones wanna-be!  Scratch that, not only did Tomb Raider want to be a Indiana Jones wanna-be, it wanted to be a Mummy wanna-be! (Which in of itself, The Mummy is an Indiana Jones wanna-be!) "},{"Title":"Maybe theres isnt such a thing as a good video game movie.","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Following in the footsteps that Street Fighter and Double Dragon left for it, Tomb Raider sucked. From a plot so ridiculous it wouldnt even show up in a Bruce Campbell movie, to John Voight who hasnt made a good movie in years. It all starts out seemingly intresting as Lara Croft runs around a mock tomb shes built in her house, being chases by her training robot. A ridiculous idea in the first place, as I have yet to actually see such a versatile robot ever exsist in reality. But what am I complaining about reality for when the plot centers around time travel. Tomb Raider plays like a sitcom, with one obvious plot and loads of ridiculous sub plots. It seems like Mutual Films got tons of writer in one room together and didnt let them out until they had a screenplay. Its seems so tired and contrived, and ridiculously easy to follow. From the first few moments of the movie, you know how its going to end and how its going to get there. Anyways, back the story. After the opening gunfest, Lara takes a shower (perhaps the most promising scene in the movie, buts is quickly killed by her damn butler). After the shower I dont remember much else because I was punching my head in disgust. But it can be summed up like this A secret society needs to find two missing pieces of a triangle by the time the planets align. The bad guys toadie steals some dumb clock from lara and uses it to find the pieces. Lara gets a note from her dead dad that tells he to destroy the stones. Which she does, but only after attempting to retrieve her father from before he disappeared. The mains things I found wrong with the movie -If an ancient race hid the two pieces on opposite ends of the world, wouldnt the temprature and all around look of the places be the same. kind of like the north pole is alot like the south pole because they are on opposite ends of the world. -John Vought should just stop. -What they hell was the thing with the big black pyramid? -Why would you go back in time to get your dad? He's just gonna die again. He won't live forever no matter how much you want him too.i could go on but, i dont want to take up anymore of your time, i leave you with this adivce. DONT SEE THIS MOVIE! "},{"Title":"horrible","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I must admit that Angelina Jolie is the perfect actress as Lara Croft, (though I would have prefered Denise Richards) but that is the only good thing about the movie. The movie was stupid, unfunny, boring, and tacky. Plot??? Cyberworld 3D had a better plot then this movie. Acting? where? I didn't see any. Thrills??? well the JP 3 trailer frightened me a little. The point is that the coke a cola commercial shown before the movie was better then Tomb Raider. I'd rather watch directer Simon West's Street Fighter the movie, then Tomb Raider.  "}{"Title":"Ugh!","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Ok, so Angelina Jolie is perfect in the role of Lara Croft.  It's a pity the script was so poorly developed and the the director and editor appear to have had no interest in the film.  It just does not flow...the plot is full of holes and undeveloped ideas (one character goes from being Croft's enemy to love interest, yet there is no explanation as to why).  This film could have been so much more...at least there'll be another two to try and get it right! "},{"Title":"Tomb Raider for Dummies!","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What we have here is Tomb Raider for Dummies.  It says something about the idiot quotient of the Tomb Raider movie, when it is the dummy version of the series of video games upon which it is based, video games that sold millions of copies due primarily to the fact that their heroine has big boobs.  I wasn't surprised to see that this masterpiece of moronics was brought to us by the creative genius's behind quality films such as Death Wish V  The Face of Death, K-911 (the long-awaited made-for-video sequel to the 1980's James Belushi with a funny police dog movie, K-9), Casper, Judge Dredd, The Flintstones, Lost in Space (no, not the good version), Con Air, Disney's The Kid, Armageddon, Wing Commander (another big hit based on a video game), My Giant, and that pivotal third entry to the Darkman series, Darkman III  Die Darkman Die.If the list of films up above gets you excited, you have a lot to look forward to in Tomb Raider.  Bad acting, bad writing, bad cinematography, bad soundtrack, bad jokes and, more than anything, bad directing, it's all here for you!  During the time I was watching this soon-to-be-laughed-at midnight movie, I was unaware that Simon West, the infamously atrocious director behind the dreadful Con Air, was once again allowed to go behind the camera and make a fool out of yet another once respectable leading performer (he did it last time with Nicolas Cage) through lots of macho gestures and slow motion shots.  I am almost ashamed of myself that I didn't pick out West as the leader of this incredibly guilty cast of goofballs willing to put their names on one of the worst event movies ever created, after the first replicated Con Air slow motion melt-down.  West seems able to do two things, as a director  1.  film in slow motion 2. film in slow motion again.Even though I'd like it to, the blame doesn't lie solely on West's shoulders, for this one.  As I mentioned at the start of this review, everything about Tomb Raider is bad.  Really bad.  I realize that I shouldn't have expected much from the script, being that it did come from the writer of Darkman III  Die Darkman Die (Michael Colleary), but couldn't we at least have had the plot make a little sense?  What are all these little kids doing appearing and disappearing?  Did Scriptware tell Mr. Colleary that he needed to add a few more pages, so he just threw in some meaningless kids?  Instead of watching weird ghost kids running around, for no apparent reason, why couldn't we see a little character resolution, and plot explanation?  What happened to the old guy who betrayed Lord Croft at the beginning of the movie, and felt so extremely bad for doing so?  What was Lord Croft doing in the Illuminati?  What was the bad guy's motivation? Sure, he wanted to control the world, or whatever, but for what reason? Why was his little sidekick guy so devoted to helping his cause? Would he somehow benefit if his evil master controlled time?  I haven't seen this many loose ends since I accidentally walked into the enema ward at the hospital.It is extremely rare that a movie is so bad that it actually makes me angry, but Tomb Raider is that rarity.  The movie is lazy.  It doesn't even try to make sense.  This movie isn't worth your time.  Tomb Raider isn't fun, sitting through it is nearly torture, and I'd recommend doing just about anything this weekend over doing that. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"16 May 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie was just way too boring for me. I couldn't pass the first half hour without falling asleep. This movie tries to hard to be an exciting adventure film like the original Indiana Jones trilogy, and yet, it only manages to be a complete snore-fest from beginning to end.This is the dullest, most unexciting adventure flick that I've seen in my entire life, and I think that it could easily considered one of the most boring films ever made.Tomb Raider is the perfect example of everything what is wrong with video game movies. At least Street Fighter, despite being a bad movie, was much more entertaining to watch than this atrocious film, which for me was nothing but a big waste of time.0/10 (And I would rate with a negative score if I could.) "},{"Title":"This movie is horrible","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There are some movies that are so bad they are good - Tomb raider is not one of this. From the bad plot to the bad script this movie has no redeeming features what-so-ever except that at least Jolie is good on the eyes but you can always look at pictures of her and you won't have to sit through this brain-damaging movie. AVOID AT ALL COSTS!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Not worth the plastic the video is recorded on","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The number of people who have gushed over this films surprises me.  I'll confess I haven't seen the whole thing.  I rented and watched it at home... and 20 minutes into the movie I had to turn it off.  This movie doesn't seem to rely on plot, but there are good action movies without plots.  This movie attempts to rely on action but the action is stale and lifeless.  There is still the fact that it stars Angelina Jolie, one of the hottest women in Hollywood.  However, the amount of Angelina's body we see does not justify an entire movie.  If you want to see more of her, go look for Gia.  This movie is a halfhearted attempt to generate eye-candy for teenagers who aren't old enough to view anything stronger. "},{"Title":"Do Not Bother","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  i just wished to throw some more fuel on the fire to help this god awful film burn. there is nothing new which can be said. there is no ok or good or 'at the very best' for this film. the script and plot are so full of gargantuan holes it is not funny, there is no character devlopement, which means we are just expected to understand and accept why people are doing this or that and that their actions are equally easy to understand. and anybody says that they are, they are only giving up and not bothering to think about the film. now, i understand that a lot of films are made not to be thought about, but to be just enjoyed. but still they most hold cohesively in order to go from point a to point b or the whole damn thing will fold up on itself. but this does not even get to occur with tomb raider, there isnt enough here to actually fold on itself, instead it resembles nothing more than a dead rotting fish, steaming in the heat of the midday sun, poisoned and rotted, of no use to anyone or anything. "},{"Title":"A.J. is the perfect kick-ass high-tech female Indiana Jones.","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie surprised me. It was far better than I'd expected and the credit should be equally shared by Jolie and the writers. I don't know why this was slammed by critics... maybe because most of them are male? Women have been waiting too damn long for a heroine like this! "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever.","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If you can get past the insane notion that the nine planets (the ancients knew there were nine planets!  And is Pluto still included?) have to line up, then maybe you'll stop laughing long enough to see some really lame plots unfold revealing cliché after cliché.  But, you probably won't. "},{"Title":"Adults beware; strictly for the kids!","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film isn't worth a lengthy commentary. Like many current films it possesses remarkable special effects to titillate the tots, and Ms. Jolie is a swell looking woman. For adults who seek good cinema, this film is a silly waste of time. "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  THis movie was awful, the only reason i went to see it was to be able to enjoy the awesome theatre and at the same time get a meal. THe ticket was only 4 bucks but the movie wasnt worth any penny of it. Turning a video game into movie just doesnt make sense. What's next, tony hawks pro skater. THe movie was very unrealistic and somehow lara expreses no fear when being fired at with automatic guns, hmmm very interesting. Another thing which made this movie suck was the excessive british humor, which isnt really humurous at all. Dont waste your time with this one.  "}{"Title":"It's just plain good","Date":"3 February 2011","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" What more can be said than Angelina Jolie at age 26 in an action film in which takes you around the world to exotic locations and has a good ending? It's gadget rich like James Bond and has the fast pace of Indiana Jones rolled up into one good looking package.Croft's martial arts abilities used on the thugs is a delight. Jolie is very much at home as a strong, no nonsense female actor instead of being the helpless waif that cries. Lara Croft Tomb Raider is a pure, fast paced, get-a-way movie and really meant for the guys or action film lovers when it comes right down to it. Have fun. "},{"Title":"Jolie  Burned Up the Screen","Date":"25 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Enjoyed this film from beginning to end and the great role by Angelina Jolie,(Lara Croft),Taking Lives,'04. Lara seeks her father and encounters many difficult tasks including all kinds of men who try to steal her secrets and gain a powerful advantage. The story is about a Video game Icon who tries to find an ancient artifact and Jon Voight,(Lord Richard Croft),The Karate Dog,'04 is a wizard and trained his daughter Lara to handle herself in almost every situation. There is plenty of action with men made of stone and lots of weapons being fired and swords thrown in every direction. Angelina Jolie looked very beautiful and quite sexy in all her fantastic outfits. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Lara Kicks Butt","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Folks, I'm here to tell you that this is, perhaps, the best movie ever inspired by a video game.  Granted, that's a short list with cruddy company, but *Lara Croft Tomb Raider* stands out among today's action movies in general.  Lara is a unique heroine with just enough of a comic-book flair to make her interesting without going too far over the top.  The James Bond/Indiana Jones combo works very well in the spirit of the game series, and that vibe translates very well onto the screen with Ms.Jolie in the part.  This movie remains true in essence to the source material while still delivering an engaging story.  Angelina is wonderful in her portrayal of the ferocious and sensual Lara Croft.  She breathes life into Lara's polygonal origins, and nice for Angelina that she gets to work with her dad.  This movie's really a lot of fun, don't let the naysayers tell you different.You could do worse than to spend some tomb raiding time  with Lara Croft.  "},{"Title":"Make it stop!","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Lord God and all dieties of the universe, how could you let such a film exist?  Is man truly without guidance and nothing more than a selfish and foolish creature?  Surely no wise being responsible for this thing called humanity could let us sink so low as to create an abyss of wretchedness like Tomb Raider.  In this accursed summer of abuses, this dark age of cinema where the masses flock to see the next corporate manifested piece of garbage, Tomb Raider continues to prove audiences will take a big bite from a rotten, festering sandwich, and not only not complain, but say 'thank you' and ask for more.So-called future star Angelina Jolie takes front stage in her first big-budget starring vehicle and promptly falls asleep on camera.  Her faux British accent barely rises above a whisper.  She's left shooting her pistols repeatedly, while yearning for her long lost Daddums and nothing more.  Jon Voight appears as the Dad, apparently slumming, even for him.The plot, use that term loosely, involves a magic triangle that controls time.  Yes, it is as stupid as it sounds.  This hookum acts as little more than a famework to hang actions scenes on.  The film starts by introducing us to a large set, then promptly destroys it in a hail of gunfire and chaos. Repeat 4 times, fade out.  The special effects in these sequences are largely obvious and bland, the set design familiar of other, better films, and the action itself boring and pointless.  Making matters worse are the dullest villans imaginable.  I kid you not, the main villan spends most of his screen time recieveing a massage.  The rest of the cast is indistinguishable and forgettable.Paramount is already threatening a sequel to this plague.  If the theory holds true that sequels are unavoidably worse than the original, the sequel to Tomb Raider may cause internal bleeding, emotional distress and could concieveibly cause irreversable brain damage.  Be warned. "},{"Title":"Macho Bitch Sex","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.About 7 years ago, I was involved in a project that led to a briefing by perhaps the world's top theorist in marketing through sex. I was amazed at the articulation of this science. I wonder if this film was crafted with as much sensitivity to that science as was the similar investment in `Charlie's Angels.' I think perhaps not to judge from the result.This is a sexless, funless death march every bit as bad as `The Avengers' and for very much the same reason. As it turns out selling with humor allows for a lot of slop; selling by sex requires consummate artistry and has to be just perfect. That's because sex (the popular culture, public, movie kind) is a manufactured fantasy and the ability to pilot a fantasy in someone else's head for the specific goal of transferring wealth allows only a slim margin or error.I haven't studied films about video games. Perhaps I should -- the notion is fascinating. I remember `Tron,' which so amazed us that a successful video game was created. The weaving of game and film here is rather crude Lady Croft plays a game that has physical nemesis and environment, before going off on her real adventure. In fact, the distance between game and reality is exaggerated. Oh well, maybe Scott or the Coen brothers will take the game/film challenge.Tron now seems ludicrous, because the effects are tired. We'll tire of these too, but the selling point here is the (we are incessantly told) sexcrazed Jolie. I prepared for this film by watching `Cleopatra,' which I think is that pattern for these types of films sex, the exotica of the past, effects.Jolie is no Liz Taylor, and you can take that to the bank. But Liz was no Liz either. Watch it now and see how little margin for error there is for the manipulation of sex fantasy in your mind. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous? Yes. Nonsensical? Yes. Bad? Far from it!","Date":"26 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I simply can't take any review seriously that takes the two existing Lara Croft films seriously. Tomb Raider and The Cradle of Life are my favourite guilty pleasure films of all time. They don't deserve to be called so bad it's good, because they are NOT bad. Ridiculous? Yes. Nonsensical? Yes. Bad? Far from it! They are entertaining blockbusters that exist to put all other video-game to movie adaptations to-shame (I mean, there's not much in terms of competition, but still&#x85; TO-SHAME).I am totally biased though, Lara Croft was the first female character I was exposed to that I could finally relate to. I was nine when I first saw Tomb Raider and The Cradle of Life in one sitting after having a furious marathon of the games on my PC, PS1 and PS2 (the only reason I begged my parents for a PC in the first place was so I could play Tomb Raider, all the cool girls in school were playing Tomb Raider. They should see me now, I too, am a cool girl). But back to Lara Croft in film; seeing her come to life (wake me up) was utterly magical. I couldn't imagine a more perfect actress to play the Croft than early 00's Angelina Jolie.I feel like people want to trash this movie so bad because they can't quite understand why they enjoy this movie so much given all of its plot holes and over the top stunts. I say; don't be afraid, be free, learn to love, give in to your temptations and admit that the Lara Croft films are spectacularly ridiculous.Did I enjoy the movie? Yes. Is it up there with the Indiana Jones pictures? Was I filled with suspense? No. Since I had no idea what was going to happen, should happen, shouldn't happen or what it meant if it did happen, I could hardly be expected to care. But did I grin with delight at the absurdity it all? You betcha. &#x96; Roger Ebert "},{"Title":"They picked the right actress, she just needed a better script","Date":"23 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I really liked Lara Croft Tomb Raider when it first came out; it seemed to defy the stigma surrounding video game movies. Fourteen years later? Ehh, not so much. The action scenes stink of Matrix rip-off and consist mostly of Angelina Jolie shooting at stuff, reloading, and shooting some more. Not a whole lot of adventuring here. Then again, it's been so long since I've played a Tomb Raider game, maybe that's what it always was. What do I know? What I do know is that this movie is surprisingly lifeless. More noisy than exciting, and there's a strange emptiness to all of it. Jolie looked the part, but there was nothing to work with. Hers is just one in an cast of dull characters.5/10 "},{"Title":"Angelina Jolie is Great,But Dosen't Make Up for Too Much Action and Not Enough Story,","Date":"24 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Lara Croft Tomb Raider is an alright movie with a storyline that could have been so much better,but a cast that does its best nonetheless.A lot of it is hard to understand if like me you haven't played the game,because the movie just gets straight to the point,you don't get to learn about Lara's origins and don't learn much more over the course of the film.Angelina Jolie definitely suited the character as she is a very talented and attractive actress.My biggest problem with the movie is that's there is way too much action scenes that go on for too long and there isn't enough effort being made at telling a story.Lara Croft Tomb Raider is a fun action movie,but it isn't much more than that,I wouldn't highly recommend it,but if you want something quick and easy to watch,it's not bad.Lara Croft (Angelina Jolie) must battle a secret society in order to get her hands on a priceless artifact that controls time. "},{"Title":"I guess it's decent; one of the better video game adaptations","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Lara Croft Tomb Raider stars Angelina Jolie as the ultra-sexy heroine of the title, itself an adaptation of the highly popular video game character. Though I never played the Tomb Raider games hardcore like several others, the film goes through a murky, confusing plot that may require a heavier dosage of suspension-of-disbelief pills and rides the Indiana Jones route for action scenes, but is still entertaining from start to finish.I won't argue that Lara Croft is probably the sexiest video game vixen of all time and that Jolie honestly loves her role as the character with joyful glee, giving guys what they want obviously and doing a lot of her own a**-kicking stunts. I can just imagine the fanboys drooling in the theaters over the many shots of her running in slow motion as the camera settles in on her bouncing chest and other parts of her curvaceous figure.As the buxom babe Lara Croft, Jolie works, despite being an odd choice and working with one of the best (faked) British accents I've heard from a mainstream Hollywood actress. And the film, directed by Simon Con Air West, gives her many a chance to show off her stuff. Lara breathes hard, she sweats hard, and she plays hard - all in a day's work.Here, the plot gets underway as a rare planetary alignment is beginning to take shape. It's a rare terrestrial phenomenon only occurring every 5,000 years, we're told, and time is rapidly winding down. Croft (Jolie), living on a lavish British estate and working from the clues her late father Lord Richard (Jolie's real-life pop played by Jon Voight) left her, uncovers an ancient artifact that could give its possessor the ability to control time. Richard was hard at work at locating the Triangle of Light, the artifact, which was split into two equal pieces and separated to keep any tomb raiders from finding and manipulating human history.Lara jumps into the action, along with egghead techie Bryce (Noah Taylor), to retrieve the two separate halves, on a globe-trotting odyssey (a la Indiana Jones) which takes her from the hot jungles of Cambodia to the freezing Siberian wastelands. But she is not alone, as the criminal order the Illuminati, its most sinister henchman Manfred Powell (Iain Glen), and Lara's American rival Alex West (soon-to-be James Bond Daniel Craig) also seeks the path to the Triangle.The plot has been the biggest problem for a lot of people but that can be dismissed; Lara Croft Tomb Raider is based on a video game - how could it get any deeper? I'll go out on a limb and say this film is definitely one of the few video game adaptations I think people can sit through without cringing too much. But I'll give the film its just dues since according to the Washington Post, Lara Croft Tomb Raider is the highest grossing adaptation to date.Jolie is charming, especially in her action scenes, and I won't deny that early scene of her in the shower isn't pleasing to the eyes. I can recall two guys from high school I talked to who just adored Jolie as Lara Croft. Her scenes have her squinting menacingly, flashing those soft, oh-so-lovely lips and shooting up bad guys, with her vibrant sexuality virtually igniting the camera into flames. During these moments, we're treated to many charms of the supernatural, including a giant six-armed Brahma statue (a Hindu god), a legion of undead mummies, and the opening sequence of Lara being assaulted by a giant robot.It all works to a point, I guess. There are some plot contrivances, including a rather touching scene of a reunion between father and daughter, and a having to turn back time scenario in order to save a life. But like I stated earlier, it can be dismissed as Hollywood special effects and bull-jive, and it's definitely one of the better video game adaptations.If you could sit through both Resident Evil flicks, Doom (2005) and the first Mortal Kombat (1995), then you should be right at home with Lara Croft Tomb Raider. Again, Hollywood proves that women can kick some serious a** when required, and too bad hardcore fans were not treated to more bare flesh belonging to one Ms. Jolie.6/10 "},{"Title":"Jolie is the saving grace for Tomb Raider.","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie has some excitement but not quite enough to call it a full-on action movie. Nobody else could have played the heroine, Lady Laura Croft, like Ms. Angelina Jolie did. Jolie takes the flat game character and makes it her own. The story is an interesting one but just not the way it was filmed. It was missing a certain something, maybe a little bit deeper into the cult or Lara's past would have punched it up a bit. Overall, this is the kind of movie that you can just sit back and enjoy and not have to figure out a complex ( Matrix 2 ) storyline that has you trying to find out what who is doing for what reason while you are missing the whole movie. Angelina Jolie is the saving grace for this movie and is the kind you can watch while drawing or painting. In the end, I would give this a 6 out of 10 stars. Good movie. "}{"Title":"**It was GREAT**","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  first of all i would like to say that anyone who didn't like it will not be a proper fan of tomb raider, when i first saw it advertised i was disappointed that it wasn't made in the same way (like an animation, like the cut scenes in the game) but it was very good!Angelina Jolie is a very good lara croft and did a pretty good English accent. She tried her best to do all her own stunts and i think it was a reflection in her acting. **SPOILERS**I loved the sun and the planet room, i thought it was a great set, and i thought her house was FANTASTIC!all in all it was a great film with action and jokes all the way.  "},{"Title":"Not a total waste.","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The movie based on a video game genre was really put out to pasture before it was even born.  Tomb Raider featuring Angelina Jolie as Lara Croft  was not a total loss but at the same time is not worth owning.  The film centers around an event that will take place with the alignment of all the planets and with a secret organization known as the Illuminati.  Angelina Jolie, who was cast as Lara Croft obviously because she looks exactly like the video game character, enjoys her role as Lara Croft and plays her exact;y as she was in the video games.  The only problem is that most of the games were written well while the movie was not.  There is plenty of action that looks pretty cool with CGI effects but the movie lacks in any substance beside that.  No relationship in the film is explored longer than 15 seconds with the exception of Lara and her father who is played by Jon Voight appropriately enough.   The supporting characters namely, Bryce, Alex, and William Powell may as well be wearing clothes with steretype descriptions on their shirt.  But like I said there is plenty of action.  "},{"Title":"Eh...","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I liked it, but it was really lacking when you think about it. Other than her remarkable similarity in appearance to a computer generated woman, Jolie offers little. It was cool to see her and her dad acting together. The plot was inane and it was mostly driven by action and not acting. She even gets in a shower (partially nude) which is a sign that the movie ain't gettin any better than that. When you gotta drop in naked people or hints of naked people, your movie probably sucks. I hate to get caught up in action, so I won't. Everything needs to come together with movies like this. She looked like she was having fun and that's good. Nice accent. Almost believed it was hers. Still, it's watchable. "},{"Title":"Unsatisfying","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Having never played any of the videogames but being familiar with the character through its cultural immersion, I was somewhat on target with what to expect. The results were quite unsatisfying. There were some good action scenes and special effects, especially the raid on Lara's place and the vivified statues at the Cambodian temple, but most of the time I felt the product on screen was quite pedestrian. As archaeology movies go Lara Croft in nowhere near in the same league as Indiana Jones though if Speilberg directed this maybe he could raise it above the simple cash cow that it is. But then Indy is infinitely more interesting than Lara. That's just my individual opinion. Still the movie is a good diversion and Lara though a bland character is given more life than she deserves by the quite competent Jolie. One last note Jon Voigt, Jolie's real father, playing that role in the film was a nice casting touch. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Messy!","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I have to admit it now i saw this movie twice. When it came out i was at an age where if i didn't like a film that everyone else liked i was considered weired. The first time i saw this i thought it was awful but all my friends were telling me that they loved it so being the sheep that i was (and just wanting to fit in) i went to see it again.I wanted to like it, i really did. But like Mission Impossible 2 and Alien Resurrection i found it difficult to watch. My philosophy is that all computer adaptations are terrible and to this day i have been right. i shouldv'e listened to my own advise when going to see this movie, in fact i shouldn't have even bought the ticket but i saw it anyway.I think the main reason that alot of my friends liked this film was because it starred Angelina Jolie and it had a scene with her in the shower. Although titilation can be appealing it DOES NOT make a movie.To its credit Simon West (director) does know how keep the addrenaline junkies happy. This film does have some impressive action sequences that keep you on your toes. But like many other plain old action movies this doesn't detract from the fact that this is just a popcorn blockbuster that is there to bring in the cash.And like The Mummy Returns it feels rushed. This is a film that had to meet a short deadline and that is why it looks so messy. By the time the credits role you will think that there was alot more that could have been done to make the movie better if they had the time to do it.In the end i don't want to slag this movie off too much as there are certain bits that i liked. But other than the two time i went to see it i would not subject myself to sitting through it again. For what i enjoyed its faults tip the ballance and what is left is a piss poor adaptaion of and entertaining video game.2/5 "},{"Title":"One of the most dullest action movies in years, and that's even with Angelina Jolie!","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Lara Croft Tomb Raider (2001) Angelina Jolie, John Voight, Noah Taylor, Iain Glen, Daniel Craig, Richard Johnson, Leslie Phillips, D Simon West.Jolie plays the title heroine, a tough British aristocratic adventurer-basically a female Indiana Jones-living in a vast country manor, and by following the instructions of her late father (Voight, Jolie's dad in real life) she must attain the second half piece to unite it with an Egyptian artifact during a planetary alignment that will give its possessor the power to control time. Garish action sequences and elaborate set pieces are a pretext for this dull, pedantic action-adventure; it seems they filmed everything they had then wrote the `script', which makes no sense at all. A waste of time-consuming drills for `bungee ballet' off of Croft's balcony! Based on a video game. Followed by a sequel. Running Time 96 minutes and rated PG-13 for action violence and some sensuality. RATING * ½ (out of ****)  "},{"Title":"Needs A Better Tomb To Raid","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Having played the computer game.  I was looking forward to see if someone had finally done a decent job of making a movie of a video game.  The answer in short is NO.  Tomb Raider is not an awful film, it's just not a very exciting one.  The movie begins with Lara practising against some massive robot, dull, we would have rather seen her completing a mission or something.   The story is just not up to scratch, the cut scenes in the computer game have better direction and storyline.  Simon West may have made Con Air, a movie that I like, but he does nothing with this, slow mo on action scenes is daft.  All the cast apart from Angelina and Chris Barrie are no good.  In the end your just willing the film to end.  The thing is Angelina is truly superb as Lara, but the film needs a decent story and a director who can at least make us think Lara is vulnerable.  Then justice will be done. "},{"Title":"Hoping the sequel would be much better","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The movie was fun and adventurous and that's pretty much where it ends. What can I say, my favourite character in this movie was the butler.  I've seen Jolie in better performances ie Girl interrupted, but this movie felt like she was just any other actress playing part instead of being the part, I hope she's not letting all that treasure get into her head. I hope the sequel will be much more interesting.   "},{"Title":"This movie is such a.......","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is such a bitter sweet experience for me.The action is not bad but i think the plot is a bit disapointing.Maybe it is because i am waiting for this movie to come out for so long but i feel that something is missing from this movie that grabs my attention "},{"Title":"You know a movie is desperate when they put in TWO shower scenes...","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" ...Lara Croft Tomb Raider is like a cross between Charlie's Angels and Indiana Jones.  Sounds interesting, doesn't it?  Well, guess what, it isn't.  I'd imagine that the writer of this movie created some machine that could merge scripts, and tested it on the two said movies.  Honestly, they have all of the innuendoes and hot body shots from Charlie's Angels yet all the plot from Indiana Jones.Just like in the Indiana Jones movies, Lara Croft (Angelina Jolie) archaeologist who sets out to find an ancient magical artifact and keep it from an evil group of people.  Except, in Tomb Raider, the protagonist is a (rather attractive) woman instead of a man, the artifact is a triangle that can control time instead of the ark of the covenant and the Evil Company of Bad Guys are some centuries old British people instead of Nazis.Now, think of all that, and then add TWO shower scenes.  I mean, bad enough to dress Jolie in a skin tight top and have her bounce around, but then put her in a shower scene?  I'm sure twelve year old boys got a kick (and a lot more) out of this.  Oh yeah, and don't forget the pre-teen girls in the theater too, because there's also the 'hot guy' shower scene near the middle.Of course, like every movie (well...most movies), Tomb Raider has an upside the action.  There are a few cool, well directed action scenes that take place that are really fun to watch.  Lara Croft battles it out with a few strange monkey statues (big points because they're monkeys) and fights a ten-foot-tall Buddha.  Unfortunately, the action may be too spread out with all the melodrama and under-acting (all of the actors look bored) put in.Lara Croft Tomb Raider is fun, to say the most, but nothing else, 5/10. "}{"Title":"Not as bad as I feared...","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I have to say that I was pleasantly surprised by this film. Sure it's stupid and designed to please the fan-base etc. but I really thought I was going to hate it, mainly because I absolutely loathe Angelina Jolie. She's a very, very weird person, it seems to me. Despite the slight setback of having the lead played by someone I can't really stand, I found myself growing to like the character. Jolie is, I have to say, probably the perfect choice for the part. Of course, when I realised her dad was playing the part of her dad I winced and scowled. I can't stand him either - maybe it's a family thing?. Even so, the movie grew on me and I found myself liking the film.I should point out that Chris Barrie (Rimmer from Red Dwarf) played a large part in my turn around. It's a shame he had a relatively small part in this, but nice to see him doing something other than Red Dwarf.The plot is no sillier than that of any other similar Indie Jones movie and the cast get on with it quite well.Surprisingly better than I thought. "},{"Title":"enjoyable crap","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Seeing this movie makes me ask the question Does a movie these days have to be lined with so much eyecandy in order to sell the story? I think not. Although I must admit it is one of the better video game to movie adaptations, it was difficult for me to get past the cultural ignorance.It is typical for an american movie to glamorize foreign culture so that we may feel it is exotic, but having an american actor play an english woman fighting angry Buddah's is just plain stupid. Although I begin to doubt my own feelings about this movie when I look back at classics like Indian Jones which we all have grown to love. This is merely a step-up adding updated special effects and crammed full of action.The story however is not bad. It has glamorous imagery and characters that allow us to leave our bodies for a few hours and wish we were someone else. Not to mention it contains strong family values and is not without a story moral.When you watch this film, leave your mind elsewhere and enjoy the action, but don't expect to get much else out of it. Let's hope the sequel has more to offer... but I strongly doubt it. "},{"Title":"I came, I saw, I was bored","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It is a good adaptation of the game series A beautiful heroine, weapons and tasks following tasks following tasks following a forseeable plot with nobrainer dialogues.Uh... She got 7.000.000 USD for a series of stupid grins and some workout ?Maybe I have to watch the movie again to find the beef.2 of 10 for the story, 3 of 10 for the acting, 8 of 10 for the SFX, 7 of 10 for the stuntsYou may add a heroine bonus.  "},{"Title":"Shower Scene","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Ignoring the fact that this is utterly nonsense, which the Filmmakers obviously did too. I found the shower scenes pretty entertaining. That's the scenes where you think they are going to reveal Ms. Angelina a second time, but they don't. They reveal someone else. There were some self-irony in those scenes that i liked. That was kind of fun. Actually. "},{"Title":"Easily Forgettable","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This was a film that had the Indiana Jones vibe going. Its just with a female lead who had to wear a D-cup to get the animated character boob-affect. Now that I look back at the film I can't even remember what it was about. I just know that Angelina Jolie and her father starred in it. That was cool with the father-daughter plot deal but I felt they didn't allow Jolie to shine cause she is tough. She is obviously the reason to watch it but her talent was wasted. I hope they use her more efficiently in the sequel. Cause overall this film is easily forgettable. "},{"Title":"too unrealistic, too boring, but great Angelina )","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, the movie is too unrealistic I think, there are scenes where you think oh god, how ludicrous. The storyline is quite good, though the movie is a little bit boring ... without Angelina i would give the movie only 5 points, but WITH her it gain 8 D  "},{"Title":"Only worth it for Jolie.","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Okay, this pretty much qualifies as one of those no-brainer, excessive budget, summer action flicks I detest so, but frankly, I enjoyed it anyway. Sort of. Tomb Raider was exactly what I expected it to be, so I can't say I was disappointed. The plot was clunky and riddled with horribly cheesy dialogue, the soundtrack was annoying, the CGI creatures looked really fake, and most of the cast, especially Jon Voight, didn't look like they were even enjoying filming. But that's all excusable when you realize what the best part of this movie is Angelina Jolie as Lara Croft. It forgives everything. Well, not everything, but a lot. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Resident Evil Is Better","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The only thing holding this thing together is Angelina Jolie.  Go see Resident Evil, its so much better then this load of BS.  I don't see how this movie made so much money, it was poorly written.  You can tell they just took the Tomb Raider name and threw it on a movie.  I suppose they failed to realize that Lara's parents hated her and had disowned her.  Oh well, its Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Well at least they got the title character right.","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This was a disappointing movie that failed to interest me as much as the Indiana Jones and Mummy movies did.  The adventure just seems dull, which is especially disappointing considering that it is in the Indiana Jones vein. On the bright side though, Angelina Jolie does a good job in the lead role and I can't really see anyone else in the role.  There's rarely anything more frustrating than a good cast in a crappy movie. "},{"Title":"Could have and should have been better","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  For a start I wouldn't have casted Angelina Jolie as Lara Croft. Okay she's dark haired and nice looking but I would have casted Saffron Burrows. She's dark haired, nicer looking and is british.Anyway it was an action packed film. Lara Croft is trying to stop someone to get a triangle and abuse the power of it.It could and have and should have been better. "}{"Title":"At least they had a hot chick!","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Half good movie with some good assetts but also some holes in it. Pros Action, Special effects, Lara Croft. Cons Weak plot, except for Lara Croft weak acting, too short!So overall an average film but isn't worth renting.Rating 5 stars out of 10  "},{"Title":"Great casting but that's about it","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Tomb Raider could have been an awful movie. Poor plot, poor effects, poor supporting cast....the producers' claims that this would be the new Indiana Jones is, quite frankly, laughable. But if one thing saves it from the depths of forget-ye-we-shall is a certain master stroke in the casting of the film's leading lady. For Angelina Jolie is not just playing Lara Croft. She IS Lara Croft. Jolie is one of the few actresses of today who can merge talent with incredible sexiness, and both are highly evident in this film. No-one else could have handled this part of an ass-kicking aristocrat so well. Unfortunately, since the film, Jolie has had a run of poor films, which is a great shame as Tomb Raider should have made her a movie star. Now there are rumours that Kelly Brook will take over the role of the cyberlady in the sequel. Please, don't. "},{"Title":"Curiously flat","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Perhaps I had a basic disadvantage when I watched this film as I had never played the game and never read the comic book, although I do have a very beautiful Joe Jusko poster!  Of course, this should have nothing to do with it.  A film based on other material should stand on its own as a film, but unfortunately I thought that this one was curiously flat and lacking excitement.I felt that there was never any sense that Lara was in any real danger.  If you look at any action adventure film you know full well that John McClane, Indiana Jones, James Bond, et al. are going to survive, and with a ready quip, go sailing into the sunset with the girl at the end of the movie, but at least there is the impression that maybe, just maybe, on the way they will be shot, beaten up, bruised, damaged and maybe even killed.  Not this film.  Lara came across as indestructible, arrogant and absolutely in control all of the time.Disappointing, and a waste of fine performers like Angelina Jolie, Daniel Craig and Iain Glen.  Nice effects though, and nice scenery, but these do not a movie make.  I hope that if they do a second film that it will be better.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Actress, pity about the film itself","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought that Tomb Raider(2001) was a really rubbish film.It looked really good from all the advertising and i really wanted to see it. But when i did i was very dissapointed. There was too much hyp for nothing. I thought it was ridden with effects with non particular story line. It was silly how Lara was darting about the room shooting the hell out of this robot and then put in Lara's party mix. Once i saw that i knew i was on a downward hill. Although the actress was well chosen as lara and the stunts were good, but overall, i was very dissapointed.  "},{"Title":"A picturesque train wreck of a movie","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Beautiful, lavishly constructed sets.  An energetic and charming lead actress.  Creative special effects.  But somehow the whole production goes down in flames, writhing and screaming.Simon West appears to be the sort of director who will hire a crack team of programmers to model and develop a whiz-bang expensive CGI monster, painstakingly detailed down to the color of its toenails, and then grant the monster 1.5 seconds of screen time, during which it is moving too damn fast for the viewer to actually see it.  The movie is visually impressive, but the pacing is so terrible that we don't have a chance to enjoy it.  It's a character-driven action movie, but we don't get to know the characters, and the action is rammed down our throats so hard that we don't get to savor it.I propose a new Hollywood Production Code.  All directors of future Raiders of the Lost Ark rip-offs shall be forced to study the aforementioned movie and take notes on the lost art of building suspense.Angelina Jolie deserves praise for throwing herself gamely into this physically demanding role and carrying herself like a Grade-A movie star.  The rest of the actors are barely noticeable... only one or two characters seem to have identifiable purposes in life other than to battle animated monsters.  The two most memorable characters other than Lara Croft herself are Ms. Jolie's horrifyingly massive CGI breasts, which deliver a nuanced performance by subtly waxing and waning in size during the course of the action, and by moving in a gravity-and-logic-defying manner relative to the rest of the actress.Overall, Tomb Raider scores only two boobs out of a possible five. Although the DVD is worth renting just to see the elaborately cool introduction, I'd recommend waiting until it's on the discount rack.        "},{"Title":"It wasn't that bad!","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"   While this wasn't the best film of all time, it wasn't RAZZIE material.  Angelina Jolie was perfect for the role.  I can't see how she could have been nominated for worst actress.      Lora Croft is an archeologist/adventurer that must race against time to recover an anicient artifact that can control time.  She is opposing the Iluminati, a secret society, who, of corse, wants to rule the world. While there are alot of scenes that look like their straight from any of the Indiana Jones films.  LARA CROFT TOMB RAIDER can't measure up to RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK, it is entertaining to someone who really doesn't mind a terribly simple plot, and some bad acting.  The action scenes are amazing, and the visual effects are dazzling.  The fight scene at the end wasn't great, but hey, what are you gonna' do.  What I'm trying to get through is many people over-looked the good aspects of the film and looked at the bad far to much!I give LARA CROFT TOMB RAIDER 6.5/10  "},{"Title":"Just plain bad...","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This could have been a fairly enjoyable movie, but no, the studio has to bring Simon West on board. Simon is great salesman, but as a motion picture director he is hopeless, and shouldn't have been left in charge of a multi-million dollar production. And as a consequence of the Studio's foolishness, Tomb Raider is a laughable movie, with all cliche dialogue, senseless music and boring action scenes you expect from a bad action movie. The only credit to this movie is Mrs Jolie who does her best in trying to bring some life to her character, but she is let down by a horrible screenplay and a bad director. Perhaps if Lara Croft had been more vulnerable, both emotionally and physically, we might have actually cared about her character.No doubt this kind of movie would have brought in the crowds to begin with, but bad word of mouth and unfavourable critical reviews will prevent Tomb Raider from ever becoming a box office smash hit.  "},{"Title":"Forget it","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It's March and my home city of Lisbon has been swept by a heat wave. It's Summer, and Spring has started a few days ago. What to do besides drinking a beer at the local cafe? Let's rent a movie. A no brainer. We were not expecting a very good movie, but there is a limit to our tolerance. And Tomb Raider is overwhelming with lack of cinematic taste or originality. I have seen too many bad movies, but this one still manages to hit some points in the novelty area among them. Angelina Jolie is annoying, just those lips are enough. She moves very sexily, but, frankly, the plot is confusing, it has false endings and most of all it tires the viewer. I gave up on this movie at the one hour mark, I was too tired, and the movie was annoying me big time. No charisma, no magic, no talent. Just money. Forget it. I did.  "},{"Title":"pathetic","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  anyone who likes this movie expects very little from movies. It's a really sad, stupid movie that's boring and nonsensical from beginning to end. All the actors are cheesy. And the movie simply isn't fun. As for Angelina, yeah she's hot, but why did she need to have a British accent, like everyone else in the movie? Really irritating. This movie sucks through and through. See it if you wanna fall asleep, like I often almost did (my dad did). Otherwise avoid it; watch THE MUMMY RETURNS. It's crap too, but much more fun crap.  "},{"Title":"Good, cheesy, poorly-scripted fun. And Jolie is hot.","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is the film of the video game, in which Lara Croft, a female Indiana Jones that tens of thousands of nerds have fantasized about, searches for artifacts in various ancient locations. Naturally this means the plot is pretty much nonsense, but that's ok the movie is really about the several cool action scenes and star Angela Jolie. Jolie is a perfect Lara she's tough, athletic, smart and really sexy. Also on the plus side the film has a good, icy villain. The actor who played the wonderfully obnoxious Rimmer from the British sci-fi comedy 'Red Dwarf' also has a small part, but he's wasted - I kept expecting him to do something funny but it was just a straight role. Another negative is that the ending is a disappointment not only does it not make much sense, but it's seems flat and obvious - the obligatory dangerous obstacle, the obligatory mystical stuff, the obligatory reconcilation scene, the obligatory final fight. As my friend Murray said, it left you unmoved. However I do recommend the film as good fun. Whether you want to pay full price for it is another matter.6/10 "}{"Title":"Like Indiana Jones but without the fun","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Contains spoilersTomb Raider is not exactly a very intelligent film. For starters, the plot makes very little sense. OK, it's not quite as mind-boggingly stupid as BattleField Earth, but you're constantly wondering why on earth somebody would do what the characters in this movie do. Would anyone risk the existence of the world just in order to see your father again ? Lara does. And why on earth doesn't the bad guy just shoot Lara after she gives him the triangle piece ? And why do the bad guys suddenly abandon their leader ?As for the dialogue, it's all extremely dull and silly. I can't remember having laughed once at the so-called jokes. It's all so incredibly boring.Both of the complaints above would be excusable if only the action would have been good. And Tomb Raider also fails in this department. Sure, the battles (with robots, statues, soldiers) look good, but the bad guys go down ridiculously easy (the aforementioned statues just crumble when hit by bullets, did you ever see a statue get destroyed by a couple of machine gun rounds ?) and Miss Croft is almost completely invincible.Tomb Raider is a complete piece of crap, but it's boring, doesn't make sense and has mediocre action.Well, I suppose I could give it *1/2 out of **** stars  "},{"Title":"Oh Dear...","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is the worst film I've seen for a while. You won't empathize with the characters, hate the enemies, gasp at the cgi or wonder at the plot.However you most certainly WILL...sneer at Lara Croft's apparent immortality and stare in disbelief as yet more cgi statues come to life only to be shattered into little pieces. You'll tell your friends that there's no need to pause the film when you visit the toilet and you'll wonder why you didn't watch an Indiana Jones movie, or at least 'The Mummy.'I enjoy mindless action films as long as they're done with a sense of style - this is just flat. It's worth a watch if you especially like the action/adventure genre, but even then expect to be disappointed.3/10 "},{"Title":"Pointless","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I did'nt expect much from this movie, and that was right on.None of the elements of the movie is that bad, the whole thing is just plain pointless. It is just one silicone bouncing action scene after another with no real story in between.If I should point out some dumb scenes I noticed it must be some of the car scenes.In one scene a sports car accelerates away from the camera. You hear the usual roar from the engine as it is shifting gears and picking up speed, the great part in this scene is that the car brakes some distance away but the engine sounds like it is still accelerating and shifting gears.Another car scene is in the jungle. Lara is driving pretty fast through the jungle, still, in some close up shots of Lara the car goes smooth and level like she was driving on a nice road.It is small stupid things like this that are so easy to make right that make me dislike certain movies.I will add this movie to my list of very stupid big budget movies. The list (1 is worst)1.Dantes Peak 2.Godzilla 3.Mission To Mars 4.Lost In Space 5.Mission Impossible 2 6.Tomb Raider  "},{"Title":"BAD, BAD, BAD!!! Avoid at all costs!!!","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw the movie twice and can pretty much tell you it sucked. I guess I expected much more from the established producers, director, and actors who obviously DIDN'T read the script and played on the audiences' intelligence to dish out big bucks to go see this crap. Come on, Mr. Voight, Mr. West, and Ms. Jolie (or is that Mrs. Thorton now?), you all can do better than this. Angie, you won a freakin Oscar for God's sake!!!People, you can drive a spaceship through the plot holes, especially the one concerning the small girl (in the jungle and in Siberia) that pops in and out of the movie. WHO IS SHE??? What's with the freaky liquid that brought those statues to life??? Why didn't the onlookers seem surprised??? Why's the sky blue??? Anyway, I think you get the idea.I thought they would try to bring the world of the video game to our reality, but instead it stays basically in that unreal world of mindless action, weak plots, and bad acting all around. Take it for what it is -- a video game on the big screen. 'Nuff said.Dear filmmakers, pretty please with sugar on top, DON'T MAKE A SEQUEL!! "},{"Title":"So awful, only teenage boys will like it","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Only 2 good things about this movie Lara's ample charms, and some lovely huskies. Therefore 2/10. Also nice to see Chris Barrie (Rimmer) get a part in something. "},{"Title":"LAME. Fluff at best.","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Not even for the eye candy would I recommend this piece of Hollywood fluff. In the traditional Hollywood vain of cashing in on popular culture, Tomb Raider sets out to dazzle the eye with special effects and Angelina Jolie (perhaps the biggest special effect in the movie with that fake chest). Between fits of laughter at the horrible acting and 'swiss-cheese' of a plot I found myself clutching my head in pure astonishment that this was the result of millions of dollars and professional film makers.  None of the characters (especially the arrogant snob Lara Croft) successfully break the archetype of their character sketches.  Just goes to prove that big money, sexy stars and a the crutch of a video-game franchise, do NOT equate to a good film.  "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I could not believe how great this movie was!! I mean, I considered seeing it in theatres, but I never had a chance. I really wish that I did. I enjoy seeing movies with only one or two big stars in it, and the rest of the cast as virtual no-bodys(no offense). Angelina Jolie was terrific! She was the ONLY choice to play Lara Croft. The other performances that I liked were by Noah Taylor(Bryce) and Daniel Craig(Alex). I also liked Daniel Craig's performance in Elizabeth, eventhough it was small. This is a completely enjoyable movie for those who love Action films, Angelina Jolie, or both.... "},{"Title":"WHY?!?!","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Videogames MAKE AWFUL MOVIES! The characters are always paper thin, and storyline is stupid and dumb as with the game. There isn't much of a plot to this film, it's just running around, and there are lots of plots holes. If you want to make a movie baised on a videogame, THROW the videogame out the window. I saw part of this piece of trash for free. I now I hear rumors of a Zelda movie?! Thats going to complete kiddy trash. "},{"Title":"Action packed and fast paced","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I've never actually played any of the video games that inspired this film but I still thoroughly enjoyed watching it.  It has a very well written story with awesome action scenes and non-stop edge of your seat fun from beginning to end.  Filled with excellent performances from the cast as well.  A much enjoyed visual treat all around. "},{"Title":"And the Razzie goes to...","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" ...'Tomb Raider'! Well, for me, it is definitely the worst film I saw at the cinemas in 2001! It was just bad! Angelina Jolie was okay in her role, but the supporting cast were either bad or wasted! The editing was all over the place, so that you did not even get a good look at some aspects of the film (i.e. The Living Statues), and it also made the action sequences uneven. I totally cringed at the very start of the film with the robot! And the scene with the six-armed statue was completely confusing due the editing and continuity- Lara Croft kept changing positions and so did the statue. One minute the statue looked like it was on Lara's right, the next, it was on Lara's left! Also, the story-line was one of the worst I've seen! The films scores 1/2 a point for these things;1) Angelina Jolie's accent! At least she had an accent!!! Pity about the rest of Lara Croft being emotionless!2) The art-direction! 3) Lara Croft's costume was correct! At least they got that right!Overall *1/2 out of *****! "}{"Title":"Bad movie. Good girl.","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie would have been a complete waste of time if it hadn't been for Angelina Jolie's sex appeal. If you are looking for an excellent story with unmeasurable depth, this ain't it. If you're a fan of Angelina Jolie (the actress) - avoid this! You will think less of her after seeing this movie.For best results, MUTE. "},{"Title":"Almost perfect","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Think James Bond meets Indiana Jones with a female.Anjelina Jolie carries off this role perfectly, even though she needed some help with the build of Lara Croft ;-)Jokes aside, this put me and my friends on the edge of my seat in the cinema, so top marks for the scriptwriters and directors and actors and everyone.  No punches are pulled here, it doesn't try to be Shakespeare in love (is that how you spell his name?), and it doesn't try to be back to the future, it's just Lara Croft rich Tomb Raider with an affinity for guns...It's not perfect though.  I borrowed the first game and as I do before I play any game, I read the manual.  It was here that I found out that Lara's parents were aristocrats and actually disowned her.  It kinda puts a taint on an otherwise flawless film.  Definitly one to watch when you want some action - as long as you expect pure action, you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"The video game had a better plot...","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What is it with these big-budget special-effects Hollywood movies that makes everyone involved turn their brains off?  Wasn't there *one* person around to say Wait, this doesn't make any sense!Hint  There is *not* an alignment of all planets every 5000 years (and even if there were, that would not automatically produce a full solar eclipse.)I wasn't expecting much - an evening's entertainment.  But the effects and stunts were standard fare, and couldn't hide the hollowness of the movie.  There's more to making a good movie than false breasts and lots of jumping around... "},{"Title":"Rent it, don't buy it!","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  With all of the hype given to this movie, I expected a lot more.  Both, the acting and the scripting, were fair.  The only reason that I have it a rating of 3 was because Angelina Jolie looked so darn good in her outfits. "},{"Title":"There were 3 stars of this film--Lora and her breasts","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm sorry, I was totally distracted by Lora's digitally-enhanced breasts. It seemed that her chest was the focal point of every scene.  Yes, yes, I understand that she is supposed to be a likeness of the video game character, but come on now!  She goes to SIBERIA in a tank top.  I'm pretty sure its cold there.  Subzero.  All the time.   "},{"Title":"COOL!","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The DVD for this movie is much better then VHS, a certain feature has the director explain every scene(you choose which scene you want explained),and also show's Angelina Jolie's training and all the stunts were performed by her they did not us stunt doubles at all.The DVD is the best because it shows what Angelina had to go through to become Lara Croft,and yes,it does have a plot.Im sure when you watch the DVD special features you'll respect this movie more and not judge it by watching the movie alone. "},{"Title":"Awesome Movie!","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is Rocked! The Special effects in it were as good as they get, a lot better than the Mummy Returns and Planet of the Apes. The fighting scenes in this were well corregraphed and completely stunning. And of course, Angelina Jolie was the perfect actress for this part, She made this movie that much more closer to the game. I have a lot more respect for her now knowing she did the majoirity of the stunts herself. I will admit, this movie lacked Drama and Character building, and yes, some of the stunts were un-likely, and, of course the plot was deffinatly fiction, but, I think most people forgot the purpose of movies. They are to be just, plain entertaining. They don't always have to make you know the Character and care for them, it was suposed to entertain the watcher. And this, if it does anything, is certainly entertaining. Look at it with the fact that it's main and only objective is to entertain you, not to make it as real as humanly possible, and you'll enjoy this film much more. "},{"Title":"Play the games instead...","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Not much in way of story and plot which can be expected in a movie like this.  Unfortunately, it never makes up for this shortcoming in it's other areas making the entire movie-going experience a forgettable one.Tries too hard to be stylish and the results are the exact opposite of what they hoped for--it merely ends up a stream of gimmicks and a shallow rehash of everything you've seen before  All black outfits, mind-numbing techno music, gratuitous special effects, etc.Character development is sorely lacking.  The villains are dull and uninteresting and the needlessly stupid sidekicks (stuffy butler and nerdy techno wizard)are stereotypical and take up entirely too much screen time. The subplot with her father was unnecessary and seemed more like an afterthought.Actions scenes were a disappointment as well.  Scenes like the assault on Lara's manor had potential but were ruined with over-the-top, flashy stunts that took away from the action sequence instead of enhancing it.  Perhaps they could have benefited from some more Indiana Jones-style cliffhanger sequences, but I'm sure they would've found a way to bungle those as well.I suggest you simply avoid the movie and rent any of the Tomb Raider games instead. "},{"Title":"boring","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  very boring. plot doesn't amount to much. fight scenes are totally unrealistic, of course. acting is very bad.  "},{"Title":"IT'S ALL SIMON WEST'S FAULT","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Tomb raider makes it being an action/adventure movie, but, by the rest, the story is crapy, the script really sucks and the direction is even worse.This COULD have been one of those WTCSF (well taken crapy story films)as I like to call them... there are many examples of them out there (like Harry Potter and the sorcerer's stone). But NOOO...The performances were OK, Angelina Jolie was great in Lara's boots, also Daniel Craig and even Noah Taylor, but who the hell thought that John Voight could fit in one of that type of character!Also,I think that one of the most stupid mistakes made in Hollywood in the last 100 years has been choosing Simon West as the director for this movie, I mean, his work it's very lame, they could find someone much better than him...My conclusion is that if you want some fun, watch it, but press forward in every non-action scene. "}{"Title":"Lara Crap..It doesn't get any dumber than this...or can it?","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Being the Angelina Jolie fan that I am..I knew she was the perfect person for the role..sure I played the video game...and fell into the whole video game lore...what I don't understand was why make a movie about it? Has any video game franchise EVER had a successful movie? Anyone remember Double Dragon, Mortal Kombat or Super Mario Bros...I didn't think so..This movie was a lame attempt to create a female Indiana Jones...with a weak plot...a useless sidekick..and even more useless stunts..Less was focused on actual plot..and the obvious attention went to the soundtrack..and how much crap the director could explode. Then there were parts I just didn't get it..like the ballet bungee scene...yawn...after all the kick butt action in the movie..there is a rather awkward moment where the director felt the need to soften the Lara Croft character by showing a long drugged out scene of her in the bathtub. yawn...Let's pray they don't make a sequel.. "},{"Title":"a snail would have moved quicker","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  At the start of this film Lara is chased by a robot & this set the tone for some really poor special effects & action. She then stays in a big castle for another 25 minutes of the film with 2 dull english gentlemen who were really awful to watch in their scenes.She decides to leave for cambodia on her quest which was to save the world from some men intent on world domination (that hasn't been done before) and befriends them while there. It amazed me as to how they became friends as the bad guys should know not to trust an adversary.THe statues in the temple there looked like a poor rip off of Jason & the Argonauts but everything in this film was  a rip off. The film though was good at this point but once more shut down for 20 minutes with Lara spending her time talking to monks & her father which was pretty lame stuff.Lara & her friends? then set off for iceland to complete their quest to the dead zone - that sounded cool but it wasn't. The set in the cave they were in looked like one from a 1993 MacGyver film (Trail to doomsday) and macgyver's set was better than this one. The sheer stupidity of the final sequence in iceland where lara escapes everything just cemented this film as another crap blockbuster which should have been a TV movie. Let's hope that this goes the way of streetfighter & a sequel isn't made. It will save a few highly paid jobs in the process "},{"Title":"good fun","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a well made, enjoyable action movie and so much better than many would have you believe. Come on people, lighten up and have some fun... Great sets, locations and kudos to Angelina for giving her all. The DVD is great with a ton of extras and some fantastic menus. Well, that's it, just thought I should stick up for a movie that so many seem to slag off........ go girl!!! "},{"Title":"Lame video game adaption","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Tomb Raider would have been a great action film, if it had a R rating. Lara Croft is a violent character and here she's lost here egde. Simon West does have some good quality action sequnces though and Jolie plays the role well but to me it needed more violence and a nude scene. Skip this one. "},{"Title":"Disappointed but not completely surprised","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is an amazingly bloodless action/adventure film.  Not bloodless in the Leonard Maltin sense, though; bloodless as in lifeless.  As in DOA.  As in BORING!  Angelina Jolie has nothing to work with in this lazily scripted mish-mosh of well-choreographed but boringly executed action sequences and lame-brained supernatural hogwash.  What a waste. "},{"Title":"Couldn't even meet my low expectations","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was stuck in a small town one weekend, and decided to see a movie. The whole town had only one multi-plex, showing the latest crap from hollywood. Living in the San Francisco Bay Area, I guess I've been spoiled. Decided to see Tomb raider, since I figured there's at least two things in the film worth checking out.  I wasn't expecting much, but this awful waste of celluloid drove me to check out Swordfish in an adjoining room.  That film is bad too, but at least in an entertaining Steven Seagalish way.  "},{"Title":"Flashy, action-packed nonsense","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Given that Lara Croft Tomb Raider is based on a video game series, it should come as no surprise that the film is driven primarily by visually-pleasing spectacles, rather than a coherent, clever plot. And in this, the movie does justice to the games.The movie jumps from scene to scene, often paying little- or no attention to issues of time and location changes. The locations themselves are one of the most fantastic aspects of the movie; from London to Cambodia to Siberia, nearly every location depicted is strikingly beautiful and worked in seamlessly. The animations are also often impressive. The robot Lara interacts with is appropriately mechanical in its movements, but seems realistic. The stone monsters seen in the trailers are also well-done.Unfortunately, the locations and the graphics are essentially the only things done well. The plot itself is paper-thin; there is essentially no reason the bad guys should allow Lara to be involved in things, and the dialogue is unbelievable; most comments seem intended to explain things to the audience, rather than the other characters.However, the biggest problem is the unoriginality and unintelligence of the movie. There is a scene that is a blatant rip-off of The Fugitive and the entire movie in general feels like a bad Bond. I could go on and on about the flaws here The pointless butlers/nerds/sidekicks that she lives with, the fact that everyone across the globe seems to know her life story, the action star cliches... but the point is don't bother seeing this movie, unless for Angelina Jolie herself. "},{"Title":"Terrible...","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Oh woe to me how awful this movie was...Rented the DVD last night and watched this horrible piece of crap...I would like to delightfully bash the DVD into separate pieces in my garage; however, since I was (gleefully) not its owner, I was unable to do so.Let's see, where do I start...  The shoddy, poor-designed sets?  The way the story was boringly unfolded on screen?  Or how (spoiler) during one of the scenes Angelina jumped up and pushed a giant (possibly 2 ton) beam onto some monster?  Not very believable unless she was Superman.   And to top that off, her special effects, all two of them, were not that great.  Some of the monsters looked pretty good, I'll admit, but more than half looked like they were rendered on my 8088.The action scenes were filmed terribly.  The director must of been drunk when he shot these scenes (or possibly while editing) because each action scene moved too quick (the screen shots) and I didn't really feel that I was seeing the best possible view in all occasions. I'm not a big film buff or a filming expert, but the shots made during the action scenes sucked.On the plus side, the DVD menu animation was great.  It was what followed that was the problem.    That's two hours of my life I'll never get back, and good ridden.  "},{"Title":"A Good Action Film.","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I Myself am not a Big Fan of Action Flicks. But this movie appealed to me for some Reason. I Liked it. It Was Very Suspenceful and Kept their Viewer on The Edge of Their Seat for the entire movie. I also Liked The Secret we Learn more about as the Film Marches on. Reccommended for Anybody, Made for Everybody.  "},{"Title":"Mediocre at best.","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was sorely disappointed. When I was through viewing this movie I was convinced that it was merely a platform fora) touting Angelina Jolie as a sex symbol.b) bringing Angelina Jolie and her father, Jon Voight, together on a film (which hadn't occurred since 1982).Throughout the film she walked like a seductress and kept pouting those lips ( are those real? ). Her British accent came and went depending on the proximity of the camera.I did like the story behind Illuminati and the ancient talisman that they sought. This was developed well and richly interwoven throughout the story.As far as this being the female Indiana Jones, I cannot agree. In all of the Indiana Jones movies, Indie got dirty, sweaty, and hurt whenever hid did battle with his archenemies. You could feel and see his mortality in each heroic effort. In this movie, like all of the other plastic heroes, you never get the sense that the heroine might be injured or killed. It was all in a day's work.  "}{"Title":"Even less entertaining than the last version of the PC game!","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I remember playing some of the PC versions of the game and being astonished by the graphics quality (for that time) and a little annoyed by the fact that I had to re-load the game a lot.I did not have high hopes the movie would be anything but a great looking Lara Croft(Angelina Jolie), lots of gunfire/explosions and people acting silly in really beautiful settings (both CGI and natural scenery). And that's the way it is!Plus the script is bad, really bad, the actors don't do much except for a lot of sport (they probably had a great time doing this movie).Happily it was just about an hour and a half!On a 1 to 10 scale I would give it a 5.Let's hope the Hollywood people don't decide to make a sequel!5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Oh dear, oh dear oh dear oh dear (","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Again, the one line summary tells u everything that i believe about this piece of work oh dear indeed.Why i would pay to rent this out is beyond me, and how it could reach such fame is also beyond me, i couldn't get into this movie and at times i thought what the hell simply becoz this movie was so bad i couldn't watch it at times, i started reading a new novel when watching this, i put my head down for 15 minutes, raised my head and realised that i hadn't missed a thing (The only good thing that i could say about this movie is Angelina Jolie, she was FAB in this! Like she always is, but i can't forgive her for starring in this. This movie was made plain and simple for the male population who just want to see a good looking woman/girl get dirty and at the same time appear stunningly sexy, and what about the rest of us? This movie has nothing to interest those interested in a good story, or even in good special effects! For the girls (and some guys!) there is probably the one sequence when Alex (Daniel Craig) gets out of the shower... *DROOL* but otherwise, put on the night caps and wake me when its over.As u've already gathered, i don't like this movie, it has no substance and also no *real* plot, it has nothing for the movie goer with some sense and i think that my final sentence put on the night caps fully summerises this movie, poor/pale and shallow ( "},{"Title":"Not another video game movie","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Following the tradition of video game movies Tomb Raider is as bad as the others (Mortal Combat, Street fighter, etc.) There is no point to this movie, the special effects are not what everyone expected, and the only people who would enjoy this movie are teem geeks who are addicted to video games. Besides Angelina Jolie walking around with short shorts, nothing in this movie was worth the price. "},{"Title":"Good looking Angela Jolie battles against a weak script","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The female Indiana Jones certainly has the better looks, but the movie itself is way below the Indy-trilogy. May be worth a rent for a lazy afternoon but certainly not good enough for multiple viewings. The script is a mixture of action and fantasy - and somehow it seems that the director couldn't really decide which way he should go. The result is not really satisfying... "},{"Title":"If you're mad for Angelina Jolie, maybe you'll like it","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This was a dumb, dumb movie.  Angelina Jolie has great presence but that wasn't enough to overcome a REALLY stupid script which was basically nothing more than a lot of stunts strung together.To give it its due, many of the stunts are exciting -- some of the action sequences are excellent.  But there isn't really anything more there.Other movies have overcome stupidity, etc. with wit or style, but this one just doesn't manage it -- there are moments but not enough of them.  Jolie is good, but not good enough.So, if seeing Angelina Jolie is enough to overcome any problem (for many it will be), or if you want a movie the kids will like (my 11-year-old nephew enjoyed it), give it a try.  But don't say I didn't warn you. "},{"Title":"A great adaption! Lara is so cool!","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Following the game you wonder if they make a movie of it will it be just as good?Like will the main character be the same and will it follow the story close?Well in MY opinion this movie did very good. Angelina Jolie is perfect as Lara Croft.If she isn`t who else could have played here?Lara is such a neat woman,if only more women were like her.This is one good movie.This came in a jammed,action packed blockbuster year of great movies like The Mummy Returns,The Planet Of The Apes 2001,Jurassic Park /// and Pearl Harbor. "},{"Title":"Pout and Boobs.","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Tomb Raider was a ridiculous movie with a barely coherent plot.  Jolie shows nothing but tight tops and a lippy pout.  Her character was a petulant rich child with an unhealthy fixation on her dead father.  Some of the effects were OK but were very predictable and not very innovative.  The movie is a waste of time. "},{"Title":"3 out of 10","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was extremely disappointed in this movie.  It was all style and no substance.  It was great special effects and that's all it had.  The story was boring and more than a little confusing.  The actors put NO heart into their characters at all.  I couldn't help but compare it to Raiders of the Lost Ark.  Raiders didn't have the whiz-bang effects that Tomb Raider had but it DID have characters you cared about and that is a serious flaw with Tomb Raider.  All in all, I would not recommend this film. "},{"Title":"All flash, no substance.........","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, this movie was even more disappointing than I could ever have imagined.  There is no doubt it was a polished film in the Hollywood sense.  But, it lacked emotion, soul, passion and, most importantly PLOT!!!  The special effects were good, but not good enough to overshadow the complete lack of character development and the primarily stiff, emotionless, passionless performances by ALL of the actors and actresses (Jolie included).  As well, the very lame attempts at humour only exacerbated the boredom engendered by the total lack of plot.  It's a shame that with such a promising story line, excellent product association, and a big budget that all Hollywood could produce was a stinking turd wrapped in nice, shiny celluloid.  This one gets a very generous 3. "},{"Title":"Indiana Jones need not worry","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Indiana Jones movies receive no threat of being replaced by TOMB RAIDER (and its inevitable series of sequels), an obnoxiously-bad movie based on the hit video game series. I love the games and the idea of a female Indiana Jones, but I hated this movie. Maybe it was because of the casting. Angelina Jolie, with her freaky lips and dull accent, is clearly a terrible casting choice for this film. The obvious choice for Laura Croft is Rhona Mitra, the current model/actress who plays Croft at various video game conventions and in print advertisements. She's got everything needed for the part the looks, the accent, and she's more talented that Jolie could ever hope to be. If it was a name the studio was looking for, why not Elizabeth Hurley, the name a lot of fans have chosen as the ideal screen Croft? What could have been a mildly-entertaining popcorn flick was ruined by Jolie's casting. But I guess I'll always have the great computer games to get my Laura Croft fix. If only Angelina's looks and talent were just half as impressive as her chest. "}{"Title":"DVD review, pretty entertaining, not great.","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  SPOILERS - Mixing some of James Bond and some of Indiana Jones, but with a great-looking girl as the action hero, Tomb Raider has a very simple story upon which to heap lots of action. MI2 and Charlie's Angels do this very well, Tomb Raider is not quite as successful. All the planets are aligning, which happens every 5,000 years, and Lara has to try solve the puzzle with clues left by her dead father, played by her real dad, Jon Voight. Then maybe she can go back in time to see him again. The action scenes just seemed to be too filled with action, that sometimes seemed a bit pointless.  Still, I rate this film 7 of 10 because it, and all the extras on the DVD, make it an enjoyable evening.In the Extras we see excerpts from the Tomb Raider video game, which I had no prior exposure to. We see how fitting Angelina Jolie is to play Lara Croft. We learn that she trained 6 days a week, for 3 months, to get in shape and learn to credibly perform the skills required during the filming. She did almost all her own stunts, much like Tom Cruise did for MI2. They actually went to Cambodia for part of the filming. And, to approximate Siberia, they went to Iceland and filmed on a glacier the size of Wales. We also see how the various action sequences and special effects are done. The final scene, with the big machine approximating the planets' movements, was a giant set built on a sound stage. This DVD is one example where the extras are actually more interesting, overall, than the film itself. In addition to what I already mentioned, there are several deleted scenes, and an alternate opening. The DVD sound is in Dolby 5.1, and a very good one at that. I am glad I followed my instinct to rent this one, instead of buying it, but hard-core Lara Croft fans probably should own this DVD. For anyone not yet with a DVD player, what's the hold-up??  Yer missin' half the movie, sometimes more. Get off your duff and move into the 21st century already!! "},{"Title":"A fun movie to watch!","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Sure it isn't an oscar winner, but I really enjoyed this flick.  Jolie is great as Laura Croft.  There are problems with the film, however, one of which is the lack of any other memorable characters.  This is ok though, because I paid to see Jolie.  The movie could have used one more action sequence as well and she could have used her guns more at the end, but all in all it was a fun film to watch.  I loved the fact that in the one temple the stone guardian came to life just as in the tomb raider 3 game.  There is also a great fight sequence in her home as well.  I just wish she wore shorts more in the film. "},{"Title":"The best action movie That i've seen so far....Angelina is great!","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Not only is this movie fast and furious, it is also fun.  True that Angelina jolie made this movie into great success--but this movie was great to begin with as well.  The action sequences were unique and breathtaking.  Not to mention the splendid location and the constant swirl of images that made this film spectacular.  True Art is aesthetic in principle--this movie was such.  Awesome!!!! "},{"Title":"this movie rocks!!!!!!","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was so cool. The scenes were really cool looking. Angelina Jolie was excellent as Lara Croft. I dont know any other actress who could look as like Lara as she does. The action was the best. Simon West did an excellent job directing this movie. The soundtrack was really cool too. This is one of the better video game movies ever made. And theres only a few good ones out there. I recommend this movie to anyone who loves a really good action movie and Tomb raider video games.  "},{"Title":"When I saw this movie I was slightly disappointed because it didn't seem to be all that it appeared to be....","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie stuck to exactly what the game Tomb Raider was about; You are given a mission which is always to locate an article and bring it to safety whether that be destroy it or put it in her home as a lovely piece of decoration. The movie was like watching someone else play the game in front of you which is what I didn't really like. It was a little empty in the sense that it didn't go much into the interpersonal relationships between characters.It didn't go into much of anything. I know I'm being a bit of a hypocrite saying this but I still sort of liked this movie, I guess because I just like Lara Croft, Tomb Raider, and the interesting settings throughout the movie. Let's just hope if they have a sequel it's a lot better than the first movie. "},{"Title":"This Tomb contains everything that makes for an excellent film","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In 1999 it was Sleepy Hollow.In 2000 it was Chicken Run.And in 2001 it was Tomb Raider.You're probably wondering, how are these three movies related?Well, I wasn't dying to see any of them at first, and after I did, I reacted indifferently to them all. Then, for some reason I may never figure out in this lifetime, I watched them again, and I was hooked.I mean hooked with a capital H. I mean hooked as in seeing all three a combined 70 times in the theaters.I don't know why I chose to see Sleepy Hollow, while Chicken Run was simply because SH's Miranda Richardson and AbFab's Julia Sawalha were in it. I will pay to see bad movies just for the fun of tearing them apart afterwards, and I watched Tomb Raider solely for the satisfaction of doing just that.I was not a TR fan. I thought the franchise was overrated. I rolled my eyes at the movie posters. I rated it a 7 and read negative reviews. In short, I wanted it to fail miserably. When I saw it again a week later, I hated it so much that I returned for nine days straight. I treated my family to a showing on the IMAX screen. I even begged my way out of work early on several occasions.Everyone's entitled to change their tune, aren't they?Tomb Raider, directed by Simon West, is the complete package of a solid plot and script, witty dialogue, astounding action sequences and terrific acting. It's topped off with a delightful sense of humor; while it opens and ends with a bang and doesn't slip up in between, the movie also manages to poke some good-natured fun at itself.Now that I think about it, maybe I was destined to love this movie. Call me crazy, but I think it's because these films are connected in some strange way. For instance, I saw the SH trailer when I watched The Bone Collector, which starred Angelina Jolie. I saw the CR trailer when I watched Gone in Sixty Seconds, which starred Angelina Jolie. The surnames of the English-accented heroes (played by American actors, no less) of Sleepy Hollow and Tomb Raider, Ichabod Crane and Lara Croft, respectively, both begin with the letters C and R, the initials for Chicken Run. They are both intelligent loners who are focused less on romance and more on justice - even if it means delving into the supernatural - and are affected by recurring nightmares about their deceased parents.Like SH and CR, the cast features distinguished British actors, who are not as recognized on this side of the Atlantic, playing alongside the American stars and turning in great performances. Chris Barrie (the lovable shotgun-wielding butler, Hillary) and Noah Taylor (tech wizard Bryce) are a very effective &#150; but never overbearing or cliched &#150; comic duo who, along with Lara, comprise a reverse-Three's Company living arrangement.The shady characters are just as well-rounded as the good guys. Iain Glen is a delightfully devious Manfred Powell, a shifty, villainous lawyer who is just as clever as the hero; he uses Lara's weaknesses as his ace in the hole in hopes of thwarting her plans. Julian Rhind-Tutt shines as Powell's reluctant nervous Nellie assistant, Mr. Pimms. Daniel Craig pulls off a flawless American accent as the second-best character in the film, the slightly greasy Alex West, a tomb raider willing to stoop to any level to earn a fast buck. Leslie Phillips, Rachel Appleton and Robert Phillips succeed in smaller roles.But make no mistake, this is the Lara Croft Show, and she sure as hell doesn't disappoint.To say that Angelina Jolie was convincing in this role is a gross understatement.  She underwent a three-month crash course to get in shape for the part and suffered multiple injuries during the course of the shoot. But after, oh, ten seconds into the film, it's obvious the grueling work paid off in spades. She successfully plays out what made Lara Croft a worldwide phenomenon to begin with, right down to the British accent. Even something simple as flipping her two Heckler & Koch 45s was fun to watch. Most important of all, she makes us care about the character. It's hardly any wonder that she considers Lara to be the best character she's played.There is a great line from the film Little Voice in which Brenda Blethyn blathers, I bet that Judy Garland never went on stage in her bloody pajamas. I'll bet she never jumped around forty feet in the air and ran around the walls on bungee cords while fighting armed intruders, or jumped a motorcycle over a fleet of cars in them, either. It's pretty amazing that Air Jolie performed nearly all her own stunts (the key word is nearly she wanted to do everything but stunt coordinator Simon Crane put his foot down), including the opening scene, plus hopping around a giant moving orrery and standing on a pendulum-like swinging log.The underground action is executed with more style and pizzazz than the Mummy films. Lara's gun battle with a towering six-armed boss creature (my favorite part) is already the stuff of legends, as is her Road Warrior-style Land Rover, which easily puts James Bond's BMWs to shame.But while not busy raiding tombs and fending off gun-toting baddies, Lara always has an irrepressible and irresistible air of cool and slight arrogance about her. Whether it's flashing a coy grin, raising an eyebrow at a nasty eight-foot-tall droid or blowing a mischievous kiss to the leader of the evil Illuminati (Richard Johnson), she does some of the best camera mugging since Christopher Lloyd in Back to the Future. These all made for humorous segments, such as her reaction upon accidentally bidding on a pricey auction item, making light of a pile of rubble in her mansion to a hapless UPS courier (I woke up this morning and just hated everything), or whenever Lara interacted with Alex early in the film. (Here on a tourist visa? she jeers when they meet in Cambodia.)The script integrates a solid backstory to the title character, which is evident in an emotional, touching scene involving a grief-stricken Lara and the specter of her late father, Richard Croft, played nicely by Jon Voight. (A highlight is watching him explain the history of the magic triangle.) I also liked how Powell frequently referred to Lara as Lady Croft.Peter Menzies, Jr.'s cinematography is excellent, particularly in exterior and interior master shots and a dizzying tracking of a speeding motorcycle weaving through traffic, and it adds intensity to the action scenes. Kirk Petruccelli's production design is awesome; the multileveled Cambodian tomb is the best set I've seen since SH's Western Woods (that's the truth; I'm not saying that as a fan). Coupled with the fantastic editing, it also makes for near-perfect transitions from actual locations to London soundstages.While part of Lara Croft's success is obviously centered around her sex appeal, the filmmakers wisely never go overboard with it because TR has a strong female fan base. It's not sexist in any manner; there is scarcely any cleavage, no excessively revealing outfits, nor any kissing or lovemaking scenes. The much-hyped shower scene is tastefully done &#150; and it's even parodied as well. Heck, Lara even sleeps in plain old pajamas instead of a skimpy nightie.The only problem with Tomb Raider has nothing to do with the movie at all. It seems that it's as hip to soundly bash this picture as it is to be a Lara Croft fan. If people hated it, fine, but many have acted as if the movie had committed a criminal act against them, which is ridiculous. If everyone hated it, it certainly wouldn't have grossed $250 million worldwide. I believe that some naysayers were caught off guard by an action movie that contained a plot with a brain. These people are quick to label TR as campy or a popcorn flick &#150; a term I despise &#150; which it certainly is not.Tomb Raider is superior to the likes of Shrek and The Mummy Returns. I saw it 17 times and have no regrets. If you're searching for an intelligent action film with heart and soul, then look no further.It is a treasure chest full of cinematic riches indeed. 10/10  "},{"Title":"Another disappointment of this summer","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  To be honest, I did not expect too much from this adaptation of quite a boring computer game. Only Angelina was capable to revive this movie doomed to dumbness and lack of style already at the beginning..but unfortunately our young Oscar-winner seems to loose her feeling for roles. She tried her best, but most of the film's team were a total miscast, which caused that mess on the screen which was supposed to be one of the best entertainments of the season.  "},{"Title":"Help! I'm writing another review of this piece of...","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Shouldn't finish that summary up.Anyway, I Must say this so that I can get a job (even at my age)I CAN WRITE BETTER SCREENPLAYS THAN THIS. Mike Rich (Finding Forrester) can. Lots of people (even those that aren't clear, over-write, and have 200+ pages in their screenplays) can write better than this.Next time there is a Tomb Raider movie, I want everyone who lives in Hollywood to bang a path to Paramount, and tell them An 11-year-old wants to write your Tomb Raider Sequel, How about it? If they say no, give whoever said that a nosebleed.Better yet, next time there's ANY hype-required movie to be made in Hollywood, I want everyone to go to the studio, and say that above. (Feel free to replace the 11-year-old with you. Competition is normal.)Psst... no one can write something as bad as this unless their name isRick Sloane    /      Mike Werb "},{"Title":"Angelina is the one good thing about it.","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was really, really disappointing.  And I wasn't even expecting anything special.  I was hoping to see a silly-fun movie that would entertain me for a few hours.  Well, Tomb Raider is silly, but it's not fun, or entertaining.  It's just boring, dull, tedious, brainless...etc.  The dialogue seems to have been taken from a million other movies (the same goes for the action scenes), and the plot, needless to say, is utterly cliqued and predictable.  I remember going to see Gone In Sixty Seconds last year, and feeling similarly let down by that as well.  But at least Sixty Seconds was fun.  Really, the only good thing about this movie is the fact that Angelina's in it.  Otherwise, it's a disasterous movie.  Aviod.  2/10.  "},{"Title":"Good movie, but not one of Angelina's best","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Let me just say that i am a HUGE Angdelina Jolie fan, a HUGE one, and i'm also a HUGE fan of her work, movies like Girl, interrupted and Playing By Heart, but this movie is so unlike her usual films. She, may i add, did the best job in the whole flick. It's like when she's one screen, which is almost evry moment of the whole movie, it's like all the other characters can just disappear. She looks great in the movie too, and i like her with an english accent. I personally think she should stick to the kind of films that got her famous, and win another Oscar. This movie overall was good, and i think it would be cool for a sequel, but i don't think it's going to be any better than this one Overall Film Rating B- Overall Angelina's Performance Rating A- "}{"Title":"BAD... no, WORSE!(spoiler warning)","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I think this movie was a complete crap, from the beginning to the end. I wasn't expecting much, but I'm sorry to admit that it was below expectance! Poor plot you already know the end after more or less 2 minutes and you can guess the full plot with most details after maybe 15 minutes. Poor actors even the use of a good actor such as John Voigt doesn't improve because he was assigned a mostly irrelevant role (a bit like King Arthur in Costner's Robin Hood )). The bad guys are all bad and mean and dressed in black and the good guys are all beautiful and perfect. The realization is a poor copy that oscillates between Mission Impossible and Matrix and the dialogues and mostly pointless. Probably U2's video is better than the movie itself! The only reason I didn't give 1 is because Angelina Jolie looks extremely pretty, cool and she kicks ass...  ;) "},{"Title":"horribly bad production","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I cannot believe that any person is ignorant enough to be able to immerse into this movie. This movie has such bad production, even the overdub is soo bad that lipsync is lost. Gadgets and attributes of the scene are ridiculous.  "},{"Title":"This movie rocks!","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I give this movie 10 stars! It was the best action/adventure movie ever! I also like Star Wars & Indiana Jones. (which are similar) I've played the tomb raider games over and over. Angelina has the looks and the attitude to play LARA CROFT. I can't wait for a sequel!  "},{"Title":"How much can I get paid to write a good review of this film?","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The reviewer Michael G. Sibley is an obvious studio flunky. I'vetaken the liberty of correcting his reviewSummer has opened with a pitiful whimper with one of the mostanticipated action films of the year Tomb Raider. Trained forcombat by the most elite warriors (not that we ever see or hear ofsuch training...so her prowse in combat is really a mystery to theviewer), Lara Croft Tomb Raider explodes into theaters todisappoint audiences of all ages.Hollywood is still looking for its newest action star, because thename Angelina Jolie certainly isn't fitting the bill...at least not asdisplayed in this film. Jolie would be the perfect choice to carry thetorch as newest action star if it weren't for the fact that her spindlyarms make one wonder how she's able to lift a fork to her mouth,let alone fire two pistols at once. Watching Jolie utilize her beauty,style and attitude was nothing short of frustrating, because eventhough there was a shower scene, they never panned down belowher shoulders. While she may have already made a name forherself in previous films, Tomb Raider will be the film that putsJolie on the road to mediocrity, and more bad movies.  Furthermore, although Jolie has revealed her skills as an actionstar with style and attitude, and her accent wasn't *horrible*, shestill can't save a boring plot, poor script, or floundering direction.Jolie was not the only reason Tomb Raider sucked. In order tocreate the worst film, all the pieces must be in place. One piece ofthis puzzle is the supporting cast; for Tomb Raider the directormade perfect selections when he chose group of unknown buttalented actors that included Iain Glenn, Daniel Craig, Noah Taylorand Mark Collie. These are among the most unmemorable actorsI've had the stomach to watch. As with Jolie, it was through no faultof their own, but even if they all pulled off the greatestperformances of their careers, it couldn't save the lame plot,unfocused script, and painful-to-sit-through editting.Credibility and awe were among the last thoughts that came tomind when I saw Jon Voight appear on screen...the first beingWho is that guy? Didn't he used to be famous?. The casting ofJon Voight as Lord Richard Croft, Lara's father, didn't add a singlething to the movie, especially considering that  Jolie and Voightshare only a single scene together. When an established legendlike Voight stars in a film, one can always bet on the success ofthat movie, but one will certainly lose that bet every time...who canforget the credibility and success that Sean Connery brought toHighlander 2 The Quickening...now that's film making at itsfinest!From the unexpected shallowness of the story to the  well-choreographed-yet-poorly-displayed action sequences,Tomb Raider will make viewers part from the movie. Credit mustbe given to the writers for creating an atmosphere where viewersare able to squirm in their seats, check their good-taste at the doorand laugh at (not with) the movie. I was disappointedly surprisedto learn that Tomb Raider was actually poorer and more shallowin character than it was with story. For example, I was mesmerizedby how the writers completely skipped over developing thepersonality for Lara Croft, because there is nothing worse thanwatching a cardboard cutout action hero or heroine with thecharacter motivation of a fern.When you combine the charm and charisma of James Bond withthe style of Ethan Hunt, the result is definitely not Lara Croft TombRaider. If she used gadgets, fast vehicles and a no nonsenseattitude, Lara Croft would be cool...but instead she punishes heraudience with an insulting lack of logic (pick up a gun, why don'tyou?). The children in Spy Kids were more adept than Lara Croft.Watching Lara Croft in action and Tomb Raider in theaters willwet the appetites of everyone who want to see James Bond andEthan Hunt, because you'll need something to cleanse the badtaste from your brain.With Hindu statues that come to life and fight their foes to thebeautiful, exotic scenery surrounding the cast, one would expectTomb Raider to be one of the most visually entertaining films ofthe year; but the trite set designs and poorly crafted actionsequences will leave you in yawns. I can't recall the last time amovie was so skillfully put together and well thought out thanTomb Raider. Oh...wait a second, yes I can. Momento...nowthere's some skill and thought, buddy. But if we're just talkingaction films, then Tomb Raider is still a far cry from even themost average of action films, like Sudden Death or A Better WayTo Die. Viewers will leave the movie with smiles because theycan't believe Hollywood has done it to them again took the moneyand run. When you invade this tomb, you will be buried alive...andthankful that the air will soon be crushed out of you, and you won'thave to bare the continued viewing of the flick.Another reviewer summed it up perfectly The dialougeawful,thescriptawful,the storyawful,and the acting,awful.And to behonest,even the special effects are below average.The story thataccompanies it,meanwhile,is little more than an Indiana Jonesrip-off ,all the worst elements crammed into a story with nopace,style or substance whatsoever.Thanks, Hollywood. Now how about a re-release of Die Hard toeven the score? "},{"Title":"Not Very Good","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  pretty disappointing movie overall,sets and effects looked cheesey..story wasn't much either.I would have liked more backstory of who Lara Croft is and why I should care about her or her father..they'll probably make lots of sequels...count me out. "},{"Title":"Rather silly, really","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Not very good at all really. Badly written, badly acted, the sets looked like sets rather than 'real' places. Could have been so much better with no change to the budget.Bad film. "},{"Title":"Tricked again","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Ohhhh man! How can they do this to us? They put all the good parts in the trailer and the rest 90 minutes,is total dog-crap. For the first Who is stupid enough to prove him/herself so dumb by turning a knife that's floating in the air,and grab it in the edge? She could turn it in the handle but no way josé,she grabs it in the edge,witch make her to bleed. Numbnuts. And second of all Why can't she just shoot some guards? WHY???? She've got to frickin' guns and a pretty big bunch of enemies but nooooo she won't shoot those guards,only those stupid statues. Third of all Not even stormtroopers miss as bad as those soldiers. Even a Ewok with both hand tied behind his back aim better (no they don't). And,if they want her to go down,shoot those lines. It ain't that hard. Fourth of all How did she know that she could throw that key into  that....whatever it is (you know the spot in the air where she aims the red dot sight). Duuuh,maybe she've read it in one of here books? Of course she has. BUT WHY CAN'T ANYONE EXPLAIN THAT??? Fifth of all Jon Voight is absolutley the best actor in the movie,but why is he only in for about 5 minutes? And why did they kill him (he's a traitor of course). But i don't thinkSurrender,Never is enough for a death scene. Please spare us,don't make a sequel. "},{"Title":"Sure doesn't beat playing the game","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsIt has never been a forgone conclusion that any adaptation of a video game will definitely make for poor viewing.Proof of this exists in past underrated adaptations,such as Street Fighter and Super Mario Bros.But this film sadly proves a contribution to this assumption.In fact,there really is hardly a good thing to say about it.The dialougeawful,the scriptawful,the storyawful,and the acting,awful.And to be honest,even the special effects are below average.The story that accompanies it,meanwhile,is little more than an Indiana Jones rip-off ,all the worst elements crammed into a story with no pace,style or substance whatsoever.The soundtrack is an unappealling collaboration of lame tracks from Missy 'Misdemeaneur' Eliott and Oxide & Nitro ,rounded off with a as-ever superb track from U2 ,which isn't even heard at the end . No one involved carries out the humourous elements of the story with the requisite charm or wit required.The game's fault is that it's confusing.The film's fault is that it's simply plain boring.* "},{"Title":"Once again Hollywood destorys what could be a good film.","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  When I first heard about the Tomb Raider movie it was surrounded by claims that 'this was no ordinary game to movie convert'. I was genuinely sucked in by the hype and led to beleive that unlike previous attempts to transfer a game into the motion picture medium this was going to be very good. Perhaps it was the continual references to Indiana Jones, but none the less I was looking forward to it. How far could I of been from the truth.From the very first scene in the film I knew I had walked into a 'dud'. Myfirst impression was what the hell?, where did that come from?. Right from the beginning they destroyed the original game, its storyline and its reasons for popularity. This film suffered from a laundery list of problems some of which I will touch on now.The cinematography made the film appear to be the grainy quality of an old television show. There was a distinct lack of vision in the art form and no breathtaking photography. You would think a film set in the open would have some wonderful sets and landscapes, well some of them are but the camera never gives you the opportunity to appreciate it. The action sequences too left alot to be desired with very little class at all. Perhaps the choreography of it all was what caused the confusion but in the end it was all pretty average.As for the plot? don't get me started. In the Indiana Jones stories the bad guys were the Nazi's in this film, the baddies are similar but not used at all in the film. Instead it is Lara up against two guys, boring and unbeleivable. The script is paid lip service really as they attempt to string together a sexy action film, but that did not work either.Then we come to the special effects, this is a movie for gamers right? Unfortunately for Hollywood the gamers out there know good animation when they see it and this resembled the awful attempts of The Mummy Returns. Take a leaf from ILM's book people and learn what good computer generated images look like. When Lord of the Rings comes out at the end of the year I am sure we will all once and for all see what the current capabilties of technology is, and of course Tomb Raider is not it.Oh and I can't forget to mention Laras geeky sidekick. A computer geek who has no life and is definately not in the film for his looks! A feeble attempt to appeal to the male gaming community? Whatever it was or not, he can't act and Seth Green would of been my choice for the role.Finally the only good point of the movie at all was Lara herself. There must of been two script writers, one for Laras dialouge and one for the rest of the flick. Lara was intelligent, sexy, deep and wholly enjoyable. She was not like the rest of the film. Angelinas performance was top notch in a B-Grade film.Overall this film was a total waste of two hours of my life which I want back. The only enjoyment I got out of this film was from the acting abilities of Angelina, but that was not enough to get me through it all. This may not be the worse movie of the year and definately not the worse movie ever but it is definately one that should be left for video. "},{"Title":"Nice breasts, shame about the film","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The only good thing about this is Angelina - she does a great English accent, and the acting is half decent. Oh - and she sure is pretty...Other than that there's too many jokes which aren't funny, too much action which isn't exciting, and the rest falls apart amongst the awful story and terrible dialogue.Basically this is a feature length MTV music video - fast cut, vacuous, and utterly forgettable. "}{"Title":"Utter garbage","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What a load of mindless crap. I think the people involved in bringing us this rubbish actually forgot that a movie has to have a plot to entertain people. The action sequences were fairly good, though rarely justified by its plot. Some were totally unneccesary. The only saving grace was Angelina Jolie. She looks and acts the part. I don't think anyone else in Hollywood could pull this role off as well as she can.  "},{"Title":"Well. What can I say. A great movie with a great cast!","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Upon reading reviews that I read on the Internet and in numerous magazines and T.V, I was quite apprehensive about going to see the film. I was in for a suprise! This is a really good movie ad I would recommend it to anyone.I was already a big fan of Angelina Jolie since seeing her in ealier films such as Hackers or The Bone Collector but Tomb Raider was certainly her best performance to date. Gone in 60 Seconds was also a superb perfoemance from her. She played the part down to a T. Everything about her is just how you imagine Lara Croft in the Games. Her accent was perfect and the fact that she performed the movie left handed as Lara Croft is left handed in the games. Her looks were also a big factor!Baisically this film is an action fest with some great action sequences and good (but sometimes looking a little dated special effects). There is a feeling of Indiana Jones and James Bond which always makes a good film.The soundtrack is also very good because it often sets the mood of the scenes and gives a good atmospheric feeling which is vital in any film.The script on the other hand could have been better but it wasn't as bad as I thought despite the overuse of the word 'bugger'. Chris Barrie (Red Dwarf) was excellent as the butler Hillary. Jon Voight was superb as Lara's on and Jolie's off screen dad which I thought was an excellent touch because Jolie and Voight could really relate to each other in that scene.Overall, I give this film at least 9.5 out of 10 because I love these kinds of movies. With the cast signed up for at least another 2 sequels and Jolie's apparent commitment to the character and the fact that she would love to play Lara Croft again, I can't wait for the Tomb Raider 2 movie to be released "},{"Title":"In my Eyes it was very-very amusing!","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  My English knowledge is a little poor,but I try to write view sentences about this movie.I saw this movie yesterday(27.07.2001)in Miskolc,in the cinema of the Dunaplasa,with my Friend.It was good!!My favourite actress is Angelina Jolie.She'beautiful,and a very good actress.In my Eyes she was the best in the Girl,Interrupted!And she was that really.In the Tomb Raider the other actors were good,but of course that Film with Angelina is only so good.The Director Simon West is also a clever man.On his Films people can't to dull.I can't too.So here is one from among my favourite actresses,and here is one from among my favourites directors.So my vote is 10 for this movie.I'm sorry,but I could so much to write about this good Film. "},{"Title":"So bad it's actually pretty good.","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I went in expecting very little from this movie. Almost nothing in fact, partly because I don't care for videogame movies in the first place (videogames are essentially about interactivity, that's why they, in my opinion, don't translate to the silver screen), partly because I, even in my gaming days, never played a Tomb Raider game and partly because I'm not too big an Angelina Jolie-fan. I mean, what has she really done, besides knives and Billy Bob Thornton? Gia I didn't like, Girl Interrupted I never saw and the less said about Gone in 60 Seconds, the better. Well, after seeing this, I must say, most of my expectations were met.Worst of all is the script, which seems satisfied by just showing iconic Lara Croft in various positions. It's basically four set-pieces tied together in some way that not even the most ardent fan can call a story. Tick off your cliches from two handed gunfiring (more reminiscent of The Matrix than John Woo's work, by the way), the so-called comedy side-kicks, the one-dimensional villains and so much more. And the plot; please don't even get me started. Then there's the dialogue. Most of the one-liners completely missed target and especially everything Lord Croft (Jon Voight; poor, poor man) said could have been bettered by a monkey. Seriously. Of course Lara Croft is one of the nineties' definitive popculture icons, but does that justify making such a mess of the script? I don't think so. Then there's the endless list of cinematic errors. Best example the final fight scene, once again filmed in short takes and predictable angles. Post-The Matrix, this is a poor excuse for movie action.Angelina Jolie does very little acting here. She does do a lot of winking, shooting, jumping, wearing cool clothes and showering, though. So if that's your bag (and to be honest, it is my bag), it does work very well for a time. It's just that, Jolie is more of a icon-made-flesh than an actual character.Indeed, judged as a real movie, this is every bit as bad as The Mummy Returns and Pearl Harbor. But I did enjoy it a lot more. Generally, I don't buy the idea of movies so bad they're actually rather good, but in this case it's my only explanation. I didn't laugh once when I was supposed to, no, but I did laugh (Jon Voight great, great man). I dug the adrenalin fuelled soundtrack, although that (and bad editing) made the set-pieces uninvolving, stand-alone music videos. And discovering plot holes as huge as Angkor Wat while watching proves genuinely amusing. Still, this would be nothing if not for the sheer ridiculousness of it all. Stone Monkeys? Time travelling? Lara and villain running up that piramid? And the kid that pops up from time to time? What is this ?!!???!The answer I can give is Hilarious. Lara Croft Tomb Raider is not by any means a good film and it didn't even change my opinion on videogame flicks or Angelina Jolie slightly. If, on the other hand, think preposterousness is an entertainment form on its own, by all means see it and see it now.Rating 5/10 "},{"Title":"i need a woman like that","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was great,i enjoyed it a lot even tough the ending was a little lame,there was no animals in it,and that Alex something character was stupid,he was mean,he desrved to die like the rest of the bad guys,he was probably going to shoot Lara.The time travel story was a well planed thing,i wouldnt have done better,and this film was also good for Angelina,she actually stopped smoking(!)trainig to be Lara Croft,and the action scenes in this film are all good,no exeptions,but the best was the mantion or castle battle at the begging.If you havent seen it,see it,if somebody needs a director for Tomb Raider 2,call me! "},{"Title":"Little bouquet of shots and punches","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Yet another grand example of that typical action packed, pretty set, big breasted, and puckered lipped blockbuster hit. Whatever substance it lacks shall be made up with the splendid shower scene for the average adolescent male. As in most other movies of the same wave the lack on emotional charge and personality, as well as the flat screenplay, may not be missed much. All in all the movie feels like an excuse to show repetitive fight scene flowered with pretty surroundings. However hollow/shallow the movie was made relatively well. And perhaps it does not matter that the British accent was inconsistent with the real thing, and the Russian used by the second ghost girl was so bad that a fluent speaker such as myself could not understand a word of it and had to read the subtitles like everyone else. The most amusing and charming (perhaps the only) aspect of the movie was Lara's sarcastic engineer.  All in all do go and see this movie if you enjoyed the likes of The Mummy and X Men. If, however, you prefer character and drama skip it in favor of something less concentrated on pretty sets.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I went to see this this movie with only one expectation. To see a lot of scenes  with Angelina Jolie - and I got what I wanted. Still I was disappointed.I have to make it clear that I'm not a fan of the computer games. I don't have a  special relation to the Lara Croft character. All I know is that she is supposed to  be sexy and she is - in the film at least. It's always enjoyable to see a movie with  Angelina Jolie but Lara Croft Tomb Raider doesn't reach her usual standard.While sitting in the cinema I felt that I was watching a movie made of leftovers.  The Story reminded me of Indiana Jones but I think the Tomb Raider script ismade up of some the scenes that were not good enough to be in any of thethree Indiana Jones movies. The attacking statues in the temple in Cambodiamade me think of The Mummy and The Mummy Returns. I think the statues inTomb Raider were fired from The Mummy set for being unconvincing. Whenthey find the first half of the triangle the fluid reminded me of Terminator 2  Judgment Day. It was made i 1991 yet the effects are still better.By now it should be obvious that I don't like Tomb Raider very much. After an  hour I was waiting for it to finish and I wasn't sad when it did. I will give three  stars. One goes to Christopher Barrie who plays Lara's butler Hillary. The I give  one star to each of Angelina Jolies legs.She is the only reason to go see Tomb Raider. "},{"Title":"Not a bad flick","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't know a thing about the computer game. I never played it. My wife wanted to see this more than I did (although looking at Angelina Jolie for a couple of hours isn't all bad). I don't like Mummy movies all that much. But I have to admit I enjoyed the hell out of this movie. It is a no brainer with good acting, and great f/x. Half the time I didn't know what was going on, but it mostly made sense in some strange way. Also, it was great to see Angelina and her real dad Jon Voight on the screen together. It was a very touching scene.So, leave your troubles at home and go see this popcorn movie. Don't think about it too much, and have a good time.  I give it an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Things went boom and I didn't care...","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Millions of bucks thrown at this flick,but to make us care was the trick.Some producer somewhere failed alot,and from Bond and Indiana he stole the plot.But he forget to add characters insidethe overblown CG effects overapplied.Walking from the cinema quite unserene,I could remember only Jolie's shower scene.Now it could be that I am young and horny,or maybe I have already seen all this baloney.The only reason my money was not lostwas seeing Chris Barrie was worth the cost.Nuff said. "},{"Title":"Worst movie of 2001!!","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What can I say.  I expected this movie to be something of the calibre of Indiana, but instead it turned out to be one of the worst movies of the year, and one of the worst I've ever seen.Cinematography was terrible, the plot was as bad as MI2  and Angelina Jolie was like a piece of wood.  Maybe that's what Simon West wanted, but it was stupid and boring.I wish I could get my money back, this is hardly even video worthy.  "}{"Title":"had a weak plot","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I only gave this film a 5 out of 10 due to Angelina Jolie.  The plot was quite horrible, and the ending wasn't good either.  If you want to see this movie to see the hot Angelina Jolie then go ahead, but if you want to see a good action movie do not go see Tomb Raider. "},{"Title":"Boring! ONLY for Angelina's fans...","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is a complete disaster!!No excitement at all, a ridiculous plot (if we can call it plot), a boring script (you cannot remember even one memorable quote, or even one vaguely funny moment), not enough action (is it an action movie or what?) and flat characters (all boring and not convincing)The first movie it reminded me? Wild Wild West, and I've said all )I only save the wonderful Angelina Jolie, she's sooooo cool and sexy!! Please give her a better script, she deserves it!!Let's just hope that the inevitable sequel will be at least decent (worse then this is impossible!). Advice for the script writers please watch again Indiana Jones movies over and over, and learn how to join action AND suspense AND humour AND interesting characters!Go to see Tomb Raider ONLY if you want to admire Angelina Jolie and her fantastic body, otherwise don't waste your money...A 4/10 for me (it would be 1/10 without Angelina...) "},{"Title":"Boy did I waste my money on this one.....","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I didn't enjoy this movie at all.  The whole time that I sat watching the movie I thought that it would get better until the end came and it never got any better.  It was hard to understand what was going on half the time. Don't get me wrong Angelina Jolie is a fine actor and I love her work, but it just felt like she was trying too hard and the movie came off as being quite corny.  I really wanted to get my money back.  I knew that I wasn't the only one who felt this way because as I was walking out of the theater, I could hear complete strangers saying the same thing I did, I wasted $10 for this?  You can count on that not happening again for the sequel. "},{"Title":"Insipid","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Lara Croft.. Tomb Raider.. those four words alone should have told me not to watch this movie (gravity defying cleavage, woman-as-man, thin plot makes way for boss levels etc) but see it I did. And I wasn't pleasantly surprised.Start off with a beginning sequence that is so out of kilter with the rest of the movie it's stupid (gizmo guy gets big introduction, then adds absolutely nothing), and go downhill from there (Lara dodges bullets better than Keanu in Matrix, goes off in search of thing, bad guy is also after thing, find thing, have a bit of pre-pub banter and duke it out for a finish).If you are tempted by Angelina, watch the first five minutes and leave. She doesn't get any better than that. "},{"Title":"Lithe is a good word at this point","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Waaah waaah waaah. Or so go the reviews. Whoever thought film reviewers know what they are talking about ? After all the negative bitching about this flick, I sat there expecting my brains to dribble out of my ears, as they did during Mummy Returns. Nonetheless, I spent a very enjoyable time in the company of Angelina Jolie, and though I would be the first to admit that she carries the film, I would also suggest that it's hardly a problem given the title. People have been moaning about the similarity of the film to the video game - why is this a surprise ?  Someone else whined about the debt owed to Harryhausen by the central action sequence - this is a bad thing why ?  Others complained of a far-fetched plot - in a fantasy film ! Director Simon West does need to read a book about pacing, and stop writing in committee, since the script is lamentable. However. IT DOESN'T MATTER. I went to see Lara Croft, Tomb Raider - and that's what I got. La Jolie is beyond perfect in the role - lithe, athletic and utterly believable. Her accent is impeccable - shades of the very saucy, slight sibilance of the young Hannah Gordon - and though her uber-breasts seem a little surplus to her adventuring needs, to say she looked the part is massive understatement. Her lascivious grin adds a sly dirtiness to Lara that is missing in James Bond, Indy et al, and the range of her performance is greater than one might imagine, conveying a subtle emotional vulnerability that is belied by her physical presence. Also, she runs properly - which is something that always bugs me in episodes of Buffy. Sarah Michelle Gellar runs like a startled chicken - arms all a-flail - whereas Jolie runs fast and hard, like the athlete she has clearly become during the course of filming. Minor point, maybe, but just one of many things that make Angelina Jolie completely believable as Lara, which is what you need in a film, er, about Lara. I don't know what the nay-sayers were expecting from this flick - some sudden discovery that Lara was fond of Ibsen, or that she was actually Holly Hunter from The Piano, perhaps. I expected stylish Lara action, and I was not disappointed.  "},{"Title":"6/10","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Angelina Jolie is truly a beauty!  Great screen presence and of course proven acting abilities.  But there was far too much chatter and not enough action.  Or T & A for that matter.  With all that money and talent they should have come up with a far superior product.More action! "},{"Title":"Good fights scenes, VERY POOR PLOT","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I must say that the initial fight scenes were not to bad. However, the story degenerated itself by the minute, and I was releaved to see the end of it and walk out of the cinema. I'm sure I could have come up with a better plot that this one. It moves from intriguing to stupid, and finally to plain pathetic. And yet the film was marketed so well that I actually was tricked in watching it. Well, I guess thats the trick of the filming industry these days cos there are a handful of these films coming out by the minute. "},{"Title":"The Girl is Not Enough","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Clearly it is not in dispute that Miss Jolie as Lara is a truly arresting and very fetching Buffy-esque Uber babe, but even so this is a dull, dull film. I forgot most of it even before I left the cinema.What is it with blockbusters these days? Call me a nostalgic old duffer but in the 80s they used to be genuinely original and entertaining. Think Back to the Future, Aliens, Ghostbusters, Star Wars and sequels, The Terminator etc. There were duds as well as course, but except for Starship Troopers and T2 I cannot think of any blockbuster of similar calibre in the last decade. There is an imaginative vacuum at the core of Hollywood.Shower scenes aside, I only really perked up once - during the sub-Ray Harryhausen 'statues coming to life' bit. But even this proved a let-down. Lara merely shot them.Apart from Jon Voigt's embarrassing American excess of sentimentalism cameo, Tomb Reader is not generally terrible to watch and Angelina in garb is certainly pleasing to behold. But a fit girl in shorts is not enough to make a film. Make a decent blockbuster Hollywood and surprise us all! "},{"Title":"Appallingly weak film which contains virtually no saving graces.","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, what can I say?I'm sure this is the sort of film that when you ask a friend what it was like, they will say something like, 'It's alright.'Believe me, this is the average film-goers reaction to a film that is poor. Most people seem so content and happy with any mindless drivel that's presented to them. They seem to be immune and blind to feableness.This film IS feeble. It makes me wonder why Angelina Jolie even signed onto this. The sole factor must have been money because I cannot believe that when she finished reading this script and picked up her cup of coffee she didn't just laugh and toss the binder onto the fire.Inventiveness. - that's what this film lacks (aside from many other things). It's so formulaic.The story has been done a thousand times before. It attempts to rip off (emulate?) - both in visual style and content, James Bond, Indiana Jones, The Golden Voyager of Sinbad, Jason and the Argonauts and others. Whereas the aforementioned all contain innovation, style, humour and pinache. This film lands with a dull thud. The dialogue at times is gratingly bad and for some reason Simon West seems to think that the way to put together a good action sequence is to not show you anything. He intercuts lots of close-ups and tight shots thereby revealing no detail at all. This is just a way of covering up any lack of design or thought. The stunts are dull dull dull.The sets aren't bad, but they never stop looking like sets. The optical shots in the film are okayish too.  What other plusses are there? Hmmm, none that come to mind. I remember thinking it was a big plus when the end credits started to roll.I'm not even going to carry on this review.Let's just pray and hope that the world is not graced with a sequel.This film is instantly forgettable. "},{"Title":"Really Really Good","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought the movie was great. It had a lot of action, great cast, and has an awesome sound track. I encourage people to go see it. Angelina Jolie stars as Lara Croft in the movie, and does a great job portraying her. John Voight (Angelina Jolie's real life father) also is in the movie and is a very good actor. If your wondering whether you should go see this movie, I think you should. "}{"Title":"Had potential, but didn't deliver","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I had hopes for this movie and it really had most of the elements to start would could of been a great series of movies... but...Angelina was great, she WAS Laura Croft and did an excellent job of acting I thought (much better than I expected).  There was obviously some money put into this movie given the nice sets and locations.  But the script/story/directing was just horrible.  I heard that they held off making this movie waiting for a good script... boy, if this is the best script they could come up with I would hate to have seen the others.  The dialog was laughable at points, and the little touches that I guess were supposed to be meaningful or something just came off stupid and out of place.  Even while the action was going on I found myself sighing and hoping it would get better.  There just wasn't enough of a story around the characters (or in general) to make you really care about the film and how it played out.  At one point out of the blue we are tossed a romantic interest for Laura (which previously this guy was a bitter rival) and we are supposed to buy (without any hints as to why) Laura caring about him getting hurt, etc.While I never played the games a ton I am a big fan of Angelina, but I just found myself bored in this movie.  They also seemed to have padded out her bra, which made her boobs look too big and not very real.  Angelina is very hot, and it was a big mistake to mess around with her look like that I think.I hope somehow they make another movie (that has a good story behind it) and Angelina gets another chance to shine in an action flick.  This did seem like a great role for her... just the rest of the movie sucked.  I gave this movie a 5. "},{"Title":"10 out of 10 on the Sleepy Meter","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I literally fell asleep watching this movie. I was hoping for a good follow up to Indiana Jones type movies but no... this was not even close. It is very clear that with the budget nowadays 90% of the budget goes to either sex, babes in tight outfits or special effects. This is since either of these three can attract a huge brainless mass. As with all the latest Hollywood movies the plot has been made in the local bar on the back of a napkin with a dirty crayon. Even glass cannot be more transparent than this. The plot was predictable and boring. The movie is a Jolie in sexy outfit action scenes linked together.I did also laugh though. The only time I really laughed was when it became apparent that Lara had a 50 million dollar cardboard box to live in with 2 other goons. I refer to this as a cardbord box as it was made very clear by the invasion of the 3rd rate swat team that the protection was non-existant. Maybe also someday I might find the explanation as to why it was so impossible for 5 guys with machine guns to hit one woman on a piece of elastic. (Must be the guys that normally portray the StormTroopers in Star Wars as they also can't hit an elephant at 5)I could rant on about the second part of the movie if only I had seen it. The sporadic pieces of it made me hurl from the overkill in spec effects. So this is what sells nowadays? Then I very much fear for the film industry............... "},{"Title":"Like most video game movies this was a dissapointment.","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I found the movie kinda stupid and confusing. I've played the game before which I barely play cause I don't really enjoy it either (hate those controls) Tomb Raider is another movie based on video game dud. Followed by Mortal Kombat, Mario brothers and much much worse. Simon West has had a some pretty impressive flicks but this was such a dissapointment. But if you came to see Angelina Jolie then just don't pay attention to the plot. Pay attention to her. This is one of her worst roles. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I thought it was going to be...","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I admit it, I thought I was going to go and see yet another ill-conceived spin off movies, but nope, I was pleasantly surprised.  The all action start grabs your attention, and despite a few 'could see it coming from miles off' moments, the film kept my interest all the way through.  As I was expecting, there was a few Ooh, look how sexy Lara/Angelina is scenes, like we need to see she was in a shower after a workout, but they managed to steer it away from the T&A aspect that sells so many of the games.  Overall, I'd say for anyone who likes action films, this film is worth a fiver of your money, and don't be put off by the fact it is a tie in "},{"Title":"Sad to say, Not Good.*BEWARE* POSSIBLE SPOILERS","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The ads were exciting, Angelina is beautiful, they had Hollywood Big Budget Money, What happened?  Maybe the money went for all the hype and exotic locations (which were barely seen).  There really is no story.Lara gets what she's after early on.  The villain is boring.  The action is okay at times but nothing special.  The tv ads were the best part of the movie.  I for one am very disappointed.          "},{"Title":"What the???","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is not a movie based on video game. The characteristics are not shown. There is a bag pack but Miss Lara did not used that at all. What's the point of making movie based on video game if the story doesn't have the inner strength.Maybe now we can depends on Spiderman 2002 and Soul Calibur. If these both pictures can make this with huge and correct effects then, thumb up for Hollywood.Costume, well done. Action, all right. Effects and similarity, zero. Totally enjoyable too. "},{"Title":"A Film Simply To Widen Jolies Movie Offers","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Tomb Raider was simply really childish, i cant believe i even compared this to the Power Rangers movie, and yes...i did! Angelina Jolie doesent do anything outstanding in this movie, the cast isnt huge,although Angelina should be applauded for her stunt work. Most movies that are based on games are unsuccessful ( Street Fighter,Mortal Kombat) though this may be the best of the 3, i still didnt gain any excitement watching the movie, though look at for Jolies shower scene....Volumptious!If you were or are a fan of the game Tomb Raider, you might be excited with this movie, i wasnt a fan of the game, so i just watched the movie for the heck of it, i wasnt expecting much, and i didnt recieve much. The plot is confusing and pretty much stupid, though you should take note on the beautiful locations.ACTING Nothing special at all, i was actually getting sick of Jolie arching one eyebrow and blowing the hair out of her face, the acting was too simple.ACTORS I was surprised, i was expecting more or less famous people in this film, most were a bunch of unknowns, Jolie was the only real star.SCRIPT Very confusing, and its totally lost the plot, Lara (Jolie) travels all corners of the world and very quickly may i add, shes looking for a clock, a clock that re-gains time, its all too stupid to even remember, they could have thought of something better.CINEMA Cinematopgraphy, well there are some beautiful locations, and good looking artifacts and gadgets, so it all looks nice, shame about the story though.THRILLS The first five minutes and final 10 minutes are the most action packed, lots of jumping, flying, bashing and stabbing... Overall not VERY thrilling, but 15 minutes actuall worth watching.MUSIC Pretty good, during the action sequences there is some great music, suites the atmosphere very well, the music wasnt top 40, it was really nympho, i liked it.OVERALL Well, i must say i was fairly disappointed, it wasnt really a good film, sure Angelina looks great, but im sure she was casted to increase her fame, a very average movie, and should be chucked in to the Games to Movies section, and yes its not a success.** 2 OUT OF 5 STARS  "},{"Title":"Good, but not excellent.","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  After loving previous Jolie movies, my favourite being Hackers, and playing the game, I thought it was my civic duty to see how her career was going ... well that and I wanted to see a good movie.I found her acting to be excellent, along with that of Chris Barrie who I was quite pleased to see as well, even if it was a relatively minor role.I found the plot a little dry. The action sequences were good, but far too unbelievable, even worse than a James Bond movie. Jolie is a great actress, and did the best she could with the role.Spin-offs are rarely good, and this is one of those spin-offs that was very average. (5/10) "},{"Title":" good on action. bad on plot.","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  hmmm, Tomb Raider, what can i say, it lacked all mystery and 'Tomb Raiding'. if anyone whose played one of the tomb raider games will know. the whole idea of the game is to work out puzzles, solve ancient mysteries, and also shoot everything in sight! but this film hardly had any of these.if this film was a game, you would of completed it in less then 10 mins.so here is my made up mini walk through if the Tomb Raider Movie if it was a Tomb Raider Game<b>(please do not read any further if you don't want to know the plot of the movie)</b>------------------------------------------------------------------<b> mini walk through for the game of Tomb Raider 'the Movie' </b> ------------------------------------------------------------------<u>level one - training</u> kill robot. (well done you have completed the first level!)<i>cut-scene of dream sequence explaining plot about the planets alining and stuff with her father.</i><u>level two - the discovery</u> walk downstairs, Lara will hear a ticking noise. smash wall to discover a secret room under the stairs (light switch to the right). you will find a box. open it to discover clock. smash clock. discover 'clock eye key thing' in clock.(cunning) end of level.<i>cut-scene of Lara telling anyone and everyone that she has a valuable ancient 'clock eye key thing' that she knows nothing about. </i><U>level three - intruders</U> kill all bad guys as they enter you house. (don't worry most of them will absail in though the roof and then hang there waiting to be killed) however you cant win and they will make off with the 'clock eye key thing'.end of level.<i>cut-scene of Lara getting a letter from her dead father explaining plot about two parts of a triangle that are hidden on the opposite ends of the world that if joined when the planets aline will give the bearer time powers.</i><u>level four - Cambodia </u> drive jeep until Lara notices ruins. fall thought the ground. congratulations, you entered the inner chambers of the tomb.end of level.<u>level five - inside the first tomb</u> <i> cut-scene of bad guys and fellow tomb raider entering inner chambers of tomb. Lara will watch them place swords in holes as fellow tomb raider reads the carving that basically says 'place swords in holes'. main bad guy starts to place 'clock eye key thing' in 'clock eye key thing hole'. Lara will make herself know and tell the bad guys they are doing it wrong and that the real 'clock eye key thing hole' is by her! (doh!)</i>catch  'clock eye key thing' from main bad guy as he throws it to you. place in real  'clock eye key thing hole'. a stone beam will swing down.  jump on in. beam will now hit Buddha statue releasing liquid that flows into fake 'clock eye key thing hole' where the bad guys are.<i>cut-scene of special effects as half of triangle is released</i>take half of triangle before bad guys do.<i>cut-scene of the liquid that was round the triangle flowing into all the statues in the tomb bringing them to life</i>kill all statues and escape.end of level.<i>cut-scene of Lara recovering in a Buddhist temple. she uses phone to tell bad guys shes ok. bad guys tell her to meet up in Venice where they will all fly out to the next tomb in the snowy mountains. she does so, also bringing along nerdy friend. </i><u>level six - snowy mountain crater</u> 'ring bell to enter tomb' well done you have completed the level.<u>level seven - inside second tomb</u> Lara and others will notice the large 'ancient' metal model of the solar system that rotates above a tank of water in middle of a snowy cave. (there must be is a bug in this level, as the water doesn't appear to be frozen). jump around model to try and get to the sun in the middle that's where the 'clock eye key thing hole' is. try to avoid being hit by other planets. catch 'clock eye key thing' from fellow tomb raider, and place in 'clock eye key thing hole'. disappear into sun. emerge again with other half of the triangle. bad guys join triangle. nothing happens. main bad guy throws knife at fellow tomb raider to make Lara tell him how to make it work. try to save fellow tomb raider, you fail he dies. Lara will show main bad guy  how to join the clock buy throwing the 'clock eye key thing' against the wall to add the missing part of the triangle.<i>cut scene of special effects as triangle is joined.  surreal sequences as Lara  and main bad guy try to race to the top of a massive triangle. Lara wins and meets her dead father who says that you shouldn't mess with time and to destroy the triangle. Lara and father touch</i>Lara is taken back to the part where main bad guy throws knife at fellow tomb raider to make Lara tell him how to make it work. this time however time stands still. point knife at main bad guy. shoot triangle to destroy it and start time again. main bad guy gets stabbed. (hurray)<i>cut-scene of tomb shaking and things falling down.main bad guy who lying dying on the floor tells Lara that he killed her father. everyone leaves except Lara and main bad guy</i>end of level.<u>level eight - the dual</u> kick main bad guy's ass. leave tomb via husky. congratulations you have completed the game.<i>cut-scene of happy ending</i>------------------------------------------------------ive never seen Tomb Raiders have it so good. Indiana Jones would be laughing.what a disappointment. "},{"Title":"tomb raider stinks","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  here's why... pacing is slack, and the 4 action scenes are poor. the bungee sequence is poorly handled by a dirctor not as talented as he belives he is. the tomb scene is ripped out of indiana jones (surprise!) and also from the mummy. it doesn't even have a climax as such, it just ends, with a fight added on to seem like it has a conclusion. it stinks. not the worst film ever made, but still not worth the cash. rent indy videos instead. "}{"Title":"Pretty good movie","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I went in tomb raider thinking it was going to be kind of silly but it was not it was a very action packed movie with great special effects and great acting by angelina jolie. All together it was a pretty good movie worth the trip to the theater "},{"Title":"BORING","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Oh dear..this movie was so incredibly boring. I agreed to go to this movie with my boyfriend hoping that I would (at least) enjoy the kick-ass girl action. As it was, the action (if you can call it that) was dry. The most entertaining part was one Lara Croft was in her house and fighting that wicked machine thingy. The plot (if you can call it that) is lacking. Now, I can live with little or no plot if the action is entertaining (ex. The Mummy Returns). However, this movie lacks both. If though, you are a young male (or female who digs chicks) this movie could be for you. Jolies character prances and jumps in practicly nothing and her overly large breasts bounce all over the place. Forgive me, I don't understand HOW that woman can do what she does at all, with breasts about 5 times the size of her hips, seems she'd be a bit top heavy, no? Anyway, I wouldn't recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Crap","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Crap...............utter crap.Story.......None.Action......None.Shots of Angelina flexing every part of her body........Plentiful. "},{"Title":"No-brainer","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  WARNING CONTAINS SPOILERSThere's so much less to Tomb Raider than meets the eye. Despite Jolie's pneumatic efforts, the whole film falls dramatically to pieces after even a moment's consideration.Here's the thing if Lara's dad wants to stop the triangle being rebuilt so that its destructive power won't be unleashed on the world, and it requires the clock to get hold of the triangle, why does he tell Lara where the clock is in the first place? Furthermore, if two parts of this artefact are necessary to make it work, Lara surely doesn't need to destroy both. Why doesn't she just destroy the first part when she gets it, as this would make the second part useless? Thirdly, when we find out finally that the triangle needs a further part, where is it? Inside the clock, of course. Surely this begs the question, why not just destroy the piece inside the clock, which Richard Croft actually had in his possession, thus rendering the triangle inoperative?The fact that Bryce watches the Clangers was the only thing that stopped this movie being a total waste of time. "},{"Title":"Lara Croft, Snore Inducer","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"      You may have heard that this movie is pretty bad, but it's even worse than that.  It wastes everything -- the extensive effects, the elaborate production design, Angela Jolie -- and provides very little.  The action scenes are wildly over-edited, the color tones are dull and ugly, the plot both simple and stupid.   And on top of all this, it's extravagantly, awesomely boring, badly paced, badly acted, a snooze fest with a colossal budget. "},{"Title":"Trite, but nice to see Jolie do the hollywood bit","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This was a movie I felt I had to see even though the reviews were so bad. Angelina Jolie is lovely and I'm sure she had fun making it, but I ran out of energy trying to believe in it. It reminded me of the worst bits from a bad Bond movie with offcuts from Charlie's Angels and The Man From U.N.C.L.E. In a nutshell, Lara gets landed with a key to a magic thingie that gets her half a triangle towards the ultimate whatyamacallit and fights off some men in suits and machine guns who also want to get hold the same thing. Think of it as a video game on an old 486 computer with the Trite Version button fully depressed. "},{"Title":"Oh dear","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Tomb Raider is one of the worst films I've seen in a long time. I should have been warned by the run-jump-shoot nature of the game, but I foolishly supposed the film would compensate for the lack of interactivity by adding a plot and some pacy action scenes. Oh how wrong I was...Plot pathetic. In fact it seemed worse than it was because it set up several intriguing possibilities, only to shun them in favour of tired cliches. The feeble plot it does have is little more than sketched out, and often makes no sense.Script laughable. There are a handful of half-decent lines, most of which come over better in the trailer than in the film. Lots of pointless characters too, always good in a film -sigh. There are lots of non-explanations as well, e.g. - why doesn't my laptop work? - we're in a dead zone. A dead zone? Of course, how foolish of me not to have realised.Acting for the most part, risible. Angelina Jolie (Lara) does alright I suppose, though she's battling the script to the end. Not that that matters, the camera's far more interested in her chest and thighs. Iain Glen was very disappointing, especially after seeing his superb Henry V. By far the worst performance is Jon Voight, who may as well have phoned in his lines they were so flat. Granted the lines were rubbish, but surely he could have made some kind of effort?Action OK so the plot, script and acting were awful - you can live with that in an action film, right? Well you might be able to if the action were good, but it's not. I can't remember duller, less involving fight sequences. You never think for one moment that Lara is in any danger at all, so there's no tension or excitement, but it hardly matters because Lara rarely gets in a decent scrap. She usually either runs away, hides while others handle the problem, or wins ludicrously easily. When she does actually fight, it's very staid (though in fairness this might be the UK censors' doing).Is there anything good to say about it? Well I suppose if you were absolutely obsessed with Jolie, then the film *might* be worth enduring. Don't get me wrong, she's a nice looking lass, but that's not really going to carry a film. Boy do they try though - at times it seems the plot revolves solely around stairs for her to traverse, blocks for her to jump onto, and corridors for her to run along, whilst the camera tracks her chest's every movement. It's mildly diverting for the first five minutes or so, and then you start wondering when the film's going to start. You'll still be wondering as the final credits roll.Summary I paid over five quid to see this turgid rubbish, and the only way it'll be worth it is if I can save you all the same ordeal. Please don't see it.  "},{"Title":"A Great Action Packed Adventure.","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Lara Croft Tomb Raider was definitely better then I expected. The film was very exciting and had a good story to it as well. The action sequences were great and Angeline Jolie was the perfect Lara Croft and Jon Voight, Angelina's real-life dad did a great job as Lara's father in the film too. It makes you want to see more of Lara's adventures which I'm sure we will in the upcoming Tomb Raider sequels. I give the film a 5-6/10.  "},{"Title":"Sexy and funny","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"   Tomb Raider is a that movie that you go knowing that there are bad plot ,horrible dialogues and funny things.First of all , go watch this movie because of Angelina Jolie ,she never been so sexy like in this movie.Her lips and her body are just perfect and a dream!!!!  The fight scenes aren't very good they're not well done and the script is the worst ever!!Simon West made movies like Con air and The General's daughter,both are terrible so I don't understand how Paramount put him on charge of Lara's story.  The music from the Motion Picture is Two thumbs up we have a very cool remix of Elevation from U2 , Deep from Nine Inch Nails and other great musics. "},{"Title":"One line?  One word - abysmal.  Only sadists would ask for more.","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What's it all about?  Rather difficult to tell. Lara Croft is a chesticularly-challenged heiress with a taste for archaeology, inherited from her missing presumed dead Father. She has lots of money and guns, which she shoots a lot until the end of the film. Oh, and some nonsense about a clock and triangles and time travel but that doesn't seem to matter much... So, the film of THE game has finally arrived and, after endless publicity about 'who'll play Lara and how will she look', we finally have the answers. And none of them matter because of one simple, undeniable truth. Tomb Raider is abysmal. End of story. Though God knows I'm tempted to leave it there (and not relive the horror of that 100 minutes), let me expand.'TR' has clearly been produced with an attitude of contempt towards its many fans, and the moviegoer in general. In the light of the film's marketing (which, in retrospect, the studio must really be regretting), it is impossible not to compare 'TR' with 'Raiders of the Lost Ark' and the more recent 'Mummy' films. Yet it lacks the depth and gravitas of the former, the self-irony and breathless editing of the latter, and the high quality script bestowed on both. The studio clearly believed that the sexual dimension of the Lara Croft character, so played on by themselves, would be enough to compensate for it's many shortcomings. They were very, very wrong.The settings are bland, empty recreations of the Indiana Jones movies, the action scenes numbingly boring, uncreative and repetetive. Self-indulgent to the extreme, they've been done a hundred times, and a hundred times better. The soundtrack does the film no favours at all, it's horrendous overuse making you feel as though you've been duped into watching the Tomb Raider Lucozade advert over and over and over again. With the exception of Jolie (who, as always, provides a fine performance which recreates and expands on the look and spirit of Croft), the film is woefully miscast, and even fine actors such as Jon Voight are reduced to mouthing cliched and frequently cringeworthy drivel at a blameless audience. In terms of effects, the film already appears dated. The props, at least, provide some welcome amusement. Fresh from The Gadget Shop, many of them must have 'Made in Taiwan' stamped on their bottom. The bulky 'Pay As You Talk' Orange phone that appears on the dashboard of Lara's Land Rover is almost an anti-climax.There is nothing original here, and what is here is simply cold, soulless rubbish. It's a bland, predictable, boring, cynical attempt to cash in on the popularity of the game by expending very little creative energy and few financial resources. The only good thing may be that Jolie's fantastic performance should lift her above taking on anything that sinks as low as this film.  Don't waste your time.3/10 "}{"Title":"Worst excuse for an action movie.","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"   Now before I say anything, I must state that I'm not a big fan of the Tomb Raider video games, I find them boring. But I'd rather play each of those games 10 times through, than to have to sit through the movie Tomb Raider again.  The story is clunky and poorly done, the acting is very bad and the action is surprisingly lame. Oh and the special effects, including a few dopey looking statues are very bad as well.  I don't know why this movie was so bad, director Simon West of Con Air fame, should have been able to make at the very least a passable action flick.  The sad thing is the success of this movie ($115+ mil.) will spawn at least one sequel, which makes me cringe at the very thought of it. This one deserves -*** stars. "},{"Title":"Didn't quite get my Lara Croft fix!","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Angelina Jolie gave an outstanding performance as Lara Croft.  I was happily surprised to find that the characters were so well developed.  The acting was only surpassed by the outstanding stunts and visual effects.  The storyline was unique and interesting, and it certainly had the same feel as the video game.  I was very impressed with the overall quality of the movie. I am looking forward to Tomb Raider 2.  My only hope is that the film makers make the sequel longer.  I wasn't ready to leave the theater.  I could have sat through a much longer picture.  That was the only flaw that I could find with that movie.  I didn't quite get my Lara Croft fix!   "},{"Title":"Pretty good action flick!!","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Definitely not the abhorrent film that some people have made it out to be. Ok, so maybe its not perfect, and there are some plot holes, but give me a break, what were you expecting..it's a popcorn summer movie.Angelina makes a great Lara Croft. I can't imagine too many actresses that could actually pull off looking and appearing as tough as she does. She does it with ease. The scenery was great, from the insides of the buildings and temples, to Cambodia and on. It all looked very good. The special effects were also not as some people have written. I was going in expecting Ray Harryhausen type of effects from some of the comments I read. All of looked pretty good, and I particularly liked the battle-robot.I would definitely recommend this movie to action fans, Lara Croft fans, and fans of Angelina Jolie, of which I'm sure there are a lot more of now.   "},{"Title":"At least Angelina was great","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Angelina Jolie was spectacular as Lara Croft- I can't imagine anyone else playing it as well as she did. The rest of the movie was fun, but left me feeling like, Wait, was that it?. Still, there were plenty of stunts, and it was nice seeing a female Indiana Jones. It's a great movie for fans of the video game, or fans of Angelina Jolie. Otherwise, wait for the rental. "},{"Title":"Turn Back Now!","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Don't waste your time! This movie has a plot that's so transparent, it's almost comical.  Unless you want to see Jolie make the same tough girl expression over and over again for two hours, I suggest you spend your money on something else.  Bottom line Great video game, bad movie. "},{"Title":"The first action film without any action","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Fortunately this is a film that could not fail - no matter how bad the reviews, there would be enough people willing to pay to see Angelina Jolie bounce around as Lara Croft, the computer game heroine with the impossible figure and the agility of a panther.Unfortunately, it deserves to fail.  While the plot is quite sound and fits in with the history of the character very nicely, the action is missing and when it does arrive, it provides no excitement at all.  There is no tension, no adrenaline, nothing.  The other major problem is the script.  The dialogue in the games is of a higher quality than this dross.  Plot development was poorly done, characters flimsily constructed and the major confrontations between the major characters had all the bite of a dead slug.Given the material, Jolie is okay and Iain Glen makes an adequate baddie.  Jolie's (real) father Jon Voight is wasted and Chris Barrie (a well-known UK TV comedy actor) is given lines with no humour at all as the butler.Below average and a huge disappointment - but we knew it would be, right? "},{"Title":"A monumental disappointment...","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Considering that this film had been in production for over three years (if the date for one of the working titles is anything to go by) before it hit my local cinema, to say I was disappointed in the end result would be an understatement. Angelina Jolie is in fine form as the object of every Johnny-Come-Lately-To-Videogames' lust, but there is just nothing at all for her to work with. Not only is she the only recognisable actor in this mess besides Jon Voight, who has hardly done anything worth looking at in the last few years, but the story is so unexciting that my response would be something like yeah, and...?, or something along those lines.There are two moments in the film where any excitement is generated, these being the first moment when Lara practises her combat skills against an robot that looks like something that George Lucas rejected, and the bad guys' attempt to raid the Croft mansion. Everything else in the film drags on so far past its use-by date that its quite a shock to see that someone is credited with editing the film. Given that it only runs for about 100 minutes, it's quite a shock to see that it could have easily been cut down to about half of its length without losing any real valuable narrative.When The Mummy first came out, people described it as being a poor man's Indiana Jones, in spite of the fact that it was at least the equal of the two sequels in that franchise. Tomb Raider, on the other hand, is a film that fits the poor man's Indiana Jones description so well that it is almost tragic. Tomb Raider struggles to reach so much as a modicum of Temple Of Doom's level, and this is not helped by the fact that there is no score by John Williams or even a vaguely funny moment to elevate the proceedings.This is one film that has we're only in it to make money out of a popular cultural icon stamped all over it. Don't waste your money, wait for this one to come out as a rental DVD where you can see the flat and unappealing cinematography in all its monotonous glory, anyway. "},{"Title":"HOW did they makes this film so dull?????","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Don't you just hate it when this happens.  When you go and see a film with the highest of expectations, when it seems nothing could possibly effect your enjoyment of a movie, but then when you actually watch it, you realise it's basically pants.And coming from me, that's saying something.  I'm the kind of shallow, popcorn movie fan that many film purists loathe.  I'm the kind of bloke that ensures Hollywood blockbusters get cheesier and more bombastic year after year and I ain't ashamed to say I'm proud of it.  I go to the cinema to be ENTERTAINED... If I wanted spend two hours excercising my brain I'd watch the discovery channel.  From The Matrix to Mortal KombatAnhiliation to Con Air, you give me a load of explosions, car chases and fights, I'm happy!I say all that in the hope that my fellow superficial movergoers take my opinions on 'Tomb Raider' to heart.  Cos ' I'm sad to say it was big disappointment.  OK, it ain't as meandering as 'Wild, Wild West' and it certainly ain't as boring as 'Mission Impossible 2' but it's still missing something.  Quite a lot of things actually.There's no snappy dialogue or cheesy one-liners, there's no pacing, there's no motivation to most of what goes on and even during the most intense action scenes, there's just no excitement.  You know that feeling you get when you're watching a really in-your-face action scene and the hero is doing something stupendously audacious and you feel this big, stupid grin begin to to spread across your face.  Well it doesn't happen here.  The action somehow (don't ask me how) comes across as cold, distant and uninteresting.  Surprising really as West's earlier action efforts with Con Air were as good as any I'd seen.The lack of direction, plot, script of even point of this film aside, Jolie is superb and is pretty much the only watchable thing about the movie.  Of course, this only adds to your frustration cos' you know she deserved SO much better.  We can only hope a sequel does appear and Simon West is a VERY long way away when it does. "},{"Title":"Pointless","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Pointless silliness about Lara's efforts to retrieve a triangle that can control time.  Little to recommend in this film, other than Angelina Jolie's fantastic body.  She and her audience at least deserved a better script and plot.  5/10 "},{"Title":"very close to the video game","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In one respect this film is a masterstroke It managed to be strikingly close to the video game. Thus, most rules of video games also apply to the film The protagonist is merely invincible, and after having got hit she can regain vitality points through a magic potion. Every level has a multitude of unintelligent opponents followed by an end fight with a slightly more challenging enemy. The film even includes the training level at the start. What's missing is what every video game lacks human interaction and realism. Frankly, I prefer either real video games or real movies. Ultimately, Arnold's human interaction is just the salt in the soup that was missing here. Hasta la vista, baby... "}{"Title":"Shudder..","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In these days of let the lowest common denominator rule I hadn't expected Tomb Raider to be a fantastic movie, however I was hoping it had some elements that didn't insult the ordinary viewers intelligence. I actually hoped it was atleast a well made Indiana Jones ripoff...I was - ofcourse wrong. Tomb Raider is probably the worst movie I have seen all year. It was even worse than Hollow Man!!The characters were flat and the plot was so thin it was a crying shame. There wasn't a scene I didn't predict. Do the producers really think they can cast a buxom lady with huge ammounts of collagen in her lips and expect it to make up for a onedimensional plot? Well, I should have expected all this - we are talking hollywood here..However - the extreme ammounts of comercial in this movie surpassed even the worst I have seen sofar. Tomb Raider was more infomercial than action movie. Obviously sponsored by Gerber, some cellular company I can't recall and World Delivery Express (or something) they did nothing to even make the comercial subtle...Well, with the MTV generation - what can you expect...?On the more positive side - atleast I talked my girlfriend out of going to see Pearl Harbour... "},{"Title":"Perfection  not always a good thing","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The problem with Tomb Raider, is that the character of Lara Croft is perfect.  Great heros are defined by Tragic Flaws, imperfections or internal conflicts that the hero must overcome in order to better themselves.  This is a standard literary rule.  Now people would say Just because it's a rule, doesn't mean it has to be followed.  I think Tomb Raider is a prime example of what happens when some rules are broken. The essence of drama is conflict, outer and inner.  These are obstacles that the hero must overcome in order to have a story with drama.  It might be considered that the villians in Tomb Raider create the needed conflict.  That the fact that Lara Croft must defeat these villians makes for enough conflist in order for Tomb Raider to be a succesful movie.  The problem with this position is that the villians in Tomb Raider didn't pose to much of a threat.  We (the audience) knew before the battle scene even started that Lara Croft would come out victorious, and not only victorious but completely unharmed.  This makes the flashy battle sequences almost a waste of time.  There was never a point in Tomb Raider where the audience thinks Oh my gosh.  Is she gonna make it? I don't know.  I really hope she does.  Now I'm not saying that the hero must lose, only lose enough in order to make the charcter seem like a human being.  Not like some perfect robot that can dessimate anything in her path.  This lack of conflict removed any amount of emotional content that went into the movie.Tomb Raider is a mentally boring film.  It should be only viewed by people who enjoy action and don't care about plot. "},{"Title":"Dangerous Liaisons","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The only comments I have after viewing Tomb Raider, are these1. What was it good for? Bluffing people into thinking that therecan't possibly exist an organization like the Illuminati? Well, itdoes. It is a historical fact, founded by Ignatius deLoyola under thename of Alumbrados (spanish The Enlightened Ones) andrevived by Adam Weishaupt about 200 years later under the nameof Die Bavarische Illuminati (The Bavarian Enlightened Ones),from where it grew into real dominant power.2. I don't doubt for a second that early civilizations had theknowledge and the abilitiy to build machinery like the one we seein the movie, but still ... the function of these are to far fetched, evenfor a self-proclaimed believer.3. The final comment is Indiana Jones + Terminator + X-Men = Lara Croft, Tomb Raider.Sorry guys You could have done much better than this!!! "},{"Title":"Indiana Jones meets Batman","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm not going to say I disliked this movie, but it was predictable.Throughout the picture, I kept reminding myself that it was based on a game. But couldn't they have slipped just a little more plot in there for us older folk ?Having said this, the movie was what I expected.  Ninety minutes of explosions and gunfights by the bungee jumping, sunglass wearing, gun slinging, snobby rich girl, who could audition for the next Indiana Jones or Batman flic.Pick an in the now star, have her portray a character from a popular video game, dress her up in revealing attire, make your quick million and run from the box office.  Man, I'm in the wrong line of work.Regarding the revealing attire, my girlfriend and I remarked that while trekking through the arctic, Miss Croft was the only one we could confirm was wearing a T-shirt !Anyway, if you're into action and fictional stunts, then you'll find this movie entertaining.  But that's all you get.A film obviously geared for the younger box office dollar. "},{"Title":"Eye candy but little else","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm a big fan of Tomb Raider in general and was both happy and disappointed after seeing this movie.  I was relieved that Angelina Jolie did a commendable job of filling Lara Croft's boots.  She did the British accent convincingly, and although she tended to overplay the surly demeanor, she was quite good. The major fault to this film, however, is the infantile plot.  You would think that for a multi million dollar summer blockbuster they would have bothered to hire a writer, but apparently not.  The plot is full of holes (Lara has the key they seek; why not destroy it and prevent the end of the world that way?) and plays like a video game, meaning that it is a thin excuse to move from exotic locale to exotic locale.  The visuals are great, the soundtrack is fun, and overall it's a fun movie.  I could only imagine what a good writer and director could have done with it, though... "},{"Title":"It is OK, nothing more, nothing less...","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is neither a 1 nor a 10. I gave it a 5. Because of some really cool, beautiful shots, nice locations and a rather ok direction by Simon West (I really liked his first two features). The problem with this film is not the direction, not the actors (nor the cast), not even the story. The problem with the film is it's scipt. Stupid, foreseeable dialogue, way too unrealistic (as unrealistic as Charlie's Angels was) and sometimes it was just dumb, lack of action and stupid use of dumb special effects. I think that is very sad, because the story had a good potential. I still think they should have made an R rated movie with more action in it. 5/10 "},{"Title":"A fair movie based on a bland concept","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Can't say that I ever liked the Tomb Raider games, mostly since I think the concept is a bit silly, but the movie turned out ok and I don't think you have to be a game-fan to appreciate it. I would like to argue against those that consider Lara a female Indiana Jones, as this movie lack in quality, action, humor and acting when compared to the Indy-movies. Sure, the special effects are top-notch, but that doesn't make the movie any better in the long run. The movie is pretty straight forward, no unexpected turns really, with a tendency to get a bit sentimental in the second half. I must say that I was pleasantly surprised in one way as the movie does contain a bit more actual storyline than I suspected it would, but I also am a bit dissappointed as I was expecting a great deal more action. "},{"Title":"Not a great movie but fun nonetheless","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Although the storyline of Tomb Raider was weak and flawed the movie was still entertaining and fun.  Angelina Jolie was such a perfect choice for Lara Croft and made the most of what she had to work with.  Visually the film was great and good action scenes.  If you are looking for a mindless fun film this should fit the bill. "},{"Title":"What an unbelievable bulls***","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This was surely the worst movie I`ve seen so far this year. No story, lame sets, bad visual effects, bad acting and Simon West has proved, that he may be good at commercials, but has no sense of making a decent movie.His first film Con Air was a dumb movie and The general´s daughter was based on a fantastic novel by Nelson De Mille and a screenplay by William Goldman, so this one needed no direction. Nobody could have made that a bad film. Tomb Raider is clearly an expensive C-picture and the only good thing in it is Angelina Jolie, who is extremely talented. She was also the reason not to leave the cinema during the film. After ten minutes I thought that this movie must be the unofficial sequel to another clunker The Avengers, which had the same problems. The whole atmosphere of the movie was very sterile. The story was paper thin, which is something I didn´t care about when everything else is ok, but that wasn´t the case here. The sets were so-so and the visual effects reminded me of the effects in David Lynch´s Dune, but that movie was made in 1984! What is shocking about this is the fact, that the FX were made by Mill Film and Cinesite who also made the FX of Gladiator and Event horizon. The editing was also bad and I asked myself if it could be true, that editor Glen Scantlebury was involved in the elegant editing of Bram Stoker´s Dracula or if he edited this one in his sleep. And what about the score by Graeme Revell? A movie of this scope for me requires a big score, something like John Williams´Indiana Jones-Scores, but no electronic mishmash meandering along through my ears. The big weekly downturn at the boxoffice seems to indicate bad word of mouth and that´s what this movie deserves. Ok, here we are with a big nothing, filled with unbelievable bulls***. Let´s hope that this is the first and the last Tomb Raider or call a real director for a second time.  "},{"Title":"A misfired attempt to compensate a small story with a big bust","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The producing staff chose the right leading actress for this film. Actually, this decision made the best of this bad job. If Angelina Jolie hadn't taken part in this production, I would have voted this movie a total pratfall (but so, I still gave 5/10).What actually did the story book writers had in mind when they forgot about all these thrilling game scenes, just where the picture is accompanied with a tensing music. Instead, they made this movie a techno party -- Lara's Party mix, to be precise!I couldn't believe it! Think! They had five! complete game stories to learn from -- And yet, they weren't able to build up only one to make a movie worth watching of. To give you some examples, here's my personal flop five1. This sob-stuff about her father being a bad boy -- but converting to the good boys is so canned and dull, I just can't stand it2. Did you notice, that apart from A. Jolie there wasn't any other female part of importance in this production -- A little too single-edged for my taste3. It is a very surprising fact to me that Alex Cross (played by Daniel Craig) is such a patsy, only being capable of blaming Lara for doing a bad job although he's the one being too dumb to find the right keyhole!4. Unfortunately, Iain Glen (Manfred Powell) plays his part a bit too perfectly. I don't believe him not being troubled by the situation at the council of his picky club5. The scene, where Lara and Powell race for the magic device is far too short. It is the key to all what happened before -- which could have been told in about 30 minutes! --, yet, after 3 seconds everything is settled, finallyI feel deeply sorry for all fans of Lara who were eagerly waiting to see this movie. It's absolutely not worth affording a ticket!My personal consequence is plain If there shall be a sequel, I'll wait for it to be released on DVD. At least, then I can enjoy the good scenes and skip the crap... "}{"Title":"Awesome Angelina, incredible action, weak movie","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** First off, let's point out that Lara Croft, being the title character of Tomb Raider, never actually raids any tombs.  But who cares, right?  The movie rocked, and it had to carry the video game name, so there it is. Angelina has never been more entrancing.  Her performance here, though surrounded by corniness and cliches, is like a beautiful work of art that just catches the eye and won't let it go.  Aside from being incredibly beautiful herself, she gave a kinesthetic performance like Tom Cruise's in Mission Impossible 2.  They were both powerhouse action-hero performances full of incredible stunts made credible by the stars actually putting themselves through the rough stuff.  An action star like Angelina deserves eye-popping action scenes, and Simon West and whatever choreographers he had deliver.  Though the stone-monster scene was a retread of The Mummy and other such movies & the race for the triangle was out of place, all other action scenes were fun, intense, and beautifully shot.  I especially liked the bungee-cord scene, where everything got blown to pieces except our heroine herself, of course.  Now, despite all this, I gave the movie a 5/10, because it was just an average movie featuring some above average qualities. Without Angelina & that wonderful action, the movie woulda been horrible. I know it was just supposed to be a fun movie, but I would've liked some kind of plot, a little bit wittier dialogue, & some more interesting supporting characters.  They seemed to just be throwing around random scenes, random events, that made no sense and were really, well, stupid. The movie really lacked imagination (that bungee scene is about the most original thing in the movie).  And though it's nice that Angie & daddy could be together on-screen, Jon Voight's part had me laughing, even when the scene was supposed to be touching.  And, man, was he struggling with that accent!  Thank God Angie got it down right!  Well, here's to more (better) adventure thriller-dillers (where did that word come from?) in the movies for the future.  More interesting plots, more imagination, & more strong female leads.  I do hope dearly for Tomb Raider 2, but I hope it's a lot better. "},{"Title":"There are two good things in this movie ...","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Tomb Raider is basically (another) Indiana Jones movie, this time in women's clothing. It's the classic (i.e. much repeated) explorer goes off to mystical, ancient land to recover mystical ancient object and meets (kicks butt of) other rival explorers (baddies) and supernatural guardians of mystical, ancient object who come to life the minute you try to steal their mystical, ancient object.In comparison Indiana Jones has more humour, and The Mummy (which I disliked) better special effects. However I was thoroughly entertained for its 100 minutes and forgot most of it the minute I walked out of the cinema &#150; perfect for the mood I was in at the time &#150; eyes open, brain off.  "},{"Title":"A nice chance, that turned out to be stupid","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, I didn't expect much when I went to see tomb raider. I was expecting a heavy package of action, a lot of cool looking poses of Lara Croft (angelina Jolie) But... it made Mission Impossible look like the most realistic and logic action flick ever. They made the movie look like an computer game. WRONG! When you are playing a computer game, it usually have flaws in the story, when you are playing, you end up fighting and killing hundreds of enemies, magic and unlogical surprises included... but you forgive it, because it's interactive. You are doing, you are killing the enemies by the hundreds, you are running away the falling stones, that NEVER fall in front of you, only behind, and getting closer. But in a movie, the only thing you do it sit down, and watch. It's then when you see the problems of the movie. There a lot of tough female characters in movies. Ripley and Linda Hamilton, as an instance, but they are smart, tough, but not invulnerable. All the characters were undefined, and too plain. Including Lara Croft. And the story line just too many flaws. The action scenes were stupid. Far too cool, to include any resemblance to be real. Matrix made a far better job, both in making cool shots, and make the fights believable. As a resume, don't waste your money. "},{"Title":"About as fun as watching someone else play the videogame","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Angelina Jolie looks as amazing as ever, and that's perhaps the only thing that might make this film watchable. She runs all over the screen, rolling over, taking backflips, and kicking the living daylights out of bad guys. However, all this is done without any kind of humor. In a film like this, that's the difference between crap and great fun. Also, there isn't a real bad guy. Unlike the Indiana Jones series, you really can't tell if the enemy really is an enemy. Nearly unwatchable, hadn't it been for Angelina's sultry looks. "},{"Title":"I know it is meant to be a no-brainer, but...","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Sorry, but this was just plain terrible.Now I know that this movie is not pretending to be an award winner, or even that original, but that's no excuse. Other movies in the past have had no pretensions to what they were, Raiders Of The Lost Ark, Die Hard, even Star Wars (sorry to use the obvious as frames of reference), and yet they successfully manage to suck you in to that world of escapism beautifully. You suspend disbelief and go with the flow, forgiving them for occasional cornball lapses, because of their humour, innovation, originality, and plots that were at least a little credible.I can even enjoy parts of movies on a set piece level (sad, but both Mission Impossible and Jurassic Park had their fleeting moments). Tomb Raider though... well I cannot find anything at all redeeming for it. OK, Angelina is perfect casting. But my friend said he could just picture the studio execs giggling at how many different angles and shots of her breasts they managed to get into a PG film, and it's funny cause it's probably true.So before this gets too long, let me summarise just what's wrong with this film... plot, direction, acting, lame special effects, set pieces that were unexciting AND pointless... the list goes on. If it is designed to be mindless entertainment, then at least let it be entertaining!On the how long it took me to notice I was uncomfortable in my seat scale... about 15 minutes. That works out to about 1.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I didn't like it.","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The movie critics said this was better than The Mummy Returns. Several of them in fact. Because of this, I have learned not to trust movie critics (They were the same ones who said Titanic was good). I liked The Mummy Returns it was just a lot of fun.Tomb Raider was just a bunch of breast shots and plot holes. Plot holes one could drive a truck through. There were a lot of neat Matrix-like stunts in it, but there's little else going for it. Angelina Jolie is the right actress in a bad movie.I'd say skip this movie and check out The Fast and the Furious, it's better than this movie. "},{"Title":"I wish it was 1981 all over again","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Raiders of the Lost Ark is a lost art.  It is a film that embodies all the simplicity of film yet it was made ( at the time ) with all the latest technology.  It had a few excellent special effects in it and the stunts were the zenith of film making.  It was the absolute pinnacle of action films in 1981 and it still is today.  Funny, strange, ironic, take your pick that technology has changed exponentially in the last twenty years and yet we still cannot duplicate or successfully imitate a film that changed the scope of film twenty years ago.  As a film reviewer once said, just because you can put something in film, doesn't mean you should.  There has to be reason for it.  There has to be flow to it and most of all, if you are going to make an action film, the action has to be the treat.  The story has to be the glue that holds it all together.  Could you imagine if Lucas and Phillip Kaufman and William Huyck and Jeffrey Boam had the story of the eye of the pyramid and all that was Lara Croft?  Could you imagine the film that they could write?  As a matter of fact, wouldn't it be interesting if this was the next installment of the Indiana Jones legacy?  It would be quite interesting.  I know it is not fair to compare Lara Croft to Indiana Jones or Simon West to Spielberg but in some ways it is inevitable.  Indiana Jones paved the way for future films of the same nature to get made, now it is only fair that these same films be judged on their work.  It is no secret that Tomb Raider is a pastiche of other great films from the past like Indy and even Jackie Chan films.  But when you are imitating one's style, the least you can do is pay homage to it, not just punch the clock and hope that it turns out okay.  If you looked up prosaic in the encyclopedia of action films, this one would lead the list.The big problem with Tomb Raider is that it is all visual effects and no story.  There is to much action and not enough leading up to that action.  Not that action is a bad thing, it isn't.  But when I don't really know anything about the bad guys, or even about Lara's cronies, then I can't really care about them or the rest of the movie.  Look at Belloq from Raiders of the Lost Ark.  Look how much we knew about him before we discovered he was competing for the search of the Ark.  We knew he was a worthy but devious competitor to Indy.  We knew that he was smart and well versed in world religion and that he spoke Hovitos.  And how do we know this?  Aside from the fact that he is waiting to claim the idol at the beginning, we know it because of one exchange between him and Indy.Again we can see there is nothing you can possess which I can not take away.  And you thought I'd given up.Too bad the Hovitos don't know you the way I do Belloq.Yes, you could warn them.  If only you spoke Hovitos.Such a simple exchange.  Yet such a vital one.  This makes their struggle all the more epic and all the more apodictic.  Lara Croft doesn't have a modicum of this.  Lara Croft doesn't know the fundamentals of what an action film embodies.  It may look and feel like a video game, but it smells and tastes like garbage.  I get angry when films like this tease me.  For every ground breaking film like T2 and The Matrix that thrill us and entertain us, you get a plethora of other films like The Mummy 2 and Tomb Raider that just go through the motions.  And these films will continue to flourish as long as they have 40 million dollar openings.  Because this encourages film makers.  It doesn't matter if these films cost 100 million to produce, they are going to make that back in the first month of distribution and then make more garbage.  I yearn for the days when films could justify their 20 million dollar budgets by making 300 or 400 million dollars world wide.  Now you get films like Tomb Raider, like Final Destiny, like A.E that are inflating their budgets and all they are doing is making films that have been done before, but they are making a very poor imitation of them.  If you look at a film like Star Wars, E.T. Raiders of the Lost Ark, Ghostbuster, Jaws, Back to the Future and even something like Close Encounters or Rambo, you will see that not only did these films make tons of money, they did it with a parsimonious budget compared to today's films.  Sure Tomb Raider and The Mummy and even something like Pearl Harbor will make lots of money, but at what ratio from budget to profit?  Raiders made about 20 times it's budget, Jaws, about 50 times it's budget, Star Wars, maybe 100 times it's budget. These films will be lucky to make one and a half times their budget, if these films perform well over seas ( Titanic being the exception ).  You think Scary movie and The Fast and The Furious are glitches?  They aren't, they are actually the model that films should be based on.  Less is sometimes more.Tomb Raider is a boring action film.  Angelina Jolie is quite good in the title role but that is about it.  All the action sequences, all the kicks and punches and exploding rock monsters are all done in vain because this is a film that you could actually fall asleep in.  Next time, I suggest they follow the manual a little more carefully when trying to make the next great action film.  Spielberg and Lucas are the icons of the business for a reason.  Simon West and company shouldn't forget that.  After all, you want to be compared to Raiders of the Lost Ark and not Cutthroat Island.2 out of 10- Prosaic being the mots du jour. "},{"Title":"Fun, roller coaster film.  Not worth seeing twice.","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Fun, summer picture.  Not worth seeing twice.  Tomb Raider had some interesting bits of plot thrown in, that seemed to go no where. The action was well done, although very confusing and hard to follow in places.  Overall, an amusing way to waste two hours, but hit the matinee, not worth full ticket price. "},{"Title":"Wallet Raider","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm just glad I used my student ID and got a $2 dollar discount.  I would hate to imagine myself paying the full price $8 to see this trash that they call Tomb Raider.I'll admit, I was psyched to see this film.  What with the action-packed preview, the fetching Angelina Jolie as the star, the pedigree of a whiz-bang action director in Simon West, and the ripe-for-movies video game on which it is based.But my excitement turned to utter boredom as this unfunny, unengaging, lackluster attempt at a movie scrolled across the screen.  The action was flaccid and somewhat slow in pace, the dialogue was forced, the plot made little sense, and the characters were just plain silly.And I don't care what anyone says, Jolie could not carry this movie on the strength of her pouty lips and perky breasts alone.  This film failed, as far as I'm concerned.So much potential, so little fruition.  I'll stick to playing the video game, thank you. "},{"Title":"not an overall happy review","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  this movie has some serious problems. the story is painfully awful. the main problems are that nothing is explained. i can name 10 things that were a major part of the story but not explained. i gave it a 4 because it had angelina jolie but other than the breasts this movie had nothing going for it. bad acting, mis used special effects and finally characters that act so stupid that they should have been killed dozens of times. "}{"Title":"BORING","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  i thought it was real boring. i had to keep leaving because it was so ridiculous. it wasnt entertaining or fun to watch, either. but i wasnt really expecting anything of it, so i shouldnt be complaining. i just dont understand how people could have liked it so much. "},{"Title":"bad hype","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  no dialogue, no acting skills, no intelligent plot. the right makings for a bad movie. this film is for lonely teenage boys who spend their saturday nights playing tomb raider and dreaming about lara croft butt-naked. the most anticipated film for the playstation geeks of the universe.  "},{"Title":"Much potential not fulfilled.","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie could have been really good, especially when I thought it would be a complete rip of Indiana Jones--however, it was not.  Except for the sound and sound editing (which was exceptional), there is not much to be desired in this movie.  Too much cheese, hardly any plot, and slow-motion breasts shots made this movie not worth the ticket I paid for.  I really wish the writers would have spent some time making this movie enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Ok if you're under the age of 12","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Simon West-The no talent director who brought us Gone in 60 seconds & Con Air has now scored a triple in making idiotic movies! *some spoilers-If THATS even POSSIBLE... Lara hates the Illuminati, but yet wants to alter time so bad to be with her father again, she is willing to work with one of them...okay thats fine, but then why the hell when she does get to see her father she acknowledges that he is right, we cannot rob time...so she leaves him...dead...but yet she robs time to alter the death of her supposed one time fling? PAH LEEZE!!! She goes thru all that to leave her father DEAD but will alter time for some guy she doesnt even LOVE? This movie is an insult even to anyone over 12, and if you are over 12 and enjoyed it...well, god bless you and the land of make believe you must inhabit 24/7. The special effects were CHEESE. Angelina Jolie was OKAY in the part, but this whole thing is an utter mess. Roger Ebert has lost all credibility as a movie critic (not that I ever respected his opinions anyway)  "},{"Title":"Cliche Loaded Garbage","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Before I start raving and ranting about the atrocities of this movie I must ask one simple question....WHAT THE HELL IS WRONG WITH YOU PEOPLE? This load of complete garbage is nothing but a Mid riff who wears push up bras and shows cleavage while saying half assed dialogue from a script that is so mindless it has the mental stimulation capabilities of a I'm with stupid shirt. The action scenes are a COMPLETE hack from other movies such as Mission Impossible 2 and various others. Also, the fact that she gets in a damn shower within the first 5 minutes also displays the pure immaturity of this atrocity. I swear, I would understand the fact that little perverted kids would watch this load of garbage simply because of the fact that Anga watchmacall her is wearing well, almost nothin. But once again, older mature adults disappoint me once again seeing as how they actually approve this overhyped junk. You shell out your hard made dollars to watch this garbage yet completely ignore the greats Requiem For a Dream, rocky horror picture show, and evil dead 2. I weep for a society like this. -Remorse P.S. Life is like a pizza cart, whoever cuts the cheese first gets the wiener. "},{"Title":"good, but could have been better","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This kind of seemed like a wasted opportunity to me. The plot and story development could have been much better, but I liked how the action and camera angles stayed true to the game. I won't see it again, but it is worth a look.  "},{"Title":"soulless action flick","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Simon West's Tomb Raider (Angelina Jolie, Jon Voight) is a particularly soulless action flick with practically no characters, feelings, humor, or interest, just high-tech special effects.  It's like one of those videos they use in high-end stereo stores to show off the resolution of their HDTV sets.  The story, such as it is, involves a zillionaire heiress seeking trinkets around the globe to prevent a secret society from taking over the world.  An excellent example of how, if you don't care about the characters or their problems, the movie isn't worth much.  However, credit where it's due Angelina has about the poutiest lips ever filmed, bordering on obscene!  "},{"Title":"Kept waiting for the film to start - and then it ended...","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Went to see Tomb Raider on opening night, like any other avid Croft fan. The film started with a great action sequence, and I kept waiting for the film to actually begin a normal story. Instead, I got two hours of exposition to a film that never happens. You keep getting that feeling of Here we go, now the movie's gonna start! - but all you get is Dialogue that seems to be a part of a who has the best one-liner contest between the actors, and action equences that remind you of the game, and kind of make you wish you had stayed home and played it...It's not as if Jolie isn't great as Croft, she is. Right down to the fake British accent. The film just suffers from a state that a lot ofanticipated films suffer from - Over Hype and bad scripting.I have no doubt in mind that if the film had a reliable screenplay and didn't depend on a good looking actress and great photography (and it does have great photography!), it could have been a really good film. Because you can't really put your finger on the 'one' thing that ruins the movie. You just get that almost feeling, that the film almost happens. You never really care for Lara... Her life isn't in danger throughout the movie. Instead, they threaten the life of someone she's supposed to care for - but the screenplay takes a round about way of notifying the audience Croft and the guy like each other. It seems to believe that if you bothered to come see the movie, you know all about Lara Croft, and so there's no need to explain the plot to you. If the film didn't come off so snobbish, pretentious and self adoring, it would have attracted all kinds of fans, and not just thosewho are already fans of the game. Hate to compare - but Take Mortal Kombat as an example of how a film can be based on a Video game and still attract non-playing audience.All in all, a 5 out of 10, and only because Jolie's a great actress. "},{"Title":"cool toys","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was dissappointed in Tomb Raider, I'm so sick of the hype for movies such as these.  The one thing that really turned me off the whole movie was Lara Croft!  I just couldn't root for her character, and with a plotless movie, you need a strong character to follow. I felt the movie went from one gadget to the next.  Lara was so blase about her actions; life seemed like one big playground to her.  More needs to be at stake personally for her to be interesting in my book. "},{"Title":"this movie sux","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was soooooo boring.  All they did was talk about action scenes instead of actually carrying them out.  It had its funny parts and like 2 action scenes and Angelina Jolie did a good job despite the movie's writers.  But overall it sucked.  It was almost as bad as Driven. "}{"Title":"Another video game movie that falls short of the mark","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It's never a good sign to be looking at your watch during a movie, but that's what I was doing about an hour and a bit into Tomb Raider. I won't go as far as saying this was a bad film, it's just that I found the storyline to be predictably convoluted (memories of X-men). There were of course, the obligatory big explosions, gun fights, Samurai type fight sequences one would expect, but it all seemed to have been done so many times before, giving me the impression that the film was a lot longer than it actually was.I was also hoping for a lot more humour than was delivered. In fact I found the whole experience to be somewhat by the numbers. It was very hard to feel any real sympathy for the characters in this film. Ok, I know it's only meant to be a bit of escapist fun, but I can't help but feel that the producers knew they were on to a winner anyway, and didn't bother to put any real effort into breathing life into the character of 'Lara'. A bit disappointing really, given the hype that preceded this film.Despite the shallow script, for me there's no doubting that Angelina Jolie made the perfect 'Lara Croft'. I tried hard to think of another young actress who could play the part any better - but I don't think anyone else could. Bravo to the casting director!Tomb Raider will appeal to a great many fans of the game, and undoubtedly, the casting of Angelina Jolie will more than fulfill the expectations of the target teenage audience.6/10 "},{"Title":"Thin plot, poor script","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Unless you seriously like Angelina Jolie or a real hardcore Lara fan, you will find this movie, how shall I put it...Bad. Sure there are some redeeming features. Some of the fight scenes are quite good.But when I went with my friends the focus was basically on Jolie's bust. There was a rumour floating around amongst my friends that Angelia good one hundred thousand to get breast augmentation to fill (no pun intended) the physical characteristics of Lara, who's supposed to be 34 DD. I haven't been able to substantiate this comment. But in one scene you can see added padding.Also, the butler is supposed to be old, Lara uses Desert Eagles, but in the movie she's using HKs. And I think for one person to be able to single handedly beat a SWAT-like team really reaches. But that's not what turned me off. The plot is thin and doesn't hold together as one would hope. Dialogue isn't the greatest either. I'm not a movie student so if you want in depth analysis, thats not me. In laymans terms, anyone can pump cash into a movie and make it look spiffy. What you really want is plot, script and yes acting.   "},{"Title":"Mind numbing, emotionally shallow, two-hour fluff... but what else did you expect?","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Tomb Raider has no pretensions about what it is.  From a director whose background is television commercials, Simon West delivers yet another slick, colorful, flashy feature with little substance and, subsequently, much more spectacle than story.  Much like the video game it's based off of.  Even if you see the movie for the same reasons I did-- non-stop action with Angelina Jolie-- rest assured, after a while you'll begin to get the feeling you're watching over the shoulder of someone else playing a video game the rather than having the controller in your own hand.  Detached, uninvolved, and, well, bored.   "},{"Title":"Heavy sigh","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, thank God we have Computer graphics animation, Now we don't have to have a plot or characters we care about and identify with. I'd like to say something to the writers of this movie. WHAT WERE YOU THINKING!!!!! Nothing obviously! We'll just have CGI on the screen so they have something to watch while they eat their popcorn. I would have been as involved sitting in front of a camp fire. That's pretty too. Raiders of the lost Ark was everything this movie wasn't. Indie was human. The audience identified with him, so we were involved in his struggle. The Ark Of The Covenant is also an actual artifact, so at least it was some what educational. Croft is just this walking piece of perfect card board chasing, well... who cares.2 out of 10 stars. Now go back to writing class.  "},{"Title":"Lacked depth","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  While Angelina is hot and the action scenes rock, the movie has absolutely no depth. They don't develop the characters well enough.. they try to play on this relationship between Lara Croft and this West guy (whom I'm assuming at some point in their past had a relationship but they never really tell you what it was or give you enough hints to really understand why she cares at all about the guy), and they also try to give you some glimpses into the relationship between Lara Croft & her father (cool enough played by Jolie's real life father John Voight), but again they don't give you enough. There is no emotional pull in the movie whatsoever. It's like you are watching a video game really. You aren't on the edge of your seat like in the Mummy or  Indian Jones.. and the scenes that should be somewhat emotional totally flop.I say wait for cable "},{"Title":"Three B's...Bad, Bland, and Boring","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I love Lara. I love the games. I did not love the movie. I was very excited to go but within a little while I realized the best part was the movie trailer. I just found that the story was directionless. Then I said, Well sit back and enjoy the action. That would have been enough for me.. kickin' action sequences. To my disappointment I was bored. For someone who never talks during movies, I found myself noticing and talking about things such as how they tried (and failed) to cover up a tattoo on Jolie's left arm and how they must have used double sided tape during the bungee scene so that perky parts didn't ruin the child friendly rating. The only positive thing I can say is that they stuck to the wardrobe of the games well. Lara is a shorts and t-shirt girl.  "},{"Title":"Indiana Jones - with curves.","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I can summarize this movie by saying it is an amalgamation of James Bond and Indiana Jones - without the same quality results. This movie did not capture my imagination, or my interest from the opening minutes to the alleged climactic ending. I'm still waiting for a story line to develop, and the movie ended about 10 hours ago. Needless to say I did not enjoy this movie much, though I thought Angelina Jolie's English accent was fairly authentic. Aside from the special effects this movie is one that you can wait for in the DVD rental section. "},{"Title":"Not Worth the money!","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Tomb Raider, there is only three reasons worth going to this movie, the butler, the cambodia location and the Shots of Angelina Jolie in pg-13 material.  I mean really.  There is no energy in the villain and no conviction in the dark organization out to control the world.  Angelina Jolie can act, I've seen her at it.  But in this movie she just doesn't sell her character.  Jolie relies on her body and moves to support Lara Croft. The Butler on the other hand, is a valuable addition in bringing Lara Croft to life.  His straight man wit attempts to pull Jolie back to a character we can root for. I have to admit the shots are breathtaking, but still I'd only pay $4 to see this movie, not a penny more.   "},{"Title":"Angelina Jolie commercial","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I have to say, sadly, that I was completely let down by this movie. I adore the Tomb Raider games and this was not at all as fun as I expected. Even though I think Lara was perfectly cast, the acting was vomitous. She portrayed Lara very well (and her father couldn't have been cast better snicker) but the rest of it was slightly less than annoying. The people in this movie couldn't act if their life depended on it.It seems to me that this movie was designed only to promote Angelina. It was all focused on her and not much focused on the plot...little that it was. (Who was the little girl? Why was she there?) Most action movies with little plot make up for it with a lot of fighting/explosions etc. This one didn't. It was just all around lacking and I was upset that I was so eager to see it. All and all, I say wait till it's on TV. (Not even cable.) This one isn't even a worth renting but it is fine to watch if you're in the mood for less than mindless entertainment. "},{"Title":"This Movie is terribly disappointing.","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I had high hopes for Tomb Raider, but unfortunately my hopes were quickly dashed.  While Angelina Jolie looks the part, she's just a puppet that is on-screen to pout her full lips and show off a sexy wardrobe.  The movie is a mish-mash of poorly edited action scenes involving a ridiculous clock that gives someone the ability to travel through time.  Tomb Raider tries so hard to be hip and cool but fails on all levels.  The characters are paper thin, the music is mind-numbingly lame and the dialogue tries so desperately to be hip but flounders throughout.  Fortunately the movie is not very long, but unfortunately we'll get a spate of sequels equally disappointing.  "}{"Title":"Worst movie of 2001","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This has to be one of the worst movies of 2001. I say this because I expected so much from this movie. It was a character that everyone could relate to, it had an oscar winning actress, it had great supporting actors. What it didn't have was great dialogue, a great storyline, suspense and great direction or flow.I found myself nodding off during supposed action sequences that have been overdone in other movies but in a grander and on a more exciting scale. I didn't like the way Mr. West developed the character of Lara Croft and I thought Ms. Jolie was horribly wasted as an actor. I even found that I could care less which side won. The villian wasn't very evil, well they tried to make him at the end with the watch from her father. Too little too late.If you agree or disagree with me, you got to admit to yourself, this movie did not reach even a third of its potential. I was looking for a strong female version of Indiana Jones and got a strong female version of Allan Quatermain. Granted that is ok, but do I really want to settle for ok with this franchise and this actor.Well there will be a sequel and I just hope and pray that this was just a stepping stone to greater things.  "},{"Title":"Been there, done that","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Not a bad movie, but not a great one.  Doesn't really use any new ideas.  A good renter for a late night, or if it shows up on HBO at three in the morning and you're bored.  If movie prices weren't so high I'd recommend it, but as it is wait.  Maybe they'll make a video game out of the plot.   "},{"Title":"Great when looked at as a video-game remake, but pretty sad otherwise.","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Lara Croft must race to find the two halves of an ancient artifact which holds the power to manipulate time before a clan of evil men in business suits do first.  Lara plans to continue her dead father's legacy and destroy the potentially dangerous relic so that it cannot be used for malicious purposes.  Though the plot was thin and kind of silly, the film stayed faithful to the series of video games.  Miss Jolie is top-notch as Croft, perfectly nailing her each and every movement.  The action sequences were (for the most part) quite impressive, but also got to be a bit much at times.  Recommended only to those who enjoy the Tomb Raider games, or to diehard Angie fanatics. "},{"Title":"Nice action, horrible storyline","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Note There might be spoilers aheadI didn't feel that I wasted my money to see this movie...because I got a discount. Basically, this movie was a simple adventure movie with good action scenes that are far and few in between, held together by a lame plot.The highlight of the movie was in the very beginning of the movie, in the first fight scene. That scene left me with an impression that the movie would be good, and that impression was completely gone about the time the movie had reached its 1/2 way mark. The not only did the plot suck, but character development was unripe, and the jokes were completely predictable. I hated the subplot involving the father...Jolie does a good job of looking the part, but she can't convince me that the character cares enough for her father to try to bring him back to life with the risk of destroying the world (--;).Another thing, what the heck is up with her and that other tomb raider.  I could see them flirting, but come on, does that convince me that Croft cares enough about the guy to try to bring him back to life too? Especially when he has shown himself to be someone who can't be trusted.Lara Croft's relationship with the other characters, along with the actions she chooses to take in different situations, made her a weak character, built up on contradicting evidences. I really didn't like the character, even though I wanted to. That's what really gets me about the writers of this movie. They don't spend enough time to try to invigorate the plot; instead, they spend too much time creating unbelievable and weak characters.What made it worse was the horrible ending scene. Maybe they ran out of money...but those spray-painted orange spheres doesn't quite seem like it's made by the same civilization that built the 1st tomb. It looks more like a cheap amusement ride. And am I supposed to feel a sense of danger from seeing heavily armed guys falling into the water beneath because they got hit by one of the circling arms? I really wish the writers would have been more imaginative.Basically, one would go see this movie for the hype, Jolie, the few action scenes, and for the sake of the actual game. If you have a lot of time, and have some money, it's not a bad flick to watch...the producers spent enough money on this to be somewhat entertaining.  "},{"Title":"Can Angelina Jolie's boobs make a bad movie good?","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, unfortunately, no.  But, director Simon West sure as hell tries. Tomb Raider's plot was ridiculously stupid.... full of plot holes, completely predictable, and constantly defying logic.  Add to this, Angelina Jolie defying physics and gravity every 5 minutes and participating in ridiculously unrealistic action sequences.  Oh, did I mention there were about 10,000 breast shots (not bare, unfortunately).  I think Mr. West new he was working with a sub-par script for a sub-par film and tried to spice it up with shot after shot of Jolie's chest.... to the point of stupidity. Hell, they had her running around in the ice and snow in a tight, sleeveless top!  Now, don't get me wrong, I like boobs as much as the next guy (probably more), but, I think, the gratuitous breast shots detracted from the film more than it helped it.  It just makes you realize what they had to resort to the get an audience.  Because, Tomb Raider, sans Jolie's breasts, could not stand on it's merits alone. Ms. Jolie does try to make the most of a poor film during her obligatory emotional scenes, but falls short. Overall, a bad movie. Do not waste your money at the theaters, but it's worth a look on video.I want to rate this film lower, but I can't. As bad as this film is (I knew in the first 10 min. this was going to be bad), I love Angelina Jolie's boobs.  And that's the only reason I went to see this movie.My rating  5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Sit back and enjoy the eye candy, just make sure to ignore the plot","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Restoring and remodeling the hero/adventurer/treasure hunter created by the classic Indiana Jones, this film sets out to capture the essence of the Tomb Raider video game. And,it succeeds with its dazzling special effects, elaborate sets, plenty of flipping, jumping, guns, and also the fact the Jolie really, really looks like Lara Croft from the game. However, don't expect much from the film for anything much else.  The plot seems tedious and almost a nuisance to the film, in some parts confusing and will needlessly break up what could have been just one long action sequence. They could have simply established that the lawyers and their goons are villains and Lara Croft and her friends are the heroes and they all looking for the same artifact, and we could have been done with it.  Ah plot, the downfall of so many action movies.       "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What can I say?Walked out of this movie feeling very empty.  Maybe even cheated.  It was filled with cliche ridden action.  All close-up action and hard to follow. The story line was so predictable that I was well ahead of the movie as it plodded along and played out my expectations.  There are no surprises here folks.  Don't waste your money.And, as far as eye candy?  Can you say fake?Go see Shrek instead. "},{"Title":"waste of time","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I had been waiting for this movie for quite some time now. disappointed would be an understatement. I knew it wudn't have any grand story or oscar winning acting and stuff... but it doesn't even have good effects.the only question you have when you get out of theatre iswhat and why? "},{"Title":"Almost as Entertaining as Super Mario Brothers (the Movie)","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm not kidding, this movie is barely okay.  What little action there is fails to invigorate, and the sequences between the action play like cutscenes from a video game.  My 14-year-old son nearly fell asleep.  I couldn't have blamed him if he had, but it's just as well--then he would have been up all night talking about what a dull movie this was. "},{"Title":"This movie Sucked","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I went to this movie thinking it would be a great showcase of Jolie's acrobatic talents, instead, I fell asleep waiting for the good parts. This movie seemed to be only an explanation of the video game which I don't play anymore. Jolie's very fake endowments were very distracting, every time they were shown, all I could think was padded bra. This is definitely a wait for the video movie in my opinion. "}{"Title":"OK if you're IQ is 30.","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Not a very good movie.  The plot has more holes than a Swiss cheese and the characters were cheap cardboard.  There's enough action to keep you entertained, but none of it made any sense.  Angeline Jolie looked great, but had nothing to do with her talent.  No sign of humor and the looking for daddy subplot was cloying and maudlin.  Only a few decent action sequences save it from total crap. "},{"Title":"If you liked Driven, you'll love this...","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  because it manages to suck even more!  Yes, just when I thought I had embarked upon a successful movie-going plan to avoid seeing any movie worse than Driven the rest of the year I was defeated by Laura Crap Patience Grater.  I almost fell asleep during this drivel - during the climatic action scene.  I've never fallen asleep during any movie.I really went in with low expectations (especially in light of the reviews) figuring that Angelina Jolie is hot enough to carry a mindless summer action flick.  She isn't.  This movie is so bad that I am overwhelmed as to what specific points warrant ridicule.  I actually turned to my wife during the serious Illuminati scene and asked how any actor could possible keep a straight face spouting such drivel.  The power of a paycheck, I suppose.If you want an interesting, compelling, intelligent story involving ancient artifacts and the Illuminati, I would suggest picking up a copy of Foucault's Pendulum by Umberto Eco. The ending leaves much to be desired but it is a great story.  Back to trashing Tomb Raider.  The action is inane. Laura apparently has never been taught that accelerators/throttles are a variable input device - every vehicle, regardless of locale is driven at maximum throttle.  Laura, it isn't simply an on/off switch!  Speaking of vehicles, according to Autoweek, Land Rover spent $175,000 (two were made) on the modified Defender 90  used in the film.  Why?  It was in there for all of 2 minutes driven at, you guessed it, wide open throttle, off it's parachute platform into swamp.  None of it's features were employed, and we can't even buy the Defender 90 here in the US!I read several interviews (courtesy of GameSpy Daily) about the making of the movie.  About how they were the first American filmmakers in Cambodia in decades and the weeks they spent there?  Why?  The Angkor Wat scenes took place principally on sound stages.  The crew allegedly risked life and limb for the Iceland shooting?  Why?  It also was mostly sound stages.This movie is so typical of the utter trash that Hollywood is determined to foist off on the movie-going public and witnessing the opening weekend numbers, trash that they are more than willing to swallow.  The dialogue was terrible, the plot shallow, unoriginal and contrived, the acting mediocre at it's best and laughable most of the time.  The action was designed to meet that hideous Hollywood standard best described as violent liberalism - guns are seen but seldom if ever used as effective tools against the most evil of enemy, acrobatics are masqueraded as combat, and the heroine makes the lamest of choices in an effort to meet some idiotic morality.Don't see this.  Really.  Don't.  I wouldn't even recommend renting it. When you get a gratuitous (and of course teasing) shower scene in the first five minutes of the movie, you know it is going to be crap.  Wake up America!  Action can be combined with intelligence, character development, sound plotting, and realistic dialogue.  Don't settle for this drivel!  "},{"Title":"Yet Another ''As Expected'' Movie","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Action packed but disappointing filmOne word  action.  Yeah there were some in it but unfortunately that was really lacking of fun and originality.  Scenes were badly mixed with others, giving the movie a weak rhythm.  Worse ! Some of the sequence have been simply missed, coarsely cut by the director.  And, not to forget, some of the 3D backgrounds and animation appears so cheap !  On the story side, Tomb Raider is more a ''collage'' of other movies  a lot of Indiana Jones, a bit of Star War and believe it or not, a lot of The Mummy !!!  All along till the end, characters will subtly try to tell us  what is the secret of the ''Illimunaty'' and what is about the secret triangles but it also doesn't stick. Script is humour-free and characters were lacking of credibility. Angelina Jolie were shining trhought on some of the scenes but she were simply too much highlitted...  Movie was all on her ''breast'' and it seem in the end she can't handle it, maybe due to a lack of personality and support from the script.  "},{"Title":"I guess it's a matter of taste","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If there's one thing I have to say  Angelina Jolie never looked sexier!  So naturally I wasn't falling asleep.  However, I was a little bored.  I guess the whole kooky sci-fi plot didn't have much appeal to me.  Or maybe I'm just not a huge fan of this sub-genre of sci-fi (adapting comic books and video games into feature-length motion pictures).  There are exceptions, but normally films like this don't grasp my attention.  I thought some of the action scenes were quite fun (Angelina just looks so cool whipping out her guns at the villains) and the running time was only about an hour and forty minutes.  So I didn't experience the long, slow torture like I did with The Mummy Returns.  More movies should keep it snappy.  For those who are anticipating the big special f/x extravaganzas...I'm pretty sure you won't be let down.  And I have to say, this is a lot better than that bomb Pearl Harbor.  If you're like me, and don't get easily blown away by vibrant f/x, you might want to go out for popcorn.  But if you want to see Angelina at her hottest (even hotter than previous movies where she appeared nude)...you also won't be let down.  And of course, if you're a fan of the video game (I've grown almost oblivious to the whole video game circuit)...well, have fun.  I know you will.  My score  5 (out of 10)   "},{"Title":"The movie is awful, but Angelina Jolie is perfect as Lara Croft.","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I didn't think that a summer movie could get any worse than The Mummy Returns, but Tomb Raider makes it look like Oscar caliber material.The sad part is that Angelina Jolie puts in a great and highly spirited performance and seems to be having a great time in the role of Lara Croft. Unfortunately, the rest of the movie is awful. The editing is so choppy and incoherent that it makes every action sequence an excercise in frustration trying to keep up with what is happening.  The rest of the cast also acts like they would rather be mowing their lawn.If you really want to see Angelina Jolie in a movie that shows off her stupendous body, and is actually good at the same time, rent Gia.  Tomb Raider unfortunately is a pointless showcase for it's star.Rating  the movie-1   Angelina Jolie-10  "},{"Title":"Just like the game....not really a good thing...","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was first impressed with the concept, and look of the original Tomb Raider videogame, then I made the mistake of purchasing it.  Sure it's pretty to look at with some impressive movements on the part of the characters, but shortly it became an exercise in boooooring tedium.  Then comes the movie.  A good movie (or at least a fun, mindless action film) could have been made with this adventurous character at the heart of the story, but guess what? It's pretty to look at with some impressive bits, but it soon becomes an exercise in boooooring tedium. Ms. Jolie looks phenomenal, and does a nice job though.  Even though she looks kind of expressionless during action scenes, she leaps, rolls, punches and kicks nicely....somebody give her a decent action flick to star in.  Her charisma is the only thing I really liked about the film, but she's so far above the material, it serves as a hindrance as well.  About halfway through the movie I stopped paying attention, so I can't even really explain the plot.  Some flashy action scenes come off as flat, due to limited interest in the characters (with the villains being totally uninteresting-a major sin with action movie making), but I actually liked the moment where the giant multi-armed statue comes to life.  This bit, plus the skills of Angelina equal a 4/10 for this lackluster adventure.  I'm gonna go watch Raiders of the Lost Ark now....   "},{"Title":"Disgusting","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was looking forward to this movie as one of my Top 5 of the summer (Tomb Raider, Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, Planet of the Apes, Jurassic Park 3, A.I.) and could not have been more disappointing. Even the fight scenes were boring. My date fell asleep, and by the end of the movie I wished I had as well. Even worse, Super Mario Brothers was on TV the next day, and I found myself realizing that Tomb Raider was even worse than that. Do yourself a favor and rent the Mortal Kombat movies if you really want to see a half decent video game/movie adaptation, or just wait for Final Fantasy. Either way, do not see this movie. "},{"Title":"Expecting femme Indiana Jones? You'll be disappointed(I was)","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was so psyched about going to see this movie...I thought, Angelina Jolie in an action flick, and as Lara Croft at that?  It has to be awesome.  But I was disappointed.  The storyline is pretty weak, not what I'd expect because the video games were so cool.  Gamers will see alot of obstacles in the movie that they faced in the games, but that doesn't affect the movie quality.  The action scenes are awesome, and Angelina Jolie is ten times sexier with a British accent, but I walked out of the theater scratching my head at a few things, like little subplots that they started on and forgot to tie up.  I will not write a spoiler, but I will say that the good guy-bad guy tension is a joke, because there really isn't any, and the bad guy isn't very bad, no Darth Vader-like sinister tendencies or anything close. Like I said in the one liner I was expecting something along the lines of Raiders of the Lost Ark or one of the Indy movies, just with Angelina instead of Harrison Ford.  This could've been an awesome movie if they'd hired a competent script writer, but I guess they spent so much on special effects they had to cut the budget somewhere.  "},{"Title":"Great action, but still missing some elements","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie has it's moments of great action, but unfortunately has some plot holes large enough to drive a Buick through.  Near the end Lara possesses knowledge crucial to the continuance of the story, yet we are left to guess how she acquired such knowledge.  There is also a character who appears sporadically, yet whose origin and purpose is never fully revealed. Angelina Jolie brings no small amount of charm to Lara Croft and for once we do feel a game character is giving a life of their own, thanks to her acting.  However the other characters are portrayed in a more cardboard fashion without as much dimension, opting instead for comfortable stereotypes.  Overall, a worthwhile attempt, but not without obvious faults. "},{"Title":"It would have been more exciting watching someone play the game for 2 hours.","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  My wife and I, both adimittedly rabid fans of the game, have been waiting for this movie for a long time.  Unfortunately, the whole thing was a real let down.  Where was the excitement?  Only the first action scene had any real energy to it.  The bungee, Angkor Watt & Iceland scenes all had great set design, but felt bland and sluggish.  I think part of the bring down is that there's a lot more invested in playing the game At any given point you have a good chance at failure.  In the movie, after the first thousand or so bullets miss Lara, any sort of anticipation is deflated and your left looking at your watch and dwelling on the weak story being played out. "}{"Title":"Zzzzzzzzz....","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, I was most definitely disappointed with this film.  I know Hollywood is entrenched in formula film making but this was a big time snoozer outside of watching a quite beautiful looking Angelina Jolie look cool and mean the entire picture.  The plot, which had a great deal of potential, and the characters, were all not developed enough.  The other actors were boring as well, and there seemed to be little dialogue between anyone either.  The effects were ok, (even Jolie's fake breasts looked odd at times) but nothing to write home about.  I'm sure they will turn this into a series of films...here's hoping they VASTLY improve upon the next adventure.     "},{"Title":"Did it really cost 80 million?","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  You have to kiss a lot of frogs to find a prince and the frogs are over running us this summer and the princes are few and far between. This movie, and I use the term loosely, never got there for me and I went there expecting nothing.  That is what I got so I shouldn't complain right? Fair enough, but perhaps I can prevent another soul from my same fate.Safe to say that Ms. Jolie runs around in various color leotards (mostly black), and bulges in all the right places. She whips up on at least a platoon strength commando unit, while expending only fifty thousand rounds of pistol fire. She looked fit and for an up scale Jane Fonda fitness video with explosions and a trillion rounds of machine gun fire, it might have been ok, but for a major motion picture????  Eighty million dollars of major at that...well.I know this was designed for the folks who are nutty about the video game, but is that what we can expect in the future, videos turned feature movies? It is a lame movie and save your money, but there was one sort of interesting scene. Ms Jolie has a full fire encounter with some sort of robotic creature. I felt that it, the robot thing, would eventually play a part in the movie, but it didn't. Then there is this computer nerd that I felt had promise as perhaps some sort of alter ego character, but he didn't do squat either. There is one other interesting thing and that is the demographic of folks who loved the movie. Using IMBD's own numbers it seems young girls and women over 45 where the biggest fans, go figure. Sure there are not all that many female super hero role models around and the young girl thing I'd buy on that count, but women over 45???? So another summer block-buster bites the dust.  "},{"Title":"Great potential fizzles","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  First, let me say that I have never played Tomb Raider.  I am not a video game junkie and have never lusted over the digital Lara Croft.  That being said, I was looking forward to the movie, and expecting something along the lines of Raiders of the Lost Ark with a beautiful heroin.  Bottom line is that there is scarcely a story in this film.  There is a great deal of talk about a clock that provides a diversion to allow Angelina to skip across the continents in search of her father.  There is no real sense of adventure that is ever built up and no story to back up the sets that are thrown at us.  Aside from watching the heroin romp around in spandex there is nothing to draw the viewer into this film or make them cheer.  I was not expecting a classic to be born here, but entertainment would have been nice.  "},{"Title":"Close but no cigar....","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well that was unfortunate.  I thought Tomb Raider had a lot of potential but it failed to deliver.  The biggest failing, as others have mentioned, is the script which is awful.  Considering what they're given to work with the acting is pretty decent at least for Jolie and the lead bad guy.  Jon Voigt is cheesy and the 'love' interest is boring. Because the script is bad it felt like they were just piecing action sequences together so they became ho-hum. I think part of it was the music.  Action sequences really need energetic music to get you into it and I just didn't get that from TR. I think if it had been more campy it could have been great but it was trying to be serious and the story was completely incapable of delivering that kind of quality.I was with seven people and the reaction ranged from 'that was 2 hrs of my life I'll never get back' to 'it wasn't too bad, not as bad as Battlefield Earth' to 'the effects were cool'.  These were given in roughly descending order by age.I gave it a disappointed 5/10 as I was mildly entertained and it was slightly better than Battlefield Earth.  "},{"Title":"Action sequences do not keep a movie from being boring.","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this movie because I thought I was in the mood for some rather light action entertainment. Plus I had downloaded and played the sample game a year or so ago and it seemed to be kind of fun.However, This movie has such a weak overdone story line that it can not be considered exciting in anyway. The lead character played in an uplifting way (wink wink) by Angelina what's her name does not garner any sympathy from the viewer. Kind of like the video game character.The writers struggle to give her some character and even get her tired looking real life father Jon Voight to play an even more tired cliche Yoda role.Like the restless teeny boppers in the row in front of me, I tried to get into the movie but the snack bar and movie posters in the lobby seemed to be more interesting.Normally I'm not above shushing unruly movie goers, but I really couldn't blame the kids in the audience for getting restless.That's why I rated this movie only 2 push up bras out of a possible 10. "},{"Title":"This tomb raider knows how to get the job done.","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Finally a video game movie that is worth seeing. Sultry Angelina Jolie plays the butt kicking tomb raider Lara Croft. Our heroine is an acrobatic English miss that turns warrior. The sexy and lethal damsel can more than take care of herself as she sets out to save the world from an ancient curse. Croft discovers that her late father(Jon Voight)has left her clues to a mysterious puzzle that takes her from one end of the earth to another...Cambodia and Iceland.Tons of energy drained; plenty of action; and the attitude and posturing of the beautiful Jolie make for a very entertaining movie. Next time out let us have some stronger and fearsome foes for Croft to do away with.Note this is the first movie to feature Miss Jolie with her accomplished father(Voight). "},{"Title":"An action flop","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I will start with the positive points Of course, Angelina Jolie is beautiful, and the soundtrack is very good.  The effects are also pretty good.Now for the bad stuff  The action sequences are not very exciting. There is no originality.  Everything in the film has already been done in others. The plot is on level with a B-movie.  The bits intended to be funny are not funny.  There is no character development.  Though Angelina Jolie could potentially make a good Lara Croft, in the movie Lara Croft comes across very flat.  She alternates between an emotionless fighting machine and a little girl who just wants her daddy.So regardless of whether you want to see a movie with an interesting plot or just a shoot 'em up, this movie doesn't deliver. "},{"Title":"Might have been good...","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  if it weren't so damn boring. Here are a few questions that I must ask about this movie. These are questions about moments in the movie that left me perplexed, so if you can answer them, please do *spoiler alert* *spoilers* *lots and lots of spoilers*1. Near the end, when the bad guy is lying on the ground, a knife in his shoulder, dangling Ms. Croft's beloved locket in front of him and taunting her, why doesn't she just shoot the guy in the head and take the locket, thus avoiding the inevitable and tiresome fight scene?2. Who was the old guy who mumbled please forgive me while looking at a picture of Lara's father? Wait, better question What was his motivation for screwing her over? 3. Was the fellow tomb raider a hero or a villain? In a classic case of poor character development, there is no way to tell if this man is good or bad. First, Lara writes traitor on his shower stall, then at the end he's a love interest. Somebody please explain this. 4. Why did this movie consist of dubious homages (or, more likely, rip-offs) of older, better films? I saw awful references to Raiders of the Lost Ark, The Fugitive, and The Matrix, just to name a few. 5. Why was it necessary to have Jon Voight in league with the Illuminatis (or whatever the hell they were called)? Couldn't he have just been their foe, a fellow tomb raider whom they all wanted killed? This would make it unnecessary for them to include a dumb betrayal twist.6. Why does Lara Croft like to suspend herself from the ceiling of her mansion from wires just before she goes to bed? Doesn't her butler consider this a bit odd? There is no rational explanation for this ever in the movie, and the only reason I can think of is so there is an excuse for her to do some acrobatic stunts when the bad guys come flying through the windows.and finally...7. Why is this movie so BORING??? It's an action movie, for god's sake. It could have at least been done with some pizazz or a little more style. Jolie is perfectly cast and makes a good Lara Croft, but she has nothing to work with. It's just her saying something witty and then shooting some poor robot. Tomb Raider is not as bad as the loathsome Mummy Returns, but it does make one wonder if Hollywood even tries anymore.   "},{"Title":"Contact meets Indiana Jones","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Ok, in 'Contact' Jodie Foster travels light years in an instant to see a figure of her father.  In 'Tomb Raider' Angelina Jolie uses the power of God to..... see her father. The Indiana Jones connection comes from the settings and the intricate booby traps.  There were a couple of anomalies, such as the ancient models of the solar system with 9 planets (Pluto having been discovered Feb 18, 1930).  If you are a die hard Jolie fan, have at it. If your looking for a good action film, watch something else.  This movie can wait for HBO.  "},{"Title":"Good but easily forgetable","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie wasn't bad. Many of the aspects were very loosely explained, kinda like this is happening, and this is why(and they'd give a cheesey unbelieveable reason) so deal with it. Like their explaination of how easily she got from England to Cambodia via a military war plane hauling her and her jeep was just to suddenly show a picture of her with some war buddies and thats supposed to instantly give her capability to a war plane, and access to Cambodian air space, not to mention all the other country's air space that she'd have to pass through. The story was very simple and straight forward. The characters are super cool and badass. The acting was what you'd expect for a movie such as this. The action scenes were decent but not even close to what has been already done. This was a fun movie to watch though and its never boring when Angelina Jolie is around.Although a lot of things in this movie are far-fetched it was still good. I wouldn't consider this a summer blockbuster thats for sure.7/10 "}{"Title":"The Perfect Laura....the Worst Script","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  While Angelina Jolie is perfectly cast (and endowed) for the part, the storyline most certainly is juvenile.  If not for a little girl's idealistic perception of her father this movie would have ended soon after the first major action sequence.  Laura is supposed to be extremely intelligent, yet is impulsive and childish. The CGI was adequate at best though a few moments destroyed all the good work that they did in other scenes.  ie. Laura and her nemesis are running up this horrible image of a pryramid which looks as if it were pulled from an 8 bit nintendo game. This movie is another in what will be a long line this summer of flics that do not come close to living up to their billing.  3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The right formula done very wrong!","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  First off, I'm a big Tomb Raider video game fan, so I was awaiting this film for some time.  When I heard they casted Angelina Jolie, I thought they are making the right choices for cast -- this is where all the positives for this stop.  The negatives  Simon West as director -- he is a man that makes a living making really bad films; so, why not let him direct one of the summer's biggest movies?  Makes sense in Hollywood terms.  Instead of getting some director who is established in making good epic action films, like a Martin Campbell, we chose someone that is only known for John Malkovich's overkill death scene in CON AIR.Negative #2.  Who are these people writing the screenplay?  Instead of giving the script to someone like John August to doctor it up, we chose a bunch of people with some or no experience is writing screenplays.  I felt the script was the biggest letdown of the entire movie.  Why does it seem that Hollywood focuses on getting actors attached, getting the financing, find the director, and then after they hire a key grip, they begin with the screenplay?  I have worked in the film business for some time and I still don't understand this logic.Remarkably, I didn't have a problem with the actors.  They seemed to do the most they could given the script and direction.  A nice note was seeing Noah Taylor in a big budget film.  Instead of seeing this movie, maybe you should go rent two of Noah's better films, THE YEAR MY VOICE BROKE and FLIRTING.Let's hope that TOMB RADIER II will start in the right direction by replacing the director and screenwriters and firing the Head of Development at Mutual Film Company, the production company that gave you this poor excuse of a film.My God, will someone please watch RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK and take a few notes!!! "},{"Title":"What a waste of money","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Tomb Raider with Angelina Jolie could of been much more than just a fantasy eye-beauty fiesta which included trips to all of the globe- from land, ice, and air (if you count Lara's flying in the air with the cords). Only a few action scenes give you the feel of the movie and get you excited. Besides that- if there is a sequel- there's no way it could be worse than this.Good job for Angelina Jolie finally getting a superhero and a nice leading role. But frankly, i'd rather picked Pearl Harbor to be the sponsor of movie popcorn- because Pearl Harbor is much better than Tomb Raider. But what do you expect from a video game turned movie.If you really like this movie, i suggest watching another horrible video game movie- Double Dragon.Out of ten stars- average ***** "},{"Title":"What a bust","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Angelina Jolie is the only thing worth watching in this film, which is the only film I have seen with a plot worse than the video game it is based on (that includes Wing Commander). Jolie just provides a certain something essential to the character of Lara Croft. She gives a fantastit performance, making boobs out of all her enemies. Definitely the breast possible choice for the role.OK, I apologize for that last one. Download pictures of Jolie. Skip the movie. "},{"Title":"Too much hype, no substance","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I think Paramount put too much hype into this movie.  The action scenes, when they occur, are O.K. at best.  The flow of the entire story is a little choppy.  Many times your sitting there thinking, What are they talking about? or Where did that come from?If you go to see it for action, you'll be disappointed.  If you want to see the sexy Angelina, it will meet your needs.  A good story is missing as well.Angelina Jolie is the perfect star for this character.  I think she should've held out for a better story and maybe director.  I think the Tomb Raider franchise can be much better.  Hopefully someone else will make another with Angelina Jolie in the lead role, but with a better story and director. "},{"Title":"why did I waste my time?","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  you would think i'd be smart enough to avoid a crapfest movie based on the second stupidest franchise in videogame history(the worst being pokemon) but for some strange reason i saw this movie any way, acting is atrocius, the stunts are totally unoriginal and the whole idea is STUPID. why they decided to overhype this garbage instaed of FF The Spirits within is beyond me, everyone will slowly become dissappointed with this movie in about week. told ya so "},{"Title":"kick-butt film (stop the bashing!)","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well I personally think that it was a kick-ass movie. I mean, the main purpose of the movie is to have fun & kinda let you take a closer look in the videogame series & see Lara in action. I thought the movie served it's purpose.The action sequences are great & Angelina Jolie plays Lara very well, cause she plays her exactly the way I imagined Lara to be. I actually thought the plot was pretty good & the special effects & scenery were amazing.For all those of you who bashed it, what did you expect? An Oscar winning movie? Come on, this is supposed to be a FUN movie.Stop judging so harshly & JUST SIT BACK & ENJOY!!! Lara kicks ass! "},{"Title":"** out of ****","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Mummy Returns is an example of a movie that delivers the goods of what the trailer hypes. Tomb Raider is not. This film was a complete bore that seems to do what the magical triangle can muster manipulate time. The movie seems to stand still while at the same time move ahead. I can tell there was a lot of footage cut from the movie because the movie has so many holes. The characters are empty and the action scenes are so badly edited, I can't enjoy it because I'm trying to figure out what's going on. "},{"Title":"Gee I think we might make some money","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" ...how is beyond me. If word of mouth fills seats, fans please listen to your friends when they tell you to avoid this stinker. Oh wait, one should have reasons why they should try to tell others to avoid things like this. Well, this movie was not well thought out, especially that so-called important script thingy. It WAS however a very nice attempt to cash in on what was once a respected franchise of a video game with a mega babe starring in it. (Is it kosher to call a computer-generated girl a mega babe? - well, you decide...)So without trying to sound completely that negative about this trashy pic, I must say the set design was outstanding and Angelina Jolie does look great!! (And seems to pull off a believable Lara Croft) That of course does not make up for the horrible acting support, weak storyline and unintelligible pace. So, if wasting 2 hours of your time is something that appeals to you, or if you find yourself drinking Bud Light and not knowing WHY... then this movie is FOR YOU! "},{"Title":"Don't listen to the critics","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  After just exiting the theater, I have to say that after watching this movie, it reinforces my belief that most movie critics are completely out of touch with movie goers and what we want to see.  Is this an Oscar worthy film?  No, of course not.  Is it  highly entertaining and worth the price of admission.  YES!  Angelina Jolie does a wonderful job of bringing Lara Croft to life, and the director brings to the screen a lavish touch of cinema art. All who are thinking about purchasing a ticket to see this film, take my word (I had no clue that Tomb Raider was a computer game until two days ago) and purchase a ticket with the confidence that you will see an entertaining movie.  What else do you see a movie for? "}{"Title":"If only all the tickets were free...","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  So I didn't expect Tomb Raider to be great.  Honestly, I just hoped that it wouldn't be as bad as Godzilla, or Dungeons and Dragons.  And it wasn't. But don't get me wrong, as a film, it was bad.  Really bad.  But, somehow, I just didn't hate it.  The dialog was awful, the directing was worse, and please, everyone, lets just all for once officially send the message to movie makers that the number one thing you CAN'T skimp on is the script. When the script sucks, the whole movie is doomed to suck, no matter how many cool fight scenes you can tack on.  Jolie is, of course, a magnificent Lara. But this movie proves that even an Oscar winner can't breath much life into horrendous dialog.  But I repeat, I didn't hate it.  I had fun seeing Lara recreated on screen.  In a way, it was like watching a really well done FMV sequence from the game.  That's no compliment to something that's supposed to be a summer blockbuster, but for a free screening...hey I got my money's worth! "},{"Title":"Horrid","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What a bad bad film. No storyline, no plot and why is Lara invincible. Nothing made any sense, and also don't think I'm some middle aged man that hates action movies. I love action but not this catastrophe.On the lighter side, people that went to the preview on June 13 what's with the applause every 5 seconds? "},{"Title":"Tomb Raider disappoints high expectations","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Tomb Raider seemed like a sure-fire blockbuster to me. Big budget...big stunts...Angelina Jolie's big...ummmm...guns. Unfortunately, I was let down last night when I had the chance to catch an early preview of the film. The supporting cast is ridiculously misused. Chris Barrie (some may know him from the tv series Red Dwarf as the annoying Rimmer, or from the tv series The Brittas Empire as the sniveling Brittas) surely was underused in his role as Lara Croft's butler. The movie was one action scene after another. What little plot line did exist, was negated by the fact that nothing is ever really explained clearly, and the film is so choppy, you feel as though they cut out all of the scenes containing any information that might push the story to the next level, in favor of keeping all of the action sequences...of which only a few of them are decent enough to remember past the time you walk out of the theatre. The villain is hardly villainous, and you never doubt the fact that Lara Croft will actually beat him in the end. The acting is ham-handed for the most part. The soundtrack is sufficient in supplying appropriate mood music, but just about everything else falls flat. (it would have been easy to go for a cheap joke there...) It is worth seeing at least once, but you should definitely wait until it comes out on dvd to get the extra features, which should help explain to us moviegoers how a film with so much potential could turn into such a malodorous piece of c**p.  "},{"Title":"Just my opinion","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Though I wasnt all that excited to see the film I went with an open mind (and the want of seeing Jolie, hehe) If you want a sexy looking lead...you've got it! (yet they really didnt need the prosthetic boobs)If you want plenty of action...you've got it. If you want a believible inter-twineing story...you dont have it. Though the film is full of adventure and even action, there are far too many unbelievable incidents. As if the films makers expected everyone to know the history and complete backround of the character and story. And I must say, Angelina didnt help make this character as believable as she could. In my opinion that lands in the lap of the same director who did 'The General's Daughter' (ick) To beat the hell out of wave after wave of professionally trained, fully geared mercinary's without breaking the smallest sweat or vagueist shortness of breath 'and' being in your pajama's...I'm sorry. Just too much for me. Another example is riding a motorcycle, out running auto machine gun fire while doing wheelies on the 'front' wheel and still shooting guys hiding behind crates, I just say, enough. Not to mention the 'this is a cake walk' grin the character yields at every feat. Now, if you take it far less serious, dont care about the how's where's when's, who's and all that, then you just might enjoy this film. Yea, I did enjoy it and dont mean to 'completly' bash it because I was entertained by some of it. Yet knowing a bit about Tomb Raider, I feel this production team didnt pull off what they should or could have. They fell just a bit too short for me. Again...pointing to the director in my humble opinion.     But...dont go by simply by what I say. Go and see if for yourself and draw your own opinion. I will say, Angelina Jolie was an excellent choice for this film. However, with the right director I belive this film could have been taken more to the heights it should have achieved.  "},{"Title":"A disappointment for all","Date":"25 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Lara Croft Tomb Raider is not what the fan of the video games where looking for the visual of the flesh.The good. Lots of action. A sexy strong female lead.The actors. Subpar performance at best for all the cast, including Angelina Jolie and Daniel Craig.The bad. Almost uncountable number of logical problems in the scenario. Simplistic story with lots of clichés. Bad fight scenes. Lousy dialogs. Very shallow characters.The ugly. The end, in all its different parts is pathetic.The result. The entertainment value is minimal, only recommended to those who want to see the ever sexy Jolie. "},{"Title":"Not a good movie but at least they tried","Date":"16 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" There's no getting away from the fact that this is a pretty dire movie. There are only really two things going for it1) Angelina Jolie who is of course the perfect casting for Lara Croft. And I'm not just talking about her looks - she handles the actions scenes superbly.2) They have done a decent job of carrying the essence of the computer game's fast-paced yet light-hearted action sequences over to the movie.But I'm afraid these pluses only sustain the movie for the first half an hour or so. It soon becomes tied up in the ridiculous treasure-hunting plot. There isn't a single original or interesting twist or turn in the whole thing. It becomes interminably boring. Even Iain Glen and Daniel Craig's scheming characters fail to provide any interest bar looking utterly incompetent as treasure-hunters throughout.Sorry, but I found this really hard-going. "},{"Title":"Not what I expected","Date":"30 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Tomb Raider was just OK, i cant believe i even compared this to the Power Rangers movie, and yes...i did! Angelina Jolie doesn't do anything outstanding in this movie, the cast isn't huge,although Angelina should be applauded for her stunt work. Most movies that are based on games are unsuccessful ( Street Fighter,Mortal Kombat) though this may be the best of the 3.If you were or are a fan of the game Tomb Raider, you might be excited with this movie, i wasn't a fan of the game, so i just watched the movie for the heck of it, i wasn't expecting much, and i didn't receive much. The plot is confusing and pretty much stupid, though you should take note on the beautiful locations.I must say i was fairly disappointed, it wasn't really a good film, sure Angelina looks great, but im sure she was cast to increase her fame, a very average movie, and should be chucked in to the Games to Movies section, and yes its not a success. "},{"Title":"Lara Croft Digs Her Own Grave in Tomb Raider","Date":"25 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Oscar-winning actress Angelina Jolie of Girl, Interrupted stands out as a feast for the eyes as sexy, two-gun toting, cyber-heroine Lara Croft in British director Simon West's adventure opus Tomb Raider with Daniel Craig, Jon Voight, and Iain Glenn. Lenser Peter Menzies' spectacular widescreen cinematography, Kirk M. Petruccelli's lofty production designs, and the exotic travelogue scenery of Cambodia and Iceland round out this radiant visual treat. If good looks alone guaranteed great movies, Lara Croft Tomb Raider might have given Indiana Jones a real run for his archeology. Alas, this pretentious, predictable, and poorly scripted $90-million, big-screen version of the popular, estrogen-driven, feminist-oriented video game substitutes extravaganza for the white-knuckled thrills of its arcade namesake. Simon West, whose directorial credentials include The General's Daughter and Con Air, and a quintet of scenarists shoulder the lion's share of the blame for this misbegotten melodramatic mishmash.Not only do top-notch action epics require a challenging adversary, but these movies also should boast some semblance of a coherent plot to tie together its scenes. Fastidious Iain Glen never makes a concrete impression as Lara's archenemy. He pales in comparison with other villains that audiences love to hate, such as Darth Vader in Star Wars (1977), Deebo in Friday (1995) or Clarence Boddicker in RoboCop (1987). Furthermore, the synthetic, by-the-numbers screenplay by writing duo Patrick Massett and John Zinman of TV's Friday Night Lights gives neither Glen nor Jolie anything truly memorable to do as the action lurches awkwardly from one elaborate set-piece showdown to another. Sadly, Tomb Raider degenerates into a worldwide scavenger hunt without a sufficient number of either cliffhanger moments or audacious stunts to distract us from the dire mechanics of its half-baked plot.Repeatedly, characters remind us that everything occurs in a week's time, but West drums up negligible suspense about this critical time element. Imagine the Bruce Willis bomb Hudson Hawk (1991) crossed with the woebegone 1996 version of The Phantom with Billy Zane, and you can guess just how episodic and ill-conceived this globe-trotting, bullet-riddled, supernatural adventure is. Worse, when one character argues mankind lacks the moral capability to handle the secret in Tomb Raider, our video-game inspired vixen ignores his warning. Clearly, West and his scribes have forgotten the familiar adage If it isn't broken, don't fix it. Although I known little about the Tomb Raider video game, friends have told me it essentially concerns the exploits of a woman who relies on her sharp-shooting skills to survive an obstacle course. If this is truly the case, West and company should have developed Mad Max style shenanigans instead of the grown-up Nancy Drew antics depicted in the film.The problem with Tomb Raider is West never allows its overblown excesses to celebrate its hokey histrionics, like the Batman movies. Late action helmer Don Siegel of Dirty Harry fame once said when a film cannot justify its own ends, then it should constitute an end in itself by its sheer operatic dimensions. Tomb Raider contains its share of big scenes, but the filmmakers pass up every opportunity to wallow in excess for the sake of excess. Worse, the film provides Lara with two potential sources of comedy a nerdy Q-type computer whiz Bryce (Noah Taylor of Shine) and an Alfred-style butler Hilary (Christopher Barrie, best known as Rimmer in British TV's Red Dwarf) but get little mileage out of either guy.The first mistake that West makes is with the pointless prologue. When Lady Lara Croft (Angelina Jolie with a serviceable English accent) isn't our saving the universe from evil, she hones her combat skills in a funhouse setting within her palatial, 82-room, English country manor. Lara pits herself against a monstrous RoboCop cyborg. Like the Pink Panther comedies where the hero repulses the surprise attacks of his Asian house boy, Lara contends with a robot that never relents. She blasts away with two automatic pistols in defiance at this shiny, metallic beast, but nothing can stop it. Finally, she tires of the exercise and reprograms it as a giant juke box. So much for suspense! Because Lara was never actually in peril, this opening scene lacks potency. Moreover, she achieves nothing by pouring a fusillade of bullets into the robot, because they glance off it as harmlessly as pebbles. As fabulously wealthy as Batman's Bruce Wayne, Croft wants for nothing, but grieves for her long lost father, Lord Richard Croft (Jolie's real-life dad Jon Voight of Midnight Cowboy) who has been missing since 1985 and presumed dead. This father-daughter relationship constitutes the only feature that makes Lara appear remotely sympathetic. Otherwise, she emerges as a snotty little girl with nothing better to do than race around the world plundering artifacts and behaving like a cock tease.Lara matches wits, fists, and lead with a ruthless antiquities dealer, Manfred Powell (Iain Glen of The Young Americans), who travels in the lap of luxury with his own private army of trigger-happy mercenaries. These goons probably fire more bullets than were discharged in the two World Wars, and they still cannot hit Lara! Appropriately taciturn and saturnine, Powell has villainous inclinations that are never fully realized. When Lara and he meet initially, he spouts the best line in the movie My ignorance amuses me. Exciting as it all sounds, Tomb Raider gets so wound up with its convoluted travesty of a plot that the action often grinds to a halt for long, verbose stretches of mind-numbing exposition about astronomy. Occasionally, West proves that he can helm big action scenes. The best and only example occurs early on when Manfred's henchmen invade Croft Manor and a pajama-clad Lara resists them with a bungee cord and a motorcycle. Nevertheless, compared to Hong Kong chick flick thrillers produced a decade ago, even this hellacious scene breaks no new ground. The rest of Lara Croft Tomb Raider qualifies as anti-climactic, illogical drivel over which not even Angelina Jolie can triumph. "},{"Title":"Well, it's better than most movies based on video games.","Date":"21 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I do like this movie. I think it's a lot more better than most movies based on video games (ie. BloodRayne and Doom). I just adore the games Tomb Raider 2 & 3 (I've never played the first one). My only two complaints, is that it's not really based on the game's story (Yes, I know I said I've never played the first one but I gather they are different story lines) and that Angelina Jolie doesn't really 100% look like Lara Croft; Lara has a red tinge to her hair and Jolie's hair is completely raven. Also, Jolie's voice doesn't quite sound like Lara's voice in the games. All in all, I think it's a good movie, no more no less. "},{"Title":"Angelia Jolie Heart Raider.","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Just one look at the poster and I fell so...oh...oh...oh...I am in love with Angelina Jolie. Her lips, her hips, and everything in between. She looks really good in those shorts too. Her ponytailed hair flowing behind her and her twin guns ready for action. Those sleek cheek bones accompanied with a few strands of hair in her face. Feminine enough to not scare the boys and strong enough to rile up the women. The poster is perfect. It is advertising at it's best. As for the movie, there is what could be called a plot, long on techno poisoned drivel and short on fun, but it's mostly copped from Raiders of the Lost Ark. But Angelina rides a giant stone pillar and smashes things with it.P.S. Daniel Craig gives, what could be considered, a great audition for the lead in an action series. He stares down Jolie and doesn't even flinch. "}{"Title":"**/4","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Hollywood really knows how to mess with a potential goldmine. They killed off batman and now they are in the process of killing Tomb Raider with just one film. At least in Batman it took two horrible sequels to do it. Angelina Jolie stars in this film as Lara Croft, a female Indiana Jones who raids tombs and jetsets around the world. Physically Angelina is perfect for the part but she can't carry this movie riddled with a bad script, campy acting, and bad directing. i don't know why Simon West was chosen to direct this because he has no experience in directing an action scene. The movie has some potential but in the end too many characters linked to Lara (Dad, and her two sidekicks, also her ex bf) ruin the movie, it should have been just a one woman show. Special effects are decents but with a bigger budget they could have been spectacular.Pros Jolie is hot.Cons Directing, Special effects, script.Bottom line Maybe sequel will improve? Potentially paramount may have killed a good franchise. "},{"Title":"One of the worst summer blockbusters.","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  1/2 out of ****Lara Croft Tomb Raider is an amalgamation of everything it is I hate about summer movies. It's lifeless, soulless, joyless, crafted without the slightest care towards genuine enjoyment, and serves as nothing more than a springboard for a charisma-free star. I'm still flabbergasted over the irony that the inspiration for the existence of this movie was Indiana Jones, the trilogy that represents the summer blockbuster at its very best.Tomb Raider boasts something of a plot, but actually deciphering it is a puzzle. Lara Croft (Angelina Jolie) is apparently some sort of rich archaeologist, and her latest personal mission is to search for two artifacts that, if placed together, can somehow enable the user to control time.  An evil cult known as the Illuminati want to possess both pieces so, natuarlly, Lara's going to be in an archaeological race of sorts.General incomprehensibility of the plot aside, the aspect that makes Tomb Raider the turd that it is is Lara Croft, both in the way this character is written and through Jolie's portrayal. Here is a heroine who thinks she's just uber-cool, riding motorcycles, wearing slick shades, acting cocky and arrogant, to the point of pure abrasiveness. This is not to mention that she's also able to accomplish physically implausible to impossible stunts, and is also apparently invincible in combat, and almost impervious to pain.What kind of a heroine is this? It's hard enough to like someone who spends most of her time trying to act superior to almost everyone around her (the movie does give a half-hearted attempt to show her respect for other cultures, this brief scene totally overshadowed by her coolness), but the filmmakers do away with even the slightest bit of suspense by making Croft apparently invulnerable to harm in all her surroundings. Part of what made Indiana Jones so charming were his numerous flaws he was afraid of snakes, often got captured by the villains, and was almost beaten within an inch of his life. This is in stark contrast with Croft, who's really nothing more than a superhero without the villain to match her.Some of this could be forgiveable if the movie were in any way fun or exciting, but it's not. The action sequences are few in number, and what little there are are rapid-cut and packed with one impossible stunt too many. The movie's adventure holds no ebb and flow, Croft simply gets from one location to another in a second of screen time.It's not impossible to make an enjoyable Indiana Jones knock-off. Stephen Sommers' The Mummy accomplished the task with exuberance and childish glee. But Simon West merely gave us little more than a case of eyestrain. "},{"Title":"TOMB RAIDER (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What a shame we cant go under 1 to quote movies as I absolutely thought this deserved a big zero. Yup indeed, regarding the budget and the hype Tomb raider might be one of the worst movies ever and just like any other movie that is based on a videogame it fails completely. Angelina Jolie might be a pretty figure but she can't act and looks completely stupid compared with other filmheroes (and excuse me, you have to compare it with Indiana Jones as the director Simon West wasn't ashamed to steal some jokes from that trilogy so...). There is no need to tell the story, Lara is an archeologist and she must find some mystical piece, and of course that piece is also wanted by a vilain as it is giving you worldpower. Heheheh, if this was filmed in some oldfashioned way it would have been watchable but this is done in videoclipstyle (so hip done that you actually don't bother) that seeing the trailer is more than enough, even that is a waste of time! "},{"Title":"I'm sorry, was this supposed to be fun?","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I feel I need to go on a bit of a rant after seeing this film. Tomb Raider appears to be another film that insists on giving us action scenes which are not only poorly directed but also poorly edited. I presume the choreographer did a good a job though his work will go unnoticed due to the butcher job Mr. Simon West did with all his hard work. I, for one, could not fathom what was going on in any of the gun-toting action sequences. With The Matrix setting bench marks in action film making it still seems surprising to me when directors use this approach to fight scenes, allowing us only fractions of a second to decipher the scene. In the past few years alone both the Wachowski's (The Matrix) and Ang Lee (Crouching Tiger) managed to give measured and assured fight scenes in which we could see the motions and the choreography. I'm surprised at how bad the action in this film was, seen as Simon West did the hugely enjoyable Con Air. It seems that he has worsened with age.What about everything else in this film, I hear you say? Well, Angelina Jolie is assured and does her job well, but is not outstanding. As for the rest of the actors - I didn't really notice any special performances. Only Chris Barrie (aka Arnold Rimmer) was a shining beacon as he proved huge Hollywood blockbusters were as easy as doing small, low-budget BBC sitcoms. The script was undetectable and did not make the slightest bit of sense. In fact, it seemed that Lara could have prevented the world from ending a good hour before the end of the film. But I would have accepted the discrepancies in the script if getting to the end of the ninety minutes was enjoyable, and not a chore. Alas, it was not to be.When I went to see this film I was not expecting a work of groundbreaking film making. I was, however, expecting some nice enjoyable popcorn fodder, along the lines of Blade, Triple X, X-Men 2 and Eight Legged Freaks. What I in fact got was a banal exercise in poor editing and bad direction. I just hope that come Tomb Raider 2 the producers have learnt a few lessons and won't accept an inferior multi-million dollar product. Something more exciting next time, please.For those that care, I gave this film 3/10.  "},{"Title":"What a waste of time","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this movie recently on television and was actually looking forward to see it. Boy, was this a waste of time.  This movie lacks any inspiration and is as interesting as waiting in front of a traffic light. Angelina Jolie seems to have just woken up just before every scene as her eyes are half closed.  She looks extremely scruffy throughout the movie and doesn't even bother to act.  Probably because she puts all her concentration into mastering her English accent.Don't waste your time with this one; watch the latest weather report in stead. "},{"Title":"not as bad as some would have you believe.","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I am a big fan of the games and when i heard there was going to be a raider movie i was all excited.     that i was finally going to get to see what it looked like on the screen.i am not much of a cinema goer so i did not go to the cinema to see it instead i waited till it came out on dvd unfortunatly i bought     Silent Hill 2 for the playstation 2 the same day as i bought the raider movie. it was two day`s after i`d completed SH2 i watched the movie and i wasn`t disappointed it was good not great but good.there was  not much of a story to it there was just 3or4 action scenes joined together. with the credits at the    start and at the end. this may sound like i am complaining about the movie well i am not if i did not like it i would not have bought it in the first place.what they should do in a raider sequel is bring lara`s arch rivals into it ( Pierre Du pont and his sidekick Larsons )that would be good.Larsons would be the   comic relief in the movie.roll on TOOM RAYDIR 2 cant wait (i know i have incorrect spelling for the name of the film but dont u think it looks cool this way. movie rating 7/10. "},{"Title":"Avoid like the plague - Zero Stars.","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  No doubt about it.  Angelina Jolie is quite easy on the eyes.  But overall, this movie was one of the hardest movies to watch as I've seen in a long time.I love action-adventure flicks, especially ones set in exotic locations.  I can even tolerate a bit of cheese and sketchy science, if it's done with style. Tomb Raider has been compared to the Mummy and Indiana Jones movies.  If plagiarism constitutes inspiration, than this movie was quite inspired.  It's an insult to the intelligence; enough to make a five-year-old roll his eyes with disbelief.  Certain scenes and images were practically carbon copies of The Mummy and Indiana Jones, but it failed miserably at capturing the charm and wit that made those movies so much fun.  Its ludicrous and incongruous plot, if you can call it that, appears to have been conjured up by a couple of thirteen-year-old potheads... which leads me to believe that this was probably the target audience. But what should I expect from a movie based on a video game?  It certainly had all the suspense and intrigue of Space Invaders and the character development of Asteroids.  And the F/X weren't much better.If you value your time, stay away from this movie.  Don't rent it, don't even watch it when it makes its shameful world network premiere, which is inevitable.  (Of course, no self-respecting network will pick it up, but UPN or FOX might.)  It consumed 100 minutes of my lifespan that I can never regain.  Don't let the same thing happen to you.  "},{"Title":"Condensed, Tame Action Film without a Bite","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Not a totally wasteful film for there are a couple of fascinating ideas that are not properly channeled by the film makers, and cast.  Angelina Jolie is a talented actress whose talents are not put to any good use with her one dimensional characterization creation of the filmmakers.  Lara CroftTomb Raider(2001) lacks the sense of danger, feeling of wonder, and cliff hanging suspense that the Indiana Jones films excelled in.  One of the few good performances in the film are given by Doctor Menard himself, Richard Johnson who performs with an uttermost perfessionalism.  For an action film it lacks any cool scenes or action and is missing any kind of tension which makes action films interesting.  To any viewer who loves adventure films, I suggest the Indiana Jones movies, or even the early silent films of Fritz Lang, ala, Dr. mabuse the Gambler, or Die Niebulegen. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Leading Lady, Shame About The Plot","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I gave this film 5 out of 10. Zero for plot. Zero for caring about the characters. Zero for over use of CGI. Zero for the fact that todays modern technology was completely incapable of painting out Angie's tattoos!! Zero for Croft's butler being Rimmer/Mr Brittas and all 5 points for Angelina Jolies amazingly cool, almost feral performance.If you rent the DVD I suggest you watch the making of bits, then watch the film again, you'll be far more impressed when you realise how much Jolie did herself. "},{"Title":"Worst Film I Have Ever Seen.","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Even Angelina Jolie's enormously inflated breasts cannot save this debacle. From beginning to end, Tomb Raider is a cinematic disaster. The direction is completely without subtlety; West at times leans towards the pornographic - the early shower scene is a good example of this. The dialogue is prepostrous and most of it seems to have been taken from The Big Book Of Clichés. Jolie does her best and just about gets away with a plummy English accent, yet receives no support from the rest of the cast. The villains are shallow and one dimensional, while Croft's allies, especially Chris Barrie's butler, are simply annoying.Tomb Raider's plot has been seen a thousand times before, but this would not matter had the premise been executed stylishly and credibly. Unfortunately,  the result is cringeworthy from start to finish. My advice? Reacquaint yourself with Dr Jones instead. "}{"Title":"LARA SUCK TOMB SUCKER","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Normally, I don't make a childish joke like the title Tomb Sucker, but the movie was so horrible, that the academy award winning actress couldn't begin to try to save it. The movie was HORRIBLE worst movie I have seen this year...I even like 3000 MILES TO GRACELAND better. The only reason I gave this movie a 1/10 is because I can't even give it a 1/2 out of ten and the only reason it would get a half a star is because Jolie looked quite attractive in the movie. TOMB RAIDER ripped off movies such as RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK and THE FUGITIVE. It had the worst ending possible, leaving you saying, Why did I just waste two hours of my life when I could've been doing something better...like going to the bathroom. Which I wish I would've done instead. The urinals in the movie theaters bathroom would have been TEN THOUSAND times more interesting. I wish the video game didn't even exist so someone didn't even think of the idea to write the script to make this movie. The worst time I have ever had watching a movie. And I love movies. Except this one.  "},{"Title":"what you see isn't what you get","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  i mean the trailer when i say this. i thought wow when i saw it but was totally dissapointed when i saw the movie.because the action scenes where,well eh plain stupid.the characters where flat as a dime.there was NO story and the villain.oh please......was jason isaacs(patriot)sick or something ?tim roth was probably to busy with planet o/t/apes and alan rickman on a vacation.what did the casting directors think when they casted this nitwit as a villain?he wouldn't even scare my grandmother! "},{"Title":"Buy/Rent the Indiana Jones trilogy instead.","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  When computer games turn into full-blown movies, the effects can be disastrous.  Movies such as Street Fighter, Super Mario Brothers, Mortal Kombat and Double Dragon have had a cult gaming culture behind them, so much so that the style and the imagination that the games brought into people would not, and could not manifest itself on screen.  And like all those other films, Tomb Raider is just another dumb summer action movie with throw away characters, throw away plot, throw away action and in every way a throw away movie.Angelina Jolie is an almost perfect Lara Croft. Jolie has the breasts, the figure and the looks, but doesn't have the same on screen presence as Harrison Ford.The film steals most of its concepts from other films and indeed its own computer gaming entourage.  Scenes such as when Lara enters the auction house and almost mistakingly buys a rare item is straight from Jackie Chan's Armour of God.  Other stolen scenes include the `ride the robot/cyborg and rib out the &#145;brain' scene straight from RoboCop 2.  But most of the film takes its ideas from either Indiana Jones or from the James Bond series.As dumb action summer movie's go, this isn't too bad.  It's average, its not fully painful, yet not fully enjoyable.  The holes in the plot and the lacklustre characterisation makes the film a bore, until the next action sequence or the next titillating breast shot wakes you up.There are many problems with the film.  Why does she have to go on this mission?  Why does she save the traitor in the film, apart from a so-called relationship, which doesn't seem to be fully explained.  How did she learn every language in the entire world even of cultures we (as collective humans) do not know of?  Why does she not kill the bad guy when he says `no guns' in the final fight?  Why does everyone know of Lara's father?  Why does Lara try to turn the blade of the knife around holding the actual blade rather the handle?  And why does the knife suddenly fly the other way when time is released?  When the ancient tribe split the triangle why did they leave clues to rejoin it? Why not destroy it completely?When you see the film you do wimmace at the plot.  The lack of good characterisation (apart from the character of Lara herself) makes you wonder why they bothered with this film.In interviews, Jolie believes this to be Indiana Jones, but `dirtier' or `broader', I wouldn't go that far.  The Jones trilogy at least engages the audience, gives action that deserves the genre of action-adventure.  This is just a summer action movie that isn't on a par with Raiders of the Lost Ark.  Indeed, I would suggest renting/buying the Indiana Jones trilogy, its fun, its worthwhile, it has characters that are intresting, and above all, it doesn't rely on breasts or cleavage to get bums on seats.Overall 4/10. "},{"Title":"Plotless, Brainless, Scriptless Tomb Raider the Game is More Fun","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is the most bone headed movie I have seen in a long time.  An inept mixed of James Bond and Indiana Jones, Tomb Raider the movie has a plot which is less coherent than the video game, which has no plot at all!This is yet another fine example of modern big budget Hollywood film making let's make the movie as loud and special effects laden as possible so that maybe people won't pay attention to the fact that we wrote our script on a bubble gum wrapper.The few brief efforts in the movie to have plot or dialogue are so scattered and underdeveloped, Simon West and crew use over the top music to try and create dramatic tension.  It doesn't work.Angelina Jolie is a beautiful, compelling performer  with any luck, her next movie might offer her a chance to use her skills instead of stick them in an idiot film like this one.The worst movie I have seen in a long time, right down there with Armageddon. "},{"Title":"Is it over yet?","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie sucked so much. The acting sucked, the directing sucked, the plot sucked, and the movie was really boring. Half of the time I was waiting for something interesting to happen but that never came to. I wish that they had made the movie based on the adventures that the Lara Croft from the video game had. Anyway if you want to stare at big boobs and fat lips for hour and a half this movie is for you. If you want something that resembles a video game go watch Super Mario Brothers. At least that movie is better than this crap.  "},{"Title":"So much potential so little pay off.","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Tomb Raider like many movies does not deliver on its potential.  The Ideas, acting tallent, visual effects are all there but they were never realized.This story could have easily been made into three feature length films with more interest than the condenced version. The movie was caught in between Indiana Jones and The Mummy, lacking in all the areas that these movies pay off.  The effects were good but not spectacular and the fun factor was not there like in the mummy and the plot clarity and characterization did not stand up to Indiana Jones expectation.The characters were paper thin and we never get enough story to make anything believable.  I feel the makers of this move did not have a clear objective in the making of the movie. With a little more commitment to a style and story this could have been a great movie.  I base my ratings on entertainment value and the level of succes compared to potential.  "},{"Title":"Useless, so very, very useless","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I just recently saw the Tomb Raider movie and simply put, it was horrendous. I am a fan of the Tomb Raider game series and I think Angelina Jolie is a pretty good actress, but this movie was simply atrocious, forget all the special effects, and the action, and the movie is absolutely useless. And even the special effects and action really leave a lot to be desired, the only two good action scenes are at the beginning of the movie and towards the middle in her mansion, and even then they have been set up to be semi-family friendly, so they for an audience used to Matrix style action, this is nothing more then a second thought. The special effects were okay but nothing to write home about, other movies out this summer such as Final Fantasy, Shrek, Jurassic Park Three and even A.I would probably be better eye candy. However, despite its shortcomings in special effects and action, the thing I just cant get past is the PITIFUL acting and scripting. Angelina Jolie and John Voight's horrible attempts at British accents are less then convincing, and between the two of them, I either heard small one liners or wonderfully overdone clichéd moral quotes. The sad thing is that they were the two best actors of the bunch, the rest of the cast was even more useless, of course that doesn't surprise me as I didn't recognize anyone else in the cast, which speaks volumes of the acting caliber in the film, I'm sure that the only reason that Angelina even thought to star in this film was that the computer geek producers threw pots of money at her because she looks like Laura Croft and is well know, which is about the only reason that 80% of the people above 16 years old and male went for, sadly I'm one of them, and I was utterly disappointed. The one last thing lacking in this movie is a plot. I know that for this movie I'm meant to suspend my disbelief but I simply couldn't, the premise of her adventure is simply absurd, The Mummy and The Mummy Returns is probably more historically accurate. And worse still is the fact that it is VERY unlike the game in the sense that she NEVER encounters animals, for those who don't know, in the Tomb Raider video games, she almost ALWAYS is confronted with ANIMALS that she must fight. In this movie she only fights people, a giant robot, and stupid stone monsters very reminiscent of the indestructible mummy guards from The Mummy(a movie I might add I think this movie stole many concepts from). No where does she meet an animal! So overall if you are looking for an action thriller with a plotline as involving as the Matrix, don't see this film. If you are looking for a cheap action flick with some kicks, again, don't see this film. If you are looking for a film with a useless script, a plot which leaves too much to the imagination, and poor acting by all, then by all means, see this movie that I just wasted ten bucks on! "},{"Title":"A Waste of Film","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Going into this movie, I KNEW it was based off a videogame, and have both played it and watched people playing it. This being said, on to the review.Simply put, Tomb Raider was a very bad movie, with a poorly written plot was written horribly, and other than Jolie's performance, the rest of the actors gave very poor performances.The Plot The Illuminati(sp), a great, secret organization that can be used in conjunction with a number of plots. In Tomb Raider they were nothing more than a collection of aging old men afraid to die.The Power of the Light Gives its controller mastery over time, so many possibilities. Its used to give Lara a brief reunion with her father, then allows her to save the life of someone she despises before being destroyed. 1. She obsessed with her father much more than any mentally healthy person should be. Risking the destruction of the world to bring him back...thats not Lara Croft. 2. She manipulates time to save the life of someone she despises...again not Lara Croft.The Action Scenes Predictable, uninteresting, and badly constructed. I was closer to falling asleep during the action scenes than any other part of the movie.The Villain Completly lacking the most basic villain qualities. He would have fit better as a shifty ally of Lara than her main adversary. "},{"Title":"The quality of a direct-to-video B movie.","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"     I didn't have many expectations for this movie. I only played the second game in the series and I thought a Tomb Raider movie could be fun.  The bad reviews didn't bother me. Pearl Harbor and Godzilla got bad reviews and I enjoyed those movies for what they were. But I didn't expect it to be THIS BAD.  I slightly enjoyed only a couple of scenes, but the rest of the movie was boring, stupid and BORING. No tension, no plot twists, NOTHING. The action scenes didn't have anything new. We've seen it all before done much better.  Some special effects were nice, but not spectacular. It really felt like watching a direct-to-video movie. BAD, BAD, BAD. Angelina Jolie is a great actress, but even she failed to save the movie. She looks fake and even slightly annoying in this idiotic mess. The script writers should be banned from Hollywood. I'm not kidding.--MB "},{"Title":"Why I thought this movie blew","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  To all who read this, please understand THE FOLLOWING IS SIMPLY MY OPINION, AND WITHIN IT MAY CONTAIN THINGS THAT MAY SPOIL THE MOVIE FOR THOSE WHO HAVEN'T SEEN IT OR ARE OBSESSED WITH IT. And it's like they say Opinions are like butts, everyone's got one and they all stink pNow on to my rantI thought this movie was terrible. In fact, I rated it a 1 on the poll. Why, you ask? Quite a few reasons.Firstly, I felt the plot was somewhat drab and cloudy. Not a lot of explanation was given of some details, and what WAS given was at inappropriate times, or sometimes not at all. Like, who was Alex?  called him the Tomb Raider as well, but from where? Maybe I missed something? They really didn't give much background on him or his connection to Lara, other than that he was a fellow archaeologist. Also, very little info was given on the Illuminati and the old dude that headed it up.Next point, the plot. It was OLD. End of story. I mean, the old boo hoo, loved one died, must get him back even if it means sacrificing what is right plot has been played many more times than once, and pretty much put me and many others around me to sleep. I actually saw one guy dozing 4 or 5 seats away from me, no joke. People were leaving the theater halfway thru the movie. They were demanding their money back from the box officer because they complained the plot was old, cloudy, and boring. All our local newspapers claimed that the movie's merely half decent action and special effects were put under by the movie's weak, brittle plot. I couldn't agree more.3rd Point The action. What action? They advertised action that would be better than the Matrix. I went into that movie expecting action that would make my insides leap and my grin grow broader and broader. And for the first 10 mins, it did. Then Lara yelled STOP. It was like she told the movie to STOP going in the great direction it was and start getting crappier. What the HELL happened? The action in this movie just made me anticipate when it would be over. It could also be considered repetetive and boring, as well as stupid and dumb.A fourth and smaller point The soundtrack. I mean what the hell, I honestly wonder if they hired a 3 year old to bang on pots and wham a keyboard hoping to make some sort of music. This poor-man's composition of music is like ramming screwdrivers into your ears.Finally, I'd like to just say I'm not in any way disappointed in Angelina Jolie. She tried her best to fit the part of a character for a movie that was just not destined to be good. Video-game to movie crossovers just don't work. Take Super Mario Brothers for example. Nuff said.In conclusion, what I'd hoped to be the summer hit turned out to be the fish someone caught and forgot to throw back, getting stinkier and stinkier as it lies in the sun. The SFX were decent, that's about it.Sorry all you Tomb Raider fans, save your money  Buy the games and go see Evolution.Thanks for your time all, see you in the movies "}{"Title":"Tomb Raider plumbs the depths","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Just when I thought Mummy Returns had hit rock bottom, Angelina Jolie tunnels through into a whole new seam of dross.Good points  Jolie showing skin and wearing a (badly) padded bra.  That's enough for adolescent boys to give this a 10, apparently.Bad points  Everything else.  The plot, such as it is, is stolen from a South Park episode.  You think I'm kidding?  Mecha Striesand.  The dialogue could have been written by a twelve year old, but as that's the target audience, this is no real surprise.  The message is superior firepower solves everything and violence has no consequences.  Sad, but not unusual.But it gets worse.  Jolie's accent is cringe inducing.  Her acting consists of a series of poses and pouts that would look cheesy in a porn flick.  There's never any suggestion that she's in danger, and we wouldn't care anyway.  The action scenes are dull, uninvolving, derivative and shoddily made.  The CGI is ropey.  The score grates and blares in competition with the visuals.  This is a desultory, joyless film, made by talentless clock-watchers.Sure, Tomb Raider is a popcorn flick.  But it's a BAD popcorn flick.  Contrast with Men In Black, Galaxy Quest or American Pie.  Tomb Raider is a sad, bad, nasty little piece of exploitation. "},{"Title":"Can You say horrible","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I rarely put movies down.  But his was so horrible.  The action sequences were not even interesting.  It was so cookie cutter.  And worst yet Laura Croft made me ill to my stomach.Relationships were never established she was just a regular witch on wheels.  Poor acting, worse script.  And to think I waited in a line to see this.  I do not know where others saw this movie but I was at the Chinese Theater is Hollywood, and no one laughed, applauded or seemed interested.A.J. made a grave mistake.  Anything director Simon West does is so so so so bad.  We is the worse director in the free world.  Lets not forget his head General's Daughter.  He needs to get a new job.If you want to see something worth your money; The Mummy Returns is in the same vain and a much better.  Shrek rules.  Those are the only two decent block buster I have seen thus far and they are far more superior then Laura Lost The Loser Raider.    "},{"Title":"Please...Make it stop...","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't know whether to laugh or to cry. While I wholeheartedly agree, Angelina Jolie is PERFECT for Lara Croft. And physicality aside, she's a fine actress (Girl, Interrupted, case in point). So why, oh why, did she have to go so completely to WASTE in a movie as depressingly awful as TOMB RAIDER? Was this written by a third grader with a Ouija board, via seance with Ed Wood? The plot is virtually nonexistent, filled with COMPLETELY undeveloped characters who spout dialogue so utterly forgettable it...uh... I don't know what to say about it. I've forgotten it already. There is no motivation. Anywhere. Not for the characters, not for the alleged plot, not for the excessive slow-motion and camera rotation tricks. The film featured a few fairly impressive action sequences, which mostly suffered from poor editing. I heard this movie cost $100 million. Who the heck gave Simon West that much money for this film? Obviously, somebody who failed to see that glaring red flag, CON AIR. And one more thing how did Jon Voight get mixed up in all this nonsense? Okay. I've made my choice. I'm gonna go cry now. "},{"Title":"Simply one of the worst movies I've ever seen","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The characters are complete clichés (standard villain, tech expert for comic relief), the dialogue is atrocious and the ending is as predictable as they come. Jolie is a nightmare in the role. She looks the part, but that's about it. She seems to think that a smug grin passes as acting. The action scenes are beyond ridiculous. They're not clever, they're not thrilling, they're not original, they're just stupid. They seem to be trying for a cross between the Matrix and Indiana Jones, but the problem is that both The Matrix and the Indiana Jones movies are believable within their own world, Tomb Raider's not. It's not engaging because it's unoriginal and there's no emotional centre to Lara beyond a hackneyed pain at the loss of her father. Everything else is about trying to make her look cool (generic hard rock/electronic music whenever she's on her bike or walking in slow motion, wearing sunglasses indoors, etc). I thought that there was great potential in this, but the final product is one of the worst movies I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"What a waste","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  For some reason, people went to watch the  voluptous Angelina Jolie, hoping to see a movie  meshed with some plot and decent action  sequences for good measure. But what they  got was just a convoluted mess, and a rather  dull and boring Jolie devoid of any remnants  of Oscar winning acting. Thus, a movie that will  most likely benefit a long line of video games-turned  movies genre piece will forever be called a  dud. It's hard putting distaste into pallatable  words because the product really had nothing  coherent. You can say the movie stunk, and  few would need any alliteration to build off of.  What a time we live in, when crap can be  profitable. Pretty soon we'll be seeing the live-action version of Pokemon or some other ridiculously  trendy product, considering this movie has  helped lead the way. "},{"Title":"brevity is the soul of wit...","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" ...and this film has neither. It has no wit, and it is not brief (14 minutes would be about right.) And I wish I could just write the word Terrible but IMDB won't allow it.Simply put one of the worst movies I've ever seen. Period. "},{"Title":"Boobs, no brains","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Without a doubt, one of the worst wastes of celluloid out there.When I could stop laughing, I looked for a plot --- there was none.Spectacular padding on the chest though, my other half would like to comment on --- Miss Jolie can be a spectacular actress and should stick to roles where she can show off her talent, not her assets, no matter how greatly than can be shown off. "},{"Title":"A true bomb","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  You go into a movie like Tomb Raider expecting it to be pretty bad. Such is the fate of most movies based on videos games.  However, when said movie features Angelina Jolie, you at least expect to get some babelicious treats in the process.  Unfortunately, Jolie's terrible acting doesn't even deliver that.  A true bomb.  "},{"Title":"The pain!","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Every so often, a movie comes along that makes half the world reel in agony at its tremendous horridity while the other half of the world delights in the blissful ignorance that is their lives. Tomb Raider is such a movie.From beginning to end, I waited for something to simply happen! The action scenes were dull, the special effects weren't special at all, seeming almost dull when compared to films of comparable budget. There were far too many dramatic lulls for this film to even be classified in the action genre.Which brings me to the acting. What had moviegoers done to deserve this cast, this script, this monstrosity?! I have no real qualms with any of the actors themselves, as I've seen most of them in other films that weren't as sickeningly horrid as this film. It's just that maybe they didn't get enough sleep the night before most of the scenes were shot? I don't really know how to explain away an entire untalented cast in this one film! I expected that Chris Barrie would have provided some comedy, but instead, he was just sort of there like the rest of the cast.That there were certain respected critics saying that this was a fun movie completely astounds me. That anyone can truly call this a great film is baffling. But to each his own, I guess. I'd sooner choose such video-game-to-big-screen films as Resident Evil or... um... Well, I can't think of any other game-to-movie films that were really all that great. But I'd guess it's safe to say that Tomb Raider would have to rank near the very bottom of the pile! "},{"Title":"the only thing good about this heap of boredom was the clangers clip`","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  although i rarely play the popular games based on the film, i was not surprised to know that this film was dreadful! The Casting is all wrong, except for Chris Barrie as Hilary, and U2's hit Elevation was nowhere to be seen. The special effects were wasted on a plot that bored the hell out of me! All in all, a complete waste of time and money on the production of this depressing. I have not been so disappointed on a computer game movie since Super Mario Bros, which was adequate. Besides compared to this heap  of boredom it was quite good, when in fact it's not! Don't waste your time learning about lara with this extreme dissappointment, just play the brilliant games!  "}{"Title":"Worse film than I previously thought possible","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is so clearly bad, I can't believe anything except that Simon West and co. were trying to make a weak film.For the first 20 minutes there're about 10 lines of dialogue, each impossibly horrible. The density of lines increases as the film progresses, but their quality does not. The actors are made to speak in ridiculously unrealistic english accents, which grates (to say the least). Jolie pronouncing Uranus in the modern American way with her thick fake-english accent can only be described as *confusing*. Of course, this isn't a dialogue film, it's an action film.The action ranges from rudimentary to pathetic. Every shot is either poorly thrown together or a set-piece shot for the trailer. In the first action scene Lara runs around firing pointlessly at a robot, each bullet bounces off, but she continues to run around firing at it like an idiot, with a stupid smirk on her face. Instead of making the audience think Lara can handle herself (obvious intention), it makes her appear like an amature adventurer with no real skill.While this film is quite short, it allows large segments of time to be thrown away with seemingly irrelevant, slow moving scenes, where nothing happens and no-one really says anything.In total there's only about 15 minutes of content here. There aren't many action scenes, but they're all long and boring. There aren't any real dialogue driven scenes. The plot's not particularly interesting. This could easily be editted down to 15 minutes without missing anything.When films are stupid bad they can be laughed at, and thus enjoyed on a different level. This film can't, because it drags too much. Lara Croft Tomb Raider is an awful, pitiful, pathetic, excuse for a movie. At the present time I cannot name a worse film. "},{"Title":"An insult to the games","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm a fan of the first three Tomb Raider games. After the Last Revelation, they just get boring. Ever since I played Tomb Raider 1, back in '97, I thought how great it would be to see a Tomb Raider movie. But I had no idea they'd make such an awful job of it.One aspect of the Tomb Raider games that I believe was a very important asset was the music. The title sequences and the atmospheric music were all top quality. Naturally, I was horrified when I heard the efforts of the film's soundtrack. I'm not saying Elevation was bad. Rather, that 'Lara's Party Mix' (or whatever it was called) was the most sacrilegious piece of crap you could imagine. After such great musical scores from the game, it really degrades Lara.The first sign I got that this film would be rubbish was when I learned that Lara's father was called Richard Croft. Anyone who's read the Tomb Raider 1 manual will know that her father is Lord Henshingly Croft. Although the name itself doesn't really make a difference, it told me that the writers had abandoned the original works. It came as no surprise that the plot was a load of rubbish. It would have been much better to stick completely to the plot of Tomb Raider 2 (the game). Mortal Kombat was made into a film. And it was good, because Boon and Tobias, who made the games, wrote the script.The way Lara Croft was portrayed gives fans of the game a bad name. In the games, Lara doesn't shoot a load of people. And she certainly doesn't have some geek as a sidekick. She goes it alone, which gives the games the atmosphere that was non-existent in this film. There could have, at least, been a puzzle thrown in there. The Indiana Jones films were much better than this. In fact, if Indy wore a tutu and called himself Lara, it would still be a better game-to-movie conversion.  "},{"Title":"Shame, shame","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Been somewhat of a videogame buff, I always have an interest to see movies based off of games. (Usually the movie version is terrible but I'm still waiting...) I have played all the Tomb Raider games and so when the film version came out, I was nervous. I was afraid that Angelina Jolie would destroy the female-indiana-jones we all know as Lara Croft. Surprisingly, it wasn't freaky-lips' acting that made me loathe this film. Movies, whether they're about nuclear war or videoames, need to grab your attention right at the beginning and hold it. Within the first five minutes of the movie (and i am being literal) I wanted the robot to crush her so I wouldn't have to watch anymore. The director seems to have just graduated from  film school, the robot was absolutely ridiculous and Jolie herself gave too much of a bitchy air to the character. If you were patient enough to watch another few minutes (like I regrettablly did) you'd loathe the other two characters we were introduced to. Lara has lots of guns; couldn't she put the guy out of his misery. This movie is bubble gum but not the fun,campy, juicy bubblegum movie. It's a nasty pre-chewed hunk of poorly made Thrills gum stuck on the bottom of a nasty pair of reboks. This was ten minutes of my life I will never get back. Save yourself and don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Unique film that proves that a film that has all the elements for a good film, can still suck big time!","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film Is a good movie if you like to watch a Beautiful lady slaying all enemies. If you don't like a movie that is very unreal, unnatural and very useless, DON'T WATCH! In MI-2 There is some unreal action. But then you know what you are watching. I expected a lot more from this movie(know that I hardly ever expect much from a movie), but even that little they could not make true.If you are very lonely and want to watch a bunch of silicone boobies jump up and down and look horny... WATCH THIS MOVIE!!! If (like me) you have a real girlfriend, you don't need such a movie.In the commercial they make it seem like a spectacular movie but it is absolutely NOT! I haven't seen such a bad movie EVER! Movies don't have to be intelligent, when there is nice action. Movies don't have to be funny when they are thrilling. But this movie only proves a movie don't have to have all the elements for a very good movie, just to make it a good movie. It proves a movie can stink while having all the right elements. I think that is very special, so at least there is something special about this movie! "},{"Title":"Simply boring","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Most have seen this movie before, aka Indian Jones, Star Wars, the Mummy, Mortal Kombat, Robocop, etc.To put it simply, Lara (good english accent), ala James Bond, discovers a clock that can create Phenomial Cosmic Power!   She discovers that a rival archeologist who works for the Illuminati also wants the clock.  Ala Scarface, a battle ensues at her house.  ED-209 ala Robocop, comes to play as robotic assistant to Lara.   Soon we find ourselves in Mortal Kombat and Mummy territory as we dive into the tombs.   Ace Ventura ending, with a Back to the Future/Matrix twist. Seen it, done it, already had the T-shirt. "},{"Title":"in a word Terrible","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Definitely one of the worst films of the year, deprived from anything I like to see when I go to the movies. A good story, good acting, believable special effects all absent here. The ending is among the most pathetic I've ever seen. Jolie looks good, the rest doesn't. Everybody (including Jolie), but especially the screenwriters, involved should be ashamed of themselves.* out of five  "},{"Title":"awful, painful, hurtful...","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What other words can I use to describe this movie?  Let's break it downThe lines were........ BAD The plot was.......... PATHETIC The action sequences.. BEEN THERE, DONE THAT The acting............ FAR BELOW PAR The girl.............. Ok... gotta give Angelina props... but just her.I don't play the game at all, and this movie has given me no reason to ever pick up a copy of Tomb Raider to play... but I sure do hope that the game is better than the movie! "},{"Title":"what you see isn't what you get","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  i mean the trailer when i say this. i thought wow when i saw it but was totally disappointed when i saw the movie.because the action scenes where,well eh plain stupid.the characters where flat as a dime.there was NO story and the villain.oh please......was jason isaacs(patriot)sick or something ?tim roth was probably too busy with planet o/t/apes and alan rickman on a vacation.what did the casting directors think when they casted this nitwit as a villain?he wouldn't even scare my grandmother! "},{"Title":"Battlefield Earth was, by far, a better movie!","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Tomb Raider. Wow. How to describe it? Well, we liked Battlefield Earth better. John Travolta's villain was far superior to the ones in this movie. There was a plot in BF Earth... Tomb Raider, well... we are still trying to figure if the writers had planned a plot.Tomb Raider, by far, was one of the worst movies we have ever seen. The action scenes lacked coherent action, the story line lacked a story, and the high point of the movie was when my wife and I figured out that the butler was Rimmer from Red Dwarf.More then likely, scenes vital to the plotline were left on the cutting room floor in order to make room for the two shower scenes, which were completely pointless.  The ending was quite anticlimatic, my cat's litterbox is more interesting then all of the character's combined, and we left the theater wondering if the writers were actually third graders coming up with a movie screen play for their favorite video game.By the way, we thought that Battlefield Earth was a bad movie as well. It's just that we'd rather see BFEarth twenty times in a row before we saw Tomb Raider again. If there is a hell, it is a theater with chains on the chair and Tomb Raider being the only movie shown.  "},{"Title":"A film for the losers in all the world","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I could never see or understand the fuss about the character of Lara Croft and her adventures in the Tomb Raider series of games. To me, she was a female fantasy figure for the thousands of losers and SB's who wasted their time playing those games and who could not be bothered to go out and find the real thing. Fantasies tend to be safer you see.Having now seen the film version of Tomb Raider, I still cannot see the fascination people have of the pneumatic chested Lara.It is a bad film. And it's boring.And there is nothing worse than a boring, bad movie. One expects a film like this to come from a hack like Simon West whose resume includes Con-Air (need I say more).But I expected better from good actors such as Angeline Jolie, Iain Glen and Daniel Craig to be laboured with such a banal, laboured and obvious script.Glen seemed to sleepwalk through his part with all the villany and menace of a Chartered Surveyor. He not mailed his part in but mailed it in without the stamp. And why was an English actor used to play an American (Craig)? Why not use an American actor to play an American. Such was the oddball casting of this film that an American was used to play an Englishwoman with an English accent nobody could place and a Englishman was hired to play an American with an American accent that did not stay in one place.All in all, a waste of everybodies time and talent. 1 out of 10.   "}{"Title":"this film should be buried and never unearthed","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw Tomb Raider a few weeks ago on the big screen, and it didn't excite me one bit. I couldn't get into the film for some reason. Possibly because it was geared toward the younger video gaming crowd...  I don't know. But what I do know is that I didn't like the film at all. Parents, when you rent this film... get yourself a newspaper or magazine, it's better entertainment. "},{"Title":"A complete turkey","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What a turkey of a film! The story - what there is of it - is cobbled together from hackneyed old cliches you've seen a dozen times before, and makes no effort to be believable. The characterisation is non-existent - we know that one character is a free spirit because he says I'm a free spirit. The effects are expensive and loud, but you can't see them because the direction is so poor. And, I'm sorry Ms Jolie, but you need more than one expression and tone of voice to play even a part this simple. Halfway through the film, her sidekick remarks that his backside is getting numb. I know how he felt. Luckily for me, I could walk out. "},{"Title":"Meh.","Date":"2 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie was pretty boring. I actually had to watch it in several shifts because I just got so bored. I don't really hate this movie, I just don't like it. It was a basic action/adventure with all the usual clichés. A big yawnfest. Just thinking about the movie makes me tired.I have some praise for it though. Angelina Jolie is perfect as Laura Croft and the U2 song 'elevation' on the soundtrack was great. Other than that, this movie is nothing special. I think that maybe it's problem was that everything was taken too seriously. I didn't care for or relate to any of the characters and the action scenes were only okay so I found this to be a pointless movie and extremely dull. Wait for this one on TV. Don't rent or buy it.My rating 4/10 "},{"Title":"I hate it","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, i always hated the game because of the Tough-girl-with-huge-tits-hype. I dont play a game (no matter how good it actually may be) just to watch a pixelgirls ass. Yes, in such a case i'm a pure machismo. In adventure games i play myself - and i'm a man - and only men rock the actionworld (Exception Ripley from Alien, but thats no Makeup-Barbie!)With this grim attitude the movie was doomed to suck. And i swore not to spend a goddamend Euro for a single Cinematicket or wont even rent it as DVD. Some time ago a friend of mine brought it as pirated CD version and i agreed to watch it because thats exactly what its worth - nothing and even less as i felt robbed for my precious sparetime...LARA GET LOST - INDY RULES !!! "},{"Title":"The Best Video Game Movies to Date","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Final Score 7.4 (out of 10)Hack writer/director Paul W.S. Anderson seems to have cornered the market on making lame movies from video games - some promising (Resident Evil) some dead-ends to begin with (Mortal Kombat). And he just won't stop. Fortunately, 'Tomb Raider' (a frustrating and dull video game series) has escaped him. Now we can see what can happen when put in the hands of some talent. With it, it also seems that director Simon West (previously of the atrociously trash 'Con Air' and 'The General's Daughter') has found his niche. He and star Angelina Jolie are what make this - a potential disaster - work so smashing. Jolie is the perfect physical embodiment of Lara Croft. Typically, I don't find Angelina Jolie sexy in the slightest bit, but Angelina Jolie as the strong, confident, slick Lara Croft...well, that's entirely different. I waste time mentioning this because it's part of the movie's giddy prepubescent tone. This is a guilty pleasure first and foremost. And a good one at that. TR manages to be sexy despite being completely sexless - after all if someone where to end up in bed with Lara she would loose that unatainable goddess quality.Naturally, everybody would like to compare this movie to Indiana Jones. This is a simple-minded knee-jerk reaction. Everything has to be compared to something. They both explore caves, right? So they must be exactly the same. Strangely enough, what surprised me about 'Tomb Raider' was how original it was and how completely different it is from the Indiana Jones series. It's more playful and exists in a world of pure fantasy. It also exists independent of the game which is nice. The plot - involving a device that controls time - is completely absurd, the script is silly, the acting (from anyone who isn't Jolie) is campy. All of this I enjoyed.  This is a B-movie all the way around. But it's a B-movie with A-talent behind the camera and a sense of itself where not much is taken to seriously. West's crisp visual style does wonders for the flick when it kicks into a few eye-popping and fun action set pieces. (I love the stone warrior statues). He avoids the ADD editing style of other directors and the movie has a strange beauty to it's action scenes (but not in the slow motion/white dove John Woo sense). The special effects are creative and deliver something strange and new around every corner. The soundtrack is top-notch. The score is effective and the techno music from Galaxy Bounce to the ending credit's Where's Your Head At and U2's Elevation remix all helps pump up the fun.Now, I did say that not much is taken to seriously. It's those moments where the movie does try to give us some depth that it falls flat. There is a cumbersome and unnecessary subplot about Lara's father. There is also long moments without action - this is one of the talkiest summer movies I've seen. Had it dropped all the presupposition of character development and gone all out in it's pure mindless entertainment it would  have been better. It also has another one of those scenes where a character is in the shower, hears a noise and gets out, wandering around naked looking for the disturbance. Who does that? However, in the end despite it's dragging pace, and because of it's fanciful absurdity I went along for the ride and can't wait to see more.  Would make a good double feature with 2001's other absurd guilty pleasure 'Swordfish'. "},{"Title":"The biggest disappointment of the summer.","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't play video games, so I don't know anything about the Tomb Raider game or anything like that, so it played no role in the formation of my opinion about the movie. I had very high expectations for the film, because I know how popular Tomb Raider (and, probably even more, Lara Croft) is, and because I know that a tremendous amount of preparation went into the making of the film. And besides that, Angelina Jolie stars as Lara Croft, and she pulls off the physical aspect of that role (face it, Lara Croft's body is even more well known than the game itself) with stunning closeness.There is a mediocre story in the film involving Croft's search for an artifact that carries with it tremendous power, including the ability to control time, if I remember correctly. Fueling Croft's efforts to achieve the artifact is her determination to live up to the legacy of her late father, played with a little tongue in cheek by her real life father, John Voigt.The story of Tomb Raider was not too impressive to begin with, and Angelina can barely pull off the fake accent (I shudder every time I anticipate Original Sin), but this is not what ultimately brings the movie down. Normally I try not to pick movies apart, but there was so much unnecessary stuff thrown in here that it makes you wonder what people were doing for all of the years that this movie was in production. It seems weird that no one noticed how weird it is to have Lara's father looking at the movie camera and talking, as though to her, while she reads a letter that her wrote her before he died. And also, whose idiot idea was it to have her do things like punch a guy in the head with the back tire of a motorcycle while she speeds by on the front wheel?! What a joke.On the other hand, every scene in which Lara handles guns is incredibly well done. I think that, for the most part, this is because Angelina just looks good pointing two guns and firing them that fast. The beginning action scene was pretty impressive for this reason. The action in the film was mostly pretty good, but there were several instances where it went over the top, as in the above-mentioned motorcycle scene. This is the same problem that we saw in Mission Impossible II, which could otherwise have been a good action movie, as Tomb Raider could also have been.I don't know enough about the game to comment on how well it was translated to the screen, but I do know from pictures of Lara Croft that Angelina did an excellent job in the role. There can be no mistake that the movie is directed at a younger audience (which makes you wonder about that brief half-nude scene), which probably accounts for most of the goofy action sequences, so be advised of a certain inherent immaturity before you watch it. It's an entertaining enough movie, but be warned.  "},{"Title":"Quality surgically removed.","Date":"10 June 2004","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't play videogames, so I'm probably not as familiar with Croft as many others. That said, in my opinion, this movie clearly would've had potential. Big busted heroine taking what she wants with two guns blazing. Sounds hot, ay? The finished product is far from that.Biggest problem with Lara Croft Tomb Raider is the editing. It's just simply appalling. Nobody goes to see this s**t for Lara's relationship with her dad. They pay the price for the action. Sadly, it doesn't work. Every time you think this is it, now she's gonna come from there, fling by the camera and boom! Awesome! they cut to some stupid angle that totally ruins the momentum. Such a shame.There are three good things here, though. The training fight with the robot is some what cool in the beginning of the picture. Plus the songs Where's your head at? by Basement Jaxx and Elevation by U2. And that's about it.*** / ***** "},{"Title":"My Favorite Actress Brings My Favorite Game To Life, In A Big Way!!!!!","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie rocked! I'm a huge fan of the Tomb Raider games and of Angelina Jolie.  This was like watching the video game come to life.  The action was intense and well staged.  I know alot of people compare Tomb Raider to Indiana Jones but Indy has nothing on Lara.  The mythological elements to the story were fantastic, the special effects were superb and the film had a really strong human element.  Even though she kicks major butt, you still get the sense that Lara is a real person.  It was about time that Jolie and her real life father Jon Voight finally share the screen together and their characters relationship really give the film its heart.  All that's left to say is bring on Angie, Lara and TOMB RAIDER 2!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"After trying to watch it five times,","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"54 out of 109 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" this movie holds the record for me.I have fallen asleep while watching it every single time - surpassing my earlier record for the first Star Trek movie which took me four tries to get all the way through it.The tragedy is not really that this movie is bad - it's how much money was spent on it, and it's not good. I've seen some REALLY bad movies lately that were made with a minimal budget but that were at least bad enough to be amusing (for example Shark Attack 3).But LKTR has no excuse. For that kind of money, they could have paid for a plot.In all fairness, I haven't played any video games since the Doom/Heretic era, and I am not a Jolie fan. Frankly (and I'm clearly in the minority here), I don't find her very attractive. BUT . . . I enjoyed her athleticism, and from what I've read, she did a very good job of playing the character of Lara Croft.And some of the sets were quite impressive.Sadly though, I was far more entertained by reading the reviews than I was by the movie. And in that vein, I've noticed that there are basically three types of reviews here1) A critical review of plot, cinematography, acting, etc. These reviews are typically well-written and generally conclude that this is a horrible movie.2) Reviews that give this movie ten stars and generally read something like this This is a good movie. I liked this movie. It is the best action movie ever! Angelina Jolie is HOTT!3) The reviews that read This is a wretched movie, but because of AJ's boobs, I'll give it three stars.And because of the reviews of type #3, this movie rates about two stars higher than it would otherwise.But who knows? Perhaps the next time it's on TNT, I'll brew up a pot of coffee, and I might even get all the way to the end. "},{"Title":"You'd be a real boob if you missed it . . .","Date":"12 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Several times during 'Lara Croft Tomb Raider' Angelina Jolie as the title character blows into the scene in slow motion, pouty lips in full gloss, skin tight clothes clinging to her supple body and strutting no less like a model on the runways of Paris. The first time, I had no complaints, the fifth time it got old.I'm not saying that I expected any less from a movie based on the video game adventures of a buxom heroine born one part Bruce Wayne, one part Indiana Jones and six parts John Woo but judging by the casting I expected more. It's not hard to make a video game icon into a real flesh and blood character because, after all, video game character never really come equipped with a personality in the first place so there is a lot of room to build a character. Not that she is totally lifeless, Jolie hints once or twice in the movie that Lara could have some real emotion but they are gunned down by the digital soundtrack. We know that the reason for the young teen male to attend is to gawk at the gift of Jolie's ample bosom. About that I would say that she handles it with a lot more decorum then Pamela Lee in 'Barb Wire'.What is so baffling about Tomb Raider, is that it stars Angelina Jolie, one of the best, most intuitive, most talented actresses that we have right now and she never seems willing to give Lara a soul. Watching a great actress play such an empty character is, for the serious film fan, like being peppered with fleas. But I'm overstepping, this isn't a movie for serious movie fans, it is eye candy for those who want their summer movie thrill ride. At that, I guess, the movie gets the job done.Director Simon West is able to accomplish something that I had previously thought impossible; He takes a jelly-bean sized plot and overcomplicates it until we in the audience simply give up asking questions and just admire the set design (or Jolie, depending on your gender status).Not to say that Lara is unoriginal but she is a bachelorette billionaire (Bruce Wayne) and a globe trotting archaeologist (Indiana Jones) and her father has died many years ago and she is alone (any Disney hero). She lives in one of those three mile estates complete with it's own Q-like robot programmer (Noah Taylor). Her father was also an archaeologist and has been gone for lo these many years (his headstone on the grounds reads 'Missing in the field &#x96; 1985'. Even though dear old dad is gone he neglected to fill Lara in on a secret society who has figured out how to control time and space. A clock buried in the wall of Lara's mansion begins ticking (she hears it from three floors up). The clock is counting down to the time of the planetary alignment so that when three pieces of an ancient artifact are brought together the Illuminati can control time but Lara ends up with one piece of it and she and her arch nemesis have to battle over it before the alignment passes and won't appear again for 5,000 years and blah blah blah bling bling bling blah! Did I mention that Lara hits a guy in the face with a motorcycle? It was cool.I guess maybe I'm looking for too much. My standard, obviously for a film like this is 'Raiders of the Lost Ark' which was so full of characters and so intelligent and so awe inspiring. Lara doesn't live up to the standards of her heroic forefathers but she does have some spunk and I'm hoping that the next installment (which I fully expect) Jolie will use more intuition. Lara's got the body, now give us a soul. "}{"Title":"You Can No Longer Separate The Men From The Women","Date":"19 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Perhaps I'm just too old-fashioned in my outlook on women's roles in movies these days, but, with that said, why does it seem to me that, time & again, Angelina Jolie is forever trying to firmly establish herself as being just-one-of-the-boys in her movies? Why does Angelina always seem to be out to prove that, yes, her balls are, indeed, much bigger and hang so much lower than any of the males in the cast? In this tailor-made vehicle (where Jolie is the only female actor), not only is her character a literal walking arsenal of state-of-the-art firearms (who always sleeps with a knife under her pillow, no less), but she has the superhuman capabilities to dodge bullets from the machine-gun fire of 5 masked assassins, as well as the ability to defeat and out-run anyone and anything.Lara Croft isn't a video-game character here. No. She's a real-life, flesh & blood woman, for crying out loud!Even though butch is the word that I'd readily use to best describe Jolie's Lara Croft character (and the word lesbian also comes to mind, as well), this, of course, doesn't prevent this liberated woman from wearing form-fitting tops specifically designed to push out her breasts right into the viewer's face.Considering that in real-life Angelina and her father, actor, Jon Voight, are at extreme odds with each other, I thought it really sucked that here in Tomb Raider these 2 were playing a loving, gushing father & daughter team where even death couldn't separate them or diminish that endless, overpowering love. (Sheesh! Give me a break, already!) When it comes to Angelina's overall looks, personally, I don't think she's all that attractive or beautiful. And those ridiculously puffy lips of hers (which remind me of a gorged vagina) are unmistakably the overdone product of massive collagen injections.Anyways - When it comes to this film's far-fetched, $115 million story (for which Angelina was paid $7 million), I found it absolutely impossible to believe that, all around this world, there are massive, buried-treasure sites which have all remained big, dark secrets until Lara Croft and her cronies (and enemies) have finally uncovered them. "},{"Title":"Lady Lara Croft not Good on Screen","Date":"4 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I just recently watched Maleficent and saw how Angelina Jolie commanded the screen so I figured I'd watch Lara Croft, a movie I'd never seen. Well... I didn't even finish the movie. I guess it was just such a huge drop off that I didn't have the patience to watch it until completion.I had zero knowledge about Lara Croft the video game or the movie before watching it. I guess she's a wealthy female version of Indiana Jones with more agility, smoother skin, and a British accent.It's an action movie, I get it; but even with that I cut it off when Lara Croft was dodging multiple machine guns firing at her. One guy shooting at you with a machine gun and you outrun him, OK... several guys with machine guns that you not only outrun, but also dismantle without a weapon I'm tapping out. "},{"Title":"Big hooters and massive shooters a good film do not make.","Date":"22 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Well over a decade has passed since I last saw this film; just enough time for me to forget quite how awful it was.Angelina Jolie might look the part, all pneumatic lips and breasts with a massive pair of hand-cannons strapped to her impossibly strong thighs, but the script is absolute gobbledygook, a boring and unfathomable mess that attempts to mimic the Indiana Jones recipe of pulp action and supernatural mythology&#x97;with everything from ancient archaeological artifacts made from meteorites, giant robots, living stone statues, crumbling temples, booby traps, a time machine, and even the frickin' Illuminati for good measure&#x97;but which is all so clumsily thrown together that it even makes Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull look like a masterpiece in comparison.Director Simon West pays little attention to logic, pacing or style, preferring to keep things loud and fast for his core gamer audience, utilising sub-par CGI to realise the numerous ridiculous set pieces, during which Croft manages to avoid being crushed, stabbed, or shot while performing gymnastic routines of Olympic standard and taking out countless bad guys with ease.3/10, and that's being generous. "},{"Title":"Average computer game based action film.","Date":"12 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Lara Croft Tomb Raider starts as a group known as The Illuminati desperately seek the ancient timepiece that counts down to the alignment of the nine planets of our solar system that happens once every five thousand years, they need the timepiece to find two halves of a sacred triangle forged centuries ago from the molten metal of a meteorite & grants the possessor the power over time. In a huge mansion in England tomb raider Lara Croft (Angelina Jolie) hears a strange ticking behind a wall & finds the timepiece The Illuminati are seeking although she has no idea what it is, Lara visits a lawyer named Manfred Powell (Iain Glen) who is actually working for The Illuminati & subsequently steals the timepiece from Lara. Once Lara realises what is at stake it's a race against time to get the timepiece back, recover the two halves of the triangle & prevent The Illuminati or anyone else from altering time...This American, British, German & Japanese co-production was directed by Simon West & was based on the popular mid 90's computer Game Tomb Raider & it's star Lara Croft, while computer game adaptations have been hit & miss Lara Croft Tomb Raider is a rather average action film that is watchable enough but nothing special. To be honest while I was watching Lara Croft Tomb Raider last night I kept thinking about Indiana Jones with he whole magical ancient relic of legend of some sort as an organisation of bad guy's want ti for evil while a lone archaeological action star has to save the day in a globe-trotting adventure to various temples ancient ruined cities. Also, the whole rich superhero who lives in a huge mansion & has an understanding butler reminded me of Batman as well. So basically Lara Croft Tomb raider is a female combination of Indiana Jones & Batman all wrapped up in a fairly basic computer game inspired action film, sure it moves along at a cracking pace & there's plenty of action but it's a very shallow film with very little going on underneath the action set-pieces & cool iconic posing & posturing. While not terrible Lara Croft Tomb Raider isn't great & I will have probably forgotten most of it by the end of the week.The action scenes are pretty cool from shoot-outs to martial arts fights to a bungee ballet to a potentially great scene in an ancient temple as various stone statues come to life including a huge six armed woman (similar to the one seen in The Golden Voyage of Sinbad (1974)) that disappointingly doesn't get to do a thing, it just stands there for a few seconds before being defeated. The CGI computer effects could have been better & look a little dated now. The sets & ancient temple designs are great & it's obvious a lot of time & money went into the visuals with plenty of stylistic posing but as I have already said there's not much else to the film. Apparently this is the most financially successful action film with a female in the lead role which is actually sort of sad to know. The violence is constant but not that graphic.With a supposed budget of about $80,000,000 this had a lot of money spent on it & it shows with nice production values, exotic filming locations & huge set-piece action scenes. This was the first Hollywood film shot in Cambodia for thirty years. The acting is OK, Jolie is alright while her on screen father is played by her real life father Jon Voight. Jolie is American while her character Croft is British while Croft's boyfriend who is American is played by Danie Craig who is British.Lara Croft Tomb raider is an alright big budget action film based on a computer game, it's not the best film out there but it's not the worst either if you just want to waste 100 odd minutes. Followed by Lara Croft Tomb Raider The Cradle of Life (2003). "},{"Title":"Into the belly of the beast.","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" There doesn't have to be a lot of story to get me to spend 100 minutes watching Angelina Jolie. I really can't think of a better use of my time. There is just no one who looks better in an Indiana Jones type role. She is incredibly perfect.There was, however, enough story and some incredible special effects that made this must more enjoyable than just seeing Ms. Jolie. There was also some humor, and some great monsters.It was also interesting to see her acting with Jon Voight. I guess they put their differences aside for the film.I shamelessly admit I went to Beowulf to see her, and I watched this again just to see her, too. It is a guilty pleasure. "},{"Title":"Slow Story","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" When you really think about it, this movie isn't that bad. The action in the movie is great and well set out, its the slow story line the killed this movie. Even though that the movie starts off fast with lots of action it soon drags on as the story gets into the picture. Simon West directed this movie, he tried to make it good with lots of action, with a bit of comedy added in, but he slowed down the pace of the film when the main plot comes in. (Its a very long 93 minutes).The reason this film didn't get the box office hit it was meant to get is because of the films slow pace and story line. That's why the writers of this film didn't return to write Tomb Raider 2. And even though that Simon West put great action scenes in the film, he slowed down the story with his directing. Simon West has made great films like Con Air but this movie wasn't his best. I rate this a 5 out of 10, this is for having a great start, lots of action and great finish. But it loses stars for having a slow story line. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" - Based on the popular video game series Tomb Raider, Lara Croft is a wealthy archaeologist who travels the world seeking ancient artifacts. In this movie, Lara is racing against the Illuminati (a secret society seeking world control) to find the two parts of a device that, when put together, allows the possessor the ability to control time. To save the world, Lara must get there first.- Several years ago, I was a huge fan of the Playstation series. I would sit and play each game for several days (or weeks) until I had entirely completed it. So, when I first read the news about a movie based on my favorite game, I was very excited. Probably too excited. There is just no way a movie could have ever met my lofty expectations. And, for the most part, Lara Croft Tomb Raider didn't come close. Having watched it again for the first time since its theatrical release, I realize that while it's not as bad as I first thought, it's still not a very good movie.- The real problem I have with the movie is the lack of adventure. The fun in playing the game was the search for the lost relic. Actually finding the relic could be anticlimactic. In the movie, everything seems to come too easy. To find the first half of the device, Lara points to a spot on the map in South East Asia and bam - she immediately finds the temple with the first half. For the second half, Lara travels to Siberia. Inside a very small ice cave, Lara knocks down one wall and bam - there's the second half. No searching. No mystery. No adventure. And this leads to no fun.- The biggest plus is the casting of Angelina Jolie as Lara Croft. From the first moment she appears on screen, she IS Lara Croft. I've never seen an actor so perfectly fit my expectations of a well known character. "},{"Title":"It sucks.","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I remember looking forward to watching this movie a few years ago. It is a major disappointment, and in my bottom 25 movie list. If there's anything good about this movie is of course Angelina's tit, digitally enhanced or not, And the cool wire fight scene.Lara Croft Tomb Raider looks good, but does everything wrong.5/10.  "},{"Title":"Totally obnoxious heroine","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It is not very hard to notice that LCTR  is a computer game transformed to the movie screen   lack of a decent plot, cardboard  characters, unbelievable action scenes  and  directed by a computer,  but some good stuntwork and CGI special effects.   Come to think of it, this is also the case for the bulk of all recent US action flicks .What is basically wrong with this picture is that they forgot to 'humanise' the Croft character ; besides being totally obnoxious, she is ofcourse physically perfect (Jolie is absolutely stunning) and  completely  invulnerable.    Miss Croft is in fact , besides an computer animated figure,  a robot   an efficient, cold-blooded killingmachine, a female terminator. At one point in the movie, she even claims to her closest collaborators , the butler and the computer nerd,  that if they reveal some kinda secret she will kill them instantly.  Nice girl.I didn't have the courage to see the sequel.Some critics call this the worst US movie of 2001.  I tend to agree.  "},{"Title":"Such an Awful Movie","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I would not go so far as to say it is impossible to make an enjoyable movie from a video game. But I will say that it has yet to be accomplished. Lara Croft Tomb Raider is just another miserable failure in a series of such events.The movie completely fails to connect from its opening action scene - a concept itself ripped wholesale from Indiana Jones. Lara is raiding a tomb - or is she - and wrestles a 50,000 ton robot. Yes, wrestles a robot. In one particularly ridiculous scene the robot decks her with a metal hand. Lara grimaces, then wrestles it some more. When I was in Little League I was once hit in the head with an aluminum bat, and I was unconscious for almost fifteen minutes. If a robot decks you full strength and you aren't fazed, why pay any attention to it at all? Particularly, why continue to empty clip after clip of ammo into the thing when bullets just ricochet off of its exterior?Now one can certainly say that the movie isn't based in reality, and one shouldn't nitpick it, blah blah. The story is obviously targeted at teens from Lara's ridiculous, cone-shaped breasts to her short-shorts to her collagen-injected lips. But to those of us who have actually had sex in our lifetimes, it really is boring. Angelina Jolie just isn't that hot. I'm sorry. She is a blow-up doll with bulbous lips. The bad English accent is just insult added to injury. She apparently thinks this is real acting.This movie, like so many other recent movies that have taken an existing action formula and tried to deliver a polished carbon copy, is a miserable experience. Nothing feels compelling. Everything is an injection-molded plastic replica of some idea that used to be fun. It makes me wonder what Indiana Jones would be like were the movies made today. Anyone remember how Indy fought? He was a brawler, and he got messy. He never did showy crap with his guns, he just used them. Here, whenever Lara has to use her guns, she is doing all kinds of twirls and flips with them (always in extreme close up to conceal the hand double). Her fights are that rapid-edit MTV chop-socky crap that pervades all modern cinema. If you want to impress me with a fight, pull the camera back and let me watch it.There is no reason for this movie to exist except to ogle Angelina Jolie in tight clothing. Are we so afraid of being called gay that we can't reject such a ridiculous notion? I live in Southern California and I see women as attractive as Jolie on a daily basis. Big deal. I wouldn't watch any of them in a movie, so why Jolie? Why do we continue to lie to ourselves that she is a talented actress?The biggest insult of this movie is watching Arnold Rimmer himself, Chris Barrie, slum it in true I need a paycheck style. I seriously hope the Red Dwarf movie makes it to the states so people can see him in a role that utilizes his comic talent, rather than wasting it like this cinematic insult does. "}{"Title":"Not worth watching","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Unless you're a die hard Lara Croft, Tomb Raider or Angelina Jolie fan, there's absolutely no reason to watch this movie. The action is not exciting. The plot is as thin as can be, yet still has flaws and the characters are pure stereotypes (why did Jolie have to use a British accent? This doesn't help the movie one bit). If it was supposed to be funny, it wasn't. Don't waste your time on this one! "},{"Title":"Bring back Harrison Ford","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Tomb Raider the game was always touted as being Indiana Jones in hotpants, and I'd imagined that going full circle, the movie of the game thats a game of a movie, would be pretty much the same. However, it's not. At no point in the movie did any of it seem real. Everything had this sort of glossy sheen, whereas Mr Jones, particularly in Raiders of the Lost Ark, was constantly sweaty and grubby. They tried to make the movie too much like the game in this respect, instead of trying to bring some realism to the proceedings, which is a shame.I imagine the sequel will be just the same. "},{"Title":"Should have been a Porno!","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  ****Excellent***Good**Fair*PoorSexy star Angelina Jolie stars as the big breasted Lara Croft Tomb Raider. The film like the video game uses sex as an advantage. The film however uses too much. The plot and action sequences are second banana to a scene with Angelina Jolie coming out of the shower and exposing the side of her left breast. Lara Croft Tomb Raider had the opportunity of being a female Indiana Jones movie. Instead the sex appeal is the main focus, for that they could have cast Pamela Anderson and turned this into an adult film.RATING 1 STAR "},{"Title":"Utter crap","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  How this movie earned itself more than 130 million dollars in the US alone is beyond me, how Simon West, who was behind the very cool Con Air, put together such a mediocre action movie is beyond me(especially after considering the budget of Tomb Raider). The fake British accent Mrs. Jolie is blabbing is almost offensive and the script is full of those extremely lame lines that every decent movie-goer hates and despises the most. I can't think of a single thing in this movie that's even decent, let alone good, but I at least won't have to pay for the rented DVD. 4/10 "},{"Title":"A cheesy video game movie? Surely you jest! Surely!","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Trying to list every crappy movie based on a video game would be like trying to name every type of fish in the oceans. Street Fighter The Movie, Wing Commander, Double Dragon, Resident Evil, Super Mario Bros., and Ballistic Ecks Vs. Sever are just a few. In fact, the only game turned flick that I honestly thought was decent was Final Fantasy The Spirits Within, but that wasn't too popular with audiences either. Anyway, I saw Tomb Raider once in theaters and thought it didn't make a whole lot of sense. Then I recently rented it on video as a lark and discovered...it doesn't make a whole lot of sense. The plot is so needlessly complicated that I won't bore you with every boring detail, because all you need to know is this Lara Croft wants a magical triangle that controls time. The bad guys also want this triangle. Wackiness ensues. There, got that? Good. I guess it would be pretty redundant to say that Tomb Raider is a hackneyed version of Indiana Jones, but in the end it is less similar to Harrison Ford's movies than it is to actual video games. The whole thing is set up like you're playing one. For instance Lara walks into ancient temple where there are many statues holding swords. If you think that these statues may come to life, give yourself a cookie. When Lara defeats these statues, she has to take on a gigantic Tibetan statue, which is a lot like the end level boss of many video games. Unfortunately, this final battle is extremely anti-climactic and ends before it can really begin. Then there are the standard video game settings Jungle Level, Ice Level, etc. And like most games, the story is bogged down with too much confusing/boring dialogue, especially when it comes to explaining the triangle or how time cannot be changed, blah blah blah. All in all, this is just another sad knotch on the wall of mediocrity that is games turned movies. I'm just really surprised that they decided to make a sequel, the lengthly titled Lara Croft Tomb Raider The Cradle of Life. At least in this one Lara has to find an artifact that people actually know about (Pandora's Box), which eliminates the need to spend 5 minutes describing it. I still can't get over the title, though. Why not just call it Tomb Raider 2 just to save us the breath? Or just go the extra mile and call it - Lara Croft Tomb Raider 2 The Cradle of Life The Mystery of Pandora's Box Big Boobies. 1.5/4 stars "},{"Title":"talk about dropping the ball","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was Baywatch meets Indiana Jones -- unfortunately the combined the dull parts of these two popular genres.  All in all, it was very pointless and dull.  This marks the beginning of the end of Angelina Jolie's stardom. "},{"Title":"Confused, bewildered.","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was one of which that left me confused. At the beginning I know everybody thought she was actually fighting a robot when she was just practising. What a nice way to raise the viewers adrenaline huh. Then there's the cheesy one-liners she says now and then. This movie was too over-advertised! It made you think you were in for a real ride when it was just a total pile of crap! The only thing good about this was Angelina Jolie. Trust me when I say, I love Angelina Jolie, I really do but she can do a lot better. I hope the sequel is a better treat than this. "},{"Title":"Inflate her chest more!","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Lara Croft Tomb Raider (2001) stars Angelina Jolie as the star of the film Tomb Raider.  She plays a video game character called Lara Croft who is a treasure hunter/explorer.What the movie revolves around is a device to change time.  A moronic story line with flacid, plain boring characters, ridiculous unimaginative stunts and computer effects to do most of the work.At least in the video games it's quite peaceful, Lara actually spends time *EXPLORING*.  Even Indiana Jones spent time doing actual research.For those of you who like Tomb Raider, I suggest watching MTV's take on everything.  It's messed up.  It's twisted.  It's just plain stupid. "},{"Title":"This movies was great, until it started","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie just plain old sucked.  Angelina was a good Lara Croft, but the movie itself was very boring.  I recommend that no one sees this movie unless you are being payed to watch it.  The story isn't all that bad but I just really hated this movie.  Not the worst movie I have seen but definitely not good.  Avoid at all costs. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Empty Void","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't have much to say about this film except don't waste your time or subject yourself to this completely empty 'film'.  I suppose, if you're an absolute Tomb Raider Gamer junky that perhaps you might like this, but if you're not, you'll not only be bored to death but mystified by how little content to this movie has.  They would've been better off spending the budget on making the next Tomb Raider game even more realistic with more adventures.  And now they're making Tomb Raider 2?  How desperate is Hollywood getting?P.S. - This is not Jolie's fault by any means, it's Simon West that should learn how to direct. "}{"Title":"This movie is rubbish","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  When I heard they were going to make a movie of Tomb Raider - I thought great. I love those games and they will translate perfectly into a movie.How can they possibly go wrong I thought - all you have to do is watch the game as a movie and simply make what you see into an actual movie. It's all there atmosphere, music, characters and plot.Sadly the makers of this movie were not interested in what made the game great but rather churning out another piece of hollywood action rubbish to make a quick buck. The only elements they in fact keep from the game are Lara's chest size (which was never important to me personally) and the guns - that's about it.In true churn-out-a-movie-that-the-fans-will-see-no-matter-what-the-quality-so-we-do n't-have-to-bother style there is the pointless addition of 'comedy' side kicks thereby ignoring the first rule of Tomb Raider - Lara is a LONER. 'Comedy' is of course in inverted commas because if you find these guys funny from this script then you can most definitely check yourself into a clinic for a humour (or even a brain) transplant.I would blame the director or the script (not Angelina, she at least was good casting) but fundamentally the problem is that this movie was made because they knew we'd turn out for it no matter what and so they didn't bother.Tomb Raider needs an Arthouse or Independent type director who loves the games and wants to make those great elements into a movie. It does not need the Hollywood treatment it got here.I have nothing more to say except DO NOT SEE THIS MOVIE unless you genuinely want to see a rubbish movie because you have nothing better to do. In which case I would say - FIND SOMETHING TO DO - DON'T WATCH THIS MOVIE. "},{"Title":"Angelina Jolie looks like Laura Croft...","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  and that is the best thing I can say about this movie.  The acting is bad and there are horrible attempts at the British accent.  The plot is stupid.  Croft just goes from one exotic location to another. Sort of like a video game going from one level to another. And nothing exciting happens in any of the places.I hated the music they played during the action scenes. I mean when Croft is kicking a**, couldn't they have played something that didn't make you fall asleep. I also hated the ending.(SPOILERS)  Why did she have to cut herself on that knife blade. I mean, time was stopped so couldn't she just take it out of the air. And why did she care about saving that Alex guy.  He tried to screw her over during the movie.  And I thought the last fight scene between her and Powell was just stupid. Sorry, but I just don't see some girl as petite as Jolie being able to pull that off.(END OF SPOILERS)I hope they don't waste money for another Tomb Raider film if the plot is as bad as this one. I  think a movie based on this character could be good as long as someone takes the time to write a decent script.  How about some more humor next time.FINAL VERDICT  If you are looking for a way to waste time, I recommend playing the video game over watching this movie.  The game would be more entertaining. "},{"Title":"A Missed Opportunity","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was immensely disappointed with this offering.  It represents a real missed opportunity to take advantage of an excellent character and a brilliant concept.The storyline was too complicated and fiddly - they'd have been much better advised to simplify the story and stick to the basic format of raiding tombs!I was disappointed that the characters of Lara Croft and her father, Lord Croft were both played by Americans.  I have the upmost respect for Angelina Jolie and her legendary father, Jon Voight, but those roles belonged to a Brit!  Ms Jolie and Mr Voight suffered badly from bad dialogue and Mr Voight has become increasingly hammy (his turn as F.D.R. in the awful Pearl Harbor was stomach churning).  The scenes between Voight and his daughter was absolutely awful, so syruppy, please pass the bucket!This film was entirely unconvincing and comic-booky!  I liked the addition of the incomparable Chris Barrie of Red Dwarf and the Brittas Empire fame, as the hilarious Hillary the Butler.  Leslie Phillips was also a welcome addition, although criminally underused, and again suffering from bad dialogue and a role that seemed to have no purpose.  He should have been in it more and that awful hacker character should have been scrapped altogether.One last bone of contention, if you're going to use the English aristocracy in a film at least do your homework.  The villain of the piece repeatedly referred to Lara Croft as Lady Croft.  Assuming that Lord Croft was a hereditary or life baron, his daughter would be unlikely to be styled Lady Lara Croft.  She'd much more likely be The Honourable Lara Croft, unless Lord Croft is and Earl or above in which case Lady Lara Croft would be abbrieviated to Lady Lara, never Lady Croft.To be Lady Croft, she'd have to be married to Lord Croft.  So, either Lord Croft had a son who inherited the title and 'married' his sister (watching Jerry Springer, perhaps some Yanks think this plauseable) or the script-writers haven't a clue what they're talking about.A major disappointment and completely unfeasable.  Stick to the computer game. "},{"Title":"Confused by what I feel inside...","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Dear IMDb,I saw this film on a VCD that a friend of mine had bought.  It was ahandy-cam job, and cost her about $3US.  Paying nothing for theprivilege of seeing this film in first-release in the comfort of my ownTaiwanese forth-story apartment, I immediately wanted my moneyback.  I guess paying nothing gives me no rights to claim, but still, Ifeel bitter.  What can I do to overcome my feelings of violation? How can I restore my faith in Hollywood?Confused and Bitter,Taiwan "},{"Title":"Indiana Jones should swing in on his whip and sue for plagiarism!","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It is hard to make a movie this bad. It is so mind-numbingly, jaw droppingly awful!!! How can this happen?  The worst crime above all others in film is being PRETENTIOUS, every single character, if you can call them that. act like stuck up snobs walking around with huge bank accounts. ARRRGGGGGGHHHHH! I rarely HATE a film, but I hated this one. If you're thinking, well at least there is good action and cool machines...wrong! The action is cheesy looking and is shot and edited so poorly you can't see what's happening. They even make Angie Jolie look unattractive, so that angle is out. There is not one single thing in this movie that has any redeemable entertainment factor at all. Maybe if you are a 10 year old girl you might like the idea of a female leading action character, otherwise, stay away!  We all know THE MUMMY ripped Indy off, but at least that was fun to watch. Maybe it should be, Indiana Jones Part IV Curse of the Hollywood producers! "},{"Title":"One of the worst modern films I've seen","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Juvenile and inept, may be good for young teens and under; but for adults I think I'd have to be seriously deranged to get anything from this utter bilge. I rented this thing from the library, real cheap but I still felt I'd been robbed. "},{"Title":"Oh boy.","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'll start by saying I'm not a big fan of the game, so I don't have the obsessive point of view some people seem to have when Lara Croft is mentioned.Lara Croft (Angelina Jolie) is a member of the British nobility, big house and butler included.  She keeps herself entertained by raiding tombs in search of lost treasures.Its the time of a total planetary alignment when a lost treasure will give its possessors the power over time.  To find this treasure a key is needed.  No prizes for guessing who has this key.What follows on from this is about 90 minutes of head scratching as you try to figure out what cliche is going to be thrown at you next.  Sara B. Coopers script, even for an action film, is weak.The main problem I saw was that Lara can handle every situation, so it lacks the tension of 'will she/won't she make it?'.  Jolie, an Oscar winner, is given a script that doesn't do justice to her acting ability.Now mix in cartoon baddies and you have a money spinner.Simon West's direction is all over the place.  Moments that could do with a little calm are packed to the gills with gun fights and explosions, a trick he better employed in Con Air.  The actors are left to struggle against this and the script.Tight editing does pull it back slightly, but this isn't good. "},{"Title":"Ick","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Before I saw this, I thought that Hobgoblins was going to be the worst film ever made. It still is. But, if you don't like films on MST3K, this is the worst film ever made.I won't bother to write much more. Just that it is driven by money.And why is it said that Jon Voight is one of the stars if he only has less than 5 scenes?! "},{"Title":"EEP!","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Ok im not going to say how god awful this film was, because the film speaks for itself...so instead im going to focus on what would have made this film better...The ex boyfriend should have been her brother...just another excuse to smooch her boyfriend beau again.The main bad guy should have been Billy Bob Thortion, another excuse to hit his wife on screen.More shots where you think its Angelina and it turns out to be Angelina...fun to see guys attracted to Angelina...(ewww)....and when that guy is in the shower...and they are like awwwyeah.....AHHHHH!! EW!!!John Gielgud, though dead, as the Butler..A talking dog....come on....everyone loves talking animals....like Dr Doolittle....aww hellThree words WILLIAM JEFFERSON CLINTON!  "},{"Title":"Aww Man....","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Tomb Raider is one of those movies that I have been covering ever since the website opened in 1997. Paramount has gone through years and years of preparation trying to get everything right for this movie. Originally slated to have been ready and released in 1999, everyone from Demi Moore, to Sandra Bullock, to Anna Nicole Smith were rumored to don the green shirt and high boots. When Angelina Jolie, GOD bless her, agreed to the role, it was finally evident that this movie based on the popular video game was going to be made. And since then, I continued to follow every development regarding the picture. So obviously, like every other Tomb Raider fan, I wanted this movie to be good. I ignored what I read in the newspapers this morning and instead, crossed my fingers, much like I did with Pearl Harbor. Instead, Tomb Raider turns out to be a one-dimensional, witless mush of explosions, boring chases, and Fatboy Slim mixes. The film may satisfy the die-hard fans of the video games but for those of you seeking a summer blockbuster action film, head for the much anticipated Jurassic Park III. There is really no substance to the movie. What's on the surface, the trailers, the promos, is what you get. Tomb Raider begins by showing us Lady Lara Croft, photographer by reputation, archaeologist by night. On May 15th, during the alignment of the planets (which only occurs every 5,000 years), she is awakened in her mansion by the noise of a clock ticking. Lara learns that the clock is the key to unlock the power of total time control.  Unfortunately, this movie has no character dimension. Why? Cause you need a script, which is something else this movie is lacking. Many are comparing the film with The Mummy Returns, but at least that movie had the occasional joke and punch line. Crack a smile in Tomb Raider? It'll probably only be during Angelina Jolie's unnecessary, but happily appreciated, half-nude bedroom scene. Angelina Jolie is in every single scene, yet amazingly, we only learn three things about her She loves archaeology, she loves adventure, and she misses her daddy. Don't get me wrong Angelina Jolie is hot. But Lara Croft is not. A couple of years ago, the promos for Tomb Raider all read Who is Lara Croft? That's an answer I'd still like to know. "}{"Title":"Her Breast Film Yet,...","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Um,...was it just me???  Or was it about 10-15 minutes into the movie before anyone said anything??? I felt like I was at a porno flick. Then,...about 30 minutes into the movie,...when they started to explain the plot...it was really hard to concentrate on anything except for Angelina's HUGE BREASTS popping through her tanks top,...She should've knocked somebody out with them,.... THAT would've been a fun twist,.... "},{"Title":"Disappointed - even with my very low expectations!","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I guess I should start off by saying I am a big Indiana Jones fan and mostly enjoy James Bond movies - in spite of their usually shoddy storyline.I say that because I would consider Tomb Raider a cross between the two films - at least at first site. It's really much more Bond than Jones, and a less interesting Bond at that.What really hurts this film (IMO) is the story and their catering too much to the young teens.I didn't like the father-daughter thing at all and I would have much preferred not knowing who the bad guy was until the end. The way they did it here there was absolutely no suspense. You pretty much knew exactly what was going to happen from start to finish.That being the case I was hoping for at least some visual candy to keep me interested.Sorry to disappoint you but this version of Lara isn't exactly what fans of the game are expecting. The opening scene is frankly the only one that does her wardrobe justice.The only eye candy this offered was some pretty nice cinematography in landscapes.That being said I think Jolie did an adequate job on her accent (though it was clearly not Queens English it was better than many other attempts we've suffered through in the past). The action scenes were mostly well played out (with a couple obvious exceptions) and the sets were pretty well designed.Overall there's really not much to see here - that is unless you're under 15.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"please, Noooooooo !","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  As for starters, I DO like action movies per se, and I am not partial to female leads in action movies - then again, Tomb Raider makes me want to rescind that... Saw it yesterday and still wish I could get a refund, even after a couple of beers and a good night's sleep.... Tomb Raider has a pathetic( weak would be a compliment !) plot, an even more pathetic villain, extremely uninteresting sidekicks ( both good and bad ones) except for a butler named Hillary, which, by the way, is one of the few intended working laughs in this movie. The rest of the jokes were either unintentional or backfired miserably. As for Miss Croft, ahem Miss Jolie, she makes me wish they had simply put in the animation from the Video Game instead of hiring her for the part, the CGI animation would likely have put up a better acting performance, been cheaper and might have projected more charisma if not for miss Jolie's, admittedly attractive, looks. Oh yes, the setting/backgrounds were nice, as was most of the camerawork, but pretty pictures alone do not a good movie make. The dialogues are beyond trite, lame and not funny and all, and most jarring for an action movie, there are a coupe of overly long and intensely sentimental scenes regarding Lara and her father. Lets be honest, if Tomb Raider would not have had a massive amount of PR hype and high expectations running on it, it would not have made the screen, except as a B category release, or sunk soundlessly in the second week it was shown. Well, as a major Video Game spin off, we are likely to suffer a second and third part.....Ouch ! "},{"Title":"Think Lara Croft's Breasts","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Lara Croft Tomb Raider certainly has some terrific moments of action. That being said, this movie is one of the emptiest I've seen all summer. Like Jolie's prosthetic breasts, this movie is certainly entertaining to watch but lacks any real substance. Jolie is terrific in a two dimensional role, as is the main baddie. Everyone else pretty much melts into the background. Jolie is too good for this kind of junk.  Maybe next time they could hire Jessica Biel, Jennifer Connelly or Carrie Anne-Moss.  At least they have the requisite equipment, are athletic enough and could use an A picture.  "},{"Title":"should have been renamed scenes from tomb raider","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Everytime a director makes a movie based on a video game they make a point of saying that this will be a movie for everyone, regardless of whether or not they've ever played the game. No. No no no. Do not believe them when they say I've never actually even played it myself. I just saw the script and had to be involved. This movie contains many, many heavy handed references to the games--most notably, it's method of story telling. If you remove all of the gameplay from TR, and show only the cut scenes sequentially one after the other, that is pretty much how this movie is structured. A series of action scenes only barely related to each other, with no sense of place (remarkable for a movie that prides itself in being shot on location in Alaska/Cambodia/where-ever else it was filmed), no buildup or denoument, no dramatic value whatsoever.A few scenes that typify this movie's problems for me Lara tells someone (who cares who-i forget. Maybe it was her butler, but it doesn't matter) that she has to go to Cambodia. Shocked, the butler replies But how will you get there? to which Lara responds wryly with her trademark smirk I'll call in a favour from an old friend. Quick cutscene to her parachuting into Cambodia in a Jeep, begin action sequence now. Did I miss something? Should there have been a scene there indicating why it's significant that she has to call in a favour?Perplexing scene number 2 While she's in Cambodia, for no good reason she goes to a temple, in which a priest (word choice error?) gives her unsolicited magic tea that heals the little bullet scratch on her shoulder. Never before or after are these buddhist priests relevent. They were just 'neat'. You know, like in a cutscene in a video game.Aargh. There were so many more infuriating scenes--the dogsledless escape nonsense, the jasmine flower, the mystery girl who pops up and tells Lara where to go next. The pure aimlessness of everything. I just can't stand to think about it anymore. "},{"Title":"If you're looking for story, don't waste your money","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  While I eagerly anticipated the release of Tomb Raider, I walked out of the theater utterly disappointed. To sum up the experience for the entire audience, the man behind me said, Thank God I didn't have to pay for this. (I was at a Sneak Preview). If you're going to enjoy a good story á la Raiders of the Lost Ark, don't get your hopes up. There are few elements of story that are even remotely intruiging. It's as if a ten year old came up with it. While the stakes seem monolithic in scope, they are so underdeveloped and trite that we as an audience find ourselves looking at our watches rather than caring. The characters are archetypical and underdeveloped, and furthermore, there are several completely useless characters.I will say this much, however. If you're going to see Angelina Jolie, this is the right flick for you. She is perfect for this part - charismatic, powerful, versatile, and above all, HOT. This film is nothing more than a pleasurable visual spectacle. So if you're willing to pay $8 to see some virtual T&A, more power to ya. "},{"Title":"Less than great, but why completely carp?","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Lara Croft is played very well by Angelina Jolie in Tomb Raider, where her character isn't as demanding as the ones she has had in the past.  She has fun with her role, and being one of the best looking women in Hollywood, it is worth it to see her all sexy and all (the guys will like that aspect over the action I bet).The story is so lame, contrived and non-sensical, it might be just as well to give up trying to find anything logical and take the Spaz look at it (obscure O & A reference) in just some action, effects and large heaving boobs.  While the action is well plotted in good locations and setting, the suspense is very, very thin, which is strange for this type of movie.  It's almost like we don't care what's going to happen because most of us have been down this genre road before (last month's Mummy 2, for example), and we know the outcome better than a fixed poker game.  Plus, the opening steals the show.  Action filled with fun in absurdity to go around, but it is very far from a great popcorn movie.  But at least Jolie is hot.  Jolie's real life dad Voight plays her on-screen dad here.  B (like it's genre) "},{"Title":"What a rack!","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Angelina Jolie is one of the sexiest women alive.  And anyone who has seen GIA knows that she is a talented actress, too.  Too bad her talents are totally wasted in this impotent action flick.  Even by the mediocre standards of this genre, this movie is a total bore.  There is zero character development, plot holes the size of meteor craters, and no originality.  Lara Croft is given little to do except fire her two pistols, fire off lame one liners, and pout her fabulous lips and pose in clingy outfits.  Less demanding young male viewers might say that this is enough for them, but anyone with half a brain will keep checking their watch.  If you're hot for Angelina, rent GIA again.  If you want to see a grrl-power action flick, try Charlie's Angels-- it's a lot more fun. "},{"Title":"rather play the video game.","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  angelina is great. action is good. story is awful.but who's going to see Tomb Raider because of the story anyway? ;-) "},{"Title":"Why cant these British directors just let a someone direct a film based on a game who knows what they're doing?!","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" What don't we know about Lara Croft? She first entered the small screen and all our hearts way back in 1996 and brought the genre of action gaming to a whole new level. Such a super sexy sleuth, wielding pistols and shotguns, able to leap across unfathomable crevices and battle with creatures from beyond our wildest imaginations! So with this in mind, British director Simon West decided to have a stab at making the much loved grave robber into a film. Okay, lets look at the basis of how a game adaption should go 1.BASE IT ON THE GAME!!!! The idiot took Lara, her house and her pistols and inserted them into a plot (and an awful plot at that) attempting to drag the whole tomb raider story right up to date. Why bother inventing a whole new idea when you have 5 games with fantastic plots, deadly foes and action that we have all grown to love. The way this film (and so many other game adoptions) was made is the same as taking the 'Harry Potter' series and removing all the characters, settings and events from it, then taking odd bits from throughout the series and tossing the casually into the smelting pot to produce a pile of rubbish that is supposed to do it justice!! It doesn't make sense- your supposed to make a film OF the books. So why cant a GOOD director make the films of the legendary Tomb Raider series? Then maybe we can wipe away the tears and enjoy what should have been made so long ago. Maybe..... "}{"Title":"Watch this one on Fast Forward I did","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I knew this film would be painful, but my wife rented it on 3 for $5 Monday to Wednesday.  This film is like the Morphin Power Rangers, except Lara Croft is a power ranger of one.  The movie's plot makes about as much sense as  a Morphen Power Ranger show.  Stupid would be a compliment for this film.  What I really hate is how they copy Raiders of the Lost Ark.  How could a producer mix Morphen Power Rangers with such a classic.  What sick minds did this?  What is next? Lawrence Welk and WWE wrestling. There should be a suicide warning with this film 1/10 "},{"Title":"Back into the tomb!","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I wasn't expecting too much when I rented this wannabe-entertainer from my local video store, because in the past video game material put on the screen never turned out to be a real cinematic pleasure. But after having seen Simon West's Tomb Raider starring the undeniable attractive Angelina Jolie I must confess that I shouldn't have expected ANYTHING!Everyone who criticized Final Fantasy for being an overblown, senseless and emotionless video game disguised as a 2-hour-action-flick has to watch West's brave attempt to deliver a film that easily ranks among the three worst I've ever seen! In comparison to TR the animated Final Fantasy and even the Pokemon-films look like potential Oscar-Nominees for Best Picture. And putting Lara Croft on the same stage with Indiana Jones as the modern female adventure heroine really seems like an insult on the reputation of Lucas' and Spielberg's masterpiece.To be fair, no one expected TR to have a strong storyline and in-depth character development - if you bought tickets for TR you bought them for action and a sexy Angelina. Well, honestly, you get both of it. Nevertheless, the result is an annoying, ultimate failure due to several reasonsThe audience wanted action, West gave them action. The problem is that TR moves along with such a breakneck pace that it's impossible to find ANY plot in this exploding mess. The film jumps from one exotic location (or should I say LEVEL!?!) to the next, leaving the viewer with the feeling of a noisy and spectacular slideshow that is connected by constantly unbearable dialogue. Soon, you'll get tired of all this crash-boom-bang because there's hardly anything new in it. And when the time has come that West tries to reveal some melodramatic background of his characters, it is done so predictable and clumsy that I found myself grumbling at the absent director O.K., you tried, you failed, get back to action! The only good thing about TR is likely Angelina. She's the only visual effect that grabbed my attention. But even her presence can't help this flick from being a total waste of time.So, in the end, I can just hope that TR remains the ultimate bottom of video game adaptations and that future attempts will treat the original material with more respect. There's actually some good stuff out there (imagine a good script for Nintendo's epic Legend of Zelda in the hands of a skilled director!), so don't mess it up like West did! "},{"Title":"It's bad.","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  By now we're all used to bad movies, but once in a while, a movie comes along that forces you to redefine what a bad movie is. Such a movie is Tomb Raider. Oh, it's not all bad, the acting is believable and the special effects are okay, although someone's seen entirely too much The Matrix. The really bad thing about Tomb Raider is the script. It is so bad, I can't imagine how they raised funds for it in the first place. This is probably the worst movie ever to come out of a computer game, so if you thought Street Fighter was bad, you haven't seen anything yet. One thing tho' I left after having my intelligence insulted for an hour or so, but up to that point, Tomb Raider was bad, the ending might be really good, but by then you won't care, because you'll be wondering where all your popcorn have gone. They should have just called it Cliche Raider, but of course then it would have been the flop it so rightfully deserved. If you want to see good special effects, see The Matrix, and if you want a good adventure movie, get any of the Indiana Jones movies, you'd think that in 20 odd years, they could have come up with something better, but I repeat myself. "},{"Title":"Strong Lips, Weak Movie","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I so wanted to like this film. I thought the trailer looked fun and fast and Jolie did look great. With low expectations, I sat there and sat there and sat there, begging for their ridiculous plot to wrap up and finish already. There were some well staged fight sequences but that's it. Jolie (who did interesting work early on in her career - Gia, Wallace, etc.)obviously decided to underplay (so much so her performance borders on sleepwalking). But there was NOTHING to the story, it just moved from scene to scene with some lame forced Hollywood quip crowbarred in at the last minute. I detested how much GUNS played in the movie - here some stone figures deep in a hidden temple come to life to just be blasted away by a gun. How clever. You could tell some of the special effects people had been influenced by the great Ray Harryhausen (Jason and The Argonauts) when they tried to bring the giant Gold Buddha to life, but the computer animation made it all look so flat thus so unthreatening. Did Jolie look good? Yes. Was there any sort of script. No. "},{"Title":"Bummer, I was hoping for better... (spoilers within)","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I gave this movie a 2 because it had an excellent production design(sets, props, costumes, weapons, etc) and maybe one or two original(or mostly original) fight scenes.Once again, Hollywood churns out an adult movie premise with childlike execution. Sure it's nice to see a female hero, but come on, what's with the disparity in character? She was raised upper crust, loves her daddy, but seems to have a total disdain for her peers(shooting at or near her butler, treating her techie with disdain, and kicking up her feet at an auction). Hello? Hollywood? Can we make some female leads that aren't cookie-cutter Xena-alikes? You know, snobby, sassy, permanent PMS types. Okay, I must admit that Lara Croft wasn't quite that bad, but close enough to get on my nerves.It's not like I walked into the theater with high hopes. I just wanted to see an entertaining movie. But I knew from the first scene that I wasn't going to enjoy the movie. Why? Because Lara Croft couldn't hold her guns straight. She actually let (not the barrels) but the trajectories of barrels cross. Probably because the actress' wrists weren't really strong enough to hold the guns steady. I'm nitpicking, you say? Well, I may just be a tad too smart for my own suspension of disbelief. But there you have it, to make a great movie, Hollywood has to do its damnedest to suspend the disbelief of even those few people out here that know two bullets smacking into each other in mid-flight is really dangerous even though it's just a movie and they're really just actors/actresses firing blanks.On to technical aspects of the plot, I found that this movie borrowed heavily from other movies, but not so badly that fixes here and there wouldn't have warranted a better rating. One of those fixes concerns the 'dead zone' around the lost city/crater at the end of the movie.If laptops and internal combustion engines don't work in the dead zone, then why do fully automatic machineguns and laser sights? A gun and an internal combustion engine work on the exact same chemistry and physics--Gun A volatile substance(gunpowder) burns at an accelerated rate, pushing a mass(bullet/casing/action), the action moves back, ejecting the casing, then the action returns by spring.--Engine A volatile substance(gasoline) burns at an accelerated rate, pushing a mass(piston), the piston turns a crankshaft, returning its neighboring piston into the same position as it previously occupied.Given the attributes of the deadzone as laid out by the amphibious craft and the laptop, nothing should have worked inside, fires shouldn't have burned, the guns shouldn't have worked, the laser sights and bioluminescence glowsticks shouldn't have worked, the spring in the switchblade shouldn't have propelled the blade forward, the bell shouldn't have rang, voices shouldn't have been heard and the model of the solarsystem shouldn't have turned. In fact, the edge of the dead zone should have KILLED HUMANS ON CONTACT!!!!Why? Well, let me ask you this What the hell is the difference between a cell in a human body burning glucose and a gun burning gunpowder? None, it's the same chemistry, the same physics.--Human A volatile(hey, it's a relative term) substance(glucose) burns at a slow rate, allowing muscles to do work, and the body to maintain a 98.6 degree Fahrenheit temperature(37 degrees Centigrade/ 310 degrees Kelvin).Okay, I would have settled for them having to use torches instead of the biolights, and leaving all conventional weaponry behind(yes, even the switchblade).Second biggest plot snafu Destroying the triangle-thingy with a bullet. I wish I had my 'Shooter's Bible' around so I could look up the muzzle velocities and energy values of various pistol rounds, but I'll take a wild guess from memory and say that no pistol develops an energy rating of more than 3000 ft/lbs at the muzzle. Okay, so let's say a 300 pound wrestler wearing iron-shod shoes jumps from 10 foot high and lands on the triangle-thingy without bending his knees, he breaks it, right? Yeppers(well, okay, lets be fair and subtract for the shock absorbing value of each cartilage pad between each vertebra in his spine, and again for the skin of his soles, but 11 feet definitely makes it!). 3000 footpounds of force generated. And you're trying to tell me that the ancients couldn't break this thingy with whatever tools they had at their disposal, but a girl with a gun can? Are you starting to see why I haven't enjoyed a movie in years? Hollywood doesn't understand that it can't break the laws of physics in a serious movie. When it finally realizes this, we'll have a smarter, faster, better Hollywood, and smarter, faster, better movies.THE ENDWhat?!? I'm not going to gripe about little Lara Croft getting the MASSIVE pendulum to swing faster to puncture the water vessel by simply rocking her bottom instead of running from one end to the other sprint-style, or the fact that I got up to go to the bathroom while she was standing on top of the waterfall and KNEW she was going to jump, or about the bullets taking out the stone guardians as easy as they did, or the fact that Lara broke down the wall of the secret room and nobody came to find out what the noise was about.Nope, these things I merely cringed at and tried to wipe them from my mind so I could enjoy the rest of the film. Don't get me wrong, I give Hollywood some leeway, but when they totally screw up and expect eye-candy to save them, I'll be there with my pen in hand. "},{"Title":"What a mess!","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  A little spoiler ahead...I saw the movie two days ago and so it isn't some instant rush that makes me say this movie sucks! Big time.  Although I don't really like the video game, I thought (and still think) that you could do a great film about the heroine.  A reasonable plot is of course necessary... And this is one of the points where this movie is completely lost. A revenge story? Oh, please... And then, there is the editing! While everybody says that MI 2 sucks because of slow motion, this one lacks it. Everything is too fast. The sequences are incredible (I think so...) if you could actually SEE them. But this is only shooting here, explosion there, running everywhere... And the ending... this mano a mano without weapons thing ... I nearly left the cinema.  Plot holes, plot holes and breasts that change size within seconds. Jolie looks okay, the bad guy is ugly, the hero is ugly, too. Voight is kind of uninteresting.3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"weird story, wrong actress","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was very disappointed when I watched Tomb Raider yesterday evening. I expected much Action and a reasonable plot, but the story as such was complete nonsense. Why the hell should someone hide something, that he doesn't want to be found, instead of just destroying it?!?! And why the hell doesn't Lara just smash the first half of the triangle instead of searching the other half and putting the two of them together. I mean, what sense does it make??? I, too, found, that Angelina Jolie isn't quite the ideal Lara Croft, I guess someone like Ashley Judd would've fitted in better. "},{"Title":"Just like the games - average ... VERY average ...","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  First of all &#150; I never liked the Tomb Raider games-series.I see them as very average games that are highly overrated. It kind of fills me with pain when people mention the Tomb Raider games being up there with the real classics of computergames history, because I think that it is an offense to the real classic computergames out there. So why did these games become so successfull?Because there was a gigantic marketing campaign behind the games (the hype got actually that far that there was a Tomb Raider Shower gel available!!) and the heroine was a big-breasted babe.What we have learned from the past is, that computergames never spawn good movies ... and the outcome to me was very clear when I heard that a so-so computergame like Tomb Raider would end up on the big screen.Tomb Raider is one of those movies where, when the lights go back on, you have the impression that you have been sitting in a car for two hours and have been staring at a red traffic light. Blankness. Total blankness. The whole movie is about let's go on to the next big explosion and hope that the people get distracted from the huge plot-holes. Thirty minutes into the film you'll find yourself wondering what you're watching, and forty minutes in you'll find yourself wondering why you are watching this. What you'll find throughout the whole movie is boredom, overworked CG and huge plotholes. Not that I did expect anything more, because .. hey ... I know the quality of the Tomb Raider computergames ... and even really good computergames ended up in a bad movie.Mind you, the movie is ok when you're absolutely braindead and you just want to watch some dumb action flick with tons of special effects and explosions (more something you'd rent on DVD and forget about it after you've seen it), but if you're into characters, storyline and good acting, go see something else.To sum it all up &#150; Tomb Raider tries to be a James Bond/Indiana Jones rip-off never reaching the quality of the two franchises, but it will be a huge success after all ... why?Firstly - there are a lot of male teens out there with a Playstation and dreams about Lara Croft and secondly - Marketing, ladies and gentlemen, Marketing . . .  "},{"Title":"Not the Worst Film Ever, but Close...","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Hurly Burly was the worst film ever.  Then this piece of crud ties for second with Battlefield Earth. The action was bad.  The acting was hackneyed.  The editing was bad.  Somehow they made ancient glorious temples look as dull as a local seven-eleven.  Shame on all those involved with this mess and the adolescent man-boys who are showering it with praise because of Jolie's fake rubber breasts bouncing all over the place. "},{"Title":"Worst film of the millennium!","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Save your money, and avoid this poor excuse of a film at all costs. Maybe I missed the whole point, having never played the game, but that is no reason to make a film with the worst script and dialogue imaginable, spoon-feeding the audience the plot points, and villains that are no more threatening than a small dog. Might as well just show various shots of Angelina Jolie for the duration, and cut the so called story. The only good thing about this movie was that it ended! I left the theatre angry - bad film making on a big budget tends to do that to me. A waste of time and film stock.   "}{"Title":"The best and most important film EVER!!!","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" For anyone who doesn't own the DVD of this movie, get it. The first thing you'll like about this when you play it is the main menu (even though it is a little loud). The way it opens up is the broken pieces of the clock that get frozen in time in the movie magnetize together to form the clock in one piece. The clock opens up and you get the main menu choices. After choosing the extras, the camera flips around and down through the clock and it gets to the planetary set at the end of the movie only it's bright blue and white. If you choose any of the options in this the camera will chase the planet that the option is on and it will play the choice.But here you should choose the Alternate Opening sequence option. The way this plays out is you'll hear the music then see a thin yellow line form on the screen. As the camera zooms out the yellow line becomes a downward arch-shape (like the top of a circle) and it becomes obvious that the yellow line is the top of the Sun coming out of an eclipse. As the eclipse slowly ends, a flash of light forms at the very top. The camera zooms back in and something forms in the middle of this bright flash. It the entrance to an ancient Aztec building (like what you would expect from the ancient race in the movie). It glides through the entrance and through a maze of sorts. In this maze you'll notice the place where the Lara kept the chip that played music in Simon the robot after she defeated it. As it glides up a ramp at starts to fly again above the walls and zooms out one more time to reveal the sign Lara Croft Tomb Raider. Once it gets a good view of the sign, it disappears into the middle of Lara's eye, as at the start of the movie, and finishes there. I suppose it would have been even better if there was option that you could start the actual movie with this alternate opening and add the deleted scene of Wilson getting murdered by Powell and, if there was another scene that could have fitted into the movie (in general- you'll know if you see it) then that scene could have had an option to be added into the movie where it belonged as well.Now onto the movie itself.It couldn't have been done better with Angelina Jolie. I will agree that the second movie, but who gives a s**t?! I still own the double set. In the first movie, Angie has given the performance everything. She has shown an incredible insight into her character and personally blown me away. If ever you're a sad drunk, then watching the rejoining scene of Lara and her father (who doesn't go by the name given in the First game booklet). Still I loved it and anyone who doesn't like the movie is an idiot!! So there. "},{"Title":"Jolie does bring the character to life, but the screenplay's just dull!","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  While Angelina Jolie does bring the Lara Croft Tomb Raider character to life on the big screen, unfortunately the script and dialogue is just boring.The overall effects are done nicely. In one scene there is a fight involving a bunji harness in Croft's mansion where Jolie swings around doing little martial arts moves, kicking bad guys, and zipping around on the cord. I liked this scene because it was very original. But then there're other scenes and monologue that are just out of place.The end pretty much messed up the rest of what I DID enjoy out of this film. It was utterly ridiculous, not in the ways of she could never do that but more of a really dumb plot ending. Perhaps the sequel will be better than this. I sure hope so.It seems most of the time the director of this film was too focused on getting teen males to enjoy the film by zooming and/or focusing on Angie's tight, short clothes, and *ahem* big chest(how else to put it-it's true) rather than giving the audience an interesting storyline.Tomb Raider is worth viewing once, just for the fact there're some scenes very interesting and original, but just fast forward the last 30, dull and ridiculous minutes. 2/5 stars- "},{"Title":"The Geek","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Here we have a film based on a game, but the connection is very incidental. There are lots of films that share this problem of mapping from books, comics, games, TeeVee, to film, and many of them solve it the same way they introduce a geek.Geeks posses a magic in today's world, as the divide between the technically competent and the rest accelerates. The geek here takes on the role of collaborator and creator of the world in the first part. In the second part, he merges with a Hamlet-like ghost and as in Hamlet is the magic behind the world of the tombs.Lara `Crafted' is much less sexy in her domain in the film than in the game, and all the investment in the film is made in the invisible geek. It is he that battles the evil conspiracy (that he helped create), providing `pointers' to the actress (and if the film worked the audience). He even (both as the Dad and the creator of the game) constructs Lara.Strange thing about films with orreries, those planetary machines. Dark Crystal, Hudson Hawk and now this -- they all failed in precisely the same way. "},{"Title":"kick kick and Hollywood roll","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie has an excellent production design(sets, props, costumes, weapons) as enough money was thrown at it as it's a Hollywood Blockbuster. and two original original fight scenes. As Mark Kermode the movie critic says there has never been a decent film taken form a video game.Here an adult movie premise has childish execution. A change to see a female hero, but there's disparity in character She was raised as aristocracy, loves her daddy, but seems to have a total disdain for other people only too happy to blow them away. The whole appeal of this film is in the casting of Jolie and her inhumanely perfect body. Sort of appearance that reminds one of one of the portraits by the actor and psychic Stephen Armourae. She could have been a model for the 'Catherine Prendergast' portraits. So there is little bother with a plot as its by Hack writer/director Paul W.S. Anderson has cornered the market on making bad movies from video games -. Now we can see what can happen when put in the hands of some talent. With it, it also seems that director Simon West (previously of the atrociously trash 'Con Air' and 'The General's Daughter') has found his niche. Combined with Jolie they manage to pull this up from the sewer. Just don't expect miracles and you shouldn't be disappointed. Think Indiana Jones with a bust and a worse script and just accept it as that. "},{"Title":"the moral is rush on the video games, they're much better","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" To adapt a video game for the screen is like adapting a comic strip to the screen the result is rarely convincing. Lara Croft Tomb Raider isn't an exception to the rule. When the film was launched in June 2001, it was announced as one of the biggest commercial successes of the summer in France but it didn't meet the expected success (hardly 2 million of spectators in the theaters). However, the publicity campaign was quite important (U2's clip elevation featuring Lara Croft was released at the same time with the movie. Now concerning the movie, well under its compound subject, the screenplay is a great banality. A sect called the Illuminati tries to appropriate a talisman that would enable his members to control the whole world and time. But for this, she needs two pieces of a triangle and Lara's got one of them. A mad chase's starting... In short, this is the classical outline specific to adventures movies. Not only was the screenplay inspired by several elements which made the success of this type of movies but it also drew elements from the video game Tomb Raider. For example, in the movie we find magic objects that assure power to the one's got it, mysterious places (the temple in Cambodia), the struggle between good and evil. This is just a lacklustre movie that doesn't innovate anything in the type of the adventures movie. It could have been another Tomb Raider's adventure on a video game. Moreover, the movie irritates a little by its worthy dialogs and its unlikely special effects. As for Angelina Jolie, she's quite convincing ,physically and morally in the main role. At the end, Lara Croft Tomb Raider is a film without any great surprises, a bit nonchalant and the fans of the video game will maybe find something in it. "},{"Title":"The Tomb is Empty.","Date":"25 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Lara Croft Tomb Raider (2001) Dir Simon West / Cast Angelina Jolie, Noah Taylor, Jon Voight, Daniel Craig, Richard Johnson Based on a popular video game providing viewers with stunts and special effects with as little story as possible. Perhaps the producers raided a tomb to find this screenplay without realizing that a plot this dumb was buried for a good reason. Angelina Jolie plays Lara Croft who begins the film with one of many mindless action scenes. She finds a clock that contains a strange object. She is then off to obtain two halves of a triangle that are located at opposite ends of the earth. She must destroy them before they are used to control time. This is apparently done when the planets are aligned together. Director Simon West hasn't the slightest idea what he's doing with this big budget circus act. To his credit he at least takes on projects of different genres. Aside from this he directed the suspenseful The General's Daughter and the embarrassing action crap fest Con Air. Jolie spends much time in bemused combat. Jon Voight provides the only real character as her father, and their scene together is perhaps the one good scene. Noah Taylor and Daniel Craig are at the mercy of cardboard material. Richard Johnson plays someone billed as the Distinguished Gentlemen. The only thing distinguished here is a bad career move. Pointless video game spectacle should be buried in a tomb. Score 1 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"A robot on autopilot could have made a better film","Date":"20 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Video games have in recent years been a frequent source of inspiration for action/adventure films, although it must be said that few of the resulting movies have been any good, the recent Prince of Persia The Sands of Time probably being the best that I have seen. (There have been some dire examples, Street Fighter being a particularly egregious one). The successful Tomb Raider series, dating back to 1996, boasts in its beautiful heroine Lara Croft one of the most instantly recognisable characters from any video game, familiar to many who have never played the game itself, so a film adaptation was inevitable. For promotional purposes Lara has been impersonated by many young actresses and models; in the late nineties the young British actress Rhona Mitra was frequently promoted as the face of Lara Croft. The film-makers, however, evidently wanted someone more internationally famous, but although they cast the American actress Angelina Jolie in the role they resisted the temptation to make Lara an American. As in the game, she remains a British aristocrat living in a stately home with a butler. The plot is largely based upon the Indiana Jones formula, with a few influences imported from the James Bond series. Like Indy, Lara is an archaeologist whose scientific expeditions always end up turning into an adventure, generally because she has stumbled across an artifact with mystical powers. There will also be a gang of bad guys in search of the said artifact, which they need in order to achieve their goal of world domination, a goal which it falls to our intrepid heroine to thwart. That synopsis would fit both the Lara Croft films; indeed, with a change in the sex of the leading character it would also fit most of the Indiana Jones films. (The one exception is Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom, the weakest entry in that particular franchise). In Lara Croft Tomb Raider the mysterious artifact is a metal triangle with the power to control time and the bad guys seeking it are the Illuminati, that secretive group beloved of all conspiracy theorists. Another theme in the film concerns Lara's relationship with her father Lord Richard, who died when she was young, and who it turns out was murdered by the Illuminati. Richard is played by Jon Voight, who is of course Angelina's father in real life. As I said, there are also a few Bond influences, such as the use of several exotic locations- here Venice, Cambodia and Siberia- in the one film. Just as Bond has his Bond Girls, so Lara has her Croft Boys, and the Croft Boy in this film is Alex West, played by Daniel Craig who of course himself later took over the role of 007. Alex is an American; there cannot be many films in which an American actress plays a British character and a British actor plays an American one. Angelina copes well with the British accent, although she perhaps does not sound quite upper-class enough for Lara's supposed background. (Foreign actresses called upon to play a British character are more often guilty of the opposite fault, that of making someone from a working-class background sound like a Duchess). In general, however, Angelina's performance is quite a good one, showing that she has the looks, charisma and physical presence to play a role like this. A sequel named Lara Croft Tomb Raider The Cradle of Life was released in 2003. Despite its clumsy title and the law which states that sequels are generally inferior to their originals, it is actually the better of the films by a considerable margin, giving the lovely Angelina a vehicle more worthy of her talents. Unfortunately, she is the only thing about the original film that is any good. None of the other actors, including Voight and Craig, make much of an impression, but the film's two biggest problems are the way it is written and the way it is directed. The script went through many drafts produced by several writers; the producers were presumably unaware of the adage when in a hole, stop digging. Frenetic attempts to take a bad script and make it better frequently have the effect of making it even worse. In the event, five writers including director Simon West are credited with the final version, and this hotchpotch of nonsense certainly has the feel of something produced by a committee. As for the direction, West seems to have made the mistake of assuming that because the film was based on a video game he needed to reproduce the furious, hectic style of one. The opening scene features a robot named SIMON, and I wondered if this was a reference to the director's Christian name. If so, it seems like an apt one; a robot on autopilot could have directed a better film than this one. 4/10 "},{"Title":"It's entertaining but totally forgettable........","Date":"7 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" **********May contain slight spoilers*********** OK I never played the games before but everyone knows Lara Croft. So my whole family went to see this movie and we were pretty excited. When we came out of it, we were thinking how some of the scenes were pretty cool and how Angelina was a pretty good action actress - then when you think about it harder, you start to see the cracks that were not covered up.The plot - well Lara Croft is a millionaire who owns a big mansion and goes on quests to search for lost artefacts almost like Indiana Jones - though he does it with a bit more style. When the lunar eclipse sets off an alignment which will enable hunters of the triangle of light to be obtained, with the two pieces hidden on opposite ends of the Earth (one in Cambodia, the other in Siberia), Lara must stop the baddies from obtaining it for using its power for evil.Hahahahah yeah this is soooooooo original. The main problem is that with this plot, how come they always have to split up the bloody item instead of destroying it in the first place when it could have solved the problem in the first place? It just doesn't make sense to me that a civilisation who was so smart to make such an object is even stupider in working out the best way to get rid of it.Now when it comes to Angelina, I thought she played Lara Croft pretty well. The only problem is - the character is so stuck up and over confident it makes all the action scenes and sense of danger pointless almost because you know she will get out of it. For example, when she goes to Angkor to get the first triangle, the statues coming alive showed no fear in her at all. It's almost like 'oh OK this is just another day, no problem' reaction from her. I am guessing this is how Lara Croft would be but I didn't expect her to be so annoying.Then you have the subplot with Lara's dead father which tries but fails to add any emotional depth to this. The music in the movie was alright at times and at other times felt like I was in some sort of grunge/heavy metal concert.The visuals I will say are pretty good and Angelina is the perfect Lara Croft but they could have done so more with her. The sequel is better in my opinion but has similar mistakes as the first. "},{"Title":"If it raids anything at all, it's the file in the cabinet marked 'dumb-dumb summer action movie conventions'.","Date":"13 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" If you cast your mind back to the era of this film's inception and more importantly, if you are able to, strain to remember the Tomb Raider video games of around about said time then you'll recall episodic adventures of a heroine named Lara Croft jumping and hopping from global locale to global locale thwarting gun toting villains and some of the more hostile wildlife known to humankind. Of the games that I played in the series, most were rather repetitive; sparked into life only by the odd driving of a vehicle for whatever reason or the fighting off of a 'boss' during which nouse and tactics were unusually inserted into the game. For the most part, venturing from A to B; hopping; jumping; swimming; shooting and the working out of puzzles usually involving keys and levers were the norm, it's just that doing so in a jungle; a temple; a mountain range and a submarine station amongst many others masked the effective repetition of the game. Simon West's 2001 'adaptation' of the Tomb Raider series is intrinsically linked to the game series of then-1996 to 2001 in name and lead character only, and in a video gaming franchise that saw so much of the same content played out, it's funny how routine consistency and simplistic clarity in what's happening are the two things we bay for most when watching his film.Lara Croft Tomb Raider covers the exploits of a young bored-by-day heroine isolated in a large mansion, as she grieves for her father Richard whom went missing in the field some years ago and keeps company within the vicinity in the form of butler Hillary (Barrie) along with hermited technological whizz Bryce (Taylor), whom curiously lives out back in his own version of Q's workshop based in a caravan. The lead is the titular Lara Croft, played by Angelina Jolie. Croft seems to spend her days reenacting what we can only presume to be a denouement to an archaeological mission, before being attacked by a purpose built robot whom will stop at nothing to kill her; archaeology and the notion of ancient artifact discovery in films such as these are given a sexy and rejuvenating makeover, essentially turned from long and painstaking digs in the third world to causality driven globe hopping adventures, the sorts of which almost always culminates in a would-be snatching of the item you've been searching for from a booby trapped temple. On occasion, her butler will maddeningly walk into her office and place folders down on her desk that we presume to be archaeological 'jobs' or 'missions' which she will then pick and choose at her discretion.Eventually, her role in the film will be more expansively linked to the goings on of the Illuminati; a shady group of mysterious busybodies whose base of operations is in Venice and sees them charge fellow employee, the shady Manfred Powell (Glen) who comes complete with a wiry haircut and a wardrobe of black and whose assistant is the laughably named Mr. Pimms, with finding parts of a magical triangular artifact which will have a great affect on a fore-coming planetary alignment &#x96; something that happens once every 5,000 years. Along for the ride is American Alex West (Craig), a character whom shares a seemingly mutual appreciation for Lara and I guess must sit alone in his large house waiting for the folders to land on his desk. The exposition is shameless; the tone basic when it isn't manipulative in its presenting us with a room full of bad guys whom dish out threats to their higher-ups told to do dirty work for them and its all round execution just drab. All the usual frustrations with these sorts of films rear their ugly heads, ranging from a special ops. team charged with executing Lara by nightfall whilst in her mansion but unable hit anything with their gunfire to the filmmakers own transgressional punishment of their lead in Croft; who's a female allowed to drive a film, adopt some kind of role model archetype but has to wear skimpy outfits in the process as her actual action sequences carry an eroticised surge to them. Croft takes everything disturbingly in her stride, inadvertently calling to mind a better film of this ilk in 1981's Raiders of the Lost Ark when she informally shoots down a stone gargoyle whom has come to life and poses a great threat to her. I liked it more when Indy's face off with a swordsman in said film played out in a market square.The film is grossly uneven in tone, it appears to play everything for laughs; nudges and winks for the early part before branching off into a more serious, more 'grown up' realm later on when personal stakes are suddenly raised and some pretty would-be affecting content to do with a dead parental figure crawls its way into the text. West thinks he can take the film from being a high-flying brainless actioner before bringing everything down a few levels for more heartfelt, more personal sequences when a dream-come-fantasy sequence with her father is supposed to act as a heart tugging catalyst. It's unfortunate on Jolie's behalf that, when the time comes to go face to face with Jon Voight's Lord Richard who is her father-for-the-film just as he is in reality, she forgets to actually react to it all. Bryce's own persistent put-downs and self reflective jabs at the situations the characters find themselves in is one of a few nails in the film's ultimate coffin, a film whose wheels totally come off towards the end but by which time all interest has dissipated and all narrative clarity has imploded. Lara Croft Tomb Raider is rather a tame effort, a film that tries to hit too many marks all too often as sub plots and set pieces are sporadically picked up on and included along the way; but director West can only render the experience grossly underwhelming. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece of monumental vagueness","Date":"19 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I didn't find Tomb Rider necessarily a bad movie but each time I watched it I got a headache. The idea of making a movie out of a computer game sounds enough crazy to justify making a movie but looking at the outcome gives an impression that I was only watching someone else playing a computer game. And watching a computer game makes you feel really bored if you're never going to get a chance to play by yourself.Perhaps I could have gotten a lot more out of this if I had played the computer game, but because I never had, I didn't know what this was supposed to be. Maybe it is too easy to make comparisons with this and something similar, like Indiana Jones, but the mysteries seemed to me utterly random and uninteresting. In Tomb Raider there are just not enough drama to support storyline and this is not really a movie at all. Probably Tomb Rider is more interesting as a production outcome than as a real movie, and that they got Jolie to play the lead was an achievement you have to give some credit for.I have never been more unsure about the score in any other film except this, I only give this low rating as a warning for those who were looking for another action-adventure. If you just bother, play the computer game first and then watch this film, otherwise you may encounter a disappointment. "}{"Title":"Yet another mindless action flick","Date":"9 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Filmmakers seem to think that, just because they load their movie with action and travel across several continents, they can compare it with Indiana Jones. This is because they have completely missed the point. Indiana is a great character because he's constantly in over his head; he really has no idea what he's doing and is making it up as he goes along. He's funny and likable; he's the everyman who does what he can against forces and enemies much larger than himself. And it's not just him; all the great action films--Die Hard, Lethal Weapon, Terminator, Spider-Man, etc.--are about people who aren't quite up to the challenge handed to them. George Lucas once said that a special effect without a story is a pretty boring thing. Well, an action sequence without an interesting character achieves the same effect.The main problem with this movie is that Lara Croft isn't terribly interesting. She's too sure of herself. She's not at all vulnerable. She's almost superhuman in strength, ability, and intelligence. It's like watching a robot. There's no reason to invest emotionally in her character. There's no sense of danger, and consequently no thrill as she jumps, slides, dodges, and dispatches effortlessly an army of assassins. Characters need to have a weakness, be it physical or emotional. The film's halfhearted answer to this is a vague backstory involving the death of her father, but nothing ever really comes of this. The only suspense the viewer feels is in wondering how long it's going to be until she takes off her clothes again. (A note for all fledgling filmmakers out there if your entire film is built around a slow-motion shower sequence, you're in trouble.) I don't blame Angelina Jolie for this bland character, but I do blame her for choosing to work on this crappy assignment. She has proved she's quite capable as an actress; why she continues to portray one-dimensional characters in mediocre films is beyond me. What a waste of talent.Predictably, no other characters give us any reason to care about them, except the guy who makes the little robots, who I think might have actually been a better protagonist. It's all about who's prettiest, really. The action sequences try way too hard to be hip. The most ridiculous example of this is a simple dog sled chase, shot with shaky cameras, throbbing techno music, and lightning-fast cutting. Is it really necessary to get our adrenaline worked up over this? They're not even racing anybody, they're just going from point A to point B. I guess Simon West felt the need to illustrate the point that Lara doesn't do anything unless she does it IN STYLE. If the movie had shown her going to the supermarket to buy a loaf of bread, she probably would have crashed through the skylight, blown up the dairy counter to propel her cart down the aisle, snatched the bread, and back-flipped over the cashier in a rain of coins. If you took that sequence in Monty Python and the Holy Grail wherein Lancelet frantically crashes a wedding, slaughtering many innocent guests and toppling over wedding decorations for absolutely no reason, stretched it out to ninety minutes, put in a hot chick with a huge rack, and expected the audience to take it all seriously, you would have Tomb Raider. "},{"Title":"Video game made for the screen","Date":"9 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" There isn't much to say about this film. Tomb Raider is based on a video game so there's little plot and no depth. It uses the idea from Indiana Jones of an archaeologist searching for mystical artifacts. Instead of Harrison Ford we get Angelina Jolie. She looks great in her outfit which shows off her body although her huge Botox-lips sometimes look ridiculous on the big screen. Some of the action sequences, and there are a lot of them, are interesting. The scene with the stone giants and the swinging battering ram in pretty nifty. Some of the effects though are cheesy. It's not hard to miss Daniel Craig in this film, before his James Bond role. Overall, this is exactly what it was meant to be, a movie based on a video game meant for teenagers. "},{"Title":"If you forget that movies are supposed to have a script, quite entertaining.","Date":"9 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" - I do not know the game and I am no avid fan of Angelina Jolie. - The choreography is excellent, and to me the almost initial scene where they are literally hanging around and fighting in the hall is quite memorable.The plot including a secret chamber in the own mansion of Lara Croft seems rather out of place (you would not expect from a heroine such as her that there are untracked parts and bits about her family home), the planets all in a line, triangular pieces lying around scattered all over the world, well, that part is quite like Indiana Jones and similarly weak.Still, if you can lean back and simply enjoy the action scenes, Tomb Raider is quite worth watching. "},{"Title":"Visual feast but very disappointing over all","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I really had high hopes for this movie. Having been a fan of the games for years and upon hearing the news that they had cast Angelina Jolie in the lead role &#150; who in my opinion looks exactly like Lara Croft - I was definitely looking forward to seeing a live action adaptation.The only thing I can say is, how disappointing! What happened? I was under the impression that a movie required a plot! Even the games had better, more interesting and more developed plots than this film did! I feel that the big failing of this film is that, with the possible exception of Lara, I didn't care about any of the characters. The villain wasn't particularly villainous, his accomplice (Daniel Craig) wasn't particularly accomplished &#150; and Craig's character's whole history / flirtation with Lara was poorly done, irritating and not the slightest bit believable. Moreover, the sole purpose of the annoying and nerdish Bryce and the toothless Hillary seemed to be that of worshippers - doing everything short of exclaiming Look how great and wonderful and brilliant the magnificent Lara Croft is whenever they're on screen. (And they really needn't have bothered, since the movie contains more than enough lingering, Lara-worship camera angles!) My main issue with this movie is how much Lara's self-confidence and self-assurance seems to constantly verge on arrogance. Keeping people at arm's length is one thing, looking down your nose at everyone around you is another. Jolie's portrayal of Lara's confidence in her own abilities comes across as smugness. The hints of Lara's vulnerability when it comes to the memory of her late father, sit uncomfortably next to Lara's complacency during the majority of the film. As a woman myself, I'm all for seeing the portrayal of confident female characters on screen. Yet I feel that Lara's self-possession should have been played down and more attention should have been paid to her insecurities and vulnerable side. This would have rendered Lara more believable and more endearing to an audience.The overall problem with the movie is that it doesn't engage with the audience. The plot seems to be something of a secret between Lara and her father, and the audience feel left out of the loop which is very frustrating to the viewer. Too wrapped up in ancient history, legend, magic, foreign cultures and traditions, and populated by I-know-something-you-don't-know characters, the film is rendered virtually inaccessible to an audience.Visually stunning, but otherwise a real let-down. "},{"Title":"Lara Croft should have stayed whre she belongs. In the computer.","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  * (Terrible) * * (Below Average) * * * (Not Bad) * * * * (Good) * * * * * (Brilliant)It's a very rare thing to see a movie that is based on a video game to be half ways decent. Sadly one of those films is not 'Lara Croft Tomb Raider'. I presonally believe that these attempts to bring video games to life on the big screen is nothing more than an excuse for producers to cash in on the popular franchise that they are.They seem to believe that all an audience of teenagers need to be satisfied is some flashy visual effects. Some gratuitous action sequences and daft throw away lines. Does any of these producers ever think of giving these movies a half decent script. One with and heres a novel idea, a story.One has to wonder why Angelina Jolie bothered to do this project. Her performance in the movie is admirable considering the limp dialogue she has has to spout. The performances generally aren't half bad. Iain Glen as the chief villain is suitably smarmy and oily while Jolies real life father the great Jon Voight makes a cameo as her, would you credit it, father. His brief performance only lifts the movie from the doldrums for a minute or two. His as well as Jolies accents are convincing.It's also nice to see Chris Barrie from 'Red Dwarf' fame make an apearence as Laras butler Hilary. His performance isn't exactly outstanding. His mannerisms remind me to much of the Hologramatic character of Rimmer he played in 'Red Dwarf. Stillit's nice to see him in a big screen roll. Shame it wasn't something better than this tripe.Noah Taylor is given a leaden roll as Lara's possible love interest. This doesn't seem to really come to fruition and is left up in the air. Much like much of the plot.The story as it itself is muddled and confusing. Something to do with a sacred kind of clock that every so many thousnds of years can be used to travel through time and is here used blatantly as a dire plot device that sees Lara talking to her father and saving her would be love interest. This too is downright baffling. Plus there is Laras conversations with a little girl that are never explained.The action sequences themselves though well done stretch credability to the max. They too are rare and don't come along often enogh making it downright slow at times. By the end of the movie you will need to carried out in a sleeping bag.If iI had to decribe Lara Croft in one sentence it would be as a very poor attempt at a modern day 'Raider of the Lost Ark' with a feminist twist. Indiana Jones would almost certainly be turning in his grave.Rating * (Terrible)  "},{"Title":"Just like the genre...","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Generally, when a movie is made from a video game, it bombs.  This movie is no different.  It relies too much on the game for Lara's development as a character, and that is all it holds true to the game.  In the game she was a rogue, and her father disowned her becuase of her tomb raider-ways.  In the movie, she had help from several others and her father wanted her to be an archeologist(like him).  The action sequences were weak and unbelievable.  Terrible character development.  The ending, not the resolution, was just bad.  Personally I think it would've been a bit better had it alluded to the games(specifically the very first one with the Scion and Atlantis).  It seems the plot of the movie was somewhat based on that, but altered.  The game had an artifact called the Scion which 'gave the holder powers of God himself'.  The abuse of that power led to the downfall of Atlantis.  The Scion was divided and hidden across the earth.  The movie had the Triangle of Light which gave its holder the 'power of God and time'.  The abuse of that power led to the downfall of that city.  The triangle was divided and hidden across the earth.I rate it 5/10.  My suggestion is wait for the movie to come out on video, and just play the games. "},{"Title":"uninvolving","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Tomb Raider is an uninvolving disappointment.  Though the gymnastics are terrific, the sets are fantastic, the acting not bad, and special effect creatures are good, the movie leaves you cold.  There is a slim plot, you don't care about any of the characters, you would need a total lobotomy to believe the action, and the soundtrack is overbearing.  Yet another video game to film disaster!  "},{"Title":"Harrison Ford and Brendan Fraser...UNITE!!!","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was the most atrocious film of the year to date. Yes, even worse than Spy Kids, worse than See Spot Run, worse than A Knight's Tale. The bad acting and writing is mostly just icing on the cake. The worst is the shameless product placement (Mr. Pibb, Cherry Pepsi, UPS, Aston Martin, Erickson Cell Phones, Wonderbra, more than likely Bloussant, and of course the Tomb Raider video game) and the blatent rip offs of at least fourteen movies. The most obvious of these being Indiana Jones and The Mummy. It was almost as if they spliced the movies together, gave Harrison Ford and Brendan Fraser breasts, then threw in the genius that was needed to create Josie and the Pussycats.I would highly recommend just renting both Indiana Jones and The Mummy instead of watching this piece of tripe.Oh, the guy who plays Book Boy (you'll know him when you see him) was kind of good. He's the guy who looks like Lowell from the show Wings. Lots of making fun follows after seeing this guy.Another bonus, one of the leaders of the secret evil society group thingee, looks just like President Warren G. Harding. Kind a creepy.However, AVOID THIS MOVIE AT ALL COSTS!!!   "},{"Title":"One of the worst films of the year","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The latest overproduced, overstuffed, overhyped and completely unsatisfying craptacular to come out of the land of egotistical freaks this week is Tomb Raider, a borderline unwatchable piece of dung based on that limitless well of cinematic gold, the video game. One could say that those who love the game will manage to enjoy the movie, even those people would rather sit through Super Mario Brothers or Wing Commander twice over again before finding something nice about this $100 million joke.Angelina Jolie plays Lara Croft, a rich British woman with big breasts who also happens to go hunting around in temples and caves all around the world in search of treasures and archeological antiquities. The quest for this film is some triangle that will allow the bearer of the piece to travel back and forth in time. Lara wants to use it to visit her father, Lord Croft (Jon Voight), who mysteriously departed this world in 1985. Of course, there is a nemesis to deal with and he comes in the form of Manfred Powell (Iain Glen), who looks more like a European hairdresser than he does an archeologist. He's working for some organization called Illuminati, who of course wants this mysterious piece for their own devious use (BWA-HA-HA!). The device only works during some sort of galactic lining up of the planets, so the ticking clock theory is in effect for the story (one could only wish for a countdown clock in the corner of the screen so we could find out when we could leave the theater).I would really love to meet the blow monkeys who keep giving director Simon West steady work. Seriously, this guy has made three movies now (this pile of bile and two other trash heaps, Con Air and The General's Daughter) and they have all sucked really hard. He can't tell a story to save his life (let's give part of that blame to Michael Colleary and Laeta Kalogridis, the two chimps credited with the script), has no sense of character or pacing (to make up for this, he edits his scenes even more than Michael Bay does if you can imagine that) and he shoots his action scenes so close up that it is almost impossible to make out what is going on. There is plenty of action to be had, but who really cares about it if you can't see it? Where is the fun in that?As far as the cast goes, it's simple no characters to work with equals no performances to speak of. The one-liners that are given to Jolie, Noah Taylor as Lara's sidekick Bryce and Chris Barrie as her butler arehorrendous. Jolie herself looks the part, but she shows less life as Lara Croft than her videogame doppelganger does. Jon Voight has only a few scenes, and I am sure he is thanking God right now for that lack of screen time.When a film like this sucks this hard, you can usually say that the visual effects at least are really cool. Not here. For a one hundred million dollar film, the budgets look like they cost about $3.00 (they must have spent the rest of the money on Jolie's padded bras).It makes me sad to see a film like Moulin Rouge, one that shows enoughenergy and life to fill three dozen Tomb Raiders, struggle to make $30million dollars while this revolting film will probably make double that in its first week. There will be people, namely those who fantasize about the videogame Lara Croft (she's only zeroes and ones. She's NOT REAL!), that will defend the film saying, What did you expect? The film is based on a videogame! You don't know how to have fun! To them, I say this Get a life. Put down your joystick, walk outside your parent's house and instead of walking to your local brainwashing plant (multiplex), go out and meet a real human being that may interest you. Get to know them and discover a world beyond videogames and the revolting movies based on them. Then, if you still want to see a great action adventure film or two after experiencing the outside world, watch The Treasure of the Sierra Madre and Raiders Of The Lost Ark and forget that this ever existed. "},{"Title":"One of the many times when I've disagreed with the critics, Tomb Raider is flawed but entertaining for its worth!","Date":"5 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is actually a pretty entertaining movie, flawed it is, but mildly enjoyable. It is yet another case when I have disagreed with the critics, who dismiss it as mindless, nonsensical and pointless. Not true, yes the story is convoluted, it does drag at times and the script is weak at times, but it does have great action and some well chosen locations. As Lara Croft, Angelina Jolie does what she can, and she is fine, even in films with her in that are mediocre at best, she is usually one of the redeeming qualities. Noah Taylor and Jon Voight provide good support. All in all, not at all bad, flawed but entertaining for its worth, better than its sequel anyway. 7/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"An interesting experience in sex appeal ...","Date":"18 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" My (viewing!) experience with Lara Croft (Angelina Jolie in Tomb Raider) was, frankly, a bit unsettling! Here we have an actress who, supposedly, exudes sexual energy and charisma and to be honest she does reek of it in this film. The problem is she has absolutely no-one to direct it towards.I assume Daniel Craig was the intended target of SOME of this sexual energy, but either her aim is as crap as a Russian foot soldier in a James Bond film or he's as thick as lumpy custard. Whatever! It didn't work.All of which begged the question &#133; who is she seducing?? Am I the one to whom she's directing all of those meaningful looks and double-entendres? Thanks Sweetie but my heart's spoken for.But then it occurred to me that most of the sexy banter and suggestions took place when she was alone. Is she actually talking to herself? Which would mean she wants to have sex with &#133; Either possibility would send a teenage guy to kicks heaven I suppose (let's face it, this film was not made for the girlies) but it left me squirming on the sofa (and not in the good way). "},{"Title":"Amazing...","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" ... but not at all in a good way. It was a pointless action movie with barely a plot to it at all. But the really amazing was that not even the special effects could lift this big mess of a film. I'm genuinely not surprised if even the most hardcore Tomb Raider/Lara Croft fans were disappointed at this film. Luckily I saw this on TV so I didn't have to pay watch this disaster, seeing as I'd already seen its rather average sequel Cradle Of Life.All that was in this was Angelina Jolie trying to make her character sexy but somehow just wasn't, somersaulting, swinging and jumping around and away from robots and gunmen. Also something about recovering a clock puzzle. Boring. I mean, come on! What were the people behind this on or thinking? They didn't try anywhere near hard enough and it just turned out a boring mess. It definitely has to be the worst and most disappointing action movie ever. All the characters were bland, even Angelina Jolie. The performances were unimpressive, forgettable and rather cringe-worthy. Don't bother with this crap, because it's very disappointing and boring. Rent Cardle Of Life or just stick to the games because they are much better and have meaning to them. If you are a Tomb Raider/Lara Croft fan, rent it or try to watch it via a method where you don't have to pay for it. "},{"Title":"oh deary deary me....","Date":"10 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" It was a beautiful summers day and there were three clouds in the sky to be precise. As dawn approached i cooled off with a chilled shower and slipped into my finest robe. I calmly walked down stairs and entered the living room where I continued to turn on the television. As the sun slipped behind the horizon, i knew that night was upon me. The DVD labelled Lara Croft Tomb Raider was engulfed by the player and the credits begun to roll.100 beautifully appreciated minutes later, I was startled by the respectable and proficient talent and fine script work of the movie. I eventually enticed myself to watch it in full one more time, about 10 minutes of silent appreciation (in the dark).After another 100 minutes I came to a certain decision that I would have to write to the producers to let them know how much I love this film. Knowing that I would not be able to sleep a wink until I got a reply I quickly helped my self to 4 Biro pens and began by hand to write a brief 100 page booklet letting the producers know how I felt.To this day I never got a reply, and have'nt slept since overall I HATE IT "},{"Title":"Average, only really enjoyable by Tomb Raider fans","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This has some similarities to Indiana Jones films, the only big difference is that the hero is female. The plot is OK, only a little more ridiculous than typically for the adventure genre. The acting is average, no Oscar performances and no horrible performances either. The special effects are pretty good, but nothing fascinating. Something that annoyed me a bit was the fact that there seemed to be more attention devoted to finding 'exciting' locations for the film than the action sequences. The action is mostly average, but with just a little more work, they could have been so much better. I doubt that typical adventure/Indiana Jones fans will really enjoy this, it seems to be made primarily to satisfy the fans of the video-games. On a final note, if you do enjoy this movie, you should check out the DVD. It has loads of good special features. I would only recommend this to big fans of the games, since it doesn't offer anything you wouldn't find in pretty much any other film, apart from stuff that only the fans would enjoy. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Softcore action thriller fun","Date":"27 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Let's be fairly clear about this. Angeline Jolie has been sensibly cast as Lara Croft as she's a spunky lass who looks great in a catsuit. This is the appeal of the character, the game (a British design award winner) and now the feature film.Lara Croft is a postmodern, softcore porn version of Indiana Jones who has comics, rather than academicians for sidekicks. Jolie plays her rather well on all fronts, unafraid of her own considerable sex appeal and unashamed of her ability to deliver polysyllabic dialogue in an acceptable English accent, despite her witless target audience. In her jolly day to day life she has the services of a much loved British comic, Chris Barrie as Hillary, who is out of his depth I'm sorry to say. The baddies are also British but they're more at home - Iain Glen and some bloke called Daniel Craig. Whatever. 3/10 "},{"Title":"I agree with the what the earlier viewer wrote","Date":"10 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" After watching part of this movie, I have to totally agree with what an earlier viewer wrote.I also fell asleep while watching this movie, the major difference is that I've only tried to watch it once.I received this movie as a free incentive (along with 4 others) when I purchased my HD-DVD player, so I didn't spend real money for it (well sort of).I am not a Jolie fan and don't appreciate here enhanced lips and boobs, which is about the only positive thing I can say about this movie.Rent it if you must, catching it on TV is an even better idea if you feel you must watch it. No talent, no plot, aside from that the perfect movie.I give it 2 stars only because the picture and sound were really outstanding in hi-def. "},{"Title":"Angelina Jolie Makes Lara Croft Worth Watching","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Lara Croft is a famous and successful video game. It was brought to the big screen with plenty of action. It is not bad to watch all these meaningless action especially the first half. I found the second half a bit boring.But!!! Angelina Jolie makes an awesome appearance as Lara Croft. I cannot imagine or think of anyone else who could fit into this role. She is the biggest pro in the film and she makes the entire film watchable. Not being a Lara Croft fan, I didn't find it extremely good. I didn't find it incredibly bad, nonetheless, a bit boring towards the end. ** out of ***** "},{"Title":"The film is AWFUL compared to the game!","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" OK, let's get one thing straight right away I'm a 20 yr old girl, and have been playing Tombraider since it first came out. I LOVE the game, and (unsurprisingly), tend to go more for the game-play and storyline than the obvious. The film was such a disappointment! I had heard that it was coming out ages before it did, and because I was younger and innocent, I honestly thought that it would be based on one of the games. First of all, Lara Croft is meant to be English, so at least have someone who can successfully do an English accent! OK, Jolie wasn't all that bad accent-wise, but she isn't Lara Croft. In fact (and this is saying something), my body shape is much closer to Lara Croft's than Jolie's is!! Also, what was that bit meant to be on about when she kisses that guy underwater?! The only love-interest that Croft ever had was her fiancé who dies in a plane crash! I think they must have made a mistake, because it looked as if the storyline was written by a group of junior school children. Why not base it on one of the games?! There were several story lines all ready and waiting which just needed to be touched up a little. Apparently Core Design were meant to keep a close eye on everything, but it looks as if they failed there. I wonder if another, more successful film could be made, perhaps animated instead, and have Jonell Eliot (apologies if I spelt the name wrong), do her voice? I haven't watched the second film, but according to the official Playstation magazine, it was an embarrassment. It's a shame that Jolie had to be in this, because it has made me dislike her. All because of ONE film!!!! I am very difficult to please (as you may have noticed...ahem). As I was saying; I do think she has many admiral qualities, but I can't overcome the fact that she played my former heroine so badly! I actually feel very annoyed with myself that I don't like her, but I just can't change my mind. I know it wasn't exactly her fault that the film was so bad, but I can't help noticing that she has starred in others that are also completely inaccurate. I study History at uni, and one of my lecturers said that he went to see 'Alexander', and the most interesting thing in the entire film was Jolie's earrings. So, I am assuming that it was as inaccurate as Troy.Anyway, because of the failure of Tombraider; which is unfortunate, although I hope people will always remember Lara because of the game rather than the film (and her father isn't called Richard in the game...); I can no longer watch any film with Jolie in it, which is not good because I have only seen her in Tombraider! I am being honest here I really do apologise that I don't like Jolie, but if you had a hero (or heroine), that you really adored (and NOT because of her image), then I think you would feel the same way. Once again, apologies, and I hope that others like Jolie because of her character, as opposed to her body shape! Sahara.p.s. Just to let you know this was my nickname for years before Jolie called her adoptive daughter 'Zahara', and if I am using capitals, it's because I want to put these particular words in italics and can't, not because I'm shouting at anyone!!x x x "},{"Title":"An appalling waste of talent and money","Date":"21 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" There are many depressing things about Tomb Raider - that it looks so beautiful, but engages so little, that a talent on the scale of Angelina's is wasted on something so empty, and finally that even though everything in the film is in place (great sets, awe-inspiring locations and a plot with sufficient mythical nonsense to make it fun) it just doesn't work. Viewing Tomb Raider is witnessing a void - it's impossible to care about any of the characters, which creates a total absence of tension to the point that it's almost a surreal tension-vacuum in which you actively don't care about anyone or anything occurring on the screen.Whatever spark it is that made Raiders of the Lost Ark so scintillating is notable for being missing utterly from Tomb Raider. A sadly pointless way to spend the best part of 2 hours, no matter how much you may have loved the games. "},{"Title":"Stupid plot, good action","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The plot is vague and a there's a lot of unexplained events (i.e. Early on in the film, Lara Croft finds a secret room with no explination of how she knew where it was or why she's so interested in it) but the movie sort of works.  The action scenes are exciting and very well-done, the special effects are great and none of the actors take the movie seriously for one second.  Other than that, the movie is pretty bad.  The plot keeps popping up and Angelina Jolie has one of the worst English accents I've ever heard.  So, see it at a matinee or wait for the DVD or video.  It's not worth 9 or 10 bucks. "}{"Title":"A Huge Misfire","Date":"9 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" this might very well be one of the few completely action based movies that will bore you to tears.sure it has things exploding, loud things crashing, big things rumbling around, lots of gunplay, random people suspended by bungee chords from the ceiling, and whatever other millions of dollars worth of stunts were poured into this waste of a film, but good god this is a boring movie.the plot has no concievable direction or purpose, the dialogue has no real meaning, the characters are just cardboard cutouts (with the occasional breast implants), and throughout the hour and a half torture-fest that is tomb raider, the film builds no momentum. from one scene to the next you can't follow what is happening, mostly because you don't care enough, or you still don't know what just happened and why it did. this is a disjointed mess of a screenplay, that must have slipped through some serious cracks in the editing process.this is the lowest of low in the action genre. there is no saving grace for this movie, no redeeming qualities, just one boring, rambling mess of an action flick. unless you're looking for a sleeping pill in the form of a DVD, i would recommend that vewiers stay far, far away from this abomination of a film. "},{"Title":"Raid this!","Date":"30 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" There is one thing which i am beginning to notice as a on going trend in todays films and that has nothing to do with the film itself but the packaging surrounding it. If a film which the producers knows is going to be a stinker gets at least one good review they slap that nasty quote all over the DVD cover or any of the poster work! not only is it a cheeky way to promote the film as a action packed thrill feast but its also gives a clear indication of what your being presented with. something which is extremely over hyped and probably crap.This can be said by the poor attempt at turning the awesome game Tomb Raider into a film. All over the front are quotes from reviewers claiming all sorts of things which after viewing this film aren't very believable. This film was extremely over rated and incredibly self indulgent. Just because you put some heart pumping tech-no grunge music to Angelina running around a giant room while attached to strings and destroying absolutely everything she owns doesn't make it exciting. These sorts of scenes became repetitive and annoying as every action sequence was unoriginal and all done before.Jolie on the other hand fitted the character rather well, physically that is. The character which is portrayed in the film is nothing like the one which existing in the game. She is to butch and over the top and doesn't hold the elegance of computer game character. I know that this is a totally new medium for which they can explore this character but the whole basis of the Raider games was the raider herself and originality, and this film got lost in its own poor attempts to look stylish and hardcore that it failed to deliver. "},{"Title":"Almost a complete waste of time","Date":"17 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I gave this movie 4/10 and did that only for the sake of Miss Jolie's bouncing tits. It actually deserved 1/10.The movie utterly lacked story. The heroine and the villains are all after some magical mambo jumbo throughout the movie. When they find it we see they have no reason to look for that stuff. It's all out of boredom.They have nothing better to do with their time.So there. That's a complete and full summary of the story. The movie had only one scene which has humor in it.Other than that it had no emotions ,jokes whatsoever. In fact there were no dialogs at all.Action scenes were pretty mediocre.We have stone warriors that can be beaten by bare fists for God's sake.All in all it was totally terrible except the bouncing parts of the movie. So if you are not interested in bouncing at all, then this movie is not for you. "},{"Title":"if the video game is anything like this, don't bother.....","Date":"23 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I have never played the vidoe game, but having seen this film, I think I'd rather settle for that. This movie is absolutely horrible, in terms of the stuck up performance of Angelina Jolie. Her snobbishness and over confidence makes this performance extremely annoying and hard to bare. What's worse is the plot of destroying two triangle pieces that can control time. Why didn't the people who hid the pieces all those years ago destroy it themselves? The music is not suitable for the tone of the film, making it feel more like some sort of rock concert rather than an expedition of a female archaeologist about to save the world. I just felt that superheroes actually have emotions too rather than just umlimited amount of energy.The sequel is better, but the story is pretty much the same. "},{"Title":"I`m Not Missing The Point","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This struck me as involving as watching someone play a video game . Before everyone sends me a private message saying LARA CROFTTOMB RAIDER is based on a video game that`s not really the point I`m making . The point is a film should stand on its own hind legs weather it`s based on a book , stage play , television series or in this case a computer game . Every film should have realistic characters and an involving story regardless of its source . The characters in this are just names who never act in a realistic manner , for example there`s a scene where the bad guys are in mortal danger but never register any fear as you might expect but just open fire . This is just typical of the film which consists of explosions , gun fights , stunts and nothing else . There`s only two decent things in TOMB RAIDER and both belong to Angelina Jolie Note to Jon Voight. Change your agent  "},{"Title":"Lara Croft Tomb Raider","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Many fans of the successful video game were expecting this live action film to be a good action film, even with good casting, special effects and direction by Simon West (Con Air) this didn't happen. Basically Lara Croft (the gorgeous Razzie nominated Angelina Jolie) finds a clock in a hidden room of her mansion, placed there by her father Lord Richard Croft (Jon Voight, Jolie's real father). It contains the key to finding two halves of an ancient triangle which when activated can control time for good or evil. It is Lara's job to find and destroy the two halves of the triangle before Manfred Powell (Iain Glen), along with supposed traitor Alex West (Daniel Craig), get to it first. Also starring Noah Taylor as Bryce, Christopher 'Chris' Barrie as Hillary, Green Wing's Julian Rhind-Tutt as Mr. Pimms and Leslie Phillips as Wilson. Jolie seems to be the perfect actress, putting on an Elizabeth Hurley (a rumoured contender for the role) English accent, but even she can't make this film worth watching. The supporting cast, including Craig putting on a weird American accent, don't help much either, the special effects are wasted, and the story is pretty tame, so all in all, a disappointment. Angelina Jolie was number 74 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, Lara Croft was number 69 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, and she was number 6, and Jolie number 1 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols (it could have been Marilyn Monroe). Pretty poor! "}]