[{"Title":"Stylish addition to the teen-horror cycle","Date":"25 February 2005","Score":"39 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" URBAN LEGEND Aspect ratio 2.391Sound formats Dolby Digital / SDDSA serial killer descends on a New Hampshire college where he/she kills a number of students in the manner of various urban legends.History has a habit of repeating itself. In the early 1980's, a series of low budget 'slasher' movies emerged in the wake of HALLOWEEN (1978) and Friday the 13th (1980), most of which were condemned as substandard imitators by critics and horror fans alike. The same thing happened in 1996, following the success of Wes Craven's SCREAM, a smug reworking of genre clichés which allowed 'sophisticated' multiplex audiences to indulge an attitude of superiority over those 'crappy' old horror flicks and the 'unsophisticated' viewers who once supported them. The subsequent wave of teenage horror pics were flashy, sexy and ramped to the max, and - true to form - virtually all of them were (ho hum) trashed by critics and horror fans alike. And yet, most of them made a profit, perhaps BECAUSE they were flashier and sexier than those earlier pictures, and because they were designed for a wider demographic than 'mere' horror fans.Jamie Blanks' URBAN LEGEND is a case in point Most reviews ran the gamut from harsh dismissal to faint praise, yet the movie is a visual treat, as creepy and atmospheric as any of the films which inspired it. Furthermore, Silvio Horta's unassuming screenplay confounds expectations with its solid narrative arc, recognizable characters and dynamic set-pieces, not to mention a climactic 'reveal' which offers a robust motive for the killer's devastating onslaught. There are a few embarrassing lapses along the way (such as the murder which takes place in full view of heroine Alicia Witt, which she ignores because she thinks it's a couple having sex!), and Horta can't resist a handful of cop-out contrivances (eg. the killer slashes the wrists of a girl known for her depressive tendencies, causing authorities to dismiss her death as suicide, though a routine forensic examination would have revealed the cuts were administered post mortem, AFTER she was strangled to death!), but these occasional blunders are redeemed by the movie's fast-paced editing, neo-Gothic visual scheme and clever plot developments. Blanks orchestrates proceedings with consummate skill, but he refuses to indulge the kind of transgressive gore that once distinguished this downmarket subgenre (where's Tom Savini when you really need him?!).As expected, the talented young cast - including Jared Leto, Rebecca Gayheart and Tara Reid - is pleasingly photogenic, and there are lengthy appearances by TV favorites Michael Rosenbaum (Smallville) and Joshua Jackson (watch out for the terrific Dawson's Creek gag!). Major co-stars include Robert Englund (Freddy Krueger himself!), John Neville and an uncredited Brad Dourif, who features heavily in a powerful opening sequence where Blanks and Horta pull a major switcheroo on the audience (I'll say no more). Loretta Devine is amusing as the campus security guard who views herself as a modern-day Coffy/Pam Grier (her fantasy is rudely curtailed by a climactic encounter with the rampaging maniac), and there's a brief appearance by Danielle Harris, the former child star of HALLOWEEN 4 THE RETURN OF MICHAEL MYERS (1988) and HALLOWEEN 5 (1989), playing an adult character FAR removed from the angelic poppet of those earlier pictures! Beautiful, fairy-tale score by Christopher Young. Followed by the largely unrelated URBAN LEGENDS FINAL CUT (2000). "},{"Title":"Better than I expected","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"39 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I am so not into scary movies. The twists and turns of the story line were edge of the seat watchable. The ending was the best. I recommend this to intelligent movie goers. The murderer is not who you expected it be. As most thrillers, go. Why give up who the bad guy really is? The first true scary movie for me was Halloween when I was 13 years old. This one is no Halloween, but it was able to make me jump at the right times. We all know about those Urban Legends, but do we really believe them? Enjoy this movie, don't pick it apart. "},{"Title":"Derivative addition to the Scream cycle, with a good solution to the mystery.","Date":"4 December 2003","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Yet another film to capitalise on the hunger for cynical, humorous slasher movies with whodunnit asides in the late '90s (started by Wes Craven's Scream), Urban Legend is a fairly entertaining but wholly derivative example of the genre. The murderer-at-large-on-a-college-campus formula was quite popular during the original period of slasher movies in the early '80s (movies like Pieces and Happy Birthday To Me spring to mind). This update is more polished, more logical and generally more watchable.Violent murders begin to take place a college in North America. Many of the murders are based on urban legends (popular spook-stories bandied about by word-of-mouth). First to go is a young girl driving her car through a rainswept night. An axeman leaps up from the back seat and chops her to pieces, in a terrific opening sequence which will have you checking the back seat of your car for the next month or two. From then on, it's generally a downhill ride as more and more of the college staff and students are picked off by a hooded killer. A kid goes for a pee in the woods and is hanged for his trouble; a teenged DJ is hacked apart in her studio; the college principle is run down by a car; the resident wise-ass has an unhealthy variety of toxic products poured down his throat. You get the idea, I'm sure.Many films of this type are awful Where Urban Legend remains tolerable lies in its all-round competence. The scary moments are quite well filmed and are genuinely nerve-jangling at times. The mystery, though contrived, manages to keep you guessing as the finger of suspicion falls upon virtually every character at some point. I must admit that the killer's identity is so well disguised that it caught me out (even though I usually figure out whodunnit in films of this type). Urban Legend is no classic, nor is it particularly fresh, but it does what it does decently enough. It certainly beats the hell out of the excrutiating low-budget exploitation items from the early '80s upon which it is based. "},{"Title":"i loooovvve this movie!!","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" omg, this movie is one of my faves... a lot of people think it is just another slasher flick, but i think the plot is really intriguing and keeps you guessing until the end. i had no idea who the killer was, and once i found out, i was totally surprised! although it is a bit scary at times, urban legend can also be humorous. i love the soundtrack too, and the cast is awesome. Alicia Witt was excellent as the heroine of the story, and Rebbecca gayheart gave a stunning performance as the psycho killer Brenda. she really knows how to act CRAZY (even if her motives are a little odd)!! and Jared leto is hot (i just had to add that). so if you love murder, humor, romance, and legends, urban legend is the movie for you. trust me, i've seen it about 500 times to date (and i first watched it last summer!).and FYI, it's on abc family for the 13 nights of Halloween thing next month! i'll be watching it... will you?? "},{"Title":"Let's get our slasher on!","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Ah our precious 1990's, so many great things came out of this memorable decade, including a streak of teen slasher films. Let's face it, after the mega success of Scream which opened the doors once again after Friday the 13th, Halloween, and Nightmare on Elm Street, we needed a new classic. So naturally all the screen writers who were a bit scared to present their ideas on the table, thanks to Kevin Williamson, the clever writer of Scream and Dawson's Creek. After that, every teen slasher film was released the Scream sequels, I Know What You Did Last Summer, I Still Know What You Did Last Summer, etc. But we didn't stop at that, we were now presented with Urban Legend.The film begins on a dark and stormy night as college student Michelle Mancini realizes she is near empty while driving in her car. There's someone in the back seat as Michelle drives, a figure in a dark coat with a fur trim around the hood sits up in the back seat and, with a swift blow from its axe, decapitates Michelle. The same night, on campus, a group of friends listens to Parker Riley tell an old story about one of the campus halls, Stanley Hall. According to the story, in 1973, an abnormal psychology teacher went crazy and killed all the students living in an on-campus residence hall. Paul, a school paper journalist thinks the story is bogus. Still, the story sticks in their minds, especially for Natalie, and Brenda. The next day, the front page of the campus newspaper has an article about Michelle Mancini's murder written by Paul but the papers are quickly confiscated by school officials. Later that night after going into a secluded area of woods to talk, Natalie reveals to Damon that she knew Michelle, but they hadn't spoken in years. Damon, playing on Natalie's vulnerability, tries to make a move on her but she rejects him. Upset, Damon goes into the woods to urinate but is attacked by the killer. He then is hung from a tree in a noose with the rope attached to the bumper of his car. The next day, no one believes Natalie's story due to Damon's penchant for pranks and tricks. Realizing both Damon's death and Michelle's murder closely resemble famous urban legends, Natalie goes to the library to read up on urban legends. Not realizing the terror has just begun to scare her and her friends even more.Basically, Urban Legend didn't stand out against it's competitors, it has every cliché in the book. Not to mention no memorable actors that had the same chemistry as the cast of Scream. It's over written at times and has every predictable moment the friends don't believe in a ghost story, a couple people get killed off but everyone thinks it's a prank/fake death, a classic chase scene with a big breasted girl in a skimpy costume, the creepy janitor, the smart girl that no one believes is all of a sudden right about all the murders and of course a mega twist ending that no one will ever see coming! OK, Urban Legend isn't a horrible movie, while it has all these predictable moments and clichés, it's still actually fun to watch and a good part of the memory of good teen slasher films that came out of the 1990's.6/10 "},{"Title":"I really like it","Date":"7 January 2010","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Slashers are never good. OK maybe the first Scream but slashers are never a good movie. But there is a good slasher and bad slashers. Prom Night, a very bad slasher. The sequel to this, a very bad slasher. But I really like this one. I absolutely love the plot. The deaths are awesome I still jump up in my seat when the principal is killed. I didn't expect Brenda as killer when I saw it first. The plot works. The death works. I didn't know who the killer was. I LIKED IT.As a movie it not that great I mean. Critics are not gonna like it. Movie fans are not gonna like it. Unless you watch with it in mind that it is a slasher. As a slasher Urban Legend is perfect. "},{"Title":"I Like It!","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"22 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend is a great movie with a good twist at the end. It's different from all the other horror-genre movies around. The only thing that Urban Legend has in common with them is the fact that they are all not scary but still very good. Jamie Blanks is a great director who puts everything right in this movie and the cast especially Jared Leto, Alicia Witt and Rebecca Gayheart are all great. I give this movie a 10/10 "},{"Title":"If you liked the Scream and Last Summer movies make sure you don't miss this atmospheric thriller","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"25 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A local college is being terrorized by brutal murders. The mysterious killer targets a certain group of friends who initially do not realize, or even ignore, the upcoming danger and fall prey to   his clutches. They leave their rooms unlocked or go alone in the forest at night. The killer's main victim seems to be Natalie (Alicia Witt) a very typical gal, at least on the surface. The killer stalks her and harasses her continuously and Natalie not only tries to convince everyone about the danger in vain, but has to deal with melanic issues from her past. People soon start dropping like flies and Natalie and her friends are helpless before they all meet their fate. Many years before the incidents the college was rumored to have been plagued by an insane professor who flipped and invaded the students' dormitory killing many fraternity members at one single night. One of the few survivors is proven to be a sociopath weird janitor who is not willing to share his traumatic memories in order to help solving the mystery of this new killing spree. The murderer is much more than a freaked loser copycat who simply wants to rekindle the horror on the 25th anniversary of the alleged massacre, but has an obscure agenda.Maybe all these plot elements sound stereotyped and nothing special. The premise of a horror movie localized in a college is as old as it gets and has been done to death (no pun intended). Nevertheless there is a special originality in this film. The killer's modus operandi follows a unique pattern of an urban legend methodology. You probably all know what an urban legend is. Folklore stories which are always laying on the verge of reality and myth. Usually they are scary crimes and everyone seems to know or have heard or have read a similar crime although no one seems to have actually enlisted specific names. Stories like these are usually typical frightening tales. One example is the poisoned candy children are frequently treated on Halloween by insane people. Another example is the seemingly normal father who mysteriously brutally slaughtered his entire family over one night, preferably by axe, and disappeared never to be heard of again. The screenwriter plays cleverly with all the cliches and the fears of the dark. The urban legends provide fertile ground for some genuinely original and shocking death scenes. Urban Legend, despite an intriguing premise, cannot hide its  origin. It is a typical 90's horror film mixed with a whodunit subplot, recognizable TV faces and plenty of gore. The film succeeds in being a memorable and above average effort but if you are set to watch it you are bound to find all the stupid overused themes a teeny bopper provides (without nudity though that is the determinant between 80's and 90's). There are plot holes the size of a volcano crater. For example the police officers are so dim witted that they regard a clearly obvious strangulation which would probably have left distinct bruises on the victim's neck as a suicide. Moreover why, oh why don't they send officers during the climactic tragic events after all those murders. I can accept the fact that the phone lines were dead but couldn't someone just go and ask for help? When they do arrive it is far too late. The cast was also over-crowded and it was obvious that the protagonists were nothing more than screen fillers. It is too bad since their acting skills, which seemed promising, were withheld. For example Jared Leto and Michael Rosenbaum are Paul and Parker respectively. Although the film starts off interestingly with equal screen time, Natalie soon wins the absolute focus and their roles are so small that they end up being extras. Things are even worse for Brenda (Rebecca Gayheart) and Sasha (Tara Reid) who also had shrunken roles and are wandering pretty faces waiting in line to be sliced and diced. Although the suspects are many, the final revelation of the killer is weak, the motives even weaker and of course we have the inevitable cat-lived nature of the killer-who-refuses-to-die escorted by the predictable cliffhanger epilogue with the TO BE SEQUELED sign.An extra detrimental element is the presence of Alicia Witt in an especially important role. Her acting is not awful but it is definitely misguided and fails. Witt is way too calm to convince as a realistic character. After a certain point it is clear that her psychopath stalker has not only killed her friends, but is after her, and she doesn't even show a trace of panic. She DOES try of course to warn the bonehead authorities and she does a little research on the urban legends. The bad thing is that even in the gruesome finale she doesn't seem to fear the maniac even a little bit and even worse she is not the willing-to-fight heroine that Sidney Prescott in Scream was. Now I don't want to be misunderstood, I wasn't looking for Jamie Lee Curtis's overblown vocal pipes but she could have more human reactions, especially after the deaths of her friends. It's as though Natalie had read the victim list and knew that she had a contractual commitment to survive until the end. The only one of the main characters with some substance is Joshua Jackson as Damon. This guy is a derivative from other horror films and strikes as a cardboard cutout a prankster who teases his friends and is slightly horny. At least Damon has a certain and sensible persona and Jackson is adequate. The funniest aspect of the film is that the cameos are far more successful and memorable than the leads!! Danielle Harris in a short role is the quite trendy Gothic young diva who is the incarnation of the Lust sin, the aged John Neville is the strict and by the rules Dean of the University and Brad Dourif gives an excellent performance in a role which I won't reveal. The best of them is Robert Englund as the clever and a bit creepy Professor who teaches folklore and introduces his students to the urban legends. Professor Wexler seems to be the chief suspect for this horrific situation and although there are sporadic hints throughout the film which point to other directions, Englund virtually dominates the screen even with his absence!!! Of course I won't omit Loretta Devine as Reese the guardian of the University who is very funny and adds the necessary comic relief. Who could have thought? A woman and indeed a black one as the cop/protector. It is another attempt to break a few cliches. Well done casting directors.Apart from some good performances Urban Legend has many other assets. The opening sequence alone was enough to keep me hooked on as I realized I would watch a great film. The rainy frames and the professional shooting with the distant take angles is enough to pose the threatening tone and warn us about what is to follow. The introductory scene is a stand alone masterpiece. The killer here doesn't have a costume but hides under a winter jacket with a cowl and this gives a realistic touch and a difficulty in pinpointing the culprit since many people have the same type of jacket. The best part of Urban Legend is the setting and the cinematography. The university buildings are bulky and old enough to support a medieval atmosphere which excites our imagination. Further, these baroque aged buildings give a much more scary climate and ensure that no matter how much they run, the protagonists will never get away since the corridors are so long that probably no one is going to hear them scream. But the greatest virtue is the photography which was dreary and gave a sense of a documentary style. The best example to describe the stigma the director tried to pull off are the library scenes. The leads are in a situation reminiscent of the Name of the Rose (lacking the religious undertones of course!!!) and are trapped in an infernal game they cannot escape. The whole point of view of the movie is clearly cinematic and the imaging techniques are much supportive. As I aforementioned the death scenes are fascinating and catapult the adrenaline to heights. Although the character development is bare you feel sorry for the victims (well, OK, for most of them). One surprise follows another as the body count increases. It comes as a great disappointment therefore that after a chilling 90 minutes period, the last 30 minutes go downhill. The action is very weak, the suspense retreats and we are left with overacting, inept and predictable plot twists, inadequate explanations and a rather disappointing climax . I mean how could anyone not wonder why the maniac wouldn't just kill Natalie and get over with this revenging mission instead of doing this wild carnage. So be warned the last half hour is extremely disappointing. Thus, if you are a horror fan who wants an entertaining thriller Urban Legend is a good shot. Despite some letdowns Urban Legend is yet another landmark in 90's horror genre. URBAN LEGEND - 8 / 10  "},{"Title":"A depiction of deadly events that happened to a friend of a friend of a relative's neighbour.","Date":"21 April 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Urban Legend is highly derivative, highly implausible and full of stereotypes and overly complex death scenes. It's also highly entertaining from beginning to end and rattles along at such a pace that you can easily overlook it's many flaws for the duration.At its very core you probably won't be at all surprised to know that Urban Legend is all about a killer killing people a la various urban legends. And that's the hook (pardon the pun) that makes the movie so much fun. It doesn't really matter how ridiculous the killer's motives are or how uncanny he/she seems to be at avoiding being caught, waiting to see the next attempted kill is always entertaining.The bright, young cast are all very watchable people doing a good job with the material. Alicia Witt, Jared Leto, Rebecca Gayheart, Joshua Jackson, Michael Rosenbaum, Danielle Harris, Tara Reid, etc were all good names to use in the advertising of the movie at the time despite the mixed fortunes that the future would bring. With small, but decent, roles for Brad Dourif and Robert Englund this should appeal to fans of the genre. It's only really Loretta Devine's character that doesn't work but that's no fault of the actress, who acts gamely with what she's given and wrings some entertainment value from it.The script, by Silvio Horta, is decent. A lot of the urban legends are referenced before appearing as death scenes or discussed afterwards, in light of the cause of death, and the characterisations are all fairly decent, if also a bit stereotypical at times (with the main offender being Tosh, the sullen goth character played by Danielle Harris).Jamie Blanks does well in the director's chair (this was his feature debut, actually). The man has talent. I am one of the few who also enjoyed Valentine and I encourage all horror fans to check out Storm Warning, his little-known 2007 flick.From an exciting opening sequence, that really puts a well-known urban legend up there in all it's clichéd glory, to a fast-paced and potentially grisly finale, Urban Legend races from set-piece to set-piece and keeps you so entertained that it's only after the credits roll that you start to pick apart every thread of it's frayed logic. It's got a fun, if predictable, punchline too. Great fun. "},{"Title":"This was a great movie!!!","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this movie because I could see someone actually doing this.It starts off with them telling you an urban legend.As the movie goes on people start dying based on urban legends.There is a reason for this but you don't find out till much later.But watch who you trust you might be wrong...  "}{"Title":"Not Bad, but too predictable...","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"14 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Unfortunately, Urban Legend suffers from a rather disjointed plot, and the fact that as a pseudo-mystery, they've eliminated most of the suspects by the end of the movie, so you pretty much know who is responsible.  The murderer displays all the qualities of a more supernatural killer like Jason or Michael Myers, such as superhuman strength and the ability to be everywhere the plot requires him to be (like being across campus within minutes of each murder).  Signposting some of the urban legends would have been helpful (there's a urban legend about a DJ being killed on the air and people thinking it was a hoax???).  The cast is likable enough, but only Loretta Devine really stands out.  The movie could as easily have been called Horror Movie Cliche as Urban Legend (or was that subtitle spoken for by Scream?).  There are a few cute in-jokes (yes, one of the actresses was in a Noxema commercial).  It's generally an entertaining way to waste a couple of hours if you're a horror-slasher fan. "},{"Title":"Good premise wasted in tepid horror film","Date":"29 September 1998","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The days of low-budget slasher films appear to be back with Urban Legend, a mildly entertaining but mostly lame variation on Scream with an attractive cast of young TV stars.The plot centers on a series of campus murders in the mold of urban legends, most of which will be familiar even to the younger audience this is pandering to. What little suspense there is comes from the anticipation of these scenes, since the surrounding story is almost as ridiculous as the film itself.If the screenwriters had concentrated less on incorporating the whodunit aspect into the plot and more on the legends themselves, they might have had something here. Experienced viewers will spot the killer's identity (and motive) early on, and those that don't will be fooled only because the conclusion is so completely ludicrous, not to mention mostly impossible.Of course, most of this would be easily overlooked if Urban Legend was scary, but time and again, director Jamie Banks telegraphs the surprises far ahead, and doesn't know how to time the shocks.  Over and over we get the sudden burst of loud music followed by a character running into another character, but it doesn't work. And that gets annoying after the third or fourth try. Occasionally Banks does get something eerie going, but the style is more suited to an action flick.Of the cast, most of the actors more or less get by despite a less-than-clever script, though it's disheartening to see a talented young actor like Jared Leto wasting his time with a nothing role as the reporter. Horror favorites Robert Englund and Brad Douriff pop up in cameos, adding a nice touch to their brief scenes.What we're left with is an intriguing idea undone by cliche after cliche. The legends are potent enough to hold your attention to the end, and horror fans will find a few gruesome goodies to amuse themselves. And even though the script needs to be about three times again as clever as it is, there is a great in-joke at the end about one of the actresses and a commercial.That clever scene might have been the first scene of a clever movie.  It's the last scene of this one. "},{"Title":"So many twists...","Date":"3 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I like this movie. Jared Leto and Rebecca Gayheart star in it. The movie is about a college student who suspects murders around the campus are linked to urban legends. The girls friend, Paul (Jared Leto) believes her, but her other friend, Brenda (Rebecca Gayheart) isn't to sure. Some urban legends in the movie are Aren't You Glad You Didn't Turn on the Lights, which involves a girl getting killed in the dark while her roommate walks in, suspecting she is having fun, the urban legend where the babysitter is phoned by a killer in the house, which they made a movie of, called When a Stranger Calls. Gory. Spoilers - - - - the main girl Natalie discovers all the bodies with Brenda. The urban legends are gory too. Not scary. I personally loved the ending.End Spoilers - Paul and Natalie push the killer - who is Brenda - off of a dock into water. A year later, 6 new college students are telling the story of Brenda, when Brenda herself is listening. the man who told the story told it wrong, so Brenda said This is how it really goes. "},{"Title":"Good 90's Slasher, Considering its Competition","Date":"28 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Basic Story Guide (contains a few minor spoilers) Natalie Simons is attending college at Pendleton University, when the news hits collage that Michelle Mancini, a fellow student at Pendleton, was murdered the previous night. Although the police are focusing on the gas station attendant who last saw Michelle, the killer then strikes again. This time Natalie witnesses the attack but is able to escape, but another college student is not so fortunate. As she is recovering, Natalie makes a realization Michelle was murdered by a guy in the backseat with an ax, and her class mate was murdered by being hung above a car while Natalie was inside it. All of the murders thus far are being taken from urban legends, and made into horrific reality. And this is only beginning&#x85; Verdict Between I Know What You Did Last Summer, Scream, and its surprisingly successful sequel, its sister silver screen slasher Urban Legend kind of fell into obscurity, and bordered on the rarely being seen. In spite of this I have only one real problem with it, the woman who played Michelle Mancini acted like she was in a soap opera, even by horror movie standard her acting was horrendous. If you can make it past that, you'll probably enjoy the rest of the movie.The killings in this are unique, and original. In the words of Timothy Olyphant from Scream 2, It's all about execution, and because of the originality of the murders, I bumped up the number of stars on it. I'm big on originality, when it comes to my horror movies. When you consider it's competition, it's lucky to have even been seen at all. And while it may not stand out as the greatest slasher or horror movie of the 1990's it can still stand on its own two feet.7/10 "},{"Title":"I liked it, until the ending!","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The ending spoiled it, and I think that is what turned a lot of people off. Too bad!!! Really!  I thought it had a lot of nice things,painful deaths, and a high body count, which is extremely hard to find in non sequel 90's slasher films. The ending was poor and let alone near impossible. Until then, pretty nice horror flick! The start!And the chase scene. Both pretty scary! 7/10 "},{"Title":"This is one 'Legend' worth seeing","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Critics bash it. A lot of fans even do it. It puzzles me because this is actually a good, fun movie. It's not as sophisticated as Scream or Halloween and it does have a few scenes that might be silly, but this is fun stuff. The plot concerns an axe wielding maniac who kills college students (and a few others just for the heck of it) based on urban legends. It opens with a girl being murdered by a killer, who's hiding in the back seat of her van. Then it moves to the college, where more urban legends come to life. Alicia Witt makes a fine heroine and director Jamie Blanks sure knows how to set the mood for edge of your seat creeps. He does far better here than in Valentine. He makes good use of rain storms. I think it rained throughout half of the movie, which is a good thing. My favorite scene in the whole movie is where the killer is chasing Tara Reid, who was in the middle of hosting her college radio show. There are plenty of other scenes like this one that remind me of 80's slasher flicks, not Scream or I Know What You Did Last Summer. This one is more along the lines of Halloween and Friday the 13th. Note if you are the type of person who likes thinking movies, you will probably laugh at several of the going-ons in this film. The ending is hilarious, and for once I think it was intentional. I can even picture the director laughing while directing it and the writer laughing while writing. I was certainly laughing while watching it. The bottom line is modern fright flicks don't get much better than this one. Rated R for violence, language, and brief sex. 8/10 "},{"Title":"I loved it!","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was great! I don't know why so many people don't like it. It feature some good death scenes, a great cast, except for the two leads. I loved Tara Reid's character and her hilarious talk show callers. What I really hate is people comparing this movie to scream. Does this movie feature references to other movies? No. Does this movie have the killer killing people in the same boring way over and over? No. And finally, does this movie feel like a 90's teen horror movie. NO! The death scenes make it feel like it's a movie from the 80's. There are some great scenes in here like SPOILER! SPOILER! Sasha's death scene, the pop rocks scene, and it had the great killer in the backseat opening murder. END OF SPOILER. People think that just because it came out after Scream it's a copycat. Well Friday the 13th came out after Halloween and that was considered a copycat. But what about all of the horror movies that came out in the early 70's before Halloween. There were slashers. And all of the movies in the late 80's weren't considered copycats. So in the end this movie is better than Scream but not as good as Scream 2. It should at least be considered a rental for some people. URBAN LEGEND gets 11/10 for having original death scenes, a great cast, and some good funny dialogue.  "},{"Title":"Inevitable movie that could have been far worse","Date":"22 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It was more or less inevitable that someday a movie producer would be sitting in an office in California or New York and think to themselves A serial killer who uses urban legends to pick off his victims. That'll put bums in seats! Equally inevitably, he was right and Urban Legend remains one of the most successful slasher films of all time. Director Jamie Blanks, who would later go for a more old school approach with another slasher film Valentine, takes a dot every I, cross every T approach here, signing on horror alumni Robert Englund, Brad Dourif and Danielle Harris for minor roles, opting for MTV casting with the bigger roles with Tara Reid, Alicia Witt, Rebecca Gayheart (before her self imposed exile from the mainstream following a DUI fatality), Jared Leto and Joshua Jackson all signing on, and borrowing from the success of Scream with a script offering frequent winks to the audience along the way.The overall effect of Urban Legend is a rather silly, only occasionally grisly, trip through late 90s pop culture with some passable performances, a workman like script and some shrewd casting.Love it or hate it, the film follows a winning formula and it's not very hard to see why it trails only the Scream movies as the highest grossing slasher film ever. I found it to be inoffensive fun when it first came out and more than a decade later, nothing's changed. "},{"Title":"It looks like Jordan really wasn't so bright after all...","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The basic premise for Urban Legend is actually quite intriguing (so much so that I actually shelled out 7 bones for the ticket...), in that all of the murders in the typical slasher film center around several of those Scary Stories to Tell in the Dark that everyone has heard since the age of five. Unfortunately, said premise is completely wasted on an otherwise ludicrous movie.In fact, after the first death scene, whose setup was so far-fetched that it makes elements of the Child's Play series seem almost plausible, Urban Legend actually CHANGES its entire premise! Instead of focusing on the interesting notion of the setup of these crimes, it digresses into a boring whodunnit whose entire (new) premise is that no less than seven people on the same college campus own THE EXACT SAME HOODED PARKA-- and it's not even an Abercrombie or an Old Navy parka; it's an old, worn-out denim thing that NO college students as visually appealing as those in this film's cast would ever be caught dead wearing.Even more frustrating is the fact that Zoe from Cybill (Alicia Witt) and Jordan Catilano (Jared Leto), Urban Legends central, albeit grossly underdeveloped characters, are unable to figure out who the person in the correct parka is, even though the killer's motives are so blatantly obvious that the 12 year old sitting in front of me in the theater knew who the killer was less than 45 minutes into the movie.Ultimately, Urban Legend is just INSULTING, assuming that its audience is every bit as dull and oblivious as its characters. In terms of horror flicks, it makes Halloween II and Worms appear comparable to The Silence of the Lambs or Psycho.Rating 1 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Can't get much worse than this","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Have you ever wished that the killer would just end everything and just kill you?  After seeing this TERRIBLE Dead Teenager schlock, I did.  Alicia Witt, Rebecca Gayheart, and Jared Leto duke it out for worst performance as three college kids who become scared over a killer repeating infamous urban legends (um, didn't we see that in Scream?).  Urban Legend is a cheap, cheap rip-off of such horror classics as Scream, Scream 2, Halloween; such non-classics as I Know What You Did Last Summer and the Halloween sequels; and even Felicity!  Urban Legend is handsdown terrible; but surprisingly only my second least favorite of 1998.  (The Rose McGowan sci-fi clunker barely edged it out; and The Waterboy was slightly beaten by this one)Basically, do not see this movie.  Zero Stars out of Four. "}{"Title":"Entertaining, sometimes clever, style over substance horror film.","Date":"21 January 2009","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When New England College, Natalie (Alicia Witt) finds out that her former best friend (Natasha Gregson Wagner) was murdered not far from an gas station. Now she finds herself in danger, the mysterious killer who killed his best friend is now stalking her friends and murdering them. An ambitious college reporter student (Jared Leto) tries to help her to find the killer but Natalie isn't what she seems to be as well. Since she has an very dark secret, she kept hidden from her friends at College. But her former friend's murder is based on a urban legend, which this killer is re-creating from these eerie tales.Directed by Jamie Blanks (Valentine) made an entertaining horror film with some clever touches of suspense and black comedy. This movie was certainly made in the wake of Scream. Which many film critics felt it was an bad rip-off but i felt it is one of the better horror pictures of the late 1990's. This features has better than expected cast, includingRebecca Gayheart, Joshua Jackson, Tara Reid, Michael Rosenbaum, Loretta Devine, John Neville, Julian Richings and Robert Englund. Director Blanks and ScreenwriterSilvio Horta (Best known as being the developer for TV's Ugly Betty) are certainly having fun with their character, the suspense, dark humour and plenty of amusing in-jokes as well. Despite bad reviews by movie critics, it was an surprise box office hit. When it was released in the fall of 1998, i remember seeing it over ten years ago and i still enjoy it.DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer (Also in Pan & Scan) and an good Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD has an amusing commentary track by Blanks, Horta and Rosenbaum. DVD also has Behind the Scream with commentary by the filmmakers, a deleted scene, the original theatrical trailer and a collector's booklet. If Urban Legend has an flaw, it is during the last 20 minutes of the picture. The movie goes way over the top with an disappointing conclusion. But Urban Legend is one of those movies, you could tell that the cast & crew has a great time making this. This is worth seeing. Brad Dourif appears uncredited. Followed by two loose sequels. Super 35. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"You Can Only Rate Them On Laughs.","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend is just like all the other horror movies ever made. How can any horror movie copy another when they all have exactly the same story and plot? This is what Scream was telling everyone throughout the whole movie. In the end all horror movies are just comedies with very few jokes.Urban Legend was just as good or bad as all the other recent horror movies. You can only go on the number of laughs you get which is usually three to five in a decent horror flick.I enjoyed Urban Legend 3 Laughs out of 10.  "},{"Title":"by no stretch of the imagination could this be the killer","Date":"23 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" And, yeah, this is a spoiler SUPER alert, do NOT read further if you haven't seen the movie! First off, I am not a fan of the slasher movie genre. As RavenGlamDVDCollector, I do go after the pretty girls, though. My gripe with slashers is of course that blood and glamor doesn't mix. Who wants to see a pretty girl cut up? (That is, of course, a stupid question that I do not want to hear the answer to) I'm a big Rebecca Gayheart fan ever since her BEVERLY HILLS 90210 days, she was sorely missed by me when her character was killed off in that series, and so it came to pass that RavenGlam research showed the incredibly hot young cast of URBAN LEGEND. There are two sequels, direct-to-video, that seem entirely less promising, but URBAN LEGEND the original sure has a lot of pretty girls, with Tara Reid thrown in for good measure. Alicia Witt I knew from BODIES, REST & MOTION in a short but vivid sequence, aside from an absolutely vague memory of the kid in 90's sitcom CYBILL It is way beneath me to discuss the bloody scenes in this movie. They are extremely far-fetched, and as it turns out, FINAL SPOILER ALERT, committed by best friend Brenda. However berserk any human might get, and, yes, we all have it in us to kill, but come on! Rebecca Gayheart could execute that big blonde guy by hanging him? The bloody strangulation scene deemed as a 'suicide' is a symptom of a terminally-ill plot. And everybody wears that freaking abysmal style of coat. Even next to an indoor swimming pool when it was clearly shown to be a normal day, nobody else was remotely dressed for winter, and that thing was designed for Eskimos.The potholes in the plot are big enough for two army trucks to disappear into with no survivors.Best thing about the movie, Alicia Witt. Okay, I do agree, she wasn't scared enough, but in some scared scenes, she was just ooh-shame-what-a-beautiful-scared-bunny, let-me-hug-ya! Tara Reid was an absolute disappointment, I am very sorry to say, she could have done a lot better. And speaking of Tara, the trailer shows a bikini dance flash or something like that, just mere seconds, but there is no such scene in the movie, and no deleted scene on the DVD.As for Rebecca, I suppose you gave it a good shot, but, really! "},{"Title":"Recycled","Date":"26 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Urban Legend (1998) has a lot of clichéd recycled material from movie like scream, I know what you did last summer, and other slasher teenage horror films. Jared Leto did a pretty good job as Paul, and Alicia Witt is pretty good here as well. The script is alright, it is very cliché, and sometimes I don't mind that when it comes to horror movies, but with this one, it was just too obvious and blatant. The first half of the movie drug a little, it thankfully sped up a good bit in the second half. I liked Reese in this film, she was good and entertaining. The gore wasn't awful, like in some horror films, so that was nice to see. This movie isn't all that great, it's no horror masterpiece that's for sure, but it isn't horrible, 5/10 for Urban Legend. The ending was kinda good, that helped to boost the rating some. "},{"Title":"As good as Scream rip-offs will get","Date":"19 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Urban Legend is a movie that clearly tries to cash in on the slasher revival started by Scream, but I don't mind that because it's a very well-made horror movie. It looks slick, but some of the false scares genuinely work and the murders based on urban legends are a good addition (even though they bail on that pretty quickly). The whodunit aspect is also entertaining, there are so many red herrings thrown around in this movie. However, the climax is pretty disappointing. When you find out who the killer is in Scream, you're genuinely surprised it's a movie that's even more fun to watch the second time, because then you can puzzle it all together. The revelation in Urban Legend on the other hand makes no sense whatsoever, and you just feel cheated by the movie. Thankfully you've seen plenty of good kill scenes by then, so it's a mistake that's easy to forgive. "},{"Title":"The Original When A Stranger Calls is Far Better.","Date":"26 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Urban Legend (1998) Dir Jamie Blanks / Cast Alicia Witt, Rebecca Gayheart, Jared Leto, Robert Englund, Tara Reid Another slasher film out to educate the public on various methods to kill people. It is a film about untrue events that bare probability. It involves the killing of teenagers based upon urban legends. Robert Englund plays a professor who teaches a class on the subject, and his urban legend involving a babysitter receiving threatening phone calls was presented in a superior horror film called When a Stranger Calls with Carol Kane as the sitter. Director Jamie Blanks does a fine job at concealing the killer's identity. It is well made but written as an executioner's handbook. When A Stranger Calls or Halloween have the suspense that this film lacks. We are required to blame the murders on Englund because of his notorious career as Freddy Krueger. Can a guy not get an even break? The young cast wander about aimlessly waiting for their roles to spark life despite the fact that the only thing to spark out of their lives is a very gruesome death. Among the wasted cast are Alicia Witt, Rebecca Gayheart and Jared Leto and their roles consist of running, screaming and being murdered in some fashion that is unfortunately more creative than anything else the film has to offer, which isn't much. Yet another puke fest in all of its gory sick details. Score 3 / 10 "},{"Title":"Entertaining and polished slasher with a great cast, but too cartoony and OTT","Date":"31 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Released in 1998, Urban Legend chronicles events at a New England university where a mad killer is on the loose, imitating urban legends. Alicia Witt, Rebecca Gayheart and Tara Reid play the three main female students while Michael Rosenbaum, Jared Leto and Joshua Jackson play the main dudes. Robert Englund is on hand as a dubious professor, Julian Richings as a weird maintenance guy, John Neville as the dean and Loretta Devine as campus security.While this is a slickly-made and entertaining late 90's slasher with a stellar cast, it's also hackneyed, cartoony, contrived, over-the-top and unbelievable; the revelation of the killer in the last act is particularly roll-your-eyes. It's also not scary. But, like I said, it's amusing and polished; I also like the NE locations (Toronto area). Alicia Witt plays a strong heroine and it's inexplicable that she didn't become more popular, although she's had steady work ever since.The film runs 96 minutes and was shot at Humber College, Toronto, Ontario, and nearby Trent University with an opening aerial shot of Trinity College School, Port Hope, Ontario.GRADE B- (6.5/10) "},{"Title":"I have a better idea . . .","Date":"12 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" 20 years of slasher movies have more or less deluded my interest in a movie like 'Urban Legend'. How many times can you repeat the same old scenes over and over and over again? There are many overdone horror movie standards but the one that irritates me the most is the one where the girl walks into a dark room and doesn't turn on the light, says 'hello?' at least twice before being tapped on the shoulder and whips around to a stinger on the soundtrack to discover that it's Kimberly or Natalie or Greg or Brian or Kimmy or Blake or Jessica or Shawn or Danny or Jenny or Sandra or Paul or Brenda or Marty or Brandy or Buffy or Heather or Michele or Kippy - but never the killer at least not the first time.My mind has become so adhered to these formulas that I am weary from it. The formula is so familiar that it's like hearing James Brown's 'I Feel Good' where not only have you heard it so many times that you know the words but you know the pauses and tweaks in the music by heart as well.The movie takes place on a college campus where no one ever studies, no one goes to class and everyone looks like soap opera stars on hiatus. There is a mad killer on the loose wearing a parka even where it's too hot to wear a parka. The kids are killed off according to old urban legends (that's the films gimmick) and all die off one by one in the order of how famous they are in real like a.k.a. if you aren't famous your death will come early in the film.I am going to diverge here for a moment if you will indulge me . ..I have a lot of time to think during a movie like 'Urban Legend' and here is the thought that I had. I know this cast from their previous work and most of them have done some very good work. I have a mental picture of them standing as a group on a studio lot between two sound stages. On one sound stage they could film 'Urban Legend'.On the other they could film this movie A group of kids go to college and have the normal problems that most young people have like deciding on a major, cramming for exams, dealing with pressure to get work in on time and trying to please their demanding professors. We could also get to meet them as individuals and see how they react to one another with personality clashes, romantic entanglements, sexual pressures etc. We could get to know them and follow them through one year of college . . . Oh wait, that doesn't sell does it? "},{"Title":"Not Bad Horror/Slasher Flick!","Date":"8 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This 1998 horror film stars Alicia Witt, Jared Leto, Rebecca Gayheart, Joshua Jackson, Michael Rosenbaum, Tara Reid, Loretta Devine, John Neville and Robert Englund. This begins with a college girl, Michelle (Natasha Gregson Wagner) being murdered by a mysterious killer in her car. Soon, we meet college student, Natalie (Witt) and her new friends, Brenda (Gayheart), Damon (Jackson), Parker (Rosenbaum) and Sasha (Reid) who learn about urban legends based on actual events while taking a history course. Soon, Michelle's killer makes the legends a reality when stalking Natalie and her friends. Leto (American Psycho) plays journalism major, Paul, Devine (Waiting to Exhale) plays security guard, Reese, Neville (The Adventures of Baron Munchausen) plays dean, Adams and Englund (A Nightmare on Elm Street) plays professor, Wexler. Danielle Harris (Halloween 4 & 5) also appears as Natalie's Gothic roommate, Tosh and Brad Dourif (Child's Play) as a gas station attendant. This isn't a bad horror/slasher flick with a decent cast I recommend for fans of the genre. "},{"Title":"What you don't believe can kill you...","Date":"5 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When a series of strange deaths occur on the campus of Pendleton College, student Natalie begins to suspect that there is a bizarre link - someone is taking urban legends and making them a reality. Her classmates Brenda & Damon insist the deaths are just coincidence. But when Natalie gets too close to discovering the killer's real identity she realises that she could be the next victim.This film starred Alicia Witt, Jared Leto & Rebecca Gayheart.Urban Legend is a poor film in my opinion and not one that I would probably watch again, it was sloppy in some scenes and is slow and boring in others. Overall I don't enjoy it and wouldn't recommend it, it tries to be clever with it's twists, but most of the time the twist is what you were expecting to happen anyway.**/***** Poor. "}{"Title":"Fine horror about horror clichés","Date":"12 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie opens with Michelle Mancini (Natasha Gregson Wagner) driving in a rainy night and gets killed by an ax killer hiding in her backseat. At Pendleton University in New England, Professor William Wexler (Robert Englund) teaches a class about urban legends. Paul Gardener (Jared Leto) writes about Mancini in the school paper enraging dean Adams (John Neville) and security guard Reese Wilson (Loretta Devine). Mancini and Natalie Simon (Alicia Witt) were high school cheerleader co-captains. Then Damon Brooks (Joshua Jackson) is killed while he's with Natalie but his body goes missing. She suspects the killer is focused on her. Her goth roommate Tosh Guaneri (Danielle Harris) gets killed. She and her friends Brenda Bates (Rebecca Gayheart), Parker Riley (Michael Rosenbaum) and Sasha Thomas (Tara Reid) are stalked by the killer. Also there's a weird janitor (Julian Richings).This is a functional horror although it's nothing terribly original. In fact, the whole movie is about all the horror clichés. It plays it seriously. The cast is full of good young photogenic actors. It's a routine slasher movie and nothing more. Unlike other films, this does lack a sense of humor. "},{"Title":"Delivers some solid scares.","Date":"3 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Someone has set out to make a book of urban legends come true. A woman (Natasha Gregson Wagner) in the film's effective beginning is driving in a heavy rain storm to the college where the film takes place. She thinks she has escaped a Psycho (Brad Dourif) at a gas station only to find the real killer in the back seat with an ax. The film centers on a small group of friends and Natalie (Witt) seems to be at the center of it as her room mate (Danielle Harris) is killed while she is going to sleep. Half the time this slasher film delivers quite nicely. Director Jamie Blanks and Cinematographer James Chressanthis make the film look great with interesting framing and effective moody atmosphere. Like the opening sequence, and the pursuit and death of Sasha (Tara Reid), the film delivers with solid suspense and good kills. Unfortunately, the film is also unbalanced. The deaths of professor Wexler (Robert Englund) and Parker (Michael Rosenbaum) are weak and unconvincing. The movie bounces back and forth between some really good set pieces and some clumsy ones. Blanks is going for a classy horror film here but he seems to be unsure if he is pulling it off. There are many times when the audience must throw logic completely out the window or the plot doesn't work at all. The scary looking killer wears a big coat with a hood, yet we see no less than 4 other characters with the exact same coat in their possession. This cheapens the movie and so does the lapses in logic of the script. The overall effectiveness of the film still works with above average suspense and some great kills. These nice moments are mixed in with cheap effects like a friend coming up behind another character and creating a false scare. This is Urban Legend in a nutshell. There are a lot of good things and some bad ones. At its best, it has some good scares and some solid slasher action; you just have to take the more immature moments as well. "},{"Title":"Utterly unoriginal, and smug with it","Date":"6 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" 'Urban Legend' is formulaic and dog-tired, checking off every cliché known to slasher films and displaying not a speck of wit in doing so. Are we really supposed to be scared by such hackneyed routines as the hand-on-the-shoulder gag and the character-turns-round-and-bumps-into-someone bit? Are we really supposed to laugh knowingly at these fossilised scenes because of the movie's desperate attempts to emulate 'Scream'? Yes we are and yes we are, and screw you, movie.The kernel of a good idea is in there somewhere - a serial killer recreates urban legends - but other than that it's a creative dead zone. The clunky dialogue is spouted by a cast culled from small screen teen drivel, and the film is so idiotic that it can't even pull off a competent false scare. For instance, the killer wears a hooded parka - scary! - and in one scene one of the non-characters sees a parka-clad figure enter a swimming pool building, walk purposefully towards a swimmer and stand there menacingly... you could cut the tension with a spoon... but not to worry, it's just someone with a swimsuit under the coat and not the killer after all! Phew! But why in the name of holy hell would someone walk into a pool room on a hot day dressed in a parka?The film is littered with similarly pathetic red herrings and false accusations. Half the characters own a parka with a furry hood to put us off the scent, but the only scent is the reeking BS that permeates the entire movie. The direction is lacklustre and the editing sloppy and apathetic, resulting in a movie so poorly structured that one scene just flops into the next, with no kind of impetus or momentum. That's what really gets me about this film it's incredibly lazy, it doesn't try. The brief flashes of so-called post-modernism are there only because Kevin Williamson gave the writers of these films licence to crib from every one of their predecessors and dress it up as some kind of witty homage.So we have a bland young cast, killings-a-plenty, a few in-jokes (Joshua Jackson turns on the radio, hears the theme tune to 'Dawson's Creek' and switches it off again), an arbitrary unmasking and loads of stupid dialogue that doesn't so much advance the plot as send it plodding round in circles. As repetitive and shoddy and predictable as the original cycle of slasher movies was, at least those movies didn't maintain a smug sense of superiority while they were busy being rubbish. "},{"Title":"The Final Cut","Date":"29 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ****SPOILERS*** Blood soaked slasher flick with the unseen killer offing almost the entire student body of a New England collage that by the time the movie's finally over there isn't enough people left to form a burial detail. The reason for all this carnage were told, by the killer, was the result of a car accident some two years ago that both Natalie & Michelle, Alica Witt & Natasha Gregson Wagner, were involved in. It's in fact Michelle who was the first of many victims of the killers rampage.Using the cover of collage reporter Paul Gardner's, Jered Leto, story about urban legends the killer murders his victims in urban legend style. The movie goes way over the top in it's killings and body count that takes away any suspense it had to offer its audience since he seems to be everywhere and everyplace at the same time making him and his exploits, or murders, totally unbelievable even for a Hollywood slasher movie.. Even the end of the film when the killer is finally , to one one's surprise, reviled and killed is so predictable that it's so called surprise ending doesn't really surprise anyone. Since it comes across as a campfire story about some wild and scary buggy man not the so-called supposedly true story as it was meant to be taken as.One thing about the collage where the movie took place it was to be the safest school in the country. With all the killing slashing and murdering that took place in it Attica State prison or Gitmo would be a much safer place to farther one's collage education as well as life expectancy then it would be for those attending it. "},{"Title":"Fast Paced Fun Stupid Movie","Date":"13 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Alright here's the deal - the movie itself makes no sense. VERY unrealistic. The ending is ridiculous and illogical. BUT - If you like the typical slasher, urban legend type movies (When A Stranger Calls, Scream, I Know What You Did Last Summer series, etc.) then you'll enjoy watching this. If you watch horror movies to laugh at the horrible acting, like I do, then this is a definite movie. Great to watch with friends and make fun of the logic of the writers and the annoying blonde girl screaming and doing dumb stuff. Basically, if you're looking for a smart psychological thriller, horror type movie this is NOT for you. If you're looking for a fast paced and stupid movie to have a good time with, you should watch Urban Legend. "},{"Title":"You Mind Telling Me What the Hell You're On?","Date":"29 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Scream copycat slasher that uses the hook of having its killings tied into urban legends. The biggest asset Urban Legend has is its cast. Jared Leto, Joshua Jackson, Tara Reid, Alicia Witt, Michael Rosenbaum, Rebecca Gayheart, Natasha Gregson Wagner, Danielle Harris, Loretta Devine, Brad Dourif, and Robert Englund. One of the key differences between the '80s slashers and the post-Scream ones is the former had casts of nobodies, a few of which went on to bigger things, but the latter casts actors who have already established themselves somewhat. It's an enjoyable enough film of its type. Avid fans of slasher films will enjoy it more. To everybody else it will seem like an old car that barely runs but has a nice new paintjob. "},{"Title":"Isn't She Lovely,...Isn't She Wonderful...","Date":"25 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It just doesn't get any better than seeing the gorgeous Mrs. Anita Pelaez over at her and her husband Captain Kutchie's place..Some Folks Also Call Him..The KutchMan others call him The Kutchmon!&#x85;Most Just Call Him The Most Interesting Man In The World&#x85;.(Anita and Kutchie Pelaez's Key West, Key Lime Pie Factory and Grill)&#x85;Just watching the lovely couple baking together all those Yummy Key Lime Pies at their Key Lime Pie Factory and Grill in Asheville. &#x85;It's always worth the trip to visit them in they're Historic Key Lime Pie Factory and Grill&#x85;It should be on everyone's bucket list for sure..And The World's Best Key Lime Pies!..YUM-YUM-YUM&#x85;.­­.Talk About World Class What An Understatement!&#x85;&#x85;.AA­­HHHHH!&#x85;.The Magic Of The Lovely..Mrs. Anita Pelaez And Her Delicious Key Lime Pies Baked With Pure Love&#x85;Always&#x85;&#x85;40 Years And They're Still Going Strong&#x85;.&#x85;.May GOD Continue Blessing Anita And Kutchie Pelaez and They're World Famous Key Lime Pie Factory And Grill Where The Personalities, Ovens And Smiles Are Always Warm And Inviting. Kutcharitaville You're The Best We Love You!&#x85;.&#x85;Now You Know Who Is The Hottest!&#x85;And Baby Let Me Tell You, Mrs. Anita Is No Act&#x85;She's The Real Thing Baby!&#x85;&#x85;.Located Near The Biltmore House And Estate&#x85;.. &#x85;.Who Could Ask For Anything More?&#x85;Anita's Key Lime Pie&#x85;(Hell Yes!) "},{"Title":"Clever and original story with classic 90's features. Definitely worth watching!","Date":"18 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Having not always been a Horror freak, I've missed out on Urban Legend till today, 14 years after it's been done, and boy did I ever miss out!What at first appears to be a classic Slasher/Teen sub-genre, quickly evolves and develops into a cleverly written and surprising whodunit thriller. In the Horror encyclopedia, Urban Legend wouldn't appear in one of the sub-genre's chapters, but rather in an appendix.The idea is, in my opinion, very original and very well portrayed. A killer who eliminates victims one by one in accordance with the scenery and background story of the famous urban legends we all know and love (and some that I personally have only learnt of through this film). However, Urban Legend is also a stereotypical 90's Horror in many ways... the characters being college students (and actors made famous by a then successful TV drama), the location being college/dorm/student apartment, the killer being a character we've already seen, even the little wink at parody (in this case - the radio playing Dawson's Creak theme when Joshua Jackson starts his car). Also, no gore but plenty of blood in the right places. All not unlike the two famous Horror brands of the time, Scream and I Know What You Did Last Summer.All in all, Urban Legends is a great film using a great idea. However, while not being able to point a finger to it, it feels like it lacks something. Perhaps a smarter twist in the end, or a more realistic ending. Perhaps the fact that the idea of using urban legends as inspiration has been the best part of the film, while the rest was not more than average. Perhaps the shortage of true Horror and fear. I'm not sure... Still, I've had a great time watching it, even it isn't the best Horror film in history, or even of its time. "},{"Title":"'Urban Legend' (1998)","Date":"15 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" 'Urban Legend' starts off strong. And I mean, like, really strong for a horror movie of the late 90's ilk. The kind where the characters are all self-aware intellectuals but have no problem being dumb as hell anyway. Yeah, the opening sequence is *that* kind of good. But then it all goes pretty much as downhill as it can get from there on....It's sad to say that Brad Dourif may be the highlight of this feature, given that he is only included in one scene, but whatever. The rest of our cast is the typical montage of up-and-coming late teens/early twenties stars. Jared Leto would of course go on to make great things with 'Requiem For A Dream' two years later, Joshua Jackson has been in a handful of good movies and is recognizable, which is probably a good thing since he is probably the most recognizable face in the whole movie to me. However, Loretta Devine really steals the show here. Forget Rebecca Gayheart and the trying year she had with making not only 'Urban Legend' but appearing in 'Scream 2' also. The ending few minutes are predictable to say the least. But like I said, Loretta Devine makes the whole crap scenario tolerable. The entire movie pays more than enough homage to 'Scream' and gives us an extremely generous helping of 'I Know What You Did Last Summer' worship. But, sadly for 'Urban Legend', we've all seen both of those two movies, and Kevin Williamson did it a lot better. The end sequence features one scene that throws 'Halloween' homages in your face, but it just doesn't work like how it did for John Carpenter.See 'Urban Legend' because it has a lot to say. However, it feels more essential than it actually is.URBAN LEGEND -----6/10. "},{"Title":"Better than I Know What You Did Last Summer","Date":"9 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It's hard to understand why this film is rated as low as it is. It opens with a bravura sequence, sets up an intriguing premise and broadly stays true to that premise right through to the end. It's well written with a talented, good-looking cast and looks terrific. It walks the line between old-fashioned slasher flick and the post-modern tongue-in-cheek variety adeptly. I watched it when it first came out and enjoyed it. I watched it again, this time on bluray, a few days ago. It's still a much better than average campus horror flick. If it's a little less frightening than some others of the genre, it's a lot smarter than most. It's often compared to I Know What You Did.... Urban Legend is the better film. "}{"Title":"It's an easy 'horror', good for a movie night.","Date":"13 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I've gotta be honest, it's not scary, the acting could be better, the effects could be better too. But it's a low budget 98 film and the storyline is pretty good, despite being simple.There are plenty of horror films based on Urban Legends, but not many which are about Urban Legends. The killer isn't too obvious and even though I suspected them at one point, I then changed my mind, then went back to them.The only thing I would have liked in this film would to have been told more about the Stanley Halls murders, maybe by the survivor, and for a certain hot girl to not have been killed! She should never be killed in films.It's a good film if you're having a sleep over, or a certain someone round for the night. You can talk about it, say who you think it is, I'm easy to make jump but it made my boyfriend jump too so, it's a good film, especially for what they had to go with. I'd recommend it as a sleepover film or a pass-the-time film that isn't a waste . "},{"Title":"Far from Legendary","Date":"1 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" There have been better horror flicks made than Urban Legend, but I would enjoy this more than the Scream trilogy because when the day is long and I feel like chillin' out with some popcorn and a movie then 'Urban Legend' is worth the hour and a half because it is not very involving and I don't feel exhausted by the time the credits roll. However it does insult your intelligence sometimes like in the scene where Tara Reid's character narrowly escapes certain death and then runs into a nearby elevator when she could have just ran out of the front doors to safety. Also, there is a questionable scene in the beginning where a woman gets decapitated while driving a car and the killer miraculously survives and is even unharmed. But those are minor drawbacks which are present in almost every B-movie slasher.Still most of the viewing audience will probably discard this and consider it a trashy Scream rip-off, but for most of us die hard slasher-fans Urban Legend ain't too shabby. It's definitely not better than the Scream trilogy, but it's worthy of a viewing. I rate it 6/10. Avoid the sequel. "},{"Title":"Nice Horror With A Nice Story!","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Ever since its release I've been dying to see this (pun intended)and today after many long years i have finally seen it, and i wasn't disappointed.The premise of the film is that somebody is killing off campus members by using urban legends. This entails some very interesting and very unique deaths that i have not seen before in other horror films. The story is very good and shy's away from the typical idea of teens getting picked off by some killer in a mask, the story leads to much more than that typical affair that has been set by the Scream franchise.Of course with every horror film you have to expect some stereotypes, and in this case it is the characters. The typical sex craving busty blonde's etc also the typical scream fest of the woman being chased down the dark hallways by the crazed killer. Now this can become tedious but thankfully this does not happen a lot in the film as it frequently does with others so your ears are spared.The film opens strongly although not as strong as say the opening to Scream, but this film opens with a kill that sets the tone of what is to come and also we get to see Brad Douriff play a small role with big assets to the film. Also Robert Englund makes an appearance as a creepy Professor who makes a couple of good jump in your seat moments and also Englund gives a unique performance way off from Freddy Kruger which isn't a bad thing really.The rest of the cast are not really memorable in any way, although i did think Jared Leto and Joshua Jackson put in a good performances although i do think Jacksons character was a little under used as he did have a good character.The look of the film is typical for the genre with the darkness and the low key lighting making it just the same as any other horror film you have seen before. The campus was a great setting and created some great opportunities for the atmosphere of the film.The direction is good in places and only very rarely does it seem to let up which is good and the director builds tension with ease but the final scare never really seems to come which is a shame because the tension is well built.Overall the film wont win any awards for being a fantastic horror film because the horror films of today never are as good as the classics and also these films will always be compared to the Scream franchise and films like I Know What You Did Last Summer but this films i think belongs up their with them, although not as good as say Scream this film offers new ideas to what is becoming a tiered genre and i think if you are a horror buff like me, just check it out its worth a look! ****** out of ********** "},{"Title":"urban legend review","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" An attractive young woman is driving her car on a dark country road and singing along to the radio. She's running out of petrol and so she pulls into a petrol station (run by a jittery, stuttering Brad Dourif), but then flees what seems to be an attack, only to find the real threat in her backseat a hooded killer with an ax who takes her head off with a well-aimed swing. I'm sure you've heard this story before. Not surprising, given that it's one of the more famous urban legends borrowed for Urban Legend, a post-Scream exercise in self-referential horror. The students at an ivy-covered New England college are turning up dead, the victims of a serial killer who murders in the fashion of the apocryphal modern myths. It's all for the benefit of good girl with a dark secret Alicia Witt, the sole witness to most of the killings. Rebecca Gayheart, her gullible best friend, and Jared Leto, the ambitious campus journalist who tracks down the secret that hangs over the school, lead a cast of pretty young women, good looking guys, and campus characters, notably the suspicious professor Robert Englund, a genre legend in his own right as the star of seven Nightmare on Elm Street films. The film has a direct link to the 1970s' rash of teen slasher movies, where sexually active teens are sliced, diced, and otherwise slaughtered in elaborate and ingenious ways. The increasingly preposterous film is no Scream, but the modestly stylish production has its moments. "},{"Title":"'Urban Legend'","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  After the tremendous success of 'Scream', it waa inevitable that plenty of 'Scream' clones would follow. Most notably 'I Know What You Did Last Summer' and this movie.'Urban Legend' has clone written all over it, as almost everything in the movie has been borrowed from other slasher movies.  Take the plot, for instance, the movie wants to pass itself as being about a killer on campus that crafts murders according to the most known urban legends. But, the thing is that by the end of the movie, we find that the plot is a simple rehash of 'I Know What You Did Last Summer'. It really has nothing to do with urban legends.  Even the killer's costume reeks of deja-vu. However, despite its recycled plot and thrills, 'Legend' can still keep you distracted for a while.Rating (6/10) "},{"Title":"Blanks' best slasher to date...","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Spoiler First things first, there are a couple of things that I have to get off my chest before I begin my review of Jamie Banks' much-maligned slasher/whodunit Urban Legend. The thing that brought my attention to the film in the first place was the fact that it boldly states on the front cover that it's the `.Bloodiest teen slasherfest to come over from the states so far...' I then thought to myself that was one hell of a bold statement to make.  Could it be a film gorier than Nightmares in a damaged brain or Maniac?  Or could it even be a flick bloodier than Blood Rage, The Burning or the uncut Intruder?  If so how did it gain a certificate from the good ol' BBFC? Or could it be that the unnamed reviewer from The Sun who wrote that article was trying out some freshly picked highly hallucinogenic magic mushrooms?  I'm afraid that after watching this I found that the later is probably the closest to the truth because although Urban Legend has its moments, gore is definitely not one of the movie's strong points. As for it being one of the bloodiest of its kind to come over from the states so far, well lets just say that this must've been the first slasher flick that the journalist in question had seen, or he must have accidentally watched the wrong film.who knows? I think I'll change the subject before I pass out!Secondly before watching UL I was biased into thinking it was going to be really rather terrible after the amount of bad publicity it got from its UK release.  Almost every review I read was warning the viewer to avoid it at all costs.  But to anyone, who has got a video library filled with as many, how can I put it, 'matter of taste' flicks as me that is all the invitation I needed.It all opens familiarly on a dark raining night. A female teen (who we later find out is Michelle Mancini) is shown driving along some secluded country lanes and listening to her car radio. She takes her eyes off the road momentarily to insert a tape, and while her concentration is elsewhere she almost crashes into an oncoming vehicle. However after regaining control of her station wagon she manages to comfort herself by 'singing' along to Bonnie Tyler's 'Total eclipse of the heart' which pumps loudly through the speakers.  Now being a man of the world I have been to many a pub karaoke and even on a rare occasion (depending mostly on the strength of my alcohol intake!) I have even had the odd singsong myself, if not over the microphone then at least in the streets on my way home.  Oh yes, many a time of a late night I have been heard singing along to various Presley hits or something similar to that vein! But I can honestly say, never in all my years of visiting dodgy beered up sing alongs have I ever heard anyone with such a lack of vocal talent.  I mean it's terrible. She mumbles the wrong lyrics completely out of time and tune with the music, I'm telling you it is really, really bad. I had only been watching Urban Legend for 2 minutes and was already wishing the killer would hurry up and do us viewers (and probably the girl in question) a big favour and off her sharpish! Anyway, back to the plot and our hapless teen has just realised she has run out of petrol. Luckily she can see a garage in the distance and even luckier still she just manages to roll onto the forecourt.  On arrival the station attendant who stutters when he speaks and looks generally retarded and immediately has you thinking 'this is our psychotic killer' greets her! A fact that is enlightened by the girl looking decidedly disgruntled and muttering 'freak show' to herself.  He begins filling up the car and she passes him her credit card before he disappears into the cabin. Two seconds later he returns telling her the unlikely story that the Card Company is on the phone and they want to speak with her.  Clearly scared she reaches for what looks like a can of CS gas before following the somewhat disfigured worker into the shop.  She gets to the phone and picks it up to speak, but no one is there, she turns around to look at the attendant who is locking the door menacingly behind him. She tries to head for the exit but he grabs at her stuttering and trying to spit out his words.  She manages to spray his face with the gas and he falls to the floor in pain.  She throws the phone she was earlier using through the window, it smashes and she climbs out heading back to her car.  The attendant follows closely still trying to spit out his words.  Michelle manages to get in her wagon and start it up. She doesn't hang around and hurriedly spins away from the forecourt.  Just as she leaves, the garage keeper manages to spit out his words, which he had been trying so hard to speak `Stop.someone's in the back seat!' but his attempts fall on deaf ears.  Michelle tries to comfort herself once again by singing (oh, no!) but suddenly she catches a glimpse of a shadow moving in the back of her wagon, from the corner of her eye. She checks her rear view mirror to see a hooded character holding an axe on the seat.  She screams and at the same time the axe swings. As the hatchet smashes through the glass windows her scream is silenced. Urban Legend's first victim has been dealt with. We are now shown a very dreary looking college campus named Pendleton University and introduced to a few likely suspects or victims Sasha (Tara Reid) The somewhat bubbly radio host, Paul (Jared Leto) The ambitious campus journalist, Damon (Joshua Jackson) A practical joker and remarkable Eminem look-alike! Parker (Michael Rosenbaum) another good time guy, Brenda (Rebecca Gayheart) yet another bubbly bimbo and Natalie (Alicia Witt) the stroppy leading lady. They sit round and discuss the recent murder of Michelle Mancini and the legend of the 'Stanley Hall Massacre', where 25 years earlier at that same college a professor was supposedly meant to have gone berserk and offed 'a whole floor' full of students before stabbing himself through the heart with a honey knife. In good old slasher tradition the kids decide to have a party to commemorate the aforementioned massacre, which you know is probably going to be a bad idea! Before long our Urban Legend style butcher puts in a few reappearances and starts working his way through the cast in some pretty imaginative ways. Natalie our over sulky leading lady witnesses most of these murders but of course, no-one else sees them or believes her, especially the somewhat suspicious Dean Adams (John Neville) and the college 'rent-a-cop' as she's so frequently called, Reese (Loretta Devine).  Before long the usual happens and she is left alone to confront the deranged killer.To be honest, and I'm going to be an individual here, I can't for the life of me see what is so bad about Jamie Banks' first attempt at a splatter movie.  Seeing how this was his directorial debut (previously he had worked as a camera operator on action flick The Huntsman) I think he's done a pretty damn good job. I was so puzzled when I had finished watching UL after reading such bad reviews and thoroughly enjoying it that I rang up two of my friends and invited them to come around and watch it with me and my girlfriend.  When it was finished I asked what they thought and all three of them agreed it was a good film, one even went as far as to say it was better than Scream!Each murder gets more and more imaginative than the next, the killer going too various lengths to stage his slaughter. I agree that when the butcher's identity is revealed you are left thinking how did he (or she!) manage to perform those killings unaided, but that is by no means grounds to say that the film is bad. There are loads and loads of good ideas and points that make Urban Legend far above average.  It is also benefited with a haunting score and a good strong cast, which were at the time of release really mostly unknowns.  Jared Leto has since gone onto earn roles in Fight Club and Black and White, not too mention The Thin Red Line and Rebecca Gayheart has also done a fair bit since including a part in From Dusk 'til Dawn 3. Tara Reid's exceptional beauty won me over and I really hoped that she would be the one that survived the massacre. However, Banks is quite ruthless with the cast and not many characters avoid the assassin's blade!Although it's not all that gory, there's at least one unwatchable scene. The assassin attempts a kidney heist on our hapless final girl, cutting her stomach open! Banks also manages a couple of decent jumps and false scares. The flick also gets 'edge of your seat' tense toward the end as you play the director's game of guess the killer's identity as he cleverly nails it down to the last couple of suspects and attempts to keep you guessing!So all said and done I think it just goes to show Urban Legend is a matter of taste movie, you either love it or hate it. I must admit that I actually really liked it and it remains far more entertaining than the miserable Valentine. Don't be dissuaded by the poor publicity that circled this one, its well worth checking out.  "},{"Title":"An interesting concept that goes down the drain...","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I love Urban Legends and a pure facet of American culture is to sit around the campfire telling stories of the young couple being stalked by the man with the hook hand, or the babysitter getting calls from the man who happens to be upstairs. This is what horror and urban legends are about, and this film dares to take those stories and form them as a device for a slasher stalking people along a college campus using those devices but ultimately what large potential there is for a concept with many possibilities, it is ultimately thrown down the drain with your usual slasher movie fodder and terrible story with the cheesy surprise ending and large lapses in logic. Otherwise, it's a pretty good way to kill time.(** out of ****) "},{"Title":"this movie is actually pretty good","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  i like how its based around so many urban legends, and if u look up urban legends on the web b4 u watch the movie, sometimes you can see the deaths comin. this will you give you an opportunity to yell at the screen before u come 2 ur senses and realise that they cant hear you. the only thing is that there are all the typical teen movie characters in it, which is fairly predictable (the group of pretty girls, the funny immature guys, all fairly popular, the good-looking guy hanging around ready to save the day, the gothic bitchy roomate and the know-it-all teachers.) i enjoyed this movie, but i would warn future viewers not to watch it on a rainy and dark afternoon when your alone. "},{"Title":"Poor... VERY POOR","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  (Taken form previous comments I made under a different name!)This film is a big disappointment, it could and should have been so much better. The cast was poorly selected apart from Jared Leto who was okay, but hey everyones got to start everywhere! So it's come to this a film that relies on a Josh Jackson cameo role (oh and Oceans 11 could have lived without him!)Lets take a look....A Series of Deaths involving students. Sounds like it's been done before....Because it has!2/10 "},{"Title":"...the plot is so unreal, as is the directing","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS AHEAD!This was one of the dumbest movies I have seen in a long time because the plot is so unreal, as is the directing. For example, in one scene, Gayhearts character (the killer) is running with her friend in a raincoat. Her friend Natalie gets ahead of her and hitchhikes just a minute later. When she is in the car, Gayheart is chasing her in a seperate vehicle, and a differen't costume. I find it hard to believe that in one minute she changed clothes completly, and got in a truck and somehow managed to find her friend Natalie. This is nothing special.* / **** stars. "}{"Title":"Not scary at all","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Back in the day, the best horror films were Hitchcock movies, like Psycho and Frenzy.  Even after Hitchcock, The Exorcist was frightening, and Brian DePalma made scary stuff like Dressed to Kill.  Now, we've hit the bottom of the barrel.If a bunch of people being hacked up is scary to you, then this movie (and about 100 other wastes of film) should be right up your alley.  The only thing that was remotely scary in this movie was the acting.And just for the record, any movie that microwaves a poor, helpless dog should be banned.  Kill all the people you want in these slasher flicks, you can even hack up cats/birds/hamsters/manatees you want, but leave dogs alone. "},{"Title":"Urban Legend","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend was released in this new teen-slash madness after the Success of Scream two years earlier. Urban Legend was a bit overlooked and didn´t recieve much critical praise but it isn´t as bad as people say and it is a lot better than I Know What You Did Last Summer. I am not going into the plot or anything but it is a good popcorn movie and is all right for a horror movie evening. The acting is good for the most part. Some of the actors were terrible especially Tara Reid. The scene where Tara Reid is running from the killer is one of the most laughable scenes in history of the slasher flick. The film is not perfect and in the end it gets a little boring. But overall not bad 6/10.  "},{"Title":"Too boring to be true","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  As a slasher fan, I'd like to think I could sit through any slasher, no matter how horrible it is, and not be bored to tears. However, with Urban Legend, I was proven wrong. This movie is so dreadfully dull. Too many fake-outs and false-alarms. The characters are all paper thin and the lead mopes around for an hour and a half, so it gets to the point that you're cheering on the killer to end it all. And by the way, what is with the killer's disguise? A winter coat? Jeesh. That's digging deep. Obviously, since this came out in the wake of the Scream flicks, it's pretty predictable. The whole self-aware slasher formula was pretty played out by the time this movie rolled out. I will give the movie some credit, there are several disturbing deaths (i.e. the poisoning, the parking lot) and some pretty good rock tunes playing in the background (Stabbing Westward, Rob Zombie, Monster Magnet) as well. However, aside from that, the movie is very flimsy. Most people have forgotten about it by now. Rightfully so. Look out for cameos/bit-parts by slasher vets such as Brad Dourif (voice of Chucky in all the Child's Play flicks), Robert Englund (Freddy Krueger), and Danielle Harris (Jamie in Halloween 4/5).  "},{"Title":"stuff about the movie","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  wow.  this movie is the bomb, i really love it, and i think i fell in love with one of the actors.  Michael Rosenbaum is the most talented, most gorgeous actor you could get for this movie.  i like the way in general, how the movie flowed well, and i really enjoyed the horrfic murder scenes with death and blood.  wow.  i love this movie. "},{"Title":"A Legend Worth Watching!","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"   I just recently bought Urban Legends on DVD and all have to say is that this movie kicks some ass! Now I know the whole teen horror flick idea has been destroyed over the years but this movie breaks away for the stereotypical teen horror flick. It has great young actors, especially Rebecca Gayheart and Alicia Witt, and a great and suspenseful plot. Urban Legends is a must see! "},{"Title":"Decent premise","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  For all the the Screams, I know what you did last summers, and countless other horror films to come our way of late, this one was a little bit better.A mysterious killer duplicates mythical urban legends for the theme of their killings.  The villains winter coat and axe were at first dubbed as the easiest Halloween costume as the hockey mask. Maybe so, but not as terrifying. And neither is this movie, as most of it's cast can be seen on various tv shows.  Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund) shows up, but his supporting role can't save this from being a complete hit.**/**** "},{"Title":"Average","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I remember going to see this film in the theatres when I was a junior in high school. I completely hated it. It wasn't that I disliked the genre. At this point 2 of the 3 Scream films had been released and I had adored both of them. I even got a kick out of the first half of I Know What You Did Last Summer. I think Urban Legend was the first hip slasher that started to feel like enough is enough.Looking back now, the movie doesn't seem all that bad. Especially in comparison to the garbage that followed it (including its name only sequel). Visually it's quite good. The locations are interesting and make the film much richer. I mean, compare the campus in this film to the one in Scream 2. The combination of existing buildings and the way they lit and shot them gets them an A in that department. Director Jamie Blanks seems to be quite the fan of crane shots and he uses them to good effect several times.Populated by WB stars and other young talent, the cast is decent. Givent he material they're working with I think they all do an admirable job. The killer's identity is definetely a surprise but not an all together plausible one. The final I did it because... monologue bounces back and forth from being intense to over the top. The main character is pretty bland. Definetly the most forgettable of the bunch. Rebecca Gayheart, Joshua Jackson, and Tara Reid all do well in their roles. Michael Rosenbaum comes off a little too much like a poor man's Stu for my tastes. Jared Leto's also pretty unlikeable as the love interest. Great small performances from Robert Englund, Brad Douriff, and that creepy guy that plays the janitor (Boo! LOL!!).I suppose the biggest problem is the script. Which is too bad, because a serial killer basing his murders on urban legends is a fantastic idea. But the story is filled with the typical slasher plot holes and lapses of logic. But even at its worse, Urban Legend is a lot better than the pre-Scream slasher movies. Unfortunately this, for me, was sort of the nail in the coffin as far as the new ones go. It was just a new gimmick used to show us the same scenes we've all seen before. Bottom line good, but not great. B- "},{"Title":"come for the babes, stay for Dean Adams","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I originally saw this only to check out Alicia Witt, Rebecca Gayheart and Tara Reid. I was pleasantly surprised by the story which was a clever whodunit. I must admit, I sympathized with the killer when I found out his/her motives. The best part of this movie is John Neville as Dean Adams. His dry wit and cynicism are HILARIOUS. That line about Damon Brooks and the farm animal had me rolling on the floor for 5 minutes. The sequel is ok but not quite as good. Probably cause there is only one babe and no Dean Adams.  "},{"Title":"Pretty good...to my amazement","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  ****MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS****Urban Legend is a pretty good flick considering I was still coming off the high of watching Scream.  While this film gives you situations involving urban legends, it will not go into explaining why they are and how they came to be.  But I don't think it will bother you as teens are slaughtered for your amusement. I really enjoyed this movie because of the dark settings and the way the legends were intertwined.  The only knock on this film is that all the actors are easy on the eyes.  Don't think the good looking people are murdered in real life, but such is true.Watch for Robert Englund's small but effective role along with the surprise twist at the end.  Definitely makes it worth the time to watch. (p.s. STAY AWAY FROM THE SEQUEL!!!!)***1/2 stars out of ***** IMDB Scoring 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A Good,Clever and Original Movie.","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legends is one of those better teen horror flicks. Somebody is killing students at a campus based on Urban Legends. I agree with those people that said that there was some Scream similarity going on but it was still a fine movie. It has a very surprising ending, and throughout the movie are some interesting scenes followed by good acting. I would give Urban Legends 8/10 "}{"Title":"Classic Horror","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This Film was Made Because of The great Scream. The Slaser films Rock. This film has a Great Plot and Cast. Such as Josh Jackson Jared Leto Alica Witt. The Killer is No Dumbass as many of them are in slaser films. And You will be Shocked when you find out who done it. "},{"Title":"Could have been better","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  While i don't hate the newer Horror movies, i don't really like them as well.But being a horror fan i still watch them.I don't really like the casting in Horror films these days, they seem to have gone too Hollywood, but to be honest i did like the cast for Urban Legend.A killer is on the loose killing off people based on Urban Legends.The movie had a good plot as well as a good cast, but it was a major let-down.Maybe if Urban Legend didn't try and copy Scream too much it could have been better.What i think would have worked is maybe two 45min stories or even three 30min stories based on Urban Legends.Director Jamie Blanks has potential to be a good Horror Director but he tends to get sloppy and fails at building suspense for the most part.There are a few good scenes that were Suspenseful but not enough too save the movie.Three Horror movie icons Robert Englund(Freddy) Brad Dourif(Voice of Chucky) and Danielle Harris(Jamie of Halloween 4 and 5) are totally wasted.I liked the plot a lot, i loved the idea of Urban Legends but it was still a let-down.I give Urban Legend 5/10 "},{"Title":"Good.","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend is one of your typical 1990's horrors. It has good suspense and horror, confusing dialogue, and characters being killed in original ways. This movie was good because the creator could pick and interesting premise with out using the typical stuff. I really think the killer's motive could have been improved. I also think this should have been a little longer to explain everything in a good amount of time. Lets just say, it's better than the sequel. My Take 7/10My MPAA rating R for horror violence/gore, language, sexuality including dialogue and drinking. "},{"Title":"An urban legend in itself","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  With all of the advancements in the horror genre during the nineties, mainly the SCREAM movies, Urban Legend joins the train.  This film is typical slasher horror, with a few jump scenes, and a few scares.  Where this film derives its fun from is how the murders are committed; using old age urban legends, you know the kind you grew up telling around campfires.  As the movie progresses, the viewer finds himself or herself wondering what the next urban legend method will be used.  With plenty of tense and fun moments, not to mention a relatively high body count, Urban Legend is a fun and witty twist to the horror genre.The movie goes wrong when it finds itself in the typical horror situations (girls going off by themselves, people being a little to curious about certain things, etc.)Although it does follow typical horror, this movie is fun and thus rates a 6/10 "},{"Title":"Genius!","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I first saw this movie when it premiered on Channel 4 earlier this year, but in yet another spell of my world renound bad luck, I was unable to video it because I was taping 24 on BBC 2 at the same time. Since that day I made it my mission in life to find a copy of my very own, I searched for months upon months to find one, but didn't, until one day I found a copy when on holiday in Whitby on one on those double film videos they're always putting leathal weapon films on (the other movie on the cassette was Urban legends The final cut, which I hate.)Anyway, needless to say I love the film, its so much better than Scream (at least the murder scenes are well thought out) and the acting is great, especially by Rebecca Gayheart and Michael Rosonbaum. The only thing I was annoyed about was the fact that the gore and detail of the murders (its a slasher film so this is important) was actually LESS detailed on VHS than on Channel 4. Most specificly the bit with the funnel and drain cleaner is sopposed to be much longer, the dean's head was bashed through the spikes rather than slowly driven into them, the kidney removal bit was shortened and all the shots of dead bodies where only a second or two long. It seems the slashing happened more to the content and less to the cast. Despite this the movie was still good and well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Genius!","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I first saw this movie when it premiered on Channel 4 earlier this year, but in yet another spell of my world renound bad luck, I was unable to video it because I was taping 24 on BBC 2 at the same time. Since that day I made it my mission in life to find a copy of my very own, I searched for months upon months to find one, but didn't, until one day I found a copy when on holiday in Whitby on one on those double film videos they're always putting leathal weapon films on (the other movie on the cassette was Urban legends The final cut, which I hate.)Anyway, needless to say I love the film, its so much better than Scream (at least the murder scenes are well thought out) and the acting is great, especially by Rebecca Gayheart and Michael Rosenbaum. The only thing I was annoyed about was the fact that the gore and detail of the murders (its a slasher film so this is important) was actually LESS detailed on VHS than on Channel 4. Most specificly the bit with the funnel and drain cleaner is supposed to be much longer, the dean's head was bashed through the spikes rather than slowly driven into them, the kidney removal bit was shortened and all the shots of dead bodies where only a second or two long. It seems the slashing happened more to the content and less to the cast. Despite this the movie was still good and well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Good Good Horror","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of Fave Horror Flicks along side Scream Halloween and Friday The 13th. The Story is very good.The Cast is got some brillant Actors Such As Alica Witt (Bongwater) Rebecca Gayheart(Scream 2) Jared Leto(Black And White) and Joshua Jackson (Dawsons Creek). The Film is good and Should be watched. "},{"Title":"T.V Actors Anonymous Seminar Guest Speaker With Jared Leto!","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A Series of Deaths involving students. Sounds like it's been done before....Because it has!This film is a big disappointment, it could and should have been so much better. The cast was poorly selected apart from Jared Leto who was okay, but hey everyones got to start everywhere! "},{"Title":"Deja &#150;vú, yes but hell entertaining","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It's own title identifies the kind of movie it is. Urban Legends is just another teen slasher horror movie, that we all feel we've seen before, most noticeably in the Scream trilogy. But this time Urban Legends is one step ahead of the other horror movies, whereas the plot is no way original. It can be resumed in a single sentence. On a US High School, a killer starts slashing teenage students, based on the good old Urban Legends. Needles is to say what comes next big boob girls running away from the killer, the central character, who, by the way happens to be a girl, never gets killed, despite being stalked every now and then, and lots of gore scenes, lots of blood and jump scenes. This is the main essence of an horror movie, it could also be called Scream 4, the only thing you had to do is put Neve Campbell on the lead and a goofy best friend cop, and that was it. Oddly enough, after all these `qualities' that could also be called plagiarism, Urban Legends ends up being a surprisingly good horror movie, with a great Tv Show cast, and a plot full of hilarious lines. Also what is more than expected is that when the movie starts, everyone knows what's going to happen everyone gets killed except for the lead, a big twist in the end to reveal the killer or the killers, and also another twist in the very end that conveniently has to leave room for a sequel. That's probably where Urban Legends gets stronger the killer is the very last character you may expect (although clues where falling down like rain), the twist in the very end is not only surprising and interesting, not mention humanly impossible or improbable. Jamie Blanks decently directed providing chills wherever and whenever they are needed, gets the movie to be worth more for its horror and for its lines rather for it's deja vú feeling. 6 out of 10   "},{"Title":"Fun Fun Fun!","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend came at exactly the right time. It was before horror movies became cheesy low budget attempts trying to be like Scream..; probably the last great one in the teen horror drama. Urban Legend takes those stories you've heard a millon times (a baby-sitter recieves spooky calls only to find there coming from upstairs; if you mix pop rocks and soda you die, etc) and twists them into one great horror movie. The acting from Rebecca Gayheart is perfectly demented and very fun to watch. Theres even a cameo from Freddy Krueger as a teacher. So enjoy this one; there are no more good teen horror movies. BEWARE THOUGH...skip the sequel. It's cheesily terrible! 7/10 "}{"Title":"Check My Pulse, I've Looked Like This For Years (Spoiler)","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Some time after she and the killer's first victim are involved in the accidental death of an innocent motorist, college student Natalie finds herself and her friends are being stalked off by a killer who kills their victims in the style of urban legends. An interesting plot seems to promise more Scream-style fun. The film starts off on the right foot with a terrific opener but as soon as it begins to rely on that same sort of ripped-off, pretentious '90s teeny-bopper dialogue pioneered by Kevin Williamson (who himself had adapted from various other hip-talking films, one of which was without a doubt THERE'S NOTHING OUT THERE), the viewer can see just how serious the crew is about this film. Not very much.Though it often benefits from it's carefree attitude toward fronting itself as a horror film, and there are some great one-liners, and the leading actresses Witt and especially, Gayheart are excellent, the movie falls short of delivering the goods for horror fans. And the majority of supporting characters serve up this hokey dialogue, so I end up rooting for the killer, who doesn't have much common sence which also makes it hard to appreciate the eventual evolution into an immortal Robo-killer.In conclusion, I like the killer's confession scene. Funny killer. But while the movie is mildly entertaining, it's too hokey and does go overboard a bit on the body count. Hopefully, the sequel will go further in length than this one stayed behind. "},{"Title":"It was o.k...","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Urban Legend is a good movie that was very original and solid.Urban Legend has its good points and it has its bad points.Lets start off with the good points,first,the plot to this movie was very original,second,this film had very inventive kills,and it gives a high level of entertainment.Now lets go on to the bad parts,first,the main character didn't seem right for a horror movie,second,some of the actors gave crap performances.The amount of gore this movie contains is enough to satisfy a horror fan,and the kills are very original.The motive that the killer had was cheap and half assed, (might be a SPOILER) her boyfriend gets killed in a car accident because of the main character,so she decides to kill everyone,I really didn't like that.Some of the actors gave crap performances,most of them didn't have any life in them,its like they already got killed.Robert Englund gave a good performance though.all and all,Urban Legend was a pretty good movie.7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The beginning saves the movie","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have to be honest, the opening to this movie was very suspenseful and very well made. It seems to be a very promising movie using a good premise. After that, the movie just falls flat on its face like any other normal teen slasher. Even though the movie still stays somewhat entertaining (unlike its sequel, which I hate with a passion), the beginning saved the movie from being a total turd bomb in my book "},{"Title":"Fun, gripping horror-fest","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Review by Josh D. Winning @ WhereLegendsRule.cjb.netWhen I sat down to watch Urban Legend, I was ready to watch yet another Halloween imitator, trying to chip in on the success of Scream and make a quick dollar. I had heard many bad reviews from the main-stream critics, so I wasn't expecting much, despite my anticipation... But what I received was an original, scary, witty movie that was far more entertaining than any critics had made out. True, Urban Legend was undoubtedly inspired by Scream, but why should we see that as a bad thing?The use of the urban legends was handled extremely well - the writer picked out the most scary and disturbing of them all - and they were well integrated into story. Writer Silvio Horta was clever to pick both well-known legends as well as basically unknown ones to keep the unpredictability up. Also, the legends fitted the characters he created better than I had expected. A scene that is particularly effective is when Natalie hears her roommate's strangulated cries from her bed across the room but ignores them - thinking that they are cries of sexual ecstasy. To say she got a shock the next morning is a bit of an under-statement. Also cleverly handled is the idea that perhaps most of the murders are practical jokes or suicide cases (as Natalie's roommate is accused). This also, once again, shows how well the writer chose the legends.The acting is consistent and believable, particularly enjoyable performances come from Alicia Witt (a surprisingly unusual choice for a lead in a horror movie, but still an excellent choice), Joshua Jackson and Rebecca Gayheart - all respected actors and actresses in the teen commercial circle. A nice cameo from Robert Englund was also great, and he had a surprisingly small part, although he does manage to keep the viewer suspcious of where his loyalties lie. Although a couple of characters are annoying from the word 'go', that is just another believable aspect of this movie - wherever you go these days you are confronted by self-involved, obnoxious teenagers!The directing is probably the greatest aspect of the movie, and Jamie Blanks creates a claustrophobic and unsettling atmosphere - even in murder or tension scenes that occur in daylight. Despite the movies flaws, the dazzling direction makes up nearly all mistakes in it's stylish-ness. The director knows that in 'chase' scenes the viewer needs to know the full layout of a building to feel fear for a character's whereabouts (i.e if you know the door is only just around the corner the tension mounts when you know how close to surviving a characters is) - and so a lot of good, open shots are given on the screen.Over all, Urban Legend is a clever, frightening horror movie that boasts not only a good plot and original idea, but a brilliant score from Christopher Young. "},{"Title":"Remember the Drive-In?","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Horror movies these days (and by these days I mean, since 1982) have no idea what they're supposed to be or how to do it; let alone how to make money at the same time.  THIS one is always going to hold a special place in my heart, and I'll tell you why.Three days before its release in 1998, it was broadcast, digitally, via satellite, to roughly 2 dozen colleges across the US.  It was not an isolated incident; previews have been brought to certain colleges in such a manner for nearly 10 years now.  My point, however, is that a free movie brings the kids out of the woodwork, and it was seeing this film with 500 screaming college kids that made it so great, in my mind.People yelled, they threw things, they made loud fun of the dumb white people that seem to populate every horror film ever made.  Don't go in there!  Look in the backseat!  Don't run UP the stairs, you pinhead!Whatever.  People were screaming and throwing things at the screen, which is what they should be doing.  I recommended it to a friend, and watched it again three days later, at an early showing with 20 people in the theater.  Suddenly the movie was bad, it was SO bad.  I didn't get it.Behold, the power of a community, visceral experience.  The movie was good for that; not for sitting at home alone to watch it, or watching it alone in a big theater (which is exactly how most paid film critics watch ALL movies).  It's not high art, but it was a great time at the movies that day, which is why, regardless of the IMDB, I still have to give it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Deja Vous All Over Again","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Don't get me wrong I like this horror movie!That unspeakable, unnameable terror has a name now, and it's called Urban Legend  ...yet, we may've seen some of these particular brands of scares once before...In When a Stranger Calls (1979), Carol Kane played the baby-sitter who answers repeated phone call threats (disconnect the phone, fool!).  In Nightmares (1983), actress Cristina Raines plays a woman who, desperate for a pack of cigarettes, goes out for a late-night purchase and discovers (I won't spoil this one for you).  And of course, horror cinema has made countless versions of the infamous Bloody Mary legend... the most recent example being the Candyman franchise. This tongue-in-cheek ode to Famous Campfire Stories is worth a peek.  Too bad the sequel is, quite literally, merely an ode to its predecessor 'We're on the movie set on the life-and-death of the true life murders... Yadda, Yadda, Yadda!'   "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but cheesy","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie could've been a great slasher movie. But unfortunately, some of the acting brought this movie down. The heroine could've at least acted like she had emotion. Tara Reid, a good actress (this movie an exception), just acted like an old 80s killer-chasing-the-bimbo bimbo. But this movie does have intriguing story, and its a entertaining movie. Just dont rent the sequel, I was very miserable watching that piece of crap. "},{"Title":"Suspensfull","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legends would have to be one of my favorite movies.  The plot is not very deep, but you have to pay attention if you want to try and figure out who the Urban Legends killer is.Some of the acting was a little poor, but still a good cast was picked out.  The actors/actresses played their parts very well.Though Urban Legends is a thriller, a little comedy was thrown into it. That made the movie a lot more enjoyable, for the comedic parts helped you relax....for at least a little while.Over all, Urban Legends is a fun and exciting movie to watch, especially late at night when you're by yourself ;) "},{"Title":"an alright film","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  An average horror film,i only wanted to watch it in the first place to see Micheal Rosenbaum. Him and josh jackson in my opinion were the only good actors and they should of been the two leading charactors. Rebecca Gayheart was quite funny when you found out she was the killer, but the rest of her performance was very weak. The plot of killing people in the style of Urban Legends was clever and if they had payed more attentions to the killing and less to the screaming bad actors the film would have been better. I would give it a 7 out of 10 and micheal Rosenbaum and Josh Jackson both 10 out of ten. "},{"Title":"Not Another Teen Horror!!!!!!!.","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Not another teen horror I hear you cry. Well, on the surface it would seem so but there are a few things that are worth noting about this movie.The basic idea is pretty good for starters. A crazed killer stalks his victims on a college campus and dispenses with them using the same M.O. as various urban legends.The plot sets this film apart from some of the other teen shockers released in the nineties, but it fails to use it to it's advantage.Rule number one when making a horror film is to make it scary. If you don't get this right then there isn't really any point in making the film in the first place. Genuine scares are few and far between in the film and so falls short of the standards set by movies like Scream.Apart from this there are a few other shortfalls. The dialogue is pretty heavy at times and the acting is very weak even for this kind of flick.One thing that can be said for the picture is that it doesn't take itself too seriously and doesn't try to be anything more than a Killer on Campus film.In the end, however Urban Legend turns out to be pretty weak stuff. "}{"Title":"Did you ever hear the one about that horrible, horrible movie?","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  (Spoilers, but because this film is so predictable there really aren't any real spoilers)Urban Legend is a stupid film that is an embarresment to everyone who was in it or had any part to do with it. It tries to pull of satirical jokes like Scream but fails misarebly. There is no real acting has no suspense. It just has a lot of blood and plot holes. So many things don't make sense like how if the killer wears a parka why arent parkas banned on campus and many other messed up things. Also the killer is SPOILER!!!!! the best friend (Rebecca Gay Heart)and you have absuloutly no way of figuring that out. It is bad and just plain dumb. Urban Legend is a pathetic excuse for a movie. It made me want to puke! "},{"Title":"Scream clone doesn't deliver (possible spoiler)","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend is little more than a byproduct of the Scream era, a copycat movie destined to fade into obscurity in a few years. The basic premise is actually fairly interesting a serial killer disposes of victims based upon urban myths and legends. However, the script itself is ponderous, obvious, and stupid. While slickly photographed, here are few thrills to be found, and it just gets dumber until it falls apart at the end.The acting is actually pretty decent given the circumstances. Alicia Witt is gorgeous and does a good job with what she has to work with. Jared Leto, the best member of the cast, has since moved on to bigger and better things. Robert Englund is good as a Wes Craven lookalike, and Loretta Devine injects the film with a much needed spark as a Pam Grier wannabe. Many have put down Rebecca Gayheart for the turn her role takes, but don't blame her, blame screenwriter Silvio Horta. Finally, Brad Dourif has an amusing cameo as a stuttering gas station attendant.However, despite their best efforts, the film never rises above its material. It's just another tired exercise. I had actually harbored a vain hope of liking it, but alas, it was not meant to be.*1/2 (out of ****)Released by Pheonix Pictures through TriStar Pictures "},{"Title":"Trash","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  URBAN LEGEND is juiced with creativity, but somehow it lacked originality because it followed SCREAM's footsteps. The only notable thing in this movie is the appearance of Robert Englund (my favorite actor as Freddy Kreuger), watch out for his excellent performance. Other than the appearance of Robert Englund, this movie is trash. The teenagers acting is too scream-ish and their acting basically tells us they're trying to be another SCREAM movie. The body counts, sigh, presented in a modern teeny horror style picture blended with sound effects and nothing goes on-screen but whiteflashes or quick glimpses. Forget this junk, it may only be worth watching once, or as I have seen, people sighing as the movie goes on and leaving the theaters.5/10   -3 for SCREAM like acting (SCREAM would've been good if there weren't followers adapting its style and recreating another movie that made it look bad) -2 for using the modern teeny horror way to present bodycounts -2 for time derived dialogue (The murderer's lines towards the protagonist near the end of the movie were said in the way Billy from SCREAM had presented his motive) +1 for sound effects and audio mixing +1 for Robert Englunds excellent performance "},{"Title":"Legends Alive!","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  One of the best horror fims ever. My friends told me to go see this movie. I'm glad they did. It was so much fun. It had chills and a few laughs. From start to finish, the movie doesn't stop for anything. It's just best to hold on. And the killer himself/herself was so unexpected. Plus it had a good cast and a cool ending. It's not like most horror films because it focuses on the Urban Legend stories and not just a college killer. GO SEE IT! GRADEA* "},{"Title":"Only Watched it for Robert Englund, dissapointing movie, robert was good though.","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The only reason I even rented the movie is because Robert Englund was in it. Also many of my peers loved the movie and were scared by it, so I decided to give it a try. Not much to talk about, I was dissapointed by the movie and although Robert acted the part well, the other actors weren't much to watch. "},{"Title":"Great Scary Movie","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This was such a good movie.  I don't know why it got such bad reviews.  I didn't think it was much like the movie Scream but like the movie Campfire Stories(like the guy with the hook for hand and the legend about the boyfriend hanging from a tree while he's scratching at the car roof trying to get free).  I didn't know who the killer was until the last part of the movie it was so great and unpredictable.  And the first part with the girl in the car and the gas station attendent...wonderful.  Best part of the movie.  I just wish Danielle Harris(from Halloween 4 &5) had a bigger part.   She is such a great young actress.  And lest not forget about the one and only Robert Englund as the teacher(Mikie Likes It) which was exactly done.  I thought he was the killer at first until he popped up dead.  I love horror movies and would love to hear from other horror movie fanatics. 9 stars for this movie(I didn't care for the ending when they are sitting on the couch and talking about what happened)  "},{"Title":"Good Idea, Lousy Execution","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend could've had slasher classic written all over it if it could have remained good throughout it's entire running time. It starts on the right note but by the first half of the film is over it becomes just an average slasher film and by the end it becomes a crappy afterthought.The premise is actually quite engaging, very reminiscent of Scream. At Pendleton University someone is killing their victims based on urban legends. The mystery begins when our heroine begins to be stalked by the mysterious killer.What I LikedI loved the use of the university. It creates an interesting back-drop for all the events that take place during the film. It was utilized better in this film than it was in Scream 2.i loved, loved, loved the opening scene. The acting was a bit tepid but the final moments of this scene are really intense. Someone's in the back seat. What an intense conclusion to the scene.The urban legends used in the film are pretty cool. The urban legend deaths are pretty intense and stay true to their fictional counterparts.some of the characters, while under-developed, were still pretty fun and i felt certain members of the cast had a lot of energy and they made their under-written characters fairly interesting.I liked the part when Josh Jackson gets in the car and the theme od Dawson's Creek comes on. That was pretty funny.What I didn't likeAlicia Witt made for a pretty boring heroine. she wasn't engaging at all and it made me care less and less about the fate of her character.The whole second half of this film is filled with such ludicrous happenings that it's just plain sad. The first half was was almost perfect yet the entire film is brought down by the lousy second half.SPOILERThe ending just plain sucked. I had no problem with the killer being a girl but my god could they find a better actress? Rebecca Gayheart is just a joke in her last few scenes. This out the nail in the coffin of this film because it was just plain dumb.END SPOILERLike i did with I Know What You Did Last Summer i only recommend this film for extreme slasher/horror buffs. the first half of the film is quite engaging yet the second half is a cross between mindless fun and utter crap.5.5/10 "},{"Title":"average","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  well, compared to some other teenie horror flicks (thinking about the annoying 'i know what you did last summer' or 'disturbing behavior' movies) this nearly seems good. in fact, if you don't take it too serious it's nice entertainment. i liked the story with all this urban legends - gives it some kind of creativity, though the ending is just lame, the typical stuff. so it's not 'scream' but it's still on the good side of teen-horror. i'd give it 7 points out of 10. "},{"Title":"A good premise and a generally creepy atmosphere. Underrated.","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  URBAN LEGEND (1998) Rating 7/10I'll say one thing before I start this review &#150; the critics for magazines, websites and whatever else are pretty unfair on this movie. They really don't give many acceptable reasons as to why they dislike the movie. I think people like Roger Ebert and stuff look at the film and say &#150; `Ohh look! It's another teen slasher! Let's give it ¼ soley on the basis of its genre!' Well, I have to disagree and rate Urban Legend on a fair scale and be truthful to my own opinion of the film &#150; I liked it. The whole premise was very original, and although some scenes mildly copied from Scream, the whole idea was new and scary and had a good thing going for it. The script carried itself well and the suspense could've been built better but I felt tense at times in the movie. The performances weren't exactly brilliant, Alicia Witt and Jared Leto were good, and I liked the darkness of the girl who played Witt's sister. I also enjoyed who the killer turned out to be, that was a pretty clever turn! I didn't really like the motive but the actor played the part of the psycho excellently and I enjoyed the way the mystery was solved. The atmosphere of the movie was pretty plausible and I'll repeat I really, really loved the premise of the film. It was a really good, original turn in teen slasher filmmaking. Overall, I thought Urban Legend was an underrated film, and one that I find to be very enjoyable and even at times quite a valuable horror flick. Don't expect too much and I'm sure you'll like it!   "},{"Title":"Good 90's teen slasher","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It stars Alicia Witt, Jared Leto, Rebecca Gayheart, Tara Reid, Michael Rosenbaum, Joshua Jackson, Loretta Devine, Natasha Gregson Wagner, and Robert Englund.plot 2 girls, Natalie (Alicia Witt) and Michelle (Natasha Gregson Wagner) are driving down the road late at night. They decide to use an urban legend as a prank. The legend is that a gang in a car driving down the road turn off their headlights, then a car driving past them flashes their headlights to warn them, then, the gang turns around and chases the car flashing their headlights until the car goes off the road. They decide to do the same thing, only not kill him, just scare him. They turn off their headlights, a car drived by them flashing his headlights, so the girls turn around and flash their headlights, but he drives off the road and is killed. 2 years later Michelle is murdered in an urban legend inspired way. Natalie's college friends are wondering why she is acting so weirded out because they dont know she knew her. But each of Natalie's friends are murdered using and urban legend. Who could it be?This movie has a good plot, good acting, and ok gore. But it had some mistakes. Why would a girl be walking to an indoor pool with the same jacket that the killer has when it has warm weather outside?3 out of 4. "}{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When I watched this movie on video, I was completely amazed. I thought that Urban Legend would have been really stupid cos it would be like any other horror movie (Scream, I Know What You Did Last Summer) with the same plot and stupidity, but I was wrong. Urban Legend was a great thriller, and I really enjoyed it. I can watch Urban Legend a million times without getting bored! "},{"Title":"Did you hear about....","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Another SCREAM inspired slasher flick, but one of the better ones. I always wanted to see a slasher movie where the killer had something to do with Urban Legends. Candyman was the first (and the best) film to do it, but then came this underrated little pic and...STORY The weakest point of the film. There was some good dialogue and some bad. I can accept that. The problem is the plotholes. Like how could the killer get in the backseat? How did the killer know where Alicia Witt and Josh Jackson were going? How could the killer talk to Danielle Harris on the net when he/she was in her room? The script is dumb, but thankfully grim and full of funny moments. I honestly wasn't sure who the killer was the first time around (it was painfully obvious the second) but the ending was just a disappointment. As a matter of fact, the movie was great up until it took a huge nosedive when the killer was revealed. Simply terrible. Thankfully the movie moves at a good pace and never gets boring.ACTING I loved Alicia Witt in this movie. She gets some bad dialouge, but does both emotion and sarcasm very well. Not to mention that she's absolutely beautiful. I was pulling for her to survive. Rebecca Gayheart is funny at the end when she gets to cut lose, but gives a terrible performance that really dragged the flick down. Her expressions always made me laugh...that's not a good thing. Tara Reid does okay, but we could've used more of her. Joshua Jackson and Michael Rosembeum are funny as hell as the comedic frat boys. They really helped the movie. Brad Dourif, Robert Englund, and Danielle Harris all have great cameos. Did I mention that Danielle Harris is really REALLY HOT? Little Jamie Llyod is all grown up...DIRECTING Jamie Blanks made a fan out of me here and continued to do so with VALENTINE. He does everything with lots and lots of style. He even does well building some good suspense when the weak script allows it. He didn't pull off ANY of the jump scares though. I liked how his murders were often intense yet showed little to no blood. The openner and the bathroom scenes stand out. I think Blanks could be the next big thing if he finally gets the right script. Maybe he should try writing his next movie himself...MUSIC Rob Zombie, Stabbing Westward, loads of other great stuff. UL has no soundtrack but has some of the best tunes out of any modern horror film...thus far. The score was also great. Young really did good work.OTHER I hated the killer's costume. That really brought the movie down for me. If you're gonna make a movie about a killer in disquise, get a damn good disguise...oh yeah and the ending was really lame. Urban Legends was a good concept with some good material, blown to s**t by a really stupid ending. Only see this if you're in the mood for a simple slasher film and don't expect much in terms of story...Oh and there's no nudity here but Danielle Harris isn't fully clothed at one point...that's one of the movie's highestpoints..**1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"best movie ever","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  ********one spoiler*******This is one of my favorite movies ever, i even bought a copy i loved it so much, there was so much mystery, a great place to film,one hell of wicked and great cast and all the murders are based on urban legends. But the movie did have some of it`s down points like when when tara reid dies, i mean how could they kill someone that good looking but this movie kept me ON THE EDGE OF MY SEAT and is a MUST SEE "},{"Title":"A killer is killing off college kids using urban legends to as basis for all the killings.","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When I first heard about this film I thought it was going to be a supernatural kind of thing were urban legends were actually coming true. The idea of that sounded very cool to me, as I was quite sick of the teen slasher Scream clones at that point. So did we get the supernatural movie I was hoping for? Of course not. Sadly this film turned out to be just another teen slasher Scream clone, and a bad one at that. I was so disappointed that it was just another teen slasher the rating dropped two points in my mind just from that fact alone. They tried to make it a little different by giving the killer an urban legend theme to the killings but unfortunately it just boils down to the ever tired who done it teen thriller. We start off with a girl watching all her friends and people around her being killed off and we soon figure out the killer is pretty much just after her (sound familiar Scream fans?). We go through the whole list of the cast trying to figure out just who the killer is and why the person is killing people (still sound familiar Scream fans?). As I said this is just a badly done Scream clone.Acting wise it's ok at best. The main girl is not bad and Robert Englund (Freddy as we all know and love him for) is pretty good too. Sadly the other main person (the school news reporter) is really quite bad and very annoying. A lot of the other acting was pretty bad too but thankfully they were all in the background for the most part. You remember the little girl from the Halloween movies that Michael chased around? Well she's the gothic roommate here and also very annoying.When the end finally happens the killer isn't too hard to figure out and the reason this person is killing people is really rather stupid. And if they were going to make a movie about urban legends why didn't they use any of the good ones? To this day I can't believe they made a part two.  What scares me more is I heard rumors of a third part, if there really is a god he won't let this happen. If you are lucky enough to have not seen this movie go rent Scream again, it's pretty much the same. "},{"Title":"Good entertainment","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  So maybe this movie is just cashing in on the success of Scream and the following slasher movies, but I enjoyed this movie a lot.  The opening scene still freaks me out, and there's plenty of gore (perhaps a little too much) and good uses of popular urban legends.  **SPOILER**It covers everything from the man in the back seat, high beam initiation, and the kidney heist and even more that I hadn't heard of.  **END SPOILER** Although the final scenes were a little unbelievable, the killer had good motives to support the killings.  There are plenty of jump moments, although most of the time it's just a friend, not the killer.  All in all, it's not an Oscar contender, but it's plenty of fun.  Much better than the sequel, and pretty high up there with some of the other slasher movies, like Scream, Final Destination, and I Know What You Did Last Summer.I give this movie a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Slasher movie with a script","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legends is undoubtedly one of the best slasher movies of the nineties. It starts with a marvellous opening scene, and unfolds quite cleverly until the very end. I have seen a lot of films of this type, but I wasn't sure who the killer was until the very end.  Any movie of this type which suceeds in doing that deserves kudos in my book.     compare it to the Friday the 13th movies, which are basically Jason goes around and kills a lot of stupid teenagers plot, and you'll see how refreshing Urban Legends is, it actually has a well thought out script! of course it has cliches, but what are slasher movies without them, it's all part of the fun. The thing is it doesn't have TOO MANY cliches. It is better than I know what you did last summer, and comes really close to Scream. The direction deserves a word of praise, Jaimy Blanks first feature is extremely well done and stylish, he learned a lot from his mentor John Carpenter.The cast is uniformly good and believable, and it even has humor, as a self-concious modern flick should. It has minor flaws, but I won't be petty, considering what Horror buffs usually have to deal with, this is a treat.  "},{"Title":"Nastier, bloodier and frightening... not.","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Given that Alicia Witt is very smart, we can easily assume she'd know you can't run with a nasty cut in your side. Just as easily we can deduct that the torture scene was added to the movie script later, to make the movier nastier, bloodier and more frightening.At least that must have been the attempt because the movie is actually quite boring and even predictable. The concept was interesting though, so it could've been something. Anything better than this neither fish nor flesh. It's nice to see Danielle Harris again, but still, with Alicia Witt and Jared Leto in it this is a waste of talent. "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When I first rented this movie, I expected it to be pretty good, but it was more than good, it was brilliant! But, after watching the first scene, I started to enjoy the movie. As the movie goes on, you get more and more into it. It's kind of a mix of Scream and I Know What You did Last Summer. But, on top of it all, I thought the movie was great! It was creepy, scary,and sometimes funny! Alicia Witt and Jared Leto are great! This is one of the best! Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"An outstanding horror, thriller, comedy movie! My Favourite!!","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend is my favourite movie of all time! It is funny, scary, suspenseful and just plain GREAT! The acting is great, Alicia Witt is the unexpected main role, in which she does a great job! Jared Leto is good also as is Rebecca Gayheart, who has a great role which she sinks her teeth into! The storyline is amazing and imaginative! The killings are done in a very clever way, using Urban Legends common to us all! The direction is beautifully done by Jamie Blanks from my country, Australia. The soundtrack is eerie and suspenseful. The best part though is the end scenes. Where the killer is revealed is just brilliant! The motive, the acting. I loved every second! Many people have passed this off as just another scream rip-off but it isnt! It is definetly worth a look! !t is one of my favourite movies of all time and will be yours. "},{"Title":"A must-see for fans of new wave horror.","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I can't believe how underrated this film is!  Even the Wayans brothers didn't spoof it in SCARY MOVIE!  This is right up there with SCREAM and IKWYDLS in terms of 90s horror.  It has a twisting plot, beautiful people, just the right amount of blood and gore and a large budget.  The first time I saw it I didn't care for it that much, but I just couldn't stop thinking about it.  So, when it came out on video I ran out and rented and I ended up buying it when it became available.  Sure, you can say, how could the killer be that person?  it's physically impossible!, I agree, but the motive is totally realistic and plausible.  As for the actual killings?  They are some of the most imaginative ways I can think of.  There's no simple stabbings or shootings or slashings, these are all highly complicated, almost artistic in style, do-aways!  This is definitely a keeper for any fan of the teen slasher genre. "}{"Title":"All your favorite legends combined into one film","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend begins with a typical and often told legend that somehow relates to your neighbor's sister's boyfriend's friend, and a death is presumably expected within the first scene, due to the fact that, well, this is a horror movie. It's the legend about the young, naive woman with the unnoticed murderer lurking in the backseat of the car, but you've all heard that one. . .The cast contains all of the well-respected (by teens, of course) stars, few which are the product of popular TV shows centering around the lives of dazed and confused adolescents. Dawson Creek's Joshua Jackson is an ignorant and often innappropriate character, unlike his character in the show. His wittiness contributes to the overall comedic value of the film. However, his rude comments are made after another college student has been axed, and it's incredibly unrealistic that a person could be insensitive to that level, but his adorableness distracts viewers from the appalling qualities of his jokes.This film will appeal to all move-goers who have been dealt their share of urban legends. It contains the dog in the microwave legend, which proves quite disgusting, and probably the most common--- the bloody Mary legend. This does make several scenes in the movie quite predictable, but nonetheless, excitement and familiarity adds to the viewer's enjoyment. The stolen kidney legend is also featured, as well as the ridiculous rumor that pop rocks will cause explosion in your stomach when mixed with Coca-Cola.The conclusion isn't too predictable--it's almost surprising after your suspicions are laid on another mysterious character. It truly makes you wonder who to trust. . .Somehow, the movie manages to like all these legends together in an uncomplicated plot which contains stereotypical drunken college students who ignore all warnings from adults and just have fun. The students are forewarned multiple times of an event that occurred years before and left no survivors. Of course, they are cautioned on the anniversary of the deaths, fearing that it may occur again.I have seen this movie three or four times, and it doesn't become tiresome. The overall theme of urban legends is clever, and the movie is well-done.  "},{"Title":"Better than the typical horror film","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie wins points for originality and a good cast.  Better than most of a slew of teen horror films that came out around the same time, Urban Legend takes an unexplored premise, what if all those urban legends that you hear about, actually came true?, and makes it work.  Taking place at the fictional Pendelton University, it revolves around a group of friends who start being killed off one by one in ways which resemble urban legends.  Now it is up to Natalie (Witt) to find out who is doing this before she is next.  Loretta Devine is hilarious as the security guard obsessed with Pam Grier and Robert Englund is good in what amounts to little more than a cameo appearance.  But the best thing about this movie is the good acting and chemistry between the cast that actually makes you care about them before they die.  So in terms of horror movies, this one is near the top of the list.     "},{"Title":"Legendary","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Ever hear the Urban Legend about the maniac with an axe hiding in the back seat of your car? Or how about the one where you're hung from a tree with your hands scratching across the top of a car? Well someone at this campus has, and it's gonna be pretty messy...Made during the time when teen horror flicks ran through the Box Office faster than cheetahs in heat, it's good to know that at least a few were good enough to watch. Urban Legend is included in this category.Urban Legend tells the tale of a group of college friends who discover that a hooded person is using imaginative Urban Legends to kill them all. But no one knows who this hooded person is.One of the better teen horror flicks (for sure), Urban Legend stars Jared Leto and Alicia Witt (Cybill) in the main roles, plus Rebecca Gayheart (Beverly Hills, 90210), Tara Reid (American Pie, Cruel Intentions) and Dawson's Creek star Joshua Jackson.Urban Legend is a great-scripted slasher film, so if you're a fan of horror, be sure to get this one out, 'cos you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Good Storyline!!","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Not a bad slasher film, after Scream all these slasher films started coming out, but this was decent, the kills we're really good, but the ending was a big let down. The acting was half decent, the cast led by Alicia Witt, well I just wanna know why she was even cast as the main character, I just thought she should've played someone else or should've been cast at all cause her acting was terrible, and Rebecca Gayheart, well her acting was half decent, but at least she can say that she has been in Scream 2 and Urban Legend, Jared Leto wasn't too bad in this film, his acting as the Journalist on campus was a okay role for him, Joshua Jackson was probably the best character in the film, he was funny, had bleach blonde hair, had the goaty goin, but his role in the movie just didn't satisfy anyone I believe. It's a okay slasher film, doesnt compare to the legendary Scream 2.  "},{"Title":"my number 134 movie","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban legends is my number 134 movie. I like it, because it is a good horror film. I have not seen part II yet, but I would like to compare this to other horror films that are similar.1. Scream 1  Scream 1 is better, because it makes fun of itself and of the horror genre , and Urban Legends does not parody the horror genre, it is not fun at all.2. Scream 2+3  About as good as UL, although scream 2&3 have been ridiculous.3. I know what you did last summer  This one is better, because it is more frightening and more interesting.4.  I still know what you did last summer  a bit worse than UL, because ISKWYDLS is kinda ridiculous.All in all, I rated this movie 8/10, because it is a good horror film, but there are better ones ( Scream1, It, Sixth Sense, Blair Witch Project, I know what you did last summer, The Exorcist and maybe some that I have forgotten).If you have any questions, feel free to ask them. "},{"Title":"I honestly liked it.","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  After reading over some of the previous comments, I found out that most people really disliked this film. Yes, this is your typical teen slasher film, but the plot was kind of different. I liked *almost* everything about it.As I said, the plot and story circling around...urban legends was a different sort of dive from the other teen (horror) films. The writing wasn't terrific, wasn't awful. In fact, it was pretty enjoyable. The casting was all backwards. (I'll explain that in a minute.) The different murder scenes were a little off balance, and most of them I had a problem with.The opening scene with Michelle was interesting. I liked it for some reason and thought that the rest of the film would continue a good stream of killings. I don't sit there waiting for another character to be killed off but having everyone die the same death gets a little boring.~*Spoiler if you don't know who the killer is. I don't know why you wouldn't but I thought that I would announce this.~*The casting must have been done in about ten minutes. While I did enjoy the film overall, I did not enjoy the actors that were chosen to play the parts of a couple of college students. The cast could pass as college kids. I'll give them that much. The main part which I would consider Natalie, was played by a very funny actress. Not funny like ha ha, but funny because she definitely could not play the part as a poor little girl being chased by a killer. Most of the scenes that she was in where she tried to be serious, I couldn't help but laugh. Rebecca Gayheart's character, Brenda, was a little confusing. Here you have a girl that runs around like a princess but when it comes down to doing the dirty work, she seems to have no problem. I thought that it was very hard to buy that Gayheart's character could actually be the psycho who kills off a good amount of people. Jared Leto was okay but why was he listed at the top of the credits? He had a very small part. For the screen time that he was given, I could handle his character of Paul. The 'pretty boy' might want to stay away from so called horror films. The other main actors such as Michael Rosenbaum, Tara Reid and Joshua Jackson were pretty good as opposed to..say Alicia Witt. Rosenbaum had a very minor role but he probably did the best. He took what little he had and made it good to watch. Reid doesn't strike me as the radio host/whatever else she intended to be. I just want to note that her death was so over done. And Jackson who is always enjoyable to watch continued to add some funny lines, but again his death was ridiculously unbelievable. Anyone else who I overlooked must not have been that good if I can't even remember them. Cast partly well done, partly hilarious for trying to capture the roles that the actors could obviously not accomplish.While 'Urban Legend' had its share of good scenes, there was a number of bad things. One of them was the killer. Now we all now that it was the innocent looking little Brenda. Am I really supposed to believe that a girl like that was able to kill how many people, half if not more being guys who were easily twice her size? That part was a little too unrealistic but I'll try to accept it. The other thing was the murder/death scenes. Most of them were too drawn out. They tried to make a huge something out of something that wasn't even there. Most and probably the majority of the viewers of this movie found it as just another film with a group of youngsters who try to carry out the name of 'teen horrors.' I too had some problems with it but I would watch it again. "},{"Title":"Nice Idea, But...","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"         When this movie came out I immediately rushed to the video store to rent it out.  Initially I thought it was good...But...       The concept of using urban legends to hack people to death was original but thats where the originality ended.  The killers motive was extremely unsuprising and the slaying of the other people was asinine when they were not emotionally connected to the killer.  The acting was totally pathetic and therefore made the film rather unrealistic.  The setting of the movie was okay and the way the killer frames another person.  The ending was really predictable      Watch This Movie Only If You Are Really Bored! "},{"Title":"Absolutely Awful","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A big fat copy of 'Scream'.Laughable acting from Alicia Witt as Natalie. Joshua Jackson and Rebecca Gayheart redeemed the film with their performances but not enough to make the film watchable!To be fair to the film the twists in the plot were good but the characters and casting let it down. "},{"Title":"Good Beginning, Bad Middle, Good End","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  ***Spoilers in this Review***Urban Legend tells the story of a wacko killer who goes off killing people according to urban legends (go figure). It's actually not as bad as some other teen-horror-flicks of the 90's. The first scene was very well written, the acting was not bad at all (except when she's running out of the gas station with that cliche scream). From then on the middle was not that good, it was like any other teen-horror-flick, though I did enjoy Sasha and her callers (especially the one who didn't spit it out). I liked how they got us all wound-up for the ending, each time leading us to believe some one else was the killer. But then they had to kill the real killer one zillion times. And as we find out falling out a window and into a lake and getting shot still didn't kill her. But the last scene was quite good, they ended it very well, of course they intended for a sequel (which was later made). All in all it's not that bad, but it will be forgotten in ten years time.   "},{"Title":"So-so","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The atmosphere of Urban Legend is very dark and there are hints of a past crime committed, which has to do with recent attacks on college students. A girl is decapitated with an axe, a guy is force fed Drano, as well as several other weird deaths. Heroine Natalie is whiny and annoying, going through the whole movie weeping and moping around. As this movie went on, it got a little better, and the twist definitely provided a jolt and came out of nowhere. So, it's up to you. This isn't great, but it isn't that bad. I'd rather watch this again that Scream.  "}{"Title":"Almost a solid thriller.","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It would be unfair of me to think of Urban Legend as another weak knockoff of  the three Scream films, which were good and somewhat over-the-top.Urban Legend is a somewhat solid and interesting thriller about an ax-wielding murderer who uses urban legends to silence the unsuspecting victims at a New England college campus.  Is it engaging and did it scare me?  At certain times, yes and no.The film has assembled a very solid cast, that I'll admit.  Alicia Witt and Jared Leto are good among the young ones, but the good supporting performances by Robert Englund (as Wexler, a professor) and Loretta Devine (the cop who is a Pam Grier follower) make the film worth watching.  Brad Dourif appears unbilled as a studdering gas station attendent.Director Jamie Blanks makes a solid attempt in directing his first film, but he made a key mistake in mishandling the timing of when to scare the viewer.If you want to see a film that describes myths in a better way, try John Frankenheimer's Ronin.        "},{"Title":"I don't care what you did last summer!- i screamed.","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Take the script for Scream and the script for I know what you did last summer., put them in a blender and turn it on for some minutes, then let a hypnotist convince you that you are Dario Argento and finally fill your head with a large amount of LSD so you lose all your critical and logical thinking, and your brain leaves the room and flies away to some distant planet. When you have done all this you can start to make a movie from the content in the blender. When you wakes up you will find that the movie you made is Urban legends- a scary movie who are only scary on that planet your brain was on.  Urban legends are a rare collection of things you seen in better movies, with scary scenes who falls dead on the floor, and a big plot twist that anybody who not are blind, deaf or stupid beyond help, can see coming light years away. The scene in the end when Rebecca Gayhart goes nuts, stops her non acting routine and turns on the overacting overdrive could be used in acting classes all over the world as an extreme example on what a case of severe overacting looks like. A last thing- is it possible that a ordinary person who has been shot two times, has fallen from the second floor, has gone head first trough a windshield on a car and has fallen from a very high bridge down in a river, has any chance to survive and that without any kind of medical attention? "},{"Title":"Better you tell me no stories...","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Yesterday was Halloween! I wanted to watch a movie to put me in the right mood for it. I´ve chosen Urban legend  - and it worked! I agree with the people who say  this isn´t something like Scream. Okay, it´s still a slasher movie, but the urban legends, the ferry  tales which nobody believes in, gave this movie a  little bit of an X-files-like  mystic-touch. That  made the plot a little more original, although  I noticed a few holes in it. Besides I really líked Christopher Young´s  score, it gave the movie a  fantastic atmosphere, especially in the melodramatic moments. Altogether this was a real nice and creepy Halloween night!  "},{"Title":"Did you hear the one about.....","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'm going to make this clear  I don't enjoy most slasher movies.  I hardly tolerate them at all.  Now that I've said that, Urban Legend is a very good movie.  It has everything most slashers lack a strong cast and talented directing.  If nothing else, UL is a promising directorial debut (Jamie Blanks).  But it's more than that, it's a good post-Scream horror movie (Have you heard that one?).  The plot involves a demented serial killer (is there any other kind?) stalking college students according to urban legends.  The opening scene was impossibly creepy and makes impeccable use of the song Total Eclipse of the Heart.  Speaking of movie murders, did these feel different to you?  To me they seem more integral to the plot than simply gutting the poor soul.  It seemed like whoever came up with these murders focused more on the surrounding circumstances as opposed to the modus operandi. (Extremely Minor Spoiler.) The memorable circumstances include a cat and mouse game in a radio stattion and a lonely car ride home. I might as well add I cared about most of the characters who were being murdered on screen.   Sure the killer dresses up like Kenny from South Park, but it's nowhere near as bad as the Gorton's Fisherman.  Overall, a good movie that is very enjoyable.  Even if you don't like seeing people murdered for your enjoyment.      "},{"Title":"Urban Legend 8.5 out of 10","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend tells the story about Natalie (Alicia Witt) who suspects that the mysterious killings that are happening in the college that she is studying are based on urban legends but her friends thinks that the deaths are pure coincidences. While Natalie inestigates on about hoe they are connected and cathch the killer before she becomes an urban legend.Urban Legend was a clever, scary and funny slasher thriller. This one was a VERY decent horror movie. Alicia Witt, Rebecca Gayheart and Jared Leto made a decent acting. The deaths were cool including a cool death of the blonde girl Sasha (Tara Reid).I give the movie 8.5 out of 10. I highly recommend this one! "},{"Title":"Please stop comparing this to Scream folks...","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have read a lot of comments on here comparing this movie to Scream. Sure, it has the same set up for all the teen slashers that have come up, guy/girl in a weird costume killing screaming college students. No matter how many new horror movies they are going to make, it's all going to follow this same setup. The plot is original, it's in no way like Scream. A killer  wearing a fur lined parka (ok, the costume is a bit blaah) starts knocking off students at Pendleton University based on urban legends. The murders focus around Natalie Simon (Alicia Witt) who tries to figure out why she is being stalked. Now if someone can tell me all the similarities between Scream and this movie based on the plot, I would love to know. The murders in this are creative, using legends such as The Murderer in the Backseat, the Hanging Boyfriend and the Slasher Under the Car, stuff we have heard about from a friend that heard from a friend, etc. There are some momentary jumpy parts, and a good chase scene in a radio station, and how can anyone NOT like that ending? The acting in this is good for the people involved, Alicia Witt sometimes stumbles into stone, but for the most part she is pretty good. Also, Tara Reid and Rebecca Gayheart are great, and yes, Gayheart definitely does overact but that is what makes her awesome, especially at the end. Rest of the cast is so so, although Loretta Divine is funny and we do care about her as the Chief of Security Reese (She also has one of the funniest lines in the film). Featured also is Robert Englund (Freddy Krueger himself) as a professor of folklore and John Neville (from The X-Files) as Dean Adams.Urban Legend doesn't rank up there with The Exorcist, A Nightmare On Elm Street, and other classics, and yes, it does have it's fair share of dumb moments (who exactly would wear a parka to a swimming pool?!) but it does have it's fair share of scares and jumps and suspense, and it is better than some of the other trash that has come out in the past 10 years (with the exception of Candyman of course!). Rent it, don't compare it, and have a good time watching it.  "},{"Title":"Alicia Witt saves the money","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This  is another daughter of the scream maniac. Even though the movie is predictable and not very realistic, it scared me. It's a scary movie, and as a scary movie  works well. The director is very good to help this movie from a silly script. However he is not a actor director; despite the fact that elder actors do well their jobs (specially Neville), most of the young cast is horrible. From the insupportable Joshua Jackson with a horrible hair to Jared Letto (I've only see him acting well in G.I.). Only the leading roles were well. Rebecca Geyrheart  overacts, but her performance is the second best of the young cast. The best performance come from the sensible Alicia Witt, she has a wonderful talent and bright and paled face that the director know how to employ it successful.  Probably Witt is the best heroine of this late ninety trash movies. She is much better actress than Neve Campbell, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Drew Barrymore and Jennifer Love Hewitt. This red hair actress is the Glenda Jackson of the scary movies.Becauser her performance this is a movie that I can recommend. "},{"Title":"Scream wanna-be (mini-spoiler)","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I can't help but feel that Urban Legend is a Scream imitator. We have an interesting cast, some cool secrets learned, some interesting history, etc. What makes this feel like a Scream imitator is the use of suspense, slasher-chasing-victim scenes and the use of unpredictability among the cast.Suspense is good but not as many as I hoped. The slasher-chasing-victim scenes have expression but felt predictable. As for the use of unpredictability, I admit I kept on guessing who's the guilty one, ala Scream. The revelation of the guilty one caught me by surprise.The story of the film feels kinda weak when compared to Scream, but then again it's not the priority here. Alicia Witt is the only good performer here, and it's great that she's the lead. While nowhere as expressive or emotional as Scream's Sydney Prescott, Alicia fits well as Natalie, who at times, does not feel right as a victim. Robert Englund of Nightmare on Elm Street-fame is here, but his exposure is way too short.People who edited this film deserve a huge slap in the face. There was a part when the guilty one stabbed Natalie on her tummy with a small surgical knife, and it bled a good amount. Shortly after that scene, Natalie got untied, stood up and went on with the story...if you looked carefully, she does not look and does not feel any pain or injury. She should be getting weaker, wanting to go to the nearest medical center, holding her tummy more to stop bleeding, and there should be more blood from her!Overall, Urban Legend is a below-average film as it tried to ride on Scream's success. While this film is no match for any Scream movie, I find this film better than I Know What You Did Last Summer.  "},{"Title":"Finally a really positive review","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have no idea why almost all of the reviews for the film are negative here. Almost all of the comments that apply to Urban Legend can be applied to Scream but very few people criticise the latter but everyone seems to criticise the former. Don't get me wrong.. I was a big fan of Scream because it was simply entertainment - and good entertainment at that. There was no reason to analyse the script to bits or point out numerous things wrong with the plot. If you were to do that, I Know What you Did Last Summer would simply drown before it even had a chance, yet it was successful too simply because in both those movies, you could forget all these things and enjoy slash after slash. Who cares if it was feasible or not - they arn't the type of movies that need to be analysed since they often poke fun at themselves too; its all part of the ride. The plot twists in the film are definitely good but if you are going to watch the flick thinking its going to be a second rate Scream, then you're probably not going to give it much of a chance anyway.At the end of the day one word sums up what Urban Legend does - entertain, and IMHO, does it of course better than Last Summer, but also Scream. People will say that Urban Legend pretends to be horror while Scream was simply humerous but the introduction of Scream was far too horrific to be the start of a comic-horror flick; it also has an identiy crisis and its ending was far more ludicrous that Urban Legend's ending by far.At the end of the day, if Scream hadn't existed, most of these comments wouldn't be here in my opinion since this would have been its replacement. Although it loses marks for originiality since it was basically another 'Scream' movie, it seems to take everything from Scream and make it much better so whats wrong with that?Two thumbs up here  lets hope the second movie doesn't disappoint. "},{"Title":"Woah","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The film that is really a rip off of the other modern horror films.What was upsetting was the fact that this film had the chance of being great.The only reason I saw this film was because I'm a horror fan and I try to see as many horrors as I can which unfortunately leads to films like 'Urban Legends.' A film I will probably not watch again unless I'm really desperate.Now I liked scream, but then came I know and now this. I miss the good old 80s and 70s slasher.This film is obvious to be enjoyed by teens, with some of the cast and for the horror fans it includes Robert Englund and Brad Dourif. "}{"Title":"Cooler than most of the Scream inspired teen slashers","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Great premise for a horror film, I'm surprised nobody's done this before! (And if they have, then I'm surprised I've never heard of it...)A killer stalks a college campus, murdering students in ways based on deadly urban legends. Rebecca Gayheart's performance is quite good, especially when she takes an intense turn near the finale. Loretta Divine is charming as the security guard whom says a silent prayer to  Pam Grier before she confronts danger. And Robert Englund is always a welcome addition to any horror movie's cast. The performance of our heroine, Alicia Witt, is a little stale, but the action more than makes up for that. The ending is of the type that makes you sit upright and say OHHHHH SO THAT'S WHY!!! Then, there's a twist. And it gets resolved. And then ANOTHER twist, then that gets resolved. And just when you are preparing yourself for the ending credits, THERE'S ONE LAST TWIST, only this one does NOT get resolved.A sequel is reportedly in the works, but this movie would stand on it's own whether or not it becomes the latest sequel sprouting franchise.And always remember... don't drink Pepsi after eating pop rocks, your stomach will explode! "},{"Title":"I Know What You Did Last Summer's Knock Off","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend was one of those films that were released in 1997-1998, two years that were crucial to the comeback of horror movies. I Know What You Did Last Summer made a lot of money for Columbia Pictures, so this film Urban Legend was inevitable. Urban Legend takes place on a campus, where teenagers are being brutally killed in extremely cruel ways, and the murderer seems to kill people according to the urban legends, stories that are told to us by friends and parents.SPOILERS AHEADThe Acting pretty much terrible. Jared Letto, in his first big role in a motion picture, does a fairly ordinary job, and he doesn't have the charm to carry the movie. Alicia Witt was boring, and we didn't get to like her, nor care. Rebecca Gayheart is terrible as the psycho killer, in the end of the film her character shows to Alicia Witt why she is blowing away her teen friends. Gayheart, instead of suggesting danger, makes you laugh out loud, she exaggerates a lot and gives a terrible performance.The only good acting came from Tara Reid, sweet and outstanding, why she didn't get the main part of the film is beyond me.Robert Englund, of Freddy Krueger's fame, makes a cool cameo, Brad Dourif also shines in a small part.The Story this is almost a good point of the film. You really don't get to discover who is the crazy bastard killing the teens until the last ten minutes. But it has a lot of plot roles, illogical sequences and boring parts.However, the beginning of the film is great, and the end, even with Gayheart's bad acting, is also great.The Suspense well, this is a fairly poor movie when it comes to heart and suspense. It didn't have the same appeal of I Know What You Did Last Summer or Scream, because you really know when something is going to happen.The only sequences that bring chills are the beginning and the ending.The Violence extreme violence. A lot of blood and guts, but if you want to see something really grotesque and violent, check Hellbound Hellraiser 2 out!In the end, what you get from this film is a mediocre entertainment. It had many chances to become an excellent thriller, but bad acting and bad director turned this into a complete mess. Two great scenes can't save the whole movie.If you want to see really GREAT horror films, you should watch Hellbound Hellraiser 2, Deadly Friend and The Hills Have Eyes.  "},{"Title":"What is everyone complaining about?","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'm doing a group assignment at school about (gasp!) death and everyone said that we should use Urban Legend as an example of cold-blooded murder. Well, i was the only one who hadn't seen it so I rented it out.  I wanted to see it when it first came out cos Josh Jackson was in it (hey! I was young!) but I wasn't old enough yet.  Anyhow, I don't know what everyone is complaining about!  Just about all the user comments I've read are bad!I thought the movie was pretty good!  It didn't scare me much (although there were a few jumps in there) but I enjoyed it none the less.Alicia Witt was very good.  I haven't seen her in any other shows or movies so this was a good first impression.Jared Leto I had never heard of. But why didn't anyone tell me what a looker he was! Yum!  Of course his acting was good too...Good old Josh looked pretty yummy as a blonde and he really fit the campus prankster character.SPOILER!! Rebecca Gayheart was really good.  I actually had no idea that it was her.... and she looked really evil when she was holding poor natalie hostage. END SPOILER!So, in conclusion (ugh!)... I thought the movie was cleverly done and I really enjoyed the whole Urban Legend concept. Except I'm a bit worried about the sequel starring Joey Lawrence.... Oh well, I'll have to wait and see....9/10!!!  definitely!  bravo! "},{"Title":"Cheesy and predictable but enjoyable none-the-less","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I've noticed this film has had a lot of stick from many people on this site. Although I agree with nearly all of their points, this film is still enjoyable, and definitely not a waste of time watching it.This movie had no chance of gaining any credibility among watchers, mainly because of the fact it was released after hugely popular 90s horror films Scream and I Know. Saying that though, everything about this film is fun.  Its not scary, I dont think its supposed to be.  Its average fare slasher material, and yes, the plot twists are laughable and there are certain loose-ends untied, but the young stars and starlets give camped up  perfomances, pasted on a backdrop of imaginative gore sequences.  Watch this film for the Dean's death alone, its hilarious. Its not original, but its yet another worthy rung in the horror revival ladder. I give it a safe 6 / 10  "},{"Title":"It was a good premise...","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ...but that was about it.  Good idea for the story, however poorly executed. Only fun I got out of it was recognizing two actors who have been in X-Files episodes (Brad Dourif and...oh, I forget his name, but he played the dean in this movie) and subsequently commenting upon this as the film progressed.  One last thing--the rest of the movie might've been an Oscar contender compared to that CRAP ending!   "},{"Title":"Pretty bad Scream imitator!","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The '90s was an often dull decade for the horror genre. Scream was entertaining, but not as classic as Friday the 13th, A Nightmare On Elm Street or Halloween, and it started a teeny-bopper rage of horror films that were just AWFUL! Urban Legend is the worst one. Anything interesting in the film leads to an ending that totally reminds us of the Scream films. The only comforts in the film are homages to horror icons and the appearances of Robert Englund (Freddy) and Brad Dourif (voice of Chucky.)  "},{"Title":"Serial Killer on the loose","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I grade this movie as B-class. Much more better than other scary movie. Lots of fun,action and horror. Well written story and it can be expanded to make it more interesting. Lots of the Stars are at their early age and can be say very good in their act. Really a must see movie for every scary movie fans "},{"Title":"An okay film, but little else","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The film has got a lot going for it. A neat premise and an excellent opening scene with a superb cameo by the great Brad Dourif, but then it just morphs into run-of-the-mill stalker/slasher mode. And to top it all off, the killer/killers is/are very easy to spot. But it has got a couple of really good scenes, but it's not exciting and entertaining enough to be scary, which keeps it from being a good horror film. Don't get me wrong, it's not a bad film by any means, it's well shot and paced, but the acting from basically everyone but Brad Dourif leaves much to be desired. It's okay midnight entertainment when one has little else to do, just don't expect anything from it, and you'll probably be mildly entertained. "},{"Title":"Rebecca saves the day!!","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  What can you say about Urban Legend...  I liked all that story with the legends, passing from mouth to mouth, turning into the real thing. As an idea, its pretty spooky. I liked the way legends were executed, especially that aren't you glad you didn't turn on the lights?. That was my favorite. I also liked Rebecca Gayheart, with that -don't-think-i-am-not-psycho-enough-to-kill-you- look. She really looked great in her role. What i didn't like, was the fact that she survived, had new friends, and the film did not have a clear ending. Had the producers decide to make a #2? Who knows... Many say that the script was not that great. OK, I admit it. Many say it wasn't scary. Not THAT scary, but you jump off your seat every now and then. I'd say 7 out of 10 (just because i loved the aren't you glad scene, and Rebecca). "},{"Title":"Looked similar?","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This was not a very bad movie. It would be an original idea if it wouldn't try to copy Scream and I know what you did last summer. It took the main idea (urban legends-the man with the hook) from I Know and the direction and the script reminded us of Scream. Not very scary neither gory but mysterious. You will never find out who the killer is till the end. You will get surprised but it won't be a good surprise. Silly end (the director wanted us to understand that is going to be a sequel, but as I see the sequel has nothing to do with this movie, actually that's good because we will see a new idea based on urban legends. After all it might be as the movie I had thought of before I watch it. I got bored of Scream-type horror movies. I want something new and original with teens) 6/10   "}{"Title":"Very similiar to some other films around","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  On the front of the video box, it said that this film was from the makers of 'I know what you did last Summer.' Perhaps I should have known then.Okay, so the premise isn't that bad, considering the new market that has been found for teen slash films. It would seem that these films require some slashing, gratuitious references to sex and a spunky teenage cast, with at least one member from Dawsons Creek. After this we have film that the MTV generation will love and Urban Legend is just that. Formulaic droll, this film is so boring and predictable that it actually becomes quite comical. To summarise, Urban Legend is an insult to your intelligence. "},{"Title":"good but not that good","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend was an OK movie. It really didn't have to many scary scenes. The plot was very original but they could have made it better. I mean they could have made it scarier. The ending was good. I never expected the killer to be who it was. That sure surprised me. But over all I liked it. It wasn't the best teen slasher film. It was entertaining. I recommend this film to anyone who likes teen slasher films and likes urban legends. "},{"Title":"It really wasn't that bad","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, the movie wasn't original. But it wasn't half that bad the people say it is. It wasn't a horrible movie unlike the disappointing Bride Of Crucky (YUK!). It was a pretty decent horror flick. Don't expect anything good like Halloween and Scream. It not that good of a teen horror movie. But the movie is pretty watchable.I give this film 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"It just doesn't seem to stop...","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Here it is, the next film going for the Scream audience. Again the end product is a more or less poor attempt of making a movie with the quality of Scream. And again the film-makers tried to be original and again they failed for the most part.A killer that is imitating urban legends. Basically that's all the story is about. Nonetheless there are a few cool scenes (but I won't spoil them for you). The death scenes are sometimes inventive but can't make this film look any better. It is also weird at times. Suddenly all of the persons were wearing the same coat so that everyone could have been the killer (very original). And there is the final twenty or so minutes terrible. It starts off weird, then gets ridiculous and finally it is illogical. The actor/actress playing the killer did a poor job. Trying to act like a psychotic, freakish person he/she gets more and more ridiculous and I just couldn't help laughing at him/her. Then they were trying to be original (again this word) by showing one last surprise at the very end but even there they were unsuccessful.Another mistake is that nearly all the interesting (or at least not-so-boring) characters are being killed off in the first half of the film. The only highlight in this film is Robert Englund (whether he is killed or not you will find out when/if watching the film).But maybe I'm being a little hard. The film is still entertaining but the comedy elements are definitely better than the scenes that are supposed to scare you out of your Alicia wi(t)ts (hahaha, I'm so incredibly funny). If you can survive the rest then you will probably have a few laughs and two or three nice scenes.By the way Don't watch the trailer if you haven't seen the film yet. It would spoil the best joke.My rating 5/10 (Hopefully they don't think about shooting a sequel) "},{"Title":"Elm Street revisited.","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie demonstrates that college boys (& girls), a serial-killer & a good idea are not enough to make SCREAM. A good scriptwriter & a great director are also needed.The idea is good, but poorly developed, characters are lame (but perhaps for Joshua Jackson's) and Robert Englund is out of role. Movies like these bring the memory back to Elm Street. With nostalgia. "},{"Title":"An excuse to make another naff slasher movie","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have visions of a small group of low paid writers sitting in a Hollywood canteen somewhere contriving to come up with yet MORE variations on a theme - John Carpenter has a lot to answer for.  This one copies the usual line except that the ever so fascinating twist on this occasion is that the killings are linked to urban legends, thereby cleverly coming up with a reason not to even pretend to offer any originality.  Alicia Witt is quite good, other than that it's probably best to watch 'Halloween' again, or 'Terror Train' for that matter. To think I watched it on pay-per-view - what a goon. "},{"Title":"decent","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  urban legend is a halfway decent horror flick, somebody is bringing urban legends to life, like always check the backseat of your car and all that stuff, what this movie is a bunch of pretty faces getting gutted, and how can they kill Danielle Harris off, she was Jamie in Halloween 4 and 5. urban legend has a good plot but the screenplay was a bit weak, maybe if Kevin Williamson would have wrote it then it could have been a lot better. if you're are a fan of 90's horror then this is a must see, but if you're like me old school horror skip it then, when it comes down to 90's horror watch the scream trilogy instead of this or something else by Kevin Williamson, or the best thing to do is rent some old horror movies so you see how horror is truly meant to be. not a bad movie but just weak, the ending was silly when you find out who the killer is, some suspense and maybe a scare or two, i give it 5/10 "},{"Title":"Good premise, Bad Execution","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend could've had so much potential. it had a great premise about a killer who kills people using urban legends. it kinda had the scream vibe that could've really worked for this film. maybe they needed a Kevin Williamson because this film goes no where but down hill.Urban legend starts off good. this opening scene was probably the best scene in the movie. after that the film seems to become a by the numbers slasher film. we are then intoduced to our star Natalie, who is osme how connected to the person murdered in the opening scene. other characters are around such as brenda, natalie's friend, and paul, a cocky journalist. these chracters are totally not worth mentioning because they don't have any depth and they are just there to be stalked or killed.The acting is mediocre at best. Alicia witt is ok as Natalie, we do feel sorry for her a little but they needed a more stronger actress to carry the film. Rebecca gayheart is almost awful as brenda. every line she gives out is just bad. jared let isn't too good either. in fact he's done better in other films.I know it sounds like i think it's the worse movie ever. i don't. the film has some entertainment value and the opening scene itself is a reason to see the film, but the script is horrible and the acting isn't great. this is what prevents urban legend from becoming a good film. C- "},{"Title":"First of all....I really liked it.","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  First of all....I really liked it. Sure this film is just one more in the many fright flicks being produced today, but this one is based upon a very cool premise....Urban Legends. Whether you know it or not, you have all heard an urban legend, but you may have thought it to be real. Urban legends include the guy hiding in the backseat of a car ready to kill the driver, but a gas station attendant tries to alert the woman driver, but fails; the couple that parks and the boyfriend leaves the car for a moment only to be found later swinging from a tree limb above the car; that combining pop rocks and soda can cause you stomach to burst; or if you wake up in a tub of ice, you know your kidneys have been removed...those are all urban legends. This film takes a look at those and more but does it in a very creative way...a serial killer who bases the kills on urban legends. Has the director been successful at bringing these stories to life? Definitely yes. I found myself screaming out loud numerous times, but yet there are some comical overtones in the film also. The setting is a college campus that has a boarded up old building that is closed because of a terrible incident that took place there many years ago...no...it's not the C building. Bottom line if you fear ending up in a tub of ice, then check out this film for an even better chilling time.  "},{"Title":"Yet another teen slasher movie, but this one better than some","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is yet another teen slasher movie, one of the many to have come out recently. I don't think this one quite ranks up to the SCREAM movies, but I think it was better than the I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER movies.College student Natalie Simon, (Alicia Witt) mourning over the recent murder of an old friend, finds herself in great danger after a large number of students are being murdered. Each murder is performed in the style of an urban legend, which many of the kids know. Everyone is a suspect, including the best friend Brenda (Rebecca Gayheart), love interest Paul (Jared Leto) and friend/prankster Damon Brooks. (Joshua Jackson)The premise of this movie is fairly cool, but the rest of the movie is basic slasher-movie type stuff. It's pretty predictable too, as are most movies like this one. The acting is not especially great, but some of it is fair. Alicia Witt does a good job as the star of this movie. Rebecca Gayheart probably does the best acting job of all, especially at the end.Most all of the characters are boring and flat, aside from the main one. Many are simply there to get killed, and some that are more important are not as interesting. Still, this movie is better than I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER and probably worth a rent. "}{"Title":"The best of the Scream knock-offs","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Sure this movie is a Scream wannabe, but does that make it a bad movie necessarily? I don't think so. It has a very attractive and enjoyable cast of characters that get to be killed off in one cruel way after another. I loved the urban legends style of murder that the killer used. I don't think that it is a very realistic film in some aspects. Come on, how could the killer have physically done the crime (people who have seen the movie will get what I mean)? Still, I found this to be a fun movie. I really enjoyed myself in the movie theater when I saw it. I have heard there is a sequel in the works. I don't know how that will turn out, but who knows? If the sequel is as good as this one, then I will certainly like it. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend was a brilliant slasher movie. The plot was well developed and most of the deaths were good. It was sort of dirty, but also funny. It was really scary. It's horror is like a cross between Scream and I Know What You Did Last Summer. "},{"Title":"as stupid and pointless as they come","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  this movie is so ridiculous that i'm not even touching the mindnumbingly bad plot and will just focus on good and bad points.BAD POINTS1)Rebecca Gayheart doesn't get naked.2)did i mention the plot/script sucks?3)they have robert englund playing a NORMAL PERSON?4)the ending was so bad and contrived it had me laughing to tears5)every single character was a walking cliche in the slasher flick moldGOOD POINTS1)Rebeacca Gayheart could make a trash bag look sexy (she can't act though, but who cares about her acting.)2)a couple of cool kill scenes that were set up in a fairly inventive wayand that's about it.watch this along with I still know what you did last summer to really give yourself a migraine.rating3 "},{"Title":"Not a bad film","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I checked this out at a video store and enjoyed this. This film goes along with other typical horror films a young attractive cast, an ordinary plot, crazed killer, etc.  This made me like Jared Leto, Alicia Witt, et. al. more than expected.  Definitely worth the look for aficiendoes of urban legends or horror fans. "},{"Title":"great film I loved it","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  another great horror film , all the gorgeous teens get killed of one by one , has a good plot to it , and some great killing parts especially at the start unforgettable the petrol station scene, this is a good film , defiantly worth renting out. "},{"Title":"AVERAGE, 90's SLASHER FLICK!!","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A very interesting concept Urban legends was a great idea for a movie. A killer copying certain urban legends as his trademark is great. A must admit it wasn't a great movie but still I enjoyed it. A cast of young and upcoming stars with a great performance from Robert Englund. Some interesting murder scenes was fun and during the movie there was a who done it. In the end there is a twist to who the killer is and the ending gives the chance for sequel. Jamie Blanks directed well, acting was good at times, all up another 90's slasher flick with young teens running around getting sliced up. "},{"Title":"Bad,predictable but enjoyable slasher...for mindless teenagers.","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The first forty minutes(including chilling intro) were interesting but after that flick went downhill.Too many false scares,only a few real thrills and really god-awful ending.Gore is also here but not explicit and rather mild.There are some creative murders like decapitation in the car,death by hanging etc.I like this girl obsessed with sex and metal music(she was a room-mate of main lead Alicia Witt).It's a pity that she was killed so quickly.I can't remember her name.In conclusion,check this one out only in case if you want to see a little bit scary teeny trash.I give it 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Do we have to see again what we have already seen many times?","Date":"23 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The main idea of Urban Legend was good - exactly talk about urban legends. However, with a TERRIBLE, RIDICULOUS screenplay it turned on one of the worst horror films of the last years-nothing more than a worse rip-off of Scream, I Know What Did Last Summer and The Faculty.Well... Let's see if there is a good thing on it... Oh, yeah! The opening scene! I think that's why I gave it a 2 out of 10. But a single scene doesn't make a film good, specially if the screenplay looks to be written by a 10 year-old child.The acting is just depressing. Alicia Witt looks like a statue. Rebecca Gayheart looks to be in a mental institute. And when Tara Reid is on the screen we start to beg for the serial-killer the murder her.Comparing Urban Legend to Scream is not very different from comparing Showgirls and Shakespeare in Love. So that we can see that a horror film which is not written by Kevin Williamson is not something to trust in. "},{"Title":"Quit nice, but still...","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I think Urban Legend fits nicely into the line of American horror-movies made during the last couple of years, which has a story that takes place at either a high school or a college, and and always seems to have a bunch of good looking students being the main characters. (i.e Scream I and II and I Know What You Did Last Summer + the latters sequel.)Unfortunately, that's part of this movies' downfall. Because the story in Urban Legend is a little too similar to the stories in the films just mentioned. So, if this movie had been made before Scream was released, I'm sure it would have been a much bigger hit than what it became.But, like allready said, it is a good horror movie...So, it's somewhat of a shame that it leaves you with the impression that you've seen it all before. "},{"Title":"Almost Good","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This could have been a great movie. A serial killer terrorizes a campus using urban legends to take out his victims. But somehow in between the performances and the abundance of victims (way too many, even for a slasher film) the movie is wasted. Not a single performance sticks out, not a single scene is memorable. Might be an enjoyabe rental. Check it out if you're an avid horror fan. "}{"Title":"Not Very Clever, Only Fun","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  `Deadly Man on Campus' Urban Legend rated R, 1 hour 40 minutesThe cast of Urban Legend is proficient, but not excellent. Rebecca Gayheart of (movie) `Scream 2,' Alicia Witt of `Cybill,' Jared Leto of `My So Called Life,' Joshua Jackson of `Dawson's Creek,' and John Neville of `The X-Files' give satisfactory performances, but none dare to be anything more than mediocre.In the dramatic opening scene of the movie, a mysterious person in the backseat of the car beheads a college girl (Natasha Gregson Wagner). After many more college students and administrators are killed, it is later found out that the murderer at Pendleton University is mimicking the tales of commonly told Urban Legends. Excitement builds up as the audience anxiously awaits the moment in which the killer will finally be revealed.Brutal killings including heinous decapitation and deathly asphyxiation occur frequently throughout Urban Legend. One almost grows accustomed to the gruesome sight of a human cadaver. At one point in the movie, a college student `gets a call coming from inside the house.' `Scream' anyone? Of course after receiving the phone call, the young man within minutes dies an appalling death that should strike fear into the minds of any viewer.Believe it or not, on rare occasions, the audience is spared the display of what would have otherwise been a grotesque corpse.Urban Legend is a suspenseful movie that contains an ample amount of homicides, executed with a mild quantity of gore. The ending is rather absurd, yet somehow awfully entertaining, as the entire movie could be described. It is terrifying fun at the cost of a clever plot. Well, you can' t have it all.Unintelligent, and purely enjoyable, Urban Legend, directed by Jamie Blanks, also starring Robert Englund and Loretta Devine, secures itself a B.  "},{"Title":"Probably one of the worst horror films.","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film is just terrible. The acting is horrendous,and the characters terrible also.I do not recommend this film,partly because it seems not of a worthy horror film.The actors act so nonchalant it's not even funny.(ex.The girl sings along with a song while just getting attacked,Gayheart and Witt have a touching moment after getting attacked,no uomph is put into the feeling of seeing a dead body,nor is the saying.)Like I implied don't watch this idiotic film! "},{"Title":"Should have remained a myth","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend is exactly the type of cheaply structured, poorly acted horror film that started the downfall of the genre in the late 80's.   The plotline is that someone is killing students on a Northeastern college campus, by mimicing the murders in classic urban legends.The normally skilled Alicia Witt plays Natalie, a good girl with a slightly shaded past.  It seems that a couple years ago, a young man was accidentally killed while she and a friend played an urban legend prank.  She doesnt seem very interested in this role, and plays it as such.  Her fear is unbelieveable, and even her crying stinks of forced performance.Rebecca Gayheart continues to play ms. cute and cuddly.  Her character of Brenda also has a bit of a dark side, but to say any more would be foolish...The rest of the cast is either goofy or forgettable, with Joshua Jackson leading the way in both categories.  He is clearly out of his league in anything other than Dawson's Creek and even there he is outclassed by the rest of that cast. Tara Reid (from American Pie) plays a campus radio DJ whos main task seems to consist of wearing tight, very low cut tops, and unusually short skirts. Her show is also all about sex on campus, so we get the added thrill of her sexual advice...YAWWWNNNN.I think the reason most bad horror movies died out in the 80's was because that all the good holiday names were taken.  Well, I have one for UL....Thanksgiving.  This one's a real turkey, predictable, silly, and most of all...overstuffed1 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Classic story in the low budget horror genre.","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend is about all those stories that are meant to scare, but no one knows how they originated, or if they even ever happened.   I liked this flick, but it did leave a little to be desired.  I scored it a 6 out of 10.  Good stories, and yes, similar to Scream in the acting.  Nice appearance of Robert > Englund though, I have to say that he is the reason I rented the video. "},{"Title":"could of been better!!even scream was better than this!!","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie deals with Urban Legends. What is should of done is stick a couple (two or three) and made a story out that. The acting was a little stiff. It could of used a little more development of the people involved. The plot was a little slow at times. At least the movie has  a cool soundtrack !!The stars of the movie have been in better movies than this!I like  this  movie ,it just seemed at the time the studio was trying to cash in on all the money of the scream movies. If it was out before those movies ,came out it might of had a better chance!!maybe they will make a sequel and explain all the lose ends this pathetic slasher/horror movie has!! "},{"Title":"Scary","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  this movie is very scary, someone is recreating Urban Legends and killing off college students in the process. Natilie is finding that all her friends are being killed off like in a legend. they think its the professor who teaches the urban legend class (robert englund) and then they think is Damon. Its got a very interesting ending. watch you'll see what i mean "},{"Title":"Repeat!","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"   Its no wonder that modern teen slasher films are getting stick for being copies of other films when movies like these are made. Most of the characters have been swiped from Scream1.Tara Reid is a rip off of Rose McGowan2.Joshua Jackson is taken from Matthew Lillard3.Natasha Wagner is a remake of Drew Barrymore4.Alicia Witt is, of course, Neve Campbell5.Robert Englund is Henry Winkler. Maybe from looking at the comparisons I have made, you will come to notice how un original Urban Legend is. But, despite this, Urban Legend offers enough thrills to occupy the couple of hours of my life it takes up. Alicia Witt is very poor. I really hope that she wasn't looking for the same attention Neve Campbell received from Scream because she is going to be disappointed. Rebecca Gayheart is a very attractive, talented young actress who does well in this, despite the claustrophobia of her character. Jared Leto wasn't really given a chance to develop, but manages to do well in the small scenes he has. Tara Reid and Joshua Jackson are the great saviors. Their characters are both interesting, and well portrayed. Natasha Wagner and Brad Dourif provide the best scene however. Dourif is incredible as the stammering Gas Attendant who desperately tries to warn Wagner of the uninvited visitor in the back of her car. Although the characters are basically taken from Scream, the story of Urban Legend is brilliant. Jackson, Gayheart, Reid, Wagner and Dourif enjoy their scenes, whilst the others trail behind. Robert Englund puts up a lazy performance as the Urban Legend teacher, but still, I don't think that Urban Legend deserves the awful reviews it received from Empire and Total Film. Rating=3/5 "},{"Title":"Sub-URBAN LEGEND In It's Own Mind","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  URBAN LEGEND is neither.  It takes place in a bucolic suburban college campus and will never be a legendary horror film.  If you think URBAN LEGEND is not your usual teen scream flick - you're wrong!  Despite it's attempts to rise above the genre, it never manages to creep far above it's own mediocrity.  The first twenty minutes feature so many sudden shocks (complete with abrupt orchestra stings)that the viewer becomes numbed to surprises before the first bloody corpse hits the pavement.Bland performances all around by a cast that may be just cutting their teeth and obvious red-herrings in the form of creepy appearances by Robert Englund (Freddy Krueger) and Brad Dourff (CUCKOO'S NEST)only add insult to fatal injury.  Once the corpses out-number the characters you'll easily guess the campus cut-throat.  The Hollywood fade-out is yawningly predictable.  Overall, not the stuff that legends are made of.   "},{"Title":"the ultimate proof why one should leave horror movies to Williamson","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is just about the perfect example on how horror movies should not be made. It loses the grip on the audience during the very first minutes, and it does not manage to regain that grip during the rest of the movie.The problems are thesea) the plot is not interesting enough. Now, even if the basic idea of a serial killer with an 'urban legends-theme' causes    some mild suspense, the screenplay destroys it fully.b) the plot has several logical 'holes' that leaves a lot of loose ends; especially during the last 15 minutes.c) the actors are mediocre (in their best moments). The murderer is not convincingly played, and there really are no role characters worth noticing (or that are even remotely  interesting).- Altogether this is just a bad spinoff of the Scream movies, and I suggest you go see Scream I instead. (That is if you don't want to spend 1h40mins yawning).  "},{"Title":"A fun inventive slash-fest.","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  You can easily say it's a SCREAM rip-off a bunch of nice kids are getting murdered and the killer is probably one of them- so who is it?I loved SCREAM so a rip-off is not necessarily a bad thing if it's done well, while breaking new ground. It's very rare to have totally-origin movies.The new ground broken here is the Urban Legends. What a great premise! Why nobody ever thought about it before?The plot is not great, but the death scenes are shocking, inventive and funfunfun! Some points (especially the ending) are over the top, but it's still fun.A great popcorn horror movie. "}{"Title":"Not what you expect","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When I rented Urban Legend, I was expecting to view another tired, sad film from and already overflowing genre.I was surprised when I actually watched it!The film is based around an urban legend style serial killer who is concentrating on a group of six fresh faces at Pendleton College. The plot in this film is well thought out, logical and easy to follow. The characters are witty, smart and enjoy their own personal style and register. Special recognition to Alicia Witt, Rebecca Gayheart and Jared Leto who really performed well and made this film as good as it is.As with every good teen, slasher movie you would never guess who the killer is, and the last scenes are the best I have ever seen in a movie of this genreAn excellent movie  "},{"Title":"An excellent horror movie","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoyed Urban Legend.  Because of it, I am now a horror freak.  I think it wasn't meant to be truly scary, although for a teenager, I thought it was.  It was meant to be a good, popcorn-and-occasional-scream-or-cover-your-eyes-moments- type of movie.  I have seen it now four times (as of last night) and can't wait to see it again. "},{"Title":"A good horror film","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend doesn't stand out as a great horror film (as Scream does), but it does a great job of keeping you thrilled and entertained. There are some funny moments-- like when Damon (Josh Jackson) turns on the radio and hears Paula Cole's I Don't Wanna Wait, which is the Dawson's Creek theme song, and instinctively turns it off with dislike. Urban Legend does have some scary moments too, like the opening scene with Michelle Mancini (Natasha Gregson Wagner) at the gas station. Now whenever I hear Total Eclipse of the Heart I shudder and think of this movie.Sasha, played by Tara Reid (Cruel Intentions, American Pie) was a favorite character of mine. She seemed truly scared in the radio station. And Brenda's, played by Rebecca Gayheart (Jawbreaker, 90210) acting was just as good.The ending was surprising, and a little over the top, but I'd say Urban Legend is an overall good scary movie. "},{"Title":"Good suspense","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban legend is interesting in the premise and is a well made film. It's not a slasher film like Scream or I Still Know which is good but probably isn't as good as the two. Watch it though because it's fun. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good Movie","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, I admit that this isn't exactly Scream but it's still a pretty good movie.  I enjoyed watching some of my favorite UL's unfold on the screen before me. I'm not sure if Alicia Witt was a good choice for the lead, but the other characters did a great job.  Rebecca Gayheart shines throughout the whole movie, stealing every scene. "},{"Title":"One of the better slasher films","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A lot of criticism has been levelled at Urban Legend for cashing in on the teen horror craze.  While this is undoubtedly true, it is carried off with style. Unlike the passable I know what you did last summer and the dire I still know... Urban Legend has something a bit different.  It's a good idea and well-executed (I swear that no pun is intended) and Joshua Jackson, Alicia Witt and Rebecca Gayheart enjoy their roles.  I could have done without the presence of Jared Leto, but while Urban Legend isn't a masterwork it's more than just a cash-in. "},{"Title":"as good as scream...","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  ý just wanna say that ý reckon  this is one of the finest movies made over teenage slashing .ý mean after scream's profound success it was followed by lots of meaningless movies like ý know what u did last summer,scream 2.however ý was dissatisfied with all those movies because of being unable to find the taste scream gave to me.but urban legends was capable of creating a great affect on me.ý watched the whole movie with great excitement and sometimes fear. it gave me everything ý anticipated from the film.I claim that it is as good as scream . "},{"Title":"pretty good","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It was slow paced through till about half way when the action heated up and Urban Legend became a good movie. Pretty good acting but an annoying actress Alicia Witt ruined the movie. A good idea for a movie but it was a bit dark and slow to be of any real threat to Scream's status as one of the best horror movies ever made. If you like this movie watch Carrie, what an excellent movie that was. Carrie is undoubtedly the best horror movie of our time and we should be grateful it was ever made. Anyway, Urban Legend is a pretty good effort and makes for an enjoyable couple of hours, go get it on video. "},{"Title":"A Pretty Good Film.","Date":"22 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The movie really isn't bad but who am I to say.  The only modern horror film that I have seen recently was Scream and that was about three years ago.   I've heard that this has so many copy scenes but the feel that the story and the characters make me think of no connections during the viewing unless I was told to create an educational assignment of connections.  The acting was far from bad and it was really quite convincing.  The movie presented many ideas of Legends and was never boring or tiresome.  There was always the constant surprise and even though I an  not easily scared I can be Alarmed and this film has many jumpers  that made me tilt back.  The movie presented many teenage characters and the mystery of who was the killer was enchanting because there were so many choices--one being Robert Englund and a very creepy old janitor.  However,  the killer in the end is the one that I would never expect and this made the surprise all the more bizarre.  The killer's EXTREME CHANGE was very looney and I would never guess-only in the second viewing I realized some obvious clues. This movie is surpringly not graphically gory,  they do the majority of murders on the side which surprises me since this is an intended horror movie.  If you promise violence,   then give it and for some reason the movie had the chase but then the time of death was intentionally absent.  Why I'll never know. The movie is pretty good and the ending joke and scenery is surpringly vibraint and extremely unpredictable.   2 1/2 Stars--pretty good.  "},{"Title":"So much potential, so little acting...","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I find it a shame that a movie with a premise like this wasn't carried as far as it could go.  Perhaps the vision wasn't there, or the ideas that could make this movie a classic, but with this much potential, it's really too bad they only went 50% with the fear, thrillers, plot twists, etc. Poor acting, slow & predictable story, and did they really need to nuke the dog? Possibly the best part was the gas station attendant in the beginning. "}{"Title":"efficient is the least to say","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The idea is good and well used, the characters are quite moving, the action is unpredictable as should be. It is a real pleasure to fall in the pits displayed there on purpose.In a nutshell a good movie.  "},{"Title":"Slow 'Legend' has its moments","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Another Scream wannabe about a killer in a parka coat roaming around college campus doing in the cast one by one based on urban legends.  Starts off really slow, but it does have some scary and offbeat moments.  Robert Englund (a.k.a. Freddy Krueger of A Nightmare on Elm Street) appears briefly; Loretta Divine (Waiting to Exhale) is wasted as a slow rent-a-cop.  My evaluation ** out of ****.   "},{"Title":"Fairly entertaining slasher film","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film should NOT be compared to Scream.Scream was a film that was making fun of slasher films while Urban Legend is a more serious slasher. However the film makers do themselves no favors by throwing in a few gratuitous in-jokey references.The film opens with the pre-credits murder that it seems every horror film now has to have which was effectively done, though it does not work as well as it should have.The characters are likeable enough though they really aren't given enough personality to be able to care one way or the other which of them lives and dies.The killer to me was pretty obvious about half way through the film, though others I was with found the revelation a surprise.Overall a good slasher though nowhere near as scary or gory as it should have been. "},{"Title":"Good Film, if not compared to Scream.","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend is actually quite a good film. It would be a better film it it wasn't compared to Scream so much. Sure, there are similarities but whereas Scream poked fun at horror films, this film pokes fun at urban legends. It focuses on a girl named Natalie and her friends, who are being stalked by a killer in a winter parka who bases the killings on urban legends. Many of the murders in this film are related to urban legends one way or another, whether it be The Hanging Boyfriend, The Killer Under The Car or The Killer In The Backseat. Some of them are gruesome, especially when a man gets run over by his own car on a set of wrong way spikes. All in all, this is an enjoyable film. Set your eyes on what is happening, leave out the puny references to Scream and its cousins and get scared.  "},{"Title":"Great slasher Flick","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I must say that this movie was great, Because you never know who the killer is until the ending, You just keep guessing The only thing in the movie that was a little over the top is that the killer can take on anything, it's like the killer is a super-human But still it is an slasher-movie that is better then I Know and I Still Know so go see this one "},{"Title":"Painfully bad","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is without a doubt the worst film of 1998. If you are in the mood for a predictable, bloody, stupid movie, then please go see this. I think about five minutes into the movie I already knew who the murderer was. It's that predictable. And at the end, two characters are riding to the police station, after watching many of their friends get murdered. One would think they would be crying and shaking. But no, the two characters are laughing and flirting with each other, like they had just come from a school dance.This is a wannabe Scream, and I didn't even like Scream, so you can imagine how much this movie stinks. The worst part is the end. There is a reference joke made about the murderer, yet the joke has ABSOLUTELY NOTHING to do with anything else in the movie. That's how bad this movie is.* out of **** "},{"Title":"I Was Expecting A LOT More","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It seemed like a good movie with a cute plot, but I was expecting a lot more from Urban Legend. Horror fans may not agree with me, but I think it was kind of stupid. A New England college student decides she's going to to solve a 30-year-old urban legend about a massacre of students at the hands of an abnormal psychology professor. During the process, she discovers that she has been the focus of these murders. Now towards the end, if you ask me, seems sort of a rip-off of Scream. I won't give away the ending, but If you seen Scream and Urban Legend you can tell it was a wanna-be of Scream. Like I said before, horror fans may not agree with me, but that's what it seems like. Even though I was expecting more, the film does have its moments. I give Urban Legend a 4 out of 10 stars.   "},{"Title":"Blood curdling horror at its finest!","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  What is an urban legend?  An urban legend is a fictitious tale which is supposedly based on a real-life incident...but with a shocking twist. Murder, frenzy, and eccentricity are the attributes of an urban legend. These urban legends are meant to scare people to death...and to discourage them from performing certain, immoral acts.At Pendleton University, the 25th Anniversary of the campus massacre by a demented professor is celebrated.  However, the festivities are about to be cut short...as the inhabitants at this college tremble in fear...  A student has been found decapitated, and this only starts a chain reaction...where the body count will slowly accumulate...  For a lunatic is taking these urban legends...and literally making them come alive!Natalie (Alicia Witt) is a new student at Pendleton University.  She is learning how to deal with her past trauma many years ago.  Enrolling in a course discussing about the nuts and bolts of modern folklore...Natalie is about to receive a life long lesson in hardship...A series of grisly murders have been reported at Pendleton University. What's even more taunting, these murders seem to be centering around Natalie's life.  Many of these real life murders that Natalie encounters are eerily copied from these notorious legends.  They include a death by hanging, a graphic torture scene, a hooded ax-wielding murderer hiding in the back seat of a car zeroing in on the kill, and the infamous charred poodle...Who is the killer?  Well, the probable suspects are either an overzealous student journalist (Jared Leto), Professor Wexler (Robert Englund) a renowned expert on modern folklore, Natalie's *jealous* best friend (Rebecca Gayheart), the college prankster (Joshua Jackson), or the college dean (John Neville).  Or could the murderer be someone closer to Natalie...The ultimate urban legend is about to unfold...I enjoyed URBAN LEGEND  a lot because it takes advantage of the same ingredients utilized in other recent stalk and slash hit features such as SCREAM (1996) and I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER (1997).  URBAN LEGEND manages to maintain high-octane suspense along with some dry black humor. The cast in URBAN LEGEND  is wonderful.  Alicia Witt in particular is great as a tough heroine who must unravel the clues in order to unmask the psychotic killer roaming around the campus.  Jared Leto and Joshua Jackson also provide a macabre sense of humor which is appropriate to the film's ominous tones.  Robert Englund also has a nice cameo as a college professor who is skeptical towards Natalie's allegations of these urban legends coming true.  Rebecca Gayheart is attractive as Natalie's seductive cohort.  The cast has a terrific time in this movie.URBAN LEGEND  is a tautly made horror film with plenty of scares, thrills, and gore.  Be forewarned, for the first 40 minutes of URBAN LEGEND  are deadly lame.  Be patient though, the film picks up the pace as the story progresses.  Although this film is not explicitly gory, it is sanguinary enough to please bloodhounds and to keep the squeamish screaming for their lives.As a slasher flick, URBAN LEGEND  is above average.  Your heart will beat faster and blood will rush down your body as you try to admonish the characters on screen to take certain precautions.  URBAN LEGEND  is surprisingly lightweight on the sauce department, but some efficient plot twists will keep most people captivated to the story.  Altogether, URBAN LEGEND  is a creative turn from the traditional killer goes on murder spree type sub-genre for the horror film category.   A substantively established fright show will keep you shrieking for more!  Ghoulish fun for fans.  Certainly better than your average psycho on the loose film.  The surprise ending is great!Next time, you better check the back seat of your car.  Who knows...maybe your fate will be sealed a lot faster than you think!RATING **1/2 out of ****. "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest Horror Films of All Time","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend is one of the most creative, inspired horror films in a long, long time. Funny, twisted and fresh, it manages to out-Scream Scream--that is, it pokes fun at the horror genre, but pulls it off better than the Kevin Williamson-written flicks. Special note Rebecca Gayheart is perhaps the best horror villain of the year, and Brad Dourif (the voice of Chucky) makes a great cameo as a creepy gas station attendant.  "},{"Title":"hmm I'm undecided","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I've just come back from the cinema and I don't know if I liked Urban Legend or not. My mates gave it the thumbs down as they are all big horror genre fans and this to them was very poor and uninspiring. I personally found myself entertained even if the pace was too slow and the 'end of level baddie' was pathetic, never send a woman to do a man's job (sexist pig I know) The music score was poor the characters were poor seconds to any of those 'teenie-types' in Scream 1 & 2. However I liked the lighting and it was strangely entertaining, maybe the popcorn was laced with Prozac. Anyway I'll give it a 6 out of 10 if anyone cares. If you're going to see it get a friend to pay. "}{"Title":"Not *completely* bad","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Somehow, this movie managed to both disappoint me and shock me at the same time.  Once I realized that it wasn't quite as horrible as the critics made it out to be, I was let down as it went along like a broken record.  The film has a few sparks, but after a while it becomes predictable and silly with its no-suspense plot (it rides only on shock factor).  The basic idea of the movie is a good one, but it managed to turn it into just another Scream knock off.  It had potential, but it didn't quite get there. "},{"Title":"Urban Legends at their best","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  For some time I have been interested in Urban Legendology.  From the negative reviews the movie got one would expect I would be disappointed at this movie.  I wasn't.  Each legend that was told was told correctly along with the explanations (Women should keep the children close or harm will come to them) were also accurate. For people who know their Urban Legends and like horror movies this is a great film.  You know what's going to happen to every one of these character (The second the Goth girl said Shut off the light I knew her fate) but for those who don't know their legends there is good foreshadowing.  You can clearly see the picture in the book Aren't you glad you didn't turn on the light and add the two together you know it's coming but it's still fun to watch. Also there is some variation to all of the legends when they are acted out. (like in the car/ax murderer the victim is usually saved) The variations are good because they show how the stories change from telling to telling. So if you like horror urban legends or just was a fun movie that has humor and a bunch of preppy kids getting slashed up I'd recommend this.  If you're looking for an intelligent movie about urban sub-culture look somewhere else. "},{"Title":"You'll have a h*** of a good time!!","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Unlike Scream and other horror movies of the 90s that rely on gore to shock the audience. Urban Legend uses the opposite. It relies on scares rather than gore, and believe me it is very scary and suspenseful. Although I loved Scream, I found this one more entertaining, and more scarier for several reasons. It makes you jump in just about every scene, it is one of those movies that keeps you on the edge of your seat, and it also keeps you guessing on who the killer is. Once you find out you'll be very surprised. So take my advice and next time instead of renting a predictable, gory scary movie, rent one that is actually scary. And remember, always look in the back seat before getting in that car. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Good premise, but movie loses it","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie could have been very scary, but is instead somewhat laughable. The killer in many scenes appears to be psychic, knowing exactly where his intended  victims are and how they're going to react when he strikes.  It all sort of comes off like the Scooby Doo gang in a horror movie.  Still, the acting isn't bad, and people who are fans of cheesy 80's horror will probably enjoy this flick despite its flaws.   "},{"Title":"Hmm...Nothing new!","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie probably would have been better, if it came BEFORE all the Scream movies, but it didn't. There's NOTHING new in it. It reminded me so much of I know what you did last summer. And it's not even scary! "},{"Title":"An Ingenue is Tarnished","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Alicia Witt made a bad choice.  She got a starring role in a terrible movie. She worked with a cinematographer and a director who made her look unattractive for most of the seemingly endless 90 minutes this travesty took to unwind.There is an urban legend that this was a movie.  Keep it a legend.  It isn't even bad enough to like.  "},{"Title":"Good in parts, but at the end of the day, just another Scream rip-off.","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I would agree with a lot of previous reviews in saying that the death scenes in this film were very original, especially the one with the guy hanging from the tree where he got killed because Alicia Witt un'witt'ingly drove the car that she was in to get away from the killer, not knowing that the rope the guy was hanging on by the neck was attached to the car.However, I feel that the film didn't take enough breaks in between each kill. There was absolutely no hint of mystery whatsoever. None of the characters made any interesting theories about who the killer could've been (like Randy from Scream; by the way, Damon was a crap Randy) apart from Paul and what's her name accusing a certain character of being the killer when they find a piece of too hard evidence pointing towards him. Aren't these mysteries much better when you are following a main character who is trying to solve the case at a 'professional' level? e.g. Se7en (a serious film).These Guesswhodunnits are getting a little bit boring now. 'I know what you did.....' was OK but this is too ordinary. Just another Scream rip-off to me. I thought Scream was superior to UL because it was much more clever. Also, it actually had a killer that ran (what what what?) so it looked more realistic, not like the maniac in the parka jacket in UL that walked at snails pace and still managed to catch and kill his/her victims. Halloween and IKWYDLS are also guilty of this.Despite all of its faults it was still a pretty enjoyable film so I'll give it a reasonable 6 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"A '90s B-Movie, not one to watch.","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie spoofs just about every other horror film you have seen, unfortunately, it tries to take itself seriously in the process.  What transpires is really a classic example of a 90s B-Movie.  I shouldn't bother watching this one, you've seen it all before.  "},{"Title":"Am I the Only One?","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Please don't send me Emails saying you disagree - but I like the movie! Even though it wasn't scary it still seemed like a good movie. You never knew who the killer was and never suspected ?? until the end. I thought it was filled with action and a good plot.  I give it 3 out of 4 stars! "},{"Title":"Decent fun","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a movie that must be taken in the proper context to be appreciated. If you take it seriously as cinema or expect it to scare you, all but the young and inexperienced will be disappointed.  HOWEVER, there is a somewhat more subtle humor in the movie than one might expect, and the movie is certainly not as stupid as some of the reviewers have painted it to be (I could say something about insecurity in one's own intelligence in relation to some of the particularly scathing comments, but this is about the movie not the reviewers).  At any rate I highly recommend the DVD version, and in particular the writer/director/actor commentary, which despite the youth and inexperience of all three of them (this is the first movie for both writer and director) is by far the most informative I have yet heard as far as the filmmaking art and what kind of events go on behind the scenes that we rarely hear about.  They pack the entire movie with non-stop commentary on everyone and everything in the movie and several things not in the movie, as opposed to the U.S. Marshals DVD for instance, which asked me to skip ahead several chapters more than once because the director simply had nothing to say about the movie through those sections.  And I think accusations of plagerism from Scream are a bit unfair, since this is really just another movie in the same genre, and Scream is such a shining example of the tongue-in-cheek horror movie/dark comedy that everything else that fits the same genre for a while is going to be accused of copying.  I really don't see that this is a copy or rip-off of Scream any more than I Know What You Did Last Summer or Scream2.  That said, the scripting is a little ham-fisted at times, and some of the humor isn't as intelligent (or as funny) as the niche they are aiming for demands.  The guys on the commentary track admit to quite a bit of the ham-fistedness in good humor, and give their own explanation of how it works with the theme of the movie. If you appreciate the visual quality of a movie as much as I do, this one is pretty impressive considering the youth of the crew and the relatively low budget of the film.  Much of the look was ripped-off from other movies (the movie is rife with homages to other movies, particularly in the horror genre, and these go right down to stylistic cues as detailed as camera movement), as other reviewers would say, but I am inclined to give the writer and director the benefit of the doubt and agree that these are appropriate homages to the cheap horror genre.Anyway, if you can't take a joke, or if you can't let go of your intellectual bloodlust enough that you can see the joke behind the camp, then do not see this movie.  If you can, get some friends and some beer and you may well enjoy this movie quite a bit.  At any rate you should definitely check out the commentary if the DVD ever comes into your hands.  "}{"Title":"A worst Scream Copy","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Better than I Know What You Did Last Summer series... Better than Disturbing Behavior... Fewer than Scream 2... Very fewer than Scream... Fewer than Halloween H20Now, it's the comparison to do. Scream make photocopier but with a bad copy. You know, a copy of a copy it's not the original. Try to put the lowest budget and try to gross the best box-office result, it's the secret for the producers.The whole movie is a copy Did you remember Copycat? In this movie, the killer have his inspirations of the great murders. Now, the killer has his inspirations of Urban Legend... A different variation, but a copy.The movie also does a carbon copy of I Know What You Did Last Summer. An unkillable killer who is killed two times strikes back.Also, we see a copy of Scream 2. The victims are young college students who loved Internet, all cool and sex.The one and only thrill is Who's the killer?But, I appreciate the presences of the beautiful Alicia Witt and Rebecca Gayheart. That's good to see them.So, see it if you want to see another version of Scream. "},{"Title":"Average film, unfairly slammed by post-Scream critics","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film has been universally panned by critics. Although it's not actually a great film, it's still definitely worth seeing. Plenty of bits made me jump, and although I had been told I would spot the killer and the motive early in the film, I didn't (and couldn't - some of the facts necessary to understand the motive weren't revealed until much later).Although I enjoyed _Scream (1996)_ a lot, I don't believe that from there onwards a horror film needs to be full of self-referential humour and in-jokes referring to other films to be good. What's happened here is someone has had an idea for a horror film, and then made it. If it was my first film I'd be pretty pleased with it.That out of the way, here's what I actually though of the film. The acting was, well, OK. I didn't watch it thinking Wow, but it did the job considering the budget was fairly low. And of course _Robert Englund_ made an appearance, to give it that authentic touch. The film was fairly sturdily directed (by that I suppose I mean uninspiring) - but again, it did the job. Spotting the pattern? In all, the film was entertaining and worth the money it cost to see it. Oh, and I didn't notice the in-joke about the commercial at the end, never mind get it!Don't get me wrong - I'm not saying this film is as brilliant as _Halloween (1978)_ or _Scream (1996)_, but I am saying it is far better than has been reported. "},{"Title":"urban bomb!","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Perhaps the worst horror movie of the nineties, Urban Legend adds nothing to the horror genre and plods along with one silly, unscary and unbelievable murder after another.  The student victims featured in the story are so stupid, one quickly loses any interest in whether they live or die.  This film tries to rise to the level of Scream but falls on its face in the process.  1/2* out of ****And what was John Neville thinking doing this film?  John, I'm worried about ya buddy... "},{"Title":"After this thriller, you will have to check the back seat!","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If you consider a horror film a movie starring a young popular T.V. star (a.k.a. Neve Campbell), a soon-to-be-well-known script writer (a.k.a. Kevin Williamson), and a famous horror director (a.k.a. Wes Craven) than you might not call Urban Legend your typical horror film. Unlike the past Scream and I Know... movies, Urban Legend has its own, unique way of scaring you. Instead of ghostface popping out from behind a hidden door or the fisherman breaking through shower glass, the killer in Urban Legend doesn't just jump out and attack his victims, he makes them legends. He tends to put you in suspense almost making the movie come alive and feeling like reality. Just like the tagline says, just because it hasn't happened doesn't mean it can't.The director chose well known legends almost everyone has heard of, such as the psycho in the backseat or the threatening phone calls to the babysitter which are coming from the children's bedroom. Since we know these stories so well it makes us feel like we are there and that we are the next victim. Even if you don't care for a character you almost feel sorry for them knowing exactly how they're going to die. The opening scene in the movie with Natasha Wagner in her car is by far the most suspenseful and scary part of the film. As you see the killer rise behind her, your heart starts pounding and you are hoping she turns around in time before he swings his axe. After this scene the legends are not as scary or threatening, but an action scene in which Tara Reid is pursued is rather gripping.As well as action, the film also has some funny and quite clever lines driven by Tara Reid's character Sasha while speaking over the radio with some freshman. This film was surprisingly scary and shockingly entertaining and I recommend it to all horror fans, but if you are a dog lover I strongly suggest to not see this film! "},{"Title":"That's why....","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I really think this film, Urban Legend is really cool. All my friends think this movie sucks, but I didn´t ! Of course, this isn´t a new Scream or a new Halloween H20, but still a very involving and good thriller ! This movie has good parts, good deaths, a very cool killer in those clothes, it's very bloody, some chase scenes ( Like when the killer chases Sasha in the radio, that scene rocks ! ) and etc. But, ...the end really disappointed me ! The killer looks like it isn't human, he takes too long to die at the end, and that's why I didn´t like this movie so much, the end really destroyed the entire movie ! But, it has some good scenes, so, I think I can handle it....  "},{"Title":"Please make the bad films stop!","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this silly and laughable movie for the first time last night. What can I say?  Scream brought the slasher genre back, and movies like this will kill it.  I can't believe that someone thought that this was a good idea.   There were so many impossibilities in this film that one dosen't know where to start!  The killer was a joke- if *they* were so upset at the protagonist, they why oh why dont they just KILL THEM RIGHT AWAY????  I know.. Could it be because they needed a stupid excuse to drag out an otherwise good premise (a killer using Urban Legends as a motive) to an overwrought and over-the-top conclusion?   And as for the actors- what kind of college is this?  Are there any ugly people allowed there?  Alicia Witt looks drugged throughout the movie, which is probably the only way they could have got her to do the movie, Rebecca Gayheart needs to use some of that Noxeema she used to sell and wipe some makeup off her face.  As for the rest- I can't even tell who they were by name- it was sad..  They only existed as chum for the shark.   There were horrible cliches, such as the music jumps when someone would sneak up behind someone else (which, by the way were so loud that I thought my brains were leaking out of my ears by the end of the movie), a swimmer that wears a parka and combat boots to go to swim practice in, and so many others, not including the LAME-O ending that made me want to puke shards of glass rather than sit through a sequel.  I hear that they got 26 year old Jamie Blanks to helm this based on the trailer he did for I Know What You Did Last Summer.  Maybe he should stick to 2-4 minute movies rather than making us sit through a 90 minute trailer.  "},{"Title":"Ghostface, the fisherman and now the killer in the parker jacket","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Although this film does borrow from Scream and I Know What You Did Last Summer, it would be unfair to criticise it because of that fact as those movies weren't exactly original.  I also fail to see how all other post Scream slashers are cashing in on the success of that movie.  The slasher movie has always been made, Scream was just clever enough to bring them back to the cinema.At the end of the day thay are all just slasher films about a crazed killer stalking and killing teenagers in a variety of fashions.Urban Legend goes for the 'killer on campus' area of the genre with a group of 'teens' falling prey to an unknown assassin and each getting murdered in highly imaginative ways (and I mean that)!Alicia Witt is the main star and although she is a good and very attractive actress, she is only minorly convincing.  She doesn't quite project her fear enough to get the viewer scared.  (Mariyln Burns was the last actress to achieve that with her relentless screaming in The Texas Chainsaw Massacre - although Amy Steel came close in Friday 13th 2).There are a few impressive death scenes in Urban Legend, the hanging is particularly inventive and the opening scene is sure to make you gasp.Overall I enjoyed this movie, it is not trying to be clever and knows that it is just a run of the mill slasher flick. Some people criticised this movie, but it is still a lot better than the majority of the slasher films the 80s has to offer.  "},{"Title":"Maybe I am stupid, but I liked it!","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, it's the usual plot, the usual murder, the usual killer and the usual end... But for someone like me (I'm 15) who really like to be scared, it was a real entertaining movie!The suspense is there, the talented actors too. There's original murders and the way they took the subject(Urban Legends) was... Great!!Urban legends follows the way traced by Scream 1-2 and I know what you did last summer 1-2. It's funny (see the part with Josh Jackson and the Dawson's Creek theme!) and it deserves attention!One bad thing meanwhile... The end is impossible and we're not that stupid! But it's a VERY GOOD horror movie.  "},{"Title":"Heard the one about the boring, cheesy 'Scream' knock-off???","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Like many other people who have seen 'Urban Legend', my biggest complaint is that it wasted an outstanding idea, thus preventing a *talented* director from making a decent flick. Had this film succeeded in developing the 'Urban Legend Serial Killer' concept, people would have been looking for psychos underneath their cars after leaving the theaters -- instead, they were laughing at how ridiculous this movie was.The most frustrating aspect of this movie was the incessant use of seemingly every horror cliche in the book (Well, not all of them. A Tara Reid shower scene might have at least made the movie interesting for a few minutes). I mean, the main character actually said, You know you'll never get away with this! The only thing worse than this cheesy dialogue is the cheesier dialogue recited by the actual killer in the final scene, which by the way is the worst ending to a film I've seen in years (If you have the patience to watch the movie all the way through, however, be sure to compare the dialogue, setting, and resolution to a recent Simpsons 'Treehouse of Horrors' episode.  Now you'll now where third-rate screenwriters get their ideas from.)There were some decent moments in the film, however, including a relatively exciting opening scene. Unfortunately, the highlights of the movie are the little inside jokes the director slips in. Had he spent as much time on on the rest of the plot as these in-jokes, I would have really enjoyed this film.The ending of this film will leave the viewer asking many questions.  For example  Why does the legend that surrounds this fictional university (and takes up a good 1/3 of the dialogue) have nothing to do with the plot? Why is the same 'eerie' chord played whenever anyone bumps into another character?  And why does everyone have the same stupid coat?!? These questions are never answered, and neither is the most important question of all -- why would anyone pay $7 to see this movie, when a 99 cent rental of a '70s horror flick with a $500 budget would be just as thrilling?One final note. There is a particularly gruesome scene involving a dog in the film. Therefore I would recommend that members of PETA stay away from this movie. For everyone else, I recommend that you join PETA so that you too can stay away from this movie.  "},{"Title":"Good flick.","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Firstly, the lead actress was more convincing than Neve or Jennifer. The story has merit. Some cameos had the right touch although too short. Dannielle Harris is an unlikeable role but different than we have seen her before.I give it 8/10  "}{"Title":"*** out of ****","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Three words came to mind after seeing Urban Legend.  Energetic, corny, and impossible.  I liked this movie because everything I'd want to see in a horror film was right here.  The movie tackled with ideas and used them well.  There seemed to be a teenage film-project feel to it that was appealing.  I also wasn't disappointed when I found out who the killer was. The film's high energy and clever moments make it recommendable, although it did get a little tedious at times.  "},{"Title":"When will somebody break out of the Scream mold?","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Ok so Scream revitalised the teen horror market. BUT that doesn't mean every horror movie that follows it has to be an exact duplicate. I realise that Urban Legends storyline was by the same guy that worked on Scream but for god's sake, whatever happened to originality. I am sick to death of the drivel mass-marketed/mass-produced snot that is coming from hollywood ala Scream/Scream2/I Know../I still Know../ and now I can add to this Urban Legend.Horror should not follow a formula which has been determined as a) gather attractive cast. b) have them dating each other c) kill them off slowly whilst not knowing who the killer is.GEEE SO ORIGINAL ISNT ITAs the movie itself quotesOoh an urban legend serial killer, it's quite a stretchSURE IS. "},{"Title":"Wow! What a ride!","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend is a clever, witty film which takes some of today's most famous myths (killer in the backseat, alligators in the sewers, the date rape drug, and more) and uses them to fashion a good scary story. The performances are all very good (I would watch Alicia Witt do laundry - she's awesome) and there are some excellent scary moments. The killer is a surprise, and the ending actually satisfies, with a plausible, appropriate coda. Also, the little in-jokes add to the enjoyment of the film and are greatly appreciated. My only qualm is that one character is killed off way too early in the film; this character and the actor who plays them should have at least been given a little more time, since the character is one of the most interesting ones in the film. I give Urban Legend a 9.5/10.  "},{"Title":"Tedious, non-horror film worst of the current batch","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  For the first time ever I found myself yawning at the last bit of this film, it really is that bad. For a horror film that must be the ultimate vote of no confidence. It looks cheap and nasty, like some bad '50s Sci-Fi, but at least those were funny, or so bad that they were funny. It looks like the director thinks that showing a bit of blood and gore, and 'spooky' music makes a film scary, and it just doesn't do it.The Scream and I Know What You Did Last Summer films were far better at getting the audience involved with the characters - I really didn't care aboutanyone in this film. This looks more like an episode of Beverly Hills 90210. It deserves to bomb, if only to warn the industry off making more duds like it "},{"Title":"Poorly made Scream rip off","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Oh Boy - who did this film to us?Whoever wrote the screenplay must have thought something like this  Okay, I've thought of a new way for a differently cloaked killer to stalk teenagers. Now I'll write the standard who is it? story around it and I'll earn just as much money as this Wes Craven guy with his Scream movies. Well buddy, you thought wrong! This movie is as mediocre as it gets. The whole plot is based as much on Scream as the killings on urban legends. At the end of the movie there's even one line of dialogue that has been almost literally transferred from Scream (remember Scream We prefer being called psychos Urban Legend I prefer the term eccentric...same situation in both movies as well). But Urban Legend never succeeds in its efforts to get close to Craven's movies. What it comes down to is a lame horror movie without any real scares or interesting sequences - a real yawn. It's mot a complete bomb afterall because of the solid camera work but everything else...uh-oh. This one is even worse than Halloween H20.  "},{"Title":"You'll have a hell of a good scare.","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know why everyone hated this movie, it's great. It is fast paced and loaded with original scares and fun. I would rank it up there with Scream, actually I liked it better. It was jam packed with scares instead of gore. The setting and story were perfect for a horror movie, its death scenes were very original, and its ending where they unveil the killer is so shocking. It is one of those you try to guess who the pschyo is, but you'll guess wrong every time. So go see it and believe Me - you'll be checking the back seat every time you get in the car at night. Great performances by the newcomers. You'll have a hell of a good scare. *** out of ****  "},{"Title":"Quite a surprise","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have to say that I first read the comments here in IMDB before I saw the movie and was positivly surprised. This movie is no way a waste of time. I often read that this film is a scream rip-off. Maybe in some basic ideas, but aren't all these teenager-college student-slasher movies based on similar ideas? Compared to i know what you did... and scream 1+2 i thought the storyline was original and the actors were really cool. And I couldn't predict the end of the movie as i could in scream 1+2 & IKWYDLS after the first 10min. So everyone who wants to have fun in a movie of this genre, i would say GO SEE IT!!!!!  "},{"Title":"Go with a date, you have a bloody good time","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I loved Urban Legend! Why? because I like this kind of movies once in a while. I think it's better than 'I know What You did Last Summer'. It has a very powerful opening. You never will sing that song off Bonnie Tyler and NOT looking behind you.And the plot? Let's face it, this is not a movie which needs a good plot. This is a movie you have to see with a date. I did see it with my girlfriend, and if you guys will do the same, you have a bloody good time!  "},{"Title":"Not bad.","Date":"29 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I read the comments for this movie before viewing it in a packed cinema full of annoying teenagers. Judging from them, I thought this movie would be terrible. It was a little bit but it wasn't too bad. Alicia Witt is beautiful and it's good to see Danielle Harris in this film (she is an old favorite of mine from 2 halloween movies). The ending is, of course, stupid and it pretty much ruined it for everyone. When will writers learn that every horror movie does not need to have an excuse for a sequel? Anyway, there was at least a bit of variety in the way people were murdered, unlike IKWYDLS where just about everyone died by being slashed by a hook (a hook, oooooh scary). This movie is just another formula 90's teenage slasher. But I must admit, how one of the character's dies in a carpark from being impaled by tyre damage spikes is really cool.) Just another thing, in horror movies when people are being chased by a killer, when will they learn to run faster? Some people are just sooooooo stupid.  "},{"Title":"It wasn't that bad.","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, the killer may have been cheesy, but the movie was still a ride. The opening sequence was great although another, maybe a more well-known actress would've got more sympathy from the audience. Natalie's character was a whiner also. Now the real gems were Danielle Harris as the kick-ass goth Tosh and Tara Reid as the steamy Sasha. The Death scenes were creepy. I mean the boyfriend hanging from the tree was scary, as was the girl killed while her roommate slept. Also, everyone's wondering about the radio chick's death and how it's not an Urban Legend. But there is a story about a girl who was raped and killed during a campus coed scream session and everyone thought she was part of it. I recommend it. "}{"Title":"Ok film. B-","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  it was an Ok filmsome i would have extended. Robert should have had more scenes as should Brad DourifJoshua should have lasted longer (Pacy in Dawson's Creek)Danielle should lose that punk Goth look it ain't pretty sweety more interesting that the I Know...Last Summer films though. a bit rushed too. what's with the 99 mins time limit why not 111 mins like Scream??Brendan a horror fan "},{"Title":"Pop rocks and soda? Lemmie try.. ahghsgdackhem!","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Hmm what can i say about this movie other people haven't? Just about nothing. As you've read before this is just another horror movie to see how many ways we can kill a human. The movie only got cheesier as it went on. If you like these kinds of movies, or like to see dogs explode in the microwave then more power to ya. "},{"Title":"Excellent premise quickly degenerates into waste of time","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Movies have incorporated so-called urban legends to varying degrees for years and years, so it was with excitement that I approached the movie trumpeting such true tales with nothing less than its to-the-point title. Sadly, however, first time director Jamie Blanks' movie (abetted by the Kevin Williamson-esque screenplay by Silvio Horta) focuses almost entirely on the gory, campfire-style death legends -- leaving out many of the most clever and interesting campus stories that seemed a lock in a movie set at the fictional Pendleton University.  Following the blueprint of the neo-slasher flick down to the multiple suspects, red herrings, and self-effacing dialogue, Urban Legend consistently wastes the not inconsiderable talents of its hipster cast.  Within the first twenty minutes, any opportunity for originality seems squandered, and it becomes painfully obvious that this movie will play out with utter predictability.   "},{"Title":"I would have given it a 2, but Alicia Witt is gorgeous.","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Is anyone familiar with this (sub)urban legend?  A menagerie of mooncalves herds into a movie theater, pays eight dollars a muzzle to see a poorly-reviewed film, and then spends an interminable length of time yawning and staring morosely at radium-illuminated watch dials.  A few months later, each of those intrepid filmgoers develops cancer from excessive short-term radiation exposure.  So have you heard about that myth?  Just curious. (Cough, cough.  Damned chemo.) "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Entertaining!","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'd heard comments beforehand about this movie being the worst slasher of 1998.  I'd have to disagree vehemently.  I Still Know What You Did Last Summer easily takes that crown and I'd rank it right behind Scream 2 as the best of post-Scream slashers.  Urban Legends was definitely in the vein of post-Scream slasher films aimed at a teenage audience with pop culture references, but this movie had something other SCREAM clones didn't have...  Original and inventive death scenes and some truly suspenseful moments.  The opening scene of Urban Legend was excellent.  Easily the best opening since SCREAM and SCREAM 2.  The actors were competent and their characters were developed as much as they needed to be in a slasher movie.  If you go into Urban Legends expecting a well thought out and scary horror film you will be thoroughly disappointed.  If you want to see some inventive death scenes and campy humor you will enjoy this movie. WARNING  (SPOILER SPACE)***********SPOILER SPACE********* The Ending of this movie is LUDICROUS... funny as hell.... but pretty much just plain STUPID.  I enjoyed the hell out of it, partly because I won a bet with my friend as to who the killer was 15 minutes into the movie, but nonetheless the ending probably ruined this movie for serious audiences. I'd heard about a ludicrious ending before I saw it, but I was delighted to see how over the top the killer was at the end.  Just enjoy this little slasher film... It's of the check your brain at the door variety. "},{"Title":"Billy Bibbit returns","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Fans of the wonderful film One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest might get a little kick out of the opening scene of this, since Brad Dourif (the gas station attendant) plays an unbalanced stuttering man.  Could this be the return of Billy Bibbit, the unbalanced stuttering character from Cuckoo's Nest that Dourif got an Academy Award nomination for playing?  We never really find out if Billy actually dies in the film, though he does ATTEMPT suicide.  Maybe he lived, was released from the hospital and got a job at a gas station that he has held to this day.  Is Urban Legend the long-awaited sequel to One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest?  I think so.And it's too bad, because Urban Legend isn't quite the essay on the human condition that Cuckoo's Nest was.  "},{"Title":"extremely underrated","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Witty dialogue, a killer on the loose, and a chesty female lead.  Sounds oddly familiar doesn't it?  Only this time, there's a twist  the killer uses urban legends as a template for the murders.  I thought that was a great idea.  Unfortunately, that seems to be my opinion and mine alone. Everyone else has said that this movie was a waste of time, and a Scream wannabe.  Yeah right, and Rosie O'Donnell has an 18 waist!  This movie sets its own standards and, as far as quality is concerned, nearly surpasses Scream.  I didn't like it as well as I Know... and I Still Know..., but I still thought it was great.  Alicia Witt made a big mistake in doing the television show Cybill.  This is because she is actually a pretty decent actress.  I was thoroughly impressed.   A- "},{"Title":"A really bad horror movie","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I can't believe anyone liked this film? This film sucks! If you want a good horror movie, Go rent The Evil II or Army of Darkness instead. That real horror for you, This is not. I give this movie TWO BIG THUMBS WAY DOWN.Good thing about this movie= There is a plotBad thing about this movie= This movie got lack of scares. Even my girlfriend didn't scream.  "},{"Title":"disappointment!","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Classic Urban legends were always my favourite for many reasons- they were short, simple, scary, and real. When I heard about the movie URBAN LEGEND I was scared that the stories, were not going to live up to their true nature, on film. Well, after the excellent opening scene, my worst nightmare had come true. URBAN LEGEND was a disorganized, unappealing, and not-at-all scary, bad movie. The major flaw in Urban Legend, is that it ventures far from the reality that the original stories had created in their own way. For example; what was the killer thinking, wearing a heavy parka in a very warm environment? Especially in a heated swimming pool arena. Or what about the improbability that a person can fall many floors from a window, land on solid ground, but still manage to get back up and go for the kill again? Also, what made the stories scary, was very simple. The actual danger was not realized until after the fact. It was at that point when the characters realize how close they were to the danger. In URBAN LEGEND it is too late for the characters to even realize that they are in danger, before they are killed off! The acting was uneven, the storyline was another SCREAM copycat, and the murders were nothing to really remember. The legends about this film are true- it's  horrible!!!   "},{"Title":"Not as bad as everyone says.","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Most people who have reviewed this movie commented on how it was a good idea, wasted on a bad film.  I disagree.  I loved the whole idea of the movie, and I thought it was well played out.  The ending was slightly extreme, but every movie has its flaws. I am a horror movie kind of person, and I found the movie extremely pleasing.  I highly recommend it. "}{"Title":"GREAT, MINDLESS SLASHER FUN!!!!","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw the previews for this movie I laughed my ass off.  I thought, Wow, they are really running out of ideas when they resort to KILLER ESKIMOS as masked murderers!!.  Needless to say I went into this movie with extremely low expectations.  Well, the opening scene was surprisingly suspenseful and well-done.  (I especially thought the use of the song Turn Around Bright Eyes at the climax of the scene was BRILLIANT!).  This opening scene rivals the openings of SCREAM and SCREAM 2.  Anyway, that was the best part of the movie for me.  There were some very original death scenes also and I thought Jaime Blanks directorial debut was superb.  You couldn't take the movie too seriously though... because if you did you'd be able to point out all the plot holes and realize that the revelation of the killer is ludicrous. (I actually guessed the correct killer 15 minutes into the movie though.  Honestly, I just picked the LEAST LIKELY person and got lucky).  Anyway, if you're in the mood for a guilty pleasure then see this movie.  It's a hell of a lot of fun. "},{"Title":"Bad rehash of Scream","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is Scream 2 revisited, even down to the killing in the radio-station at the campus. The acting is so bland that I had a hard time sorting out the dead characters from the live ones. And how on earth did the killer manage to drag all those bodies up to the third floor at Stanley Hall (and pose them) withouta, Anyone noticing, or b, Running seriously out of time. On party-night, the killer is clearly present in several places at the same time. Credulity is not so much strained as completely buried!!The direction and plot-development smacks of filmmaking-by-numbers, and the lifeless, unsympathetic actors seem to read from an idiot-board just out of sight. Whoever likes this movie must have seen very few of its superior predecessors, like any Wes Craven or John Carpenter-movie I'd care to mention. Urban Legend is a very, very bad movie. "},{"Title":"Very Cool","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend was a very well done film...After Scream came out it would be very hard to keep a suspense feeling up, trying to make it as different of a movie yet keeping it on a guessing scale "},{"Title":"Great Scare","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was an excellent horror movie. The twists and turns it takes keep the viewer jumping like frogs. I found this movie to be scarier than either Scream or I Know What You Did Last Summer movies. Having never gone to see a horror movie while it was at the theater, rather than renting it on video, I wasn't pleasantly surprised when I found myself screaming and covering my face. Incorporating the numerous Urban Legends that we've all heard into a movie was an ingenious idea, I love it!!!I highly recommend this movie to anyone looking to get the begeebees scared out of them, but take a buddy and check your back seat. "},{"Title":"Has scary moments, but bad acting. Still, fun to watch.  C+","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend is a film by director Jamie Blanks that is about a serial killer who kills his victims using urban legends (pooch in the microwave, check, killer in the back seat, check).  This movie was creative in some ways.  It had some good cinematography, and terrific lighting, which was the only thing that kept this movie together.  It had a strong start, but fell apart almost immediately afterwards.  The acting wasn't so hot, except for a few moments when it was good.  Here's the bottom line with this film you go to a horror film to be entertained and that is exactly what this movie does. Besides everything that was technically wrong with Urban Legend, it was fun to watch.  It was satisfying in the way that it had scary moments that made you jump in your seat.  It even had moments where you would laugh, not because the moment in  the movie was funny, but because you knew that you were having a great time.  I think that this is a movie for people that appreciate what it takes to make a film.  I would only recommend seeing this movie if you have seen every other movie that has come out lately, and feel the need to go to another.  This is not a movie to see over and over again. C+ "},{"Title":"To sum up in one word...Pain","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I was on holiday in America, and I thought this flick looked rather entertaining.  It had an original premise, but that is ruined after the first 15 mins.  The cast are a bunch of washed out, no-hopers whose acting abilities range from.  Oh look, someone is dead...Hmmmmm, oh yeah.  Ahhh to Oh look, a person with an ax heading toward me...What should I do?. Really, this film is REALLY this bad.  Alicia Witt is just about bearable, whilst that Noxeema girl, Gayheart gives the most disgusting performance.  I felt like vomiting all over the screen to hide her from small children.  It could damage their health.  If I had to sum this movie up in one word. Pain.  Extreme, long, bloody pain.  And to think they leave room for a sequel!  I hope it's better than this trash.  Please, stay away! "},{"Title":"It could have been so much better!","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend was a wonderful storyline, but the movie focused more on the killings and gore rather than the extremely creative storyline.  The idea for the story was very original, with a fresh young cast, but the movie lacked in attention getters, after all if you have seen on slasher film you have seen them all right??The cast was very well-structured, Joshua Jackson did a wonderful job, although his part was robbed of its acting integrety.  Natasha Wagner and Rebecca Gayheart were excellent characters that needed to be developed more. Jared Leto did a wonderful job and his acting ability really shone through.All in all Urban Legend is an excellent date movie, or a chance just to hang out with friends, but if you are looking for a fresh new addition to the slasher genre, I suggest that you look somewhere else.As for the people who are comparing this film to the Scream series, I must say that I see where you are coming from, but remember that Scream isn't as original as it seems either.  Let's not forget, Night of the Living Dead, Halloween and the ground breaking movie The Exorcist, which all had a grasp pn the horror genre long before Kevin Williamson and Scream.  Urban Legend, I thought, had more of an intriguing plot line, but was disappointed to see it left so undeveloped.  And people mentioned, why did every character have that parka?  Easy answer...the same reason everyone in Scream had those boots!!!On a scale of 1-10 (1 being yawn, and 10 being nightmares) I give this film a solid 7  "},{"Title":"It could have been so much better!","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend could have been so much better!  The story was a wonderful idea and had it been expanded on more, the movie would have been far better.The first scene is wonderful and makes you anticipate the rest of the movie but.......once you get there it is slow and tedious.  Had the story been more focused on the legends themselves, then this movie might have been worth the ticket price!!  Robert England's performance was up to his usual standards and I found that Josh Jackson was robbed of some great acting potential.  I was hoping that this movie would give him more of an opportunity to show his talents that don't come out on Dawson's Creek, but I was wrong.  I feel that he is a very sincere actor, and that quality is hard to find now a days!Anyway back to the movie...I enjoyed it on a entertaining level, but I tend to be very critical of films...Regardless of what people say, I do not feel like this was a Scream rip-off.  Now, I Know What You Did Last Summer...there's a rip-off!!!!  Urban Legend had an original idea for mass murders, now it is true that the cheap thrills and eeire music tire after awhile, but all horror movies are like that...that is why they are all on the same rack in the video store!!I think that people should go and see Urban Legend for themselves and form their own opinions.....personally on a scale of 1-10...10 being absolutly terrifying, I give Urban Legend a 6! "},{"Title":"Great film with a great ending.","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend was a great film.  I had no idea about the end.  It kept me guessing, who the murderer was right until the end.  I'm glad it left it wide open for a sequel.  Throughout the movie I made the following assumptions the murders were all going to be a hoax for the class to get an A in Urban Legends, or a fraternity initiation prank, or Paul(Jared Leto) tyring to beef up his writing career.  I won't say whether I was right or not for those of you who haven't seen it yet.  That's the greatest element of a good horror/suspense movie--It keeps you guessing!  So if you liked Scream go see it!!  In my opiniion it's better. "},{"Title":"Just plain fun, not much else","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a very entertaining horror movie. Using urban legends leads to a clever, suspenseful plot, and the way they are executed is very interesting. Of course as in any horror movie, it has major flaws. They use distance noises and then a character saying who's there a couple of times, everyone seems to have the killer's jacket, they do the false scare don't sneak up on me like that, way too many times. But you will enjoy yourself if you're a gen-X/horror movie (stuck-up film schoolers stay away), and especially if you have fun talking to movie screens; whether you scared or you're making fun of it. Much better than I Know What You Did Last Summer, not as good as Scream.  "}{"Title":"Kevin Williamson did not invent this Genre!!!","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The whole, this is a rip off of Scream and Kevin Williamson is getting really old! Urban Legend does not rip off either of those two things. Kevin Williamson did not invent the slasher genre. And this guy is getting much more praise then he should. If one reads the original script for Scream, one would see nothing but another early eighties horror flick. Yawn. Scream was a success because of talented actors (most of the lines were improvised... not written by Kevin), and a great director. What Urban Legend is is a great entertaining thrill ride. Who cares what some people are saying about this one... those same people are the ones who only saw Scream because their horror loving friends talked them into it and only saw this one wanting to compare it to Scream anyway. Thus, their comments are worthless. The slasher sub-genre isn't for English Patient loving buffoons... so ignore what the critics say. Make your own judgement... as far as I can tell... it seems to be a 50/50 split between who loved/liked it and who hated/was disappointed by it. "},{"Title":"Much better then you are hearing!!!","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I've read a lot of negative things about this title, I don't agree with any of them. It is being called a rip-off of Scream and I Know What You Did Last Summer... it is most assuredly not!! In fact, with the exception of some hokey acting, this film does rank right up there with the two previously mentioned films. But then again, Neve Campbell of Scream is hardly an Oscar winner. Anyway, the film concerns a group of colege students... by the by this new resurge of slasher films works much better then those of the early eighties- which cast late 20s early 30sactors as teenagers, in favor of casting teenagers as teenagers! Urban Legends is hip, entertaining, fun and scary. Two death sequences are unmatched and will prove to be that which to top for the slasher films to come. The murderer kills in accordance to those much beloved Urban Legends we've all heard before, but with gruesome new intensity. It is well directed, competently written and acted and just a great genre film. Don't ignore just because of what some English Patient loving moron film critic says... Urban Legends is one to Check out!!!! "},{"Title":"groovy movie","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Whoever said this movie wasn't good obviously didn't pay attention. This movie was all scares, a little bit of romance, comedy, and just an all around good time. To sum it up This movie rocked! I recommend this movie to everyone who likes a good scare, and a good laugh. "},{"Title":"This movie is a lot better than everyone says.","Date":"7 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'm sick of people putting this film in the toilet. In my opinion this movie was very good all the way to the shock ending. I'm tired of people saying, Urban Legend is a Scream rip-off. Sorry to bust your bubble folks, but in this day in age nothing is original. No matter how much you think that your idea is original I bet you that there is someone else that has already thought of it. So if Urban Legend is a rip-off of Scream, well then Scream is a rip-off of all the other horror films that preceded it. I think that you folks need to lighten up and just have fun with these types of movies. So don't listen to anyone to anyone who bad mouths this movie because it is a very good movie (I take horror movies very seriously) I've seen Urban Legend four times!  "},{"Title":"You know the story about the really bad movie?  It's true!","Date":"6 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Think Scream, only not clever, and you've got Urban Legend.  This film would love for you to believe that everybody owns a parka, a frail-looking girl can lift an extremely heavy looking man, and the same girl sounds strikingly masculine on the phone.  Even the gimmick was pointless; the urban legend that a stalker calls from inside the house was used more than once in Scream and Scream 2, and the idea of a murderer going after a babysitter was the entire theme of Holloween.  What's worse, the ending is a complete disappointment, because there was absolutely no reason for the movie to have happened in the first place (why stalk the protagonist?  why kill all those random people at all?).  To sum it up  ugh. "},{"Title":"Good Escapist Entertainment","Date":"6 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  You have to have a certain mindset when going to see a slasher film be it from the 80's or 90's.  You can't be expecting high-art or even an entirely believable execution.  Scream was one of those slasher films that surprised everyone because it was far better than what most people were expecting. Urban Legend was the latest slasher film to surprise me.  I went into the film with very low expectations and came out of the theatre thoroughly entertained.  The movie was never boring, unlike the majority of I Know What You Did Last Summer and the middle of Scream 2.  The movie followed the simple rule of maintaining a consistently high body count in order to keep boredom from setting in.  I believe their was at least one death every 10-15 minutes.  The deaths were creative and twisted, the characters were amusing, and the guessing game was fun.  The killer was unbelievable, but was at least more interesting than the killers in IKWYDLS or Scream 2. If you like slasher films you'll enjoy Urban Legend.  Just go with some friends, bet on who the killer is about 1/4 way through and enjoy the slayings. "},{"Title":"Give me a break","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, I realize that many high schoolers in the theatre were excited by seeing their Dawson's Creek and My So-Called Life stars on the screen, but this is, by far, the most over-cliched piece of garbage I have seen in a long time.  The plot was thin, writing was bad, and acting was worse.  And what was up with every cast member having the same stupid coat!?!  I can't say that Scream is the king of all horror movies, but compared to this one, it sure seems like it. "},{"Title":"The movie's ok, but nothing special.","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend is a bland horror movie.  With room to be so much more, it turns out to be a big revenge plot.  (Don't worry, you would have figured it out 15 minutes into the movie anyway.)  Otherwise, the murders are boring, though its fun to check off legends that you knew were true. "},{"Title":"Don't listen to the cynical views make your own mind.....","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban legend had some incredible acts to follow and I think it exceeded many people's expectations. A lot of people were expecting a lot different and I think it's great in that aspect. It's going to be ranked highly in amongst the 90's re-invented horror genre. I really don't think you can compare this sort of genre to the previous horror eras as it's incredibly different and incredibly difficult to please such a cynical audience who expect so much but this film will please a lot of people as, even though the genre and subject is not fresh, slots highly into the new cult films. Go see it........ "},{"Title":"Trust This","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The film is very interesting.  It keeps you interested throughout the whole film.  You can never guess the killer, and the legends are all phat to see come to life.  I like this film and the director. This is the movie to take your girlfriend to for a old time fright night.  Everyone should check this movie out. "}{"Title":"just got back from seeing Urban Legend - SURPRISE this movie is worth seeing!","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I know it looks kind of cheesy, and it didn't do too well with the critics, but what do they know?  If you're looking to have a good time at the movies GO SEE URBAN LEGEND!!!  It's a thriller, sure, but it's got some great comedy in it (both intentional and unintentional) and it's a pretty good story.  I highly recommend it, just take it likely and don't be too critical - it's NOT one of the greatest works of art - but it's fun!  Now I'm just worried about all those nightmares I'm gonna have... "},{"Title":"Trust This","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The film is very interesting.  It keeps you interested throughout the whole film.  You can never guess the killer, and the legends are all that you see come to life.  I like this film and the director. This is the movie to take your girlfriend to for an old time fright night.  Everyone should check this movie out. "},{"Title":"A predictable, though moderately enjoyable, rip off of Scream - except not as good.","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I went to go see this movie on opening night, excited for what I thought would be a horror movie of Scream proportions. After all, the plot of a killer utilizing urban legends to off his victims is brilliant. I left the theatre pleased with the movie I'd seen, but disappointed at how much better it could have been. This is definately one of those movies that seems worse and worse the more you think about it.The main problem with this movie is it tries so hard to be Scream that the story becomes tedious. The movie revolves almost solely around Alicia Witt's character, making her akin to Neve Campbell's Sidney. The problem here is that the deaths occuring in the movie are much closer related to Alicia's character. You can't help but stop and ask, If all your friends are dying off why are you staying in this freaky college? Alicia's character degenerates to being a paranoid, whinny, annoying presence.Another problem from having the movie revolve around Alicia Witt is that the other characters in the movie are way overshadowed. You never get the sense of who the other characters are. In Scream, you got to know Randy's (Jamie Kennedy) character very well. The same goes for I know what you did last summer.Finally, the movie is extremely predictable. I saw it with two of my friends and we each had the killer pinned half way through the movie. Its also very obvious who's going to die, making the only interesting part how they're going to die. Contrary to the movie's title, not all the deaths appear to be based on urban legends, and most of the ones that are turn out very lame. There is only one really good urban legend killing, and that's the very first one you see (which is probably the best part of the movie). The ending of the movie is also predictable, but is disturbingly appropriate nonetheless.All in all, this is Scream, except the killer isn't as interesting to look at, the deaths aren't as interesting, there's no mystery, its bloodier, there are more cheap scares, the characters are lamer, and the ending isn't as gratifying. On a horror movie scale of 1-10 (10 being Scream, 8 being I know..., and Jason goes to hell as 1) Urban Legend is probably a 6. If you're going to see this movie, try to get a discounted ticket. "},{"Title":"Sweet mother of...","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Let's get something straight  When a movie makes someone laugh more than scream, it's a comedy.  But if it was meant to be a horror movie, it means that it's a bad horror movie.  That is the case with 'Urban Legend', another slasher flick, ripped off from 'Scream'.  This movie was so lame it was funny.  It was not scary!  However it did startle the people next to me, but not for the reasons you may think.  You see, the camera is framed perfectly so that we don't see what's behind the person.  Then the person will turn around because she thinks someone is there, but everyone is happy there isn't.  Then when she turns back around and- Good God!- it's Joshua from Dawson's creek.  How she didn't see him coming down the hallway before she turned around is beyond me!And then we have the killer.  Someone dressed up as an Eskimo. I'm aware of many of the Urban Legends that are mentioned in the movie and none of them have anything to do with arctic natives. The one thing I do like about this movie  it fits right into the category of 'slasher' movie.  I will quote a line from the movie 'Scream'  It's just about a big breasted girl who can't act getting chased by some psycho in a mask, and she runs up the stairs when she should run outside! It's insulting!  End quote. And I will say that the acting sucked, although one of them did an okay job.  How many people can say a line like, It's like someone knows all the urban legends and wants to turn them into reality!,  without giggling?  But here, this quote, also from the movie 'Scream', helps define what I think of this movie What's the point? "},{"Title":"A pale, derivative Scream wannabe","Date":"2 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The movie Scream was a hip, humorous homage to the slasher films of the 80's. It's originality came from the fact that it winked at itself, it's predecessors and the audience. Urban Legends also tries to pay homage -- to Scream.  It's got the same elements A young, good-looking heroine; an intrepid reporter; some wry allusions to popular culture; a serial killer who seems to know his victims' every thought before they do. But instead of doing something original with these elements, the film instead feeds us stale cliches, like a creepy janitor who startles people when they turn around (with aid from the film-maker in the form of sudden music and white flashes).The story begins with a promising, suspenseful murder. But once the action moves to Pendleton University, it collapses under its own weight.  An hour of suffering through the contrived, patchwork scenes full of stilted dialogue convinced me that the writer was making it up as he went along, and moreover, that he'd never been to an American college.  This is a school with one security guard, one dean, one professor, one student reporter and a huge building whose sole purpose seems to be to provide a good place for a murder.Instead of ending after the obligatory climactic party scene, the film runs from set to set for another half an hour, piling up murders and red herrings.  Even if plot and character are beside the point in a slasher flick, you know it's in trouble if it's _boring_.  "},{"Title":"Not a solid performance for anyone except for Brad Dourif.","Date":"2 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I walked into this movie expecting it to be a good thriller but that's not what I got. Instead, I got a horrible excuse for a horror film. The whole cast sucks and none of the characters were believable. The only believable performance was Brad Dourif's very short cameo in the beginning. He really put fear into the beginning which was the only good part in the whole film. Dourif's part is the only reason you should go see this so-called horror film. "},{"Title":"Wait, maybe that was SCREAM, nope, it was Urban Legend","Date":"2 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Probably one of the coolest opening sequences for a horror movie in a looooong time. After that though, break out the horror textbook and follow along. (Apparently the screenwriters did) This was not a bad movie. Predictable? Definitely! Bad? Not really. Scream 3? Is that the subtitle? It should be. I totally ruined the movie for my wife I suppose, because I correctly predicted each sequence before it happened, who the killer was, and the entire ending about 30 mins into the film. (That's because I'm rather slow. Most of my patrons were calling out this info earlier than that when I begrudgingly went to see it the second time with The Boys. I'd wait for the video on this one. You won't miss out on a thing, but it is worth watching when there's nothing else to do, and your copy of SCREAM and SCREAM 2 is still over your friends house. "},{"Title":"GREAT IDEA, BUT....","Date":"2 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Ever been to a movie that was not bad but could have easily been great? Well, you know exactly how I felt walking out of Urban Legend.  It was easy to see that the movie was going for a SCREAM quality, but unfortunately comes up short (mostly due to the writing, I believe).  The premise of an Urban Legend serial killer is super (I mean, who out there doesn't believe that eating Pop-Rocks and drinking Soda is a very bad idea), because everyone knows so many of these legends.  It's very easy to become involved in a movie that plays upon popular beliefs, because the viewers all have a common framework to reference.  Unfortunately, this movie doesn't deliver much more than a few mediocre screams.  I'd have given it a lower score if Robert Englund wasn't in the film.  The film earns at least a one point bonus for having Freddy in the cast... "},{"Title":"The most unoriginal movie of the year.","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Well I haven't got much to say about this film. It was very unoriginal. The killer dresses just like the one in I Know What You Did Last Summer. There's all kinds of inside jokes just like in Scream. Also similar to Scream is who done it style. Only problem is, after almost the whole cast has been killed it's pretty obvious who the killer is. The whole premise is stolen from I Know..., in I Know the killer is based on one urban legend, the killer with the hook, but this movie just uses all the other one. The only good thing about this movie, I didn't have to pay to see it. "},{"Title":"Horror? Not even close!","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, let me ask you this, WHAT EVER HAPPENED TO TRUE HORROR?!!! It was simply replaced by today's, so called, horror movies like Scream, and I Know What you did last summer. They hire teens that are from Dawson's Creek and on the covers of teenage girl magazines so the kids will cough up their money to see the movies. So why do these new movies ALWAYS have to take place at a college or have to do with teens?!!! All of this puts true horror to shame. These movies, which people think are scary, are lame, and utterly tame compared to true horror movies like The Evil Dead, Phantasm, Halloween, and Night of the Living Dead. Now these movies are the true terrifiers. As Far as Urban Legend Goes, IT DOESN'T COME CLOSE!!! "}{"Title":"Great entertainment, good plot, kind of predictable","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend was a very GOOD movie-not GREAT. I would recommend this movie because it provides great entertaiment. It is a definite shocker. Plot was good. The one downfall of this movie however was that it almost seemed to mimic SCREAM in its presentation. My vote 7 of 10. "},{"Title":"ho hum","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  There was Scream. Followed by I Know What You Did Last Summer. Then came Scream 2. Then this....Ho Hum, another lets-slaughter-a-bunch-of-teenage-girls movie. Nothing special, nothing that stands out. Average filmgoer fare.But I did learn one thing... women seem to run slower when chased by someone wielding an axe.  What might motivate them more than certain death?  Maybe a sale at Macy's.I'm surprised that this sort of garbage is still being marketed to us. "},{"Title":"This movie was so smooth!!","Date":"29 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I thought that this movie was so smooth! It took me a while to figure out who it was and even then I couldn't think of a reason! It kept me on the edge of my seat! I screamed and jumped the whole way through!! Really good movie! "},{"Title":"Such a waste of a good premise...","Date":"29 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film had so much potential, and that's why it's such a let down.  I really can't see how anyone might've found this very entertaining.  There are only two really good murder sequence, and one's the prologue.  The movie just gradually got more and more ridiculous as the minutes went on, and the climax and ending are just plain idiotic.  The atmosphere's pretty creepy, but a good horror movie is only as good as the writing.  And since the writing was awful, well you know the rest.  "},{"Title":"Mediocre slasher movie with only a few moments.","Date":"29 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Critics will of course compare this movie to Scream.  Scream it is not, but it is more along the lines of I Know What You Did Last Summer.  The premise of Urban Legend sounded so good to me, but the screenplay really should have been worked on more.  The problem with the movie is that there are too many jump scares(with music) that get tiring after about the third one.  After a great opening scene, the movie goes south a little.  Most of the characters are uninteresting.  It would be even worse if Robert Englund wasn't in the movie.  It doesn't pick up until the end.  Do I hear sequel? "},{"Title":"Not just another horror flick...","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Using the formula that made the Scream series a success, Urban Legend (henceforth known as UL) mimics the general idea of the over-obsessed killer.  Instead of a killer fascinated with scary movies, this killer is more interested in bring urban legends to life. Though, unlike Scream, which brought together a lot of famous actors, UL takes actors who are just making a name for themselves (with the exception of course being Robert England, who has already established himself as a Grade A actor.) Aside from maybe a little overacting in the last two minutes of the movie, all the actor do an excellent job.  The writer threw in so many red herrings that the plot will keep you guessing. Although the movie is produced by the same people who produced I Know What You Did Last Summer, don't let that scare you away.  Some people seem to clump this generation's horror movies together, but UL is nothing like IKWYDLS.  UL keeps you entertained with excellent recreations of the urban legends we've all heard, instead of just showing victim after victim being killed by a man with a hook. If you're a fan or urban legends, or real-life horror/who-dun-it movies, then this is a high recommendation.  What I mean by real-life horror is a movie like Scream, which doesn't rely on supernatural elements (such as movies like Halloween, Hellraiser, Friday the 13th, etc...) If you're just looking for guts and gore, or an hour and a half of a heroin running from a ghostly killer who comes back to life in every sequel, look into one of the three movies in the sentence above.  But if you want entertainment, suspense, and violence without all the mess, then check out Urban Legend. "},{"Title":"Scary horror film with an intriguing premise","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Many are sure to dismiss this film as a pure Scream run-off.  While it does contain the same referential humor as that 1996 hit, Urban Legend contains a hidden plot that will surprise you when you think about it.  It's actually quite well written.  And, without spoiling anything, I will say that the singular form of the title is appropriate and does have a purpose in the film.  When you see it, you will understand.  Overall, this is a very good scary movie.  Full of jumps, chills, and screams, you will have a great time while enjoying some good acting (occasionally over the top, but I'm certain the actors meant to go over the top) and a smart plot.  Of course, don't pretend you can't think during this one... it actually does require you to se your mental abilities.  Check this one out... it's sure to make its mark in the slasher/postmodernistic era of that genre. "},{"Title":"See this movie!! It was great!!","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend was just the movie I was looking for. It was scary and kept me jumping and guessing all the time. This movie creates an excellent twist on all those urban legends you heard and told as a kid.You will love it. And you will never guess the end!! IT WAS AWESOME!!!  "},{"Title":"The decline of the Modern Horror Film","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Well Since I have to get ready for work I'll make this somewhat short. Urban Legends suffers from the same affliction as I know What You Did Last Summer Let's just get a group of perfect teens and turn everything upside down by having un-imaginative death scenes, while trying to fool the movie goer into thinking the killer is everyone except the one person it is. We see none of the originality that Scream brought back to horror movies. We don't even get the campy, more comical than scary feel that films like  A Nightmare on Elm Street and Childs Play were so popular because of. Instead we walk away from these films feeling empty, nothing gained, not even a good time could be had. When movies are made for the sole purpose of making money, everyone is at a loss in the end! "},{"Title":"ultra cool no-brainer","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Just to preface this,I am biased toward this new wave of neo-brat pack slasher flicks.  This premise is much more intriguing than Scream but the story behind it could have been better.  The writers did a good job stuffing as many legends in as they could.  I could see how some killings could look random if you aren't well versed in some of the lesser known legends.  The scenery is well scripted and the cast does an excellent job with the story they have to work with.  Two good things about the film I didn't have a good idea who the bad guy was until it was revealed, maybe I'm dumb, secondly the movie was entertaining enough for me to not realize what was wrong with the story until after I left the theater.  Bottom line, if you liked Scream go see UL; if you didn't like Scream, you'll hate UL.  "}{"Title":"Another teen slasher for the 90's.","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend, a movie that promised to deliver big, but just seemed to be another teen slasher flick. The opening sequence is kind of cool, but other than that, nothing really happens in the film. An average movie fare, that just seems to be another Kevin Williamson rip off. Aside from the murder sequences being Urban Legends, this film is just another Scream look alike. "},{"Title":"Urban Legend is only a 'scream' apart!","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend was funny, exciting, scary and interesting. A good horror with an interesting twist, although resembles 'Scream' actually made itself worthy of a separate film. Its a little too early to complain about it, but the audience seemed to love it!! "},{"Title":"Bad Ending","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The scare factor in this movie was good, but the whole movie was ruined with the totally unbelievable ending.  I understand that there is a lot of money to be made in sequels, but ruining the original movie to leave yourself open for a sequel is absolutely not worth it.  Maybe one of these days the studios will realize that also... "},{"Title":"Love it","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  As many adults may think, Urban Legend is NOT a takeoff of scream, or I know what you did last summer.  This was a creative movie, that I enjoyed.  Being a teen, (most likely who this was intended for) I found that this movie had all the necessities Horror, comedy, romance.  I thought that all the characters were great, and talented, and that the plot was wonderful!  I most liked...well, I liked all of it!!  The ending was a clever twist.    I would recommend it to anyone!  (and I'm sorry, If you think that 'halloween' is a great movie, and should rent it in place of seeing this....(as many people have suggested) You are greatly mistaken, because Halloween was about the stupidist movie I have ever seen- no offense to the makers, i loved the newest one!) "},{"Title":"typical but fun scary movie","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I love horror movies.  When I go to the theaters to see one, I am not expecting a revolutionary, groundbreaking film experience.  This is definitely one that brings nothing new to the life of the horror movie than an interesting premise.  I have read Ebert's review of the movie and discovered that I strongly agree with him on the movie's sole reliance on the clang effect for making the audience jump.  It's where the camera is close up on the character's faces and the viewer knows something is going to happen,  tension rises, and then...CLANG.  Everyone jumps and maybe the killer is there or maybe he isn't.  After an hour of clangs I stopped jumping.  Still, the ride is fun.  The movie is interesting until the end. I was a little disappointed in the way the ending evolved and concluded. But what can you do?  Most horror movies end badly, but this one has your stereotypical somebody's-gone-over-the-deep-end individual who needs to exact revenge.  Audience members have seen this ploy repeated way too often ever since Jason's mother appeared on the screen.  Either way I recommend this movie for  at least being an above average horror movie.  And when you leave the theater at night, be sure to check the back seat. Ciao. "},{"Title":"A truly honest reaction...","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I once heard an urban legend.  Around my hometown, we had an urban legend where movies which were takeoffs of more popular movies were actually worth paying movie admission for.  Of course, Spaceballs, one of my personal favs, didn't exactly fit the fit the price of a good theatre seat, but was pretty good for a dollar rental. Urban Legend is the movie to break the streak.        The movie is a standard who done it?, hack and slash movie with the underlying story taken from Scream, the plot a takeoff of I Know What You Did Last Summer and the plot twists resembling Wild Things. While I tried to take my eyes off the Claire Danes look-a-like on screen, I attempted to figure out who the killer was.  The only reason I couldn't figure it out had to do with the revealing material the Sydney Prescott wanna be was wearing. A brief appearance was made by Robert Englund, or Freddy Kruger as we know him better as.  Also Danielle Harris, the hot chick who played Molly, a girl that lived next door from Darlene on the TV show Rosanne, has a minor roll as a poser, err goth.  Lastly Joshua Jackson from Dawson's Creek makes a brief appearance accomplishing nothing. The only good thing about this movie is the ending, which made me vote it a 9.  For those of you looking for a good movie with all the right moves then this is it.  Since Titanic, no movie that has targeted the teenage audience been so good.  Leonardo, eat your heart out.  Wait...I think I remember a story once about a guy....  "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"26 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw Urban Legend and it is one of the best in years. All the way through the movie, the old, tired, stupid legends get fresh updated features that make your skin crawl in fright. The writing is kind of campy but the action makes up for it. Plus, an extra bonus. The ending! You think you figured out who is the killer(s) and the usual sweet ending, but the BAM! it changes and you want to stand up and cheer. This movie belongs up at the top with Scream. "},{"Title":"predictable","Date":"26 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Despite all common sense, when I first heard its premise and actors, I had high hopes for this film.  It had a really good idea going for it and there hadn't been any good horror movies recently.  Then I saw the ads and started to realize that it would be just another Scream rip-off.  I figured that would be okay if it was half as scary and funny.The bottom line is that this movie is not scary and anyone with half a brain can guess who the killer is.  The characters are dull and most of the writing is very weak.There are some entertaining scenes and an occasional witty remark, but alas, this is a big disappointment.Finally, the ending abandons all realism to unsuccessfully add a good final twist.       "},{"Title":"Better than Scream","Date":"26 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  After a drought of decent cult horror flicks, the late 90s have aptly provided a nice collection of scary movies.  BUT I think Urban Legend has done the absolute best in living up to reputation.  If you're in college or ever heard the stories in this movie then you can not help but to jump out of your seat on occasion and absolutely become absorbed in the storyline. This movie is the best horror so far! "},{"Title":"A couple screams and a few laughs.","Date":"26 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend is an okay film if you come in with low expectations.  It is basically a knock-off (like so many others) of Scream.  The writers did do a pretty good job of keeping you guessing till the very end about the identity of the killer.  Some of the few highlights are humourous references to the actors' other projects.  How many did you catch? "}{"Title":"Not bad at all.","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This spin-off of Scream is the most original slasher film since that, telling the tale of a serial killer making urban legends become real on a college campus. Scary and entertaining, though higly predictable (you could guess the killer, the victims and the survivors off the top of your head). Good performances by Alicia Witt, Joshua Jackson and Rebecca Gayheart, although Jared Leto seemed a bit stiff. A nice scary movie that is very enjoyable. Make sure to buy popcorn for this one! "},{"Title":"Exciting at first, then not so much...","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  While every writer in Hollywood is out to be the next Kevin Williamson, only a few can make it to the big screen. This is the case with Urban Legend. If you haven't seen any movie written by Kevin Williamson, I'd be interested to know what you thought of this movie, because most people have been Screamed out by now.I was more interested in seeing the older stars than the younger stars. John Neville of The X-Files has a prominent role as the dean of the school. Robert Englund plays a professor. And Brad Dourif has an uncredited appearance in the opening credits of the film, one of the best scenes, as a gas station attendant. If you're going to see the movie for any reason, see it for these stars. They saved the movie for me and are the only reason I'd ever watch the movie again. "},{"Title":"A suspenseful shocker","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised at how good Urban Legend was.  As a matter of fact, I enjoyed it even more than I liked Scream, Scream 2, and I Know What You Did Last Summer.  I really didn't know what to expect, but I was impressed with every aspect of the movie, especially the cast.  Rebecca Gayheart makes a better impression here than she did with her thankless bimbo role in Scream 2, and Tara Reid does for her character Sasha what Rose McGowan did for Tatum in the original Scream. Her cat-and-mouse chase scene with the killer was a nail-biter! Of the guys, Jared Leto was a likable hero and Joshua Jackson did a fine job with his prankster role. This movie is a genuine treat, and just in time for October and Halloween!  "},{"Title":"Better than I Know What You Did...","Date":"24 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The movie Urban Legend is about as good as you could expect during this latest renaissance of horror that was spawned by the popularity of Scream. It is certainly not as good as the Scream movies but it is definitely better than HalloweenH20 and I Know What You Did Last Summer. The movie earns marks for morecreative killings than is usually found in these movies. Not the deranged madman with a knife or ax that hacks away indiscriminately at any teenager that comes along. It keeps you entertained as it goes along but relies too heavily on jump tactics. It also is kind of a letdown when the killer is finally revealed. I didn't mind it's costume of the furry collared parka. It reminded me of the poster for John Carpenter's The Thing. It is much better than that stupid fisherman get-up in I Know What You Did... which was not in the least bit scary. The one curious thing is thecasting of this movie. I wasn't surprised seeing Joshua Jackson, Robert Englund, or Rebecca Gayheart in this film but Alicia Witt, Jared Leto, and John Neville!! I guess actors have to act. All in all this one should dojust as well as the recent offerings but I'm not going to hold my breath waiting for a sequel.  "},{"Title":"Better than I Know What You Did...","Date":"24 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The movie Urban Legend is about as good as you could expect during this latest renaissance of horror that was spawned by the popularity of Scream. It is certainly not as good as the Scream movies but it is definitely better than HalloweenH20 and I Know What You Did Last Summer.The movie earns marks for more creative killings than is usually found in these movies. Not the deranged madman with a knife or ax that hacks away indiscriminately at any teenager that comes along.It keeps you entertained as it goes along but relies too heavily on jump tactics. It also is kind of a letdown when the killer is finally revealed. I didn't mind it's costume of the furry collared parka. It reminded me of the poster for John Carpenter's The Thing. It is much better than that stupid fisherman get-up in I Know What You Did... which was not in the least bit scary.The one curious thing is the casting of this movie. I wasn't surprised seeing Joshua Jackson, Robert Englund, or Rebecca Gayheart in this film but Alicia Witt, Jared Leto, and John Neville!! I guess actors have to act.All in all this one should do just as well as the recent offerings but I'm not going to hold my breath waiting for a sequel.  "},{"Title":"Finally, a scary horror movie.","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Maybe it's because I wasn't expecting it to be particularily good. Maybe it's because I wasn't scared by Scream (loved Scream, but wasn't scared). But, I found Urban Legend to be beyond my expectations. The theatre was full of people jumping and screaming.My friend and I especially loved the little comments made about each of the actors (the Dawson's Creek song for Joshua Jackson was well timed).I still gauge Nightmare on Elm Street and Friday the 13th as two of the scariest movies I've ever seen, but I did enjoy this and I did scream. "},{"Title":"The Best Horror film....","Date":"20 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film is amazing, scary, entertaining. Has a  stunning cast and a brilliant script. Exceptional performance by Joshua Jackson. 100/10 "},{"Title":"Next time a creepy guy asks you to come inside at a gas station... by God you will!","Date":"2 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Cleverely cashing in on the 'Teen Slasher' craze of the 1990's following in the wake of successful films such as Scream, Scream 2 and I Know What You Did Last Summer, the creators of Urban legend hopped on the band wagon with aspirations of making another blood and guts and twist-and-turns slasher film by evoking the infamous urban legends into a storyline set on a college campus where a series of murders appear to replicate popular urban legends - with the murderer suspected to be a student living on campus. And this they did... and Urban legends for the most part is a great film, full of suspense and clever twists and manages to keep you guessing and as paranoid as the characters in the film. But it is ruined towards the end by an unlikely conclusion and a stupid ending; the end products of a Titanic that just steamed ahead and sunk before it reached it's destination.Like many cynics, I approached this film not expecting a whole lot. Despite being a huge fan of the horror genre, and in particular, slashers, too often a time have I been disappointed, and found myself violated even, by an absolutely atrocious and dumb slasher film - and there are many! The list would exceed the length of my arm. But Urban legend was an exception... the majority of it, anyway. With a superb opening, involving - SOMEONE'S IN THE BACK SEAT - that sent such chills down my spine, this looked on it's way to be a great one. But could it hold up? For an hour at least... and then it began to get predictable I thought... but was it? After messing around with our heads for awhile, Silvio Horta then delivered his final twist - which essentially ruined the whole picture! I don't' know, maybe it was just me, but I just found the identity of the killer to be a complete let down and an insult to the audience. It was pathetic really, and the ending was just oh so typical. And thats how a film showing such potential and class all through, even managing to have me biting my knuckles and sitting on the edge of my seat, ended up with a rating of just 4. Sporting a great cast that includes Jared Leto (The Thin Red Line, Requeim For a Dream) in a brilliant performance as the live-in journalist who rats around the campus looking for clues and information regarding the murders, and an event known as the Stanley Hall Massacre which is an urban myth in itself - did it happen or not? on the campus all them many years ago. Tara Reid from American Pie also stars, alongside Alicia Witt and best of all - Robert Englund - Freddy Krueger! - in a brilliant performance as Prof. Wexler. Also starring is the very familiar Julian Richings, a creepy, charismatic guy who you'll recognise no problem if you see him in anything else. He plays the 'weird janitor', and when asked how long he's been working on the campus, his abrupt reply is Too damn long!. Maybe it was because they were the first words he spoke in the film, but that had me in stitches. That, and the deans remarks about the whereabouts of a missing student - He is probably shacked up in some motel somewhere with a girl - or a boy... or a farm animal! Weren't you ever eighteen? A decent film for the most part, but I just found the last fifteen minutes to be god-awful, and enough for me to drop it down to a rating of 4. A real shame... albeit it did have me looking over my shoulder when I was in the car for a few nights afterwards! "},{"Title":"Jumping on the 90's teen slasher bandwagon&#x85;","Date":"27 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" &#x85;Fantastic! This is almost the perfect film for any slasher film fan to sit down at watch if there's a couple of hours to kill.There's jumps, scares, some great death scenes (opening scene one of the best I've seen), will keep you guessing, not only who the killer is, but also on the 'urban legend' the killer is about to use to kill their victim.Really, to summarise this film, if you like scream, you'll like this, if not, then you won't&#x85; simples! "},{"Title":"Watch this - no possibility of regret","Date":"12 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I think the prerogative of a movie is to entertain, and this movie fulfilled it pretty well. Despite having some plot holes during it's performance, Urban Legend makes you get yourself involved into the mystery.If you take this movie to a serious side waiting for some innovation, you'll be certainly frustrated. It's even kind of clichéd sometimes, since it involves teenagers who wants to party, drink, have fun and forget about the rest.Totally worth watching, surely will entertain you and your friends without any commitment with moral lessons - a very modern and boring item in horror movies these days. "}{"Title":"Good slasher flick.","Date":"6 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Nothing special here. We have a group of teens, a killer in a big jacket, some nice bloodshed, a dash of romance, and a twist that's only revealed in the last 20 minutes. A lot of people criticize this movie for being a pointless slasher with no real scares, and if you're one of those people who only like movies like The Texas Chainsaw Massacre or Halloween and think everything else is trash, stay away from this one. But, if you're like me, and can enjoy films that are certainly not classics but yet still provide a good dose of entertainment, you should watch this film. It suffers a little from the acting of the lead female, Alicia Witt, but that's tolerable. Just don't go in expecting to be blown away or terrified. "},{"Title":"Underrated 90s slasher flick","Date":"5 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" URBAN LEGEND is a slick, original, underrated slasher film from 1998. I find it an extremely effective addition to the horror genre. The monster success of SCREAM (1996) brought with it a resurgence of the teen horror slasher genre that had such success in the late 70s and 80s. URBAN LEGEND is the first one to come out after SCREAM. It is a simplistic tale told with solid doses of mystery, humor, and flair. An unseen figure in a parka is killing off students at the college campus of Pendleton, using ideas from urban legends to pull off the killings.The start of URBAN LEGEND is very scary and interesting as college student Michele Mancini (played by Natasha Gregson Wagner) is driving late at night and pulls over at a gas station run by a spooky attendant (veteran actor Brad Dourif who's done a lot of spooky roles). While Michele thinks the attendant is about to accost her and maces him to get away, he actually was trying to warn her that someone was in her backseat, our film's killer. Michele is killed.Cut to Pendleton College campus where we meet the film's 6 protagonists Paul, Natalie, Brenda, Damon, Parker, Sasha (played respectively by Jared Leto, Alicia Witt, Rebecca Gayheart, Joshua Jackson, Michael Rosenbaum, and Tara Reid). They all seem to have a fun fascination with urban legends, but when they find Michele is killed, Natalie (the film's lead) takes it to another level and thinks there is more than meets the eye. But no one believes her. The campus dean doesn't want negative publicity (25 years before, there was a mass murder at one of the men's dorms).Actually more than the typical teen horror flick, it is a great forerunner to the the 21st century, with the 'urban legend' twist. It's one of those movies that has a high re-watchability factor. It's nice to pick up on clues that you might not have seen the first couple times. Also in the flick are Loretta Devine (very funny as campus security chief Reese) and Mr. Robert Englund (Freddy Krueger himself!) playing a college professor (rather well, actually). A solid horror flick. "},{"Title":"Just a Joy to watch, as a horror fan!!!","Date":"1 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" With its fascinating deaths, that are scary, but not all to gory, its superb storyline (This is a horror movie, people!), Its great acting, for a horror movie especially, and its twists, turns, whodunits and everything makes for a fascinating and suspenseful fright-fest.The movie does use Suspense tactics a lot, it might seem, but it is effective, so who can argue against them? It isn't slow moving, but yes, it does take some time to introduce some sort of middle section, fill in the plot a little, and add some character depth, instead of just skipping from death scene to death scene. It is similar to The Scream Series in that it is scary, centers mildly obnoxious teens, good deaths, good story, original and not just another Axe movie. So, if it does sort of resemble that, good job to the director for picking that movie to resemble!!!The movie is scary and starts of good with a very suspenseful scene! It moves on to a suspenseful movie and a twist you probably would not expect! I don't want to spoil any of the movie, it wouldn't be as good then!The actors are great! From the main stars to the supporting cast, they all are great! Rebecca Gayheart really pulls her role of, showing she is a mentionable actress, as seen here!The deaths aren't exactly all that New, per-say, but they do leave some lasting effects, and are pretty suspenseful and scary!Do yourself a favor as a horror fan...or not, and rent this, buy this, whatever, just watch this movie!!!!!!I gave it a eight out of ten, great! "},{"Title":"Brilliant movie, great storyline","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Begins off very typically, a girl in a car, thunderstorms and radio on. When she comes to a gas station. The suspicious attendant gets her out of the car saying the credit card company is on the phone. When she goes inside and realises no-one is really on the phone she breaks off and drives off in her car crying. The next thing you hear is the gas attendant screaming Someones in the back seat! Then you just see an axe swing towards her in the car and the window smashes.... It continues to a typical American university where all characters are discussing the terrible murder. Only it wasn't an exception, people keep dying. One of the main characters used to know the girl who got murdered only she doesn't want to be questioned so keeps it to herself. She realises that the kills are following a deadly pattern and the murders are all in the style of various Urban Legends! As the number of characters go down, it becomes unclear who the true killer is, until the last scene which is very thought out and unexpected! A movie well worth watching, I was terrified when I first watched it. Ignore negative comments. THIS IS A BRILLIANT MOVIE! "},{"Title":"Painfully bad","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This film is bad. It was inspired by a film that in my opinion was equally as bad (Like my spelling). Good old fashioned American (Surprise, surprise) teen slasher film, a genre that was a bad idea from the begging, and is only scary for people who sleep with the light on and or don't understand fear. This film is cheap and dull and should have gone straight to video/DVD, but as usual Hollywood producers were still on a high from the undeserved success of SCREAM and thought they were on to a money maker. And this is what the next generation of filmmakers aspire to??? lord give me strength!!!!! I'm a keen filmwriter and If I ever write a film like this or any other teen slasher film from the recent past I will die ashamed and embarresed.In case you haven't realized I didn't like this film!!! "},{"Title":"A basic teen slasher movie that's just slightly above the rest of the pack.","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  URBAN LEGEND is the story of a college campus invaded by a serial killer. (Sound familiar?) Among the students at this college are Paul (Jared Leto), Natalie (Alicia Witt), Brenda (Rebecca Gayheart), and Sasha (Tara Reid). However, this serial killer has a bit of a different intention. He/she kills people by way of old urban legends that were never really true... until now.Although the premise of URBAN LEGEND is much more interesting and original than that of most teen slasher movies, it's still a very mediocre movie. Some of the actors, i.e. Alicia Witt and Jared Leto, are actually good actors, but they're given nothing to work with and thus don't show their talent. The screenplay is bad and at times even ridiculous, especially Natalie's flashback sequence and the scene in which the killer confesses his/her motive. Speaking of which, those scenes are total cliches, and there are many more of those horror film cliches present in this movie, including the helpless, defenseless girls who get killed, the inevitable hookup, and the crazy old man at the gas station.However, this movie does have a couple of good points. The premise, as I said, is pretty intriguing and original, and there are a couple of good twists in the plot. One minute you're convinced that one person did it, then your mind gets changed in a matter of minutes. The ending, too, is somewhat clever and almost chilling, surprisingly.A couple of good points can't save URBAN LEGEND, however. It's another teen slasher flick that's slightly above the rest of the pack, but still very mediocre. Jared Leto's hot though. 5/10. "},{"Title":"A Scary Horror Movie!","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I heard about this movie from a group of my friends. They said it was pretty scary, and that it has Robert Englund (I am a diehard A Nightmare On Elm street Fan) so that sealed the deal. I immediatly went to my local Blockbuster and rented the movie. I expected to watch the movie and see something I had seen before, a run of the mill horror movie with ANOTHER lame slasher. What I got was a movie that really was scary, bizzare, and had (some) likeable characters. The movie is about a college where students are starting to be murdered. One of the students there starts to relate all of the murders to Urban Legend. Mayhem ensues!Do not expect Oscar winning material, just expcet one hell of a horror movie! "},{"Title":"Awesome slasher!","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I never thought this movie would be as good as it was. All of my friends talked about this movie for years, telling me to see it. Well, last night I finally did, and I was very impressed. The film is actually quite creepy. The opening sequence is terrifying which is bound to become a classic scene.URBAN LEGEND is another teen slasher flick which was inspired by all those other recent horror flicks such as SCREAM, which everyone considers to be the grandfather of recent horror films. Well, let me tell you that URBAN LEGEND isn't far behind that one.The killer's identity will have you slapping yourself and have you screaming Why didn't I know that's who it was?. I do not look forward to seeing the sequel, because, as Jamie Kennedy said in SCREAM 2, Sequels suck!. So, see URBAN LEGEND and that's it. You will very impressed. URBAN LEGEND gets 5/5. "},{"Title":"THIS MOVIE ROCKZ!!!","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  this momie has it all the actors,scares,and kills, this movie is about a crazed urban legend serial killer that is hacking every student that comes in his way or has to with why he killing. this movie has all todays stars like tara reid,rebecca gaygeart,joshua jackson,jared leto,michael rosnbaum,alicia witt, and danniell harris.curious about which one of those actors will be slaughtered then see this movie!!!!! i give it 10.5/10imbd is the best "},{"Title":"A Neat Film","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Good Film. It Was Extremely Scary. Although it wasn't The Type of Scary That Could Drive Victims Mad, I Still Enjoyed It. I Mean, What Is It Lacking? We Have Beautiful Young Girls, Original Death Scenes, A Masked Killer, And Most Importantly we Have Stormy Weather. This Has all The Criteria of a Friday the 13th Film. A Must See For All Horror Fans. "}{"Title":"ONE OF THE BEST 90'S HORROR FILMS","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend in my opinion was better then Scream, I liked the characters better, and it was actually scary. It kept me really watching wondering what was going to happen next. Also Tara reid who played Sasha should be in more horror films, she was excellent, and she just has that look. You won't be disappointed if you buy this movie, though it will remind you of Scream and I Know What You Did Last Summer and ... well the list could go on and on, but still I give it a 10 for excellent cause it has a good story played by good actors. "},{"Title":"Disturbing","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  My wife likes this film and gave it a 7.  She found it disturbing.  The characters had a early 90's feel to it, it brought back memories when I was at the University, and the director does this in order to make the film unravel like a urban legend from the past.  The sub stories or legends make this film shine. If you are a fan of the Nightmare on Elm Street saga, you will see Freddy without the make up on. "},{"Title":"Strictly formula.","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The recent slasher films are certainly superior to their '80's predecessors in many departments above everything else, they are slicker, more professionally made packages. But Urban Legend's good production values and agreeable acting can't really disguise the fact that this is yet another retread of the familiar teen-slasher formula, completely lacking in originality. The direction is fair, and fast, but the script proceeds by-the-numbers, leading to a series of predictable surprises and to a preposterous climax.  The film IS slightly better than I Know What You Did Last Summer, mainly thanks to more vivid characters, but don't expect to be terrified.... (**) "},{"Title":"Stupid and boring and unscary","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A terrible teen slasher movie, with a good cast but little else. They should stop making teen slasher movies, they are dated and lame now. The worst thing about Urban Legend is the huge number of false alarm scares. If this had no false alarms I would have given it a 5, but seeing there are one too many (One being the maximum) I can only give this 2.5 because the actors tried their best yet failed miserably. "},{"Title":"Modern slasher offers little that is new.","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'm astonished by the massive number of IMDb users who speak plenty about slasher movies, old or new. My words will be fairly brief. URBAN LEGEND, unfortunately, is letting the fad-crazy genre put one foot in the grave again. Running like it's going to go on forever, it suffers tremendously from familiar old cliches that are overused throughout the program, and without any new horror-based elements to back it up. There are a couple of cool new twists and the acting is fairly decent, but overall, the film is another waste of production and distribution to hungry young audiences who demand surround sound. On an interesting note the climax brings up the femme fatale factor that is cordially missing in Hollywood today. Slasher fans can't go wrong with this one, but I'm getting very sick of these movies myself.   "},{"Title":"OMG was that bad","Date":"23 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Lame and stupid. The characters are so thin that a piece of white paper with a number would have been just the same. The story is predictable and the only twist it can menage is by stop making any goddamn sense. This is not really an horror, no supernatural element should be included here, which makes every scene damn unbelievable. The protagonist is annoying, downright stupid (she never, EVER gets it right, and I know some ten years old with more sense) and the movie tries to compensate the absolute lack of scariness by jumpscaring you for 1h and half. Just the same, old, useless teenage-slasher movie. To its honor, it kinds of tell you from the very beginning hey, I'm lame nd stupid like the lamest urban legend you happen to hear when you hang out with stupid folks! So, it's not a surprise. If you are twelve, or very sensitive, or you never watch scary movies, you MAY find this scary. If not, be prepared to one of the silliest pieces of crap ever put on the screen.But in the end I must say it IS kind of entertaining! It is so stupid, predictable, lame and trashy that it's kind of fun to watch. You got a night with friends, beer and taste for trash? This might be your movie. Sits down and enjoy the parade of clichés. Girl running-Killer walking but still keeping up with her... checked; Teenagers partying... checked; Horny teenagers... checked; Killer somehow foreseeing where the victim (randomly escaping in a very vast compound) will end... checked; Killer in the backseat... checked; Shall I go on? "},{"Title":"Urban Legend (1998)","Date":"31 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The usual late 90's slasher taht fails to advance on Scream's post-modern brilliance. In fairness, the idea is quite a good one, with scary urban legends becoming reality. It could have been a nice way for the film to comment on fears inherent in all of us, as urban legends tend to focus on one simple theme. I love to go on Snopes and read Urban Legends, and even knowing they aren't true, they can still unsettle me. For stories like this the mind is the greatest director, as it can create atmosphere and tension. Unfortunately, the film goes for simple slashings of college kids. There isn't a lot of tension and one can only imagine the screenwriters telling stories to each other as quickly as they could, rather than creating the dread. Fairly tame, and no where near as scary as the legends themselves. "},{"Title":"Dumbest film I've ever seen","Date":"2 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Things I've learned from watching Urban Legend. 1. A girl can be tied to her bed, beaten to death, her throat slit, and then her blood will spell out on the wall, aren't you glad you didn't turn the light on. The police will believe it's a suicide, not a murder.2. Police take murder very lightly.3. A murder and an unconfirmed suicide is no reason to increase security on campus.4. There's no way to differ between someone being murdered and someone having sex.5. Wearing a hooded jacket covers your face.6. If a guy at a gas station see's a murderer hiding behind the back seat of someone's car, he won't tell her until after she's driven off.7. A young, skinny teenage girl has the strength to murder a dozen men in two days.8. Being shot, and then thrown out of glass window from a tall building won't kill the murderer.9. College students in 1999 didn't have cell phones.10. The murderer will wait years to get revenge.11. At the end of the movie, the murderer will have enrolled in another college, and what she did will be considered an urban legend. Because unlike Columbine and Virginia Tech, the killing of a dozen students on a college campus wouldn't make national news.12. Also, the killing of 20 people on a college campus 20 years ago wouldn't be national news and a known fact, it would be an urban legend. "},{"Title":"One of my Favorite Horror Movies","Date":"9 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Urban Legend takes place at a college in New England. The atmosphere of the movie is a large part of what makes it so good. Picture a New England mansion while it's raining in the dark. That's the feel of the college - and inside a comfortable home like area where the central characters hang out. The beginning interactions with these friends make them all very believable and real. Not shallow or just there to scream, run and get killed. One of the classes is about urban legends so the theme of the movie is are these really just urban legends or are they real? It's the 25th anniversary of the school's so-called massacre. Most students don't believe it but as friends go missing or turn up dead, one of the main characters, Natalie, believes it is not only real, but someone after her. Watching it now, so many years later, it's amazing how well known most of the actors have become. I was shocked to read that Michael Rosenbaum from the TV show, 'Smallville', was in this movie as one of the main characters. He looks so different, I would never have made the connection. And I've seen this movie a lot. I read someone call it predictable but I didn't think so at all. It was suspenseful to the end. Not knowing who you could really trust. Even after knowing what happens, something about this movie makes me want to watch it again and again. The characters become real and the ominous looking school with grounds going towards the woods gives it a real feeling of a New England town. In the dark...at night, would you say Bloody Mary three times in this superstitious place? "},{"Title":"Great Flick, But Seems Others Differ","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  One question I have to ask all who watch movies is, do you watch to be entertained or watch for flaws, watch to be cynical or watch a movie expecting to be disappointed? Do you watch movies for the storyline? Or do you watch for who is in the movie. Now if you are all saying storylines, you are lying, why? Well because we see previews and are attracted to wanting to watch the movie based on who is in it. Which brings me to Urban Legend. Now sure Urban Legends are interesting myths, folklore but put them into a movie with, remember a big with, an attractive cast and bang, you have a successful movie. Horror movie mind you. Remember horror movies are always criticized by those older and mature viewers who always say, this is crap when thier movie collection consists of every hit horror movie from the 80's. Rebecca Gayheart is a sexy hottie, and all guys will agree no matter what. Tara Reid isn't? Ya sure guys, she is as hot as can be in this one and in American Pie. Throw in Jared Leto for the women and Joshua Jackson as well and it looks like we have a cast who is not only known but attractive. That is what sells a movie, and put them into a horror movie that viewers will relate to, meaning folklore myths..Urban Legends and we have the hook, line and sinker. SO all in all this movie is a good horror movie, regardless of it's rip offs. Almost all movies of any genre are rip offs of previous similar movies. this horror movie is not crap, is entertaining and that is the word so many people seem to forget when it comes to watching movies and tv. Be entertained, not so critical. No one is perfect and no production is perfect.  "}{"Title":"Did you ever hear the one about the killer script?","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" SPOILERS (although technically the movie's inability to surprise the viewer excludes it from the ability to be spoiled)A friend of a friend told me that her niece's aunt once attended a university where the students in film used to fake their project by piecing together old reels of stock footage they bought from an uncle's neighbor. Then they would spend their time getting high underneath the bleachers in the gym.I think the scriptwriter for this film went to that university.Urban Legend is the kind of uninspired film-making that makes me depressed. Here was an excellent opportunity for a creepy satire or even an ominous spookfest. Instead they have given us a bargain-basement Scream clone.I've noticed an alarming trend in the poster art for modern horror films like this one. They feature a montage of the cast member's faces standing around as if they are posing for a group shot at somebody's glamorous funeral. No smiles (this is a horror movie, after all), but damn are they trying to look sexy. Don't believe me? Look at the poster art for this movie, Halloween H20, Scream 2, I Know What You Did Last Summer, etc. The art is as uninspired as the films themselves, and it represents the very thing that these films stand for a routine assemblage of nonsensical clichés and situations.For instance- the first murder features a character getting her head cut off with an axe while the killer sits in the back seat. Ever try to swing an axe from the back seat of a vehicle, especially hard enough to cut off someone's head?- the killer instigates an Internet IM chat with one of the characters and tries to set up date with her in order to lure her to her death. The girl types Where are you? and then illogically walks away from the PC to go put on her makeup. When she comes back, the killer has typed IN YOUR ROOM!!! and lunges at her. Gee, what perfect timing and foresight this killer must have, to have been able to anticipate that this girl would walk away from her PC before seeing IN YOUR ROOM!!! pop up in the IM box. But like...since the murderer was just gonna sneak into her room and kill her, why the pretense of IMing her, anyway?I guess some of this was supposed to be spoofy instead of spooky, but I found it to be witless, dull, and boring. The only memorable thing from the film was how utterly annoying and predictable the plot was. I particularly got a howl out of the conclusion, where the two surviving characters drive away from the scene of the crime in their car while reciting plot details just like characters in an old radio play. Boy Sam, I sure am glad we got away from that terrible serial killer and are now on our way to safety. I sure am glad we didn't accept that ambulance ride, I much prefer driving in our own car along a deserted road. Yes Jane, but you don't think the killer could still be alive & hiding in the back seat, do you??? AAAIIIEE!!!!!Honorable mention The security guard who idolizes Pam Grier. Now this woman, I could relate to. "},{"Title":"Wow, I saw it all coming.","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I could predict everything.  The only thing I didn't see coming was the killer...  Anyway, moving on... I rented this movie not expecting to see anything great, and with that in mind, the movie sure delivered everything I expected.  Boring, slow, predictable..  This is a typical horror movie directed at people under the age of 18 who watch Dawson's Creek and other various teenage television shows.  It follows the typical format of the horror movie a cast of about eight young, recognizable, attractive movie stars.  There's the smart, strong one, the innocent friend, and the suspect.  The other five people are merely filling.  The movie follows the typical path of stupidity and sex--how else are they going to get the viewers to stay and watch? Avoid this stinker at all costs. "},{"Title":"Bad, bad, bad","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  What a stupid movie.  The first 30 minutes were just painfull and the rest was...  No wait I slept through the rest.  Bad, bad, bad, bad, bad.  Why do they make movies like this?  Whoever made this movie show bow their heads in shame for wasting so many people's precious time.  Bad, bad, bad, bad, BAD!...  BAD!!! "},{"Title":"God Awful","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is even worse than I Know What You Did Last Summer. It's not scary, nor is it interesting. If you want to watch a good Scream movie, try Scream or Scream 2. This one just makes me want to puke. "},{"Title":"Oh please! Not another Scream knockoff!","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Another movie tries to cash in on the recent success of teen horror/comedies like Scream and I Know What You Did Last Summer. The results were worse than expected. I am ashamed to admit I paid to see it.The script here is the big flaw. The characters go through the whole movie telling each other these ghost stories, these urban legends, while somebody acts them out by killing their peers in the fashion mentioned in the stories. There is also a creey teacher (played by Robert Englund, Freddy himself) who teaches a course on Urban Legends, and most of the victims were in his class. That is about as interesting as the film ever gets.The script is filled with corny, over-the-top dialogue and teen sex jokes (Word of advice, back away from the volcano before it erupts) sure to make all the 13 year old boys giggle.The movie then drags on, people die, and those alive accuse all the wrong people until they either get picked off themselves or they discover the real one. Either way, you know how the movie is going to turn out. Because you've seen all this before, and Urban Legend offers nothing new. My interest lasted for about 10 minutes, then the movie just fell apart.The sad thing is that this could have been good.  "},{"Title":"Urban Malaise","Date":"6 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Alas, another horrible horror film. The only new element, which was completely wasted on the run-of-the-mill, hack and slice, and regurgitated plot, is the use of the urban legend. The psychotic fiend brings urban legends to reality by using them as the tool to annihilate a group of stock character college students.The sad part is, even though the urban legend angle would make this genre film unique, the execution of these death scenes is far from stellar. There is no punch, no shock and no suspense, just your typical and redundant scares with a heavy music cue. Needless to say, the premise is a tremendous waste of a great idea.It appears that the movie tried to parody itself near the end, when one of the characters asks Where's the twist?, but Craven's successful Scream did it far better with much more wit.Save your time and money by avoiding this ho-hum, saw it all before, half-baked flick. "},{"Title":"Heard the one about the terrible film ???","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This was really poor, Filled with mistimed shocks, appalling acting (apart from Leto) and people bumping into each other for scares every 7 minutes, the special effects aren't up to much, not the worst I've seen, but even scream managed to do better. If you like really predictable horror films then give this a whirl, you can see every drawn out waste of celluloid coming a mile off, and even though the deaths are all authentic Urban Legends that have been passed down over the years, I'm sure we wont be hearing any more about this one.Seriously, its worse than Ultraviolet. "},{"Title":"Curly-haired people don't think STRAIGHT!","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie takes place in some strange parallel universe where Freddy Kreuger becomes a college professor, and the ugly kid from Dawson's Creek manages to become even more hideous thanks to household bleach. Also amusing is Reese's Peanut Butter Cop, who prances around with her gun while watching blaxploitation flicks.The movie does a great job of demonstrating how curly-haired people don't think straight! You might think it's highly illogical to plan and execute an elaborate string of urban-legend based murders to avenge the inadvertent death of your boyfriend years earlier. Instead of simply killing the girls responsible in a more direct manner, she chooses methods worthy of a cheesy Batman TV series villain. It also doesn't make sense that she kills Michelle ( the more culpable of the 2 ) first, then a bunch of insignificant characters, saving Natalie for last. But, understand that Brenda has curly hair. Scientific studies have proved that the brains of the curly-haired expend so much energy on curling hair, that they just don't think as good as normal folks.You get a good sense of Brenda's oppression when Jared Leto rejects her advances, choosing the straight-haired Natalie instead. "},{"Title":"Cliché, cliché and cliché","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Urban Legend is the prime example of how a good premise can be let down by just poor storytelling. The whole concept is interesting enough with the title a dead giveaway. What's disappointing is that every horror movie cliché is used here- horror theme music every time something happens, car stalls while killer prowls around, ominous telephone ring, desperate run from killer, the stunning 'anti-climax' and the shameless of gore and blood. The acting is over the top with every scream accentuate with the lame soundtrack. The last twenty minutes the whole thing falls apart as the film abandons all pretence of reality or cohesion. Urban Legend in a nutshell is disappointing with poor acting and an awful soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Silly and overpredictable","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Sill, silly movie. Which would be fun if it weren't so predictable. I knew the killer less than FIFTEEN MINUTES after the opening, and this is one of those films where you're supposed to learn who the killer is only in the very end. Even Robert Englund cannot save this movie with others acting so bad. And speaking of bad actors who is that ugly girl killed in the very beginning, the one driving the car in the rain? She has to be the worst actress I have ever seen. She can't do ANYTHING, she can't speak, she can't sing, she can't walk, and she most certainly couldn't act even if she took 1000 acting classes. If you think you've seen a bad, wooden actress, take a look at this one... Apart from the quite good, ambient score, there is one good thing about this movie (probably especially for a non-American viewer ) - you learn a good deal about nice urban legends. The movie actually inspired me to hunt for those on the Net and then write an article on them - for this I'm thankful. )  "}{"Title":"here is the most accurate interpretation of the movie","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend was an extremely piss-poor effort for a slasher movie trying lamely to emulate the success of scream. it's such a waste of celluloid to create a sequel. i was highly disappointed by the predictability of the movie, and i think it's a shame that the actors of the future must have their names dragged through the mud by featuring in the film "},{"Title":"A film that manages to do everything very badly","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend is the current standard by which I rate terrible movies. It manages to win the triple crown of badness it's badly written, badly directed, and badly acted. Alicia Witt gives a spectacularly wooden performance in the lead role & there is little tension & few true scares. The most amazing aspect of this film is that a sequel is planned! Avoid this film  at all costs.  "},{"Title":"And the resurgence continues downward...","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If it were up to me,  I'd eliminate Scream from existence.Why?Because it spawned trash like Urban Legend.I am most definitely not the biggest Scream fan.  I wasn't fond of the film at all.  But it made a respectable attempt to poke fun at one of the most moribund genres in movie history  the slasher film.  Therefore, I had no beef with it.Of course, then came the clones.  And the second smearing of horror's name in the last two decades.  Whiles the eighties had such classics as the original Nightmare on Elm Street and Hellraiser, most eighties horror consisted of explicit gore and dead teenagers.  Nothing scary.The early to mid-nineties started off well for horror, I thought.  We had intelligent horror films like Candyman and Wes Craven's New Nightmare. Well-written horror that was actually scary.  Then came Scream.  And all that changed.Scream ushered in a brand of horror that was self-referential, utilizing humor and gore over suspense and scares.  Every horror movie since has followed the same formula.  There's no such thing as originality anymore. Gone are the days of creative horror movies, such as the Phantasm and Evil Dead series.  In are schlock films such as Urban Legends, wherein teenagers walk around darkly lit rooms and bump into each other, screaming and spouting ridiculous dialogue until they're bumped off by the mad slasher. Films that, as I said, place gore and humor above scares.Is it so wrong to want to be scared by a horror film?  Is it so wrong to want to have the same feeling I got when I saw the original Halloween, taking in the creepy atmosphere, the suspense?  Is it so wrong to want to see a horror film that keeps me at the edge of my seat, instead of making me laugh at its complete ineptitude and self-referential story (or lack thereof)?  Am I not with it?It seems so.  True horror fans are being given the shaft, so that fans of poorly-acted, unoriginal slasher flicks full of the popular teenage actors of the day can be appeased and exploited, in an attempt to bring in the almighty dollar.  The very thought makes me sick.  "},{"Title":"A Mediocre Rip off of Scream & I Know What You Did Last Summer","Date":"17 August 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It is a sad state of affairs when a film has to rip off not just one mediocre horror film, but two. Urban Legend does just that, taking a brilliant premise, casting a group of untalented 20-somethings, giving them hip one-liners and bland dialogue, thereby creating a carbon copy of last year's I Know What You Did Last Summer and 1996's Scream. What could have been fresh and exciting just comes off as another glib  horror movie that startles you, but never really scares. The killer goes around dressed as Nanook of the North, killing college coeds with apparent ease and strength. When the killer is finally revealed, the filmmakers expect us to believe that this person can, among other things, hang a larger person by a rope and throw another victim across the room.The cast is just another bunch of television has-beens and soon-to-be-has -beens. Alicia Witt can't scream to save her life (no pun intended) and Rebecca Gayheart can't act to save her fledgling career. If you want real horror, rent Hellraiser. If you want a great take on an urban legend (the baby sitter and the man upstairs), rent Halloween. But don't waste your hard earned money on Urban Legend. "},{"Title":"A silly-but-fun, post-Scream slasher.","Date":"1 September 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" One of the many slick teen slashers featuring an impossibly photogenic cast to follow in the wake of Scream, Urban Legend sees a crazed killer at a college staging an elaborate series of murders based on popular contemporary folklore.This ridiculously impractical modus operandi relies heavily on sheer coincidence for success, and inevitably, the resultant film is highly preposterous. Urban Legend's makers are, without a doubt, only too well aware of this fact, but soldier on regardless, relying on the probability that their target audience (indiscriminate teens) will be having too much fun to care (or even notice).And for the most part, the gamble seems to pay off&#x97;the eye candy cast (Jared Leto, Joshua Jackson and Michael Rosembaum for the girls; Alicia Witt, Rebecca Gayheart, Danielle Harris and Tara Reid for the guys), enjoyable mechanical scares, frivolous in-jokes, and well handled action help detract from the general silliness, and director Jamie Blanks keeps things whipping along at a brisk enough pace to ensure that there's little opportunity to dissect the material and pose awkward questions (at least until the film has finished).It had been up to me, however, I'd have ramped up the violence (the film is surprisingly unbloody) and thrown in some gratuitous nudity in order to play it safe, for things do get EXTREMELY daft towards the end, and the slasher fans I know are always more forgiving if there's loads of blood 'n' guts and a few boobies on display (surely Reid could have been talked into getting them out for the lads). "},{"Title":"Strictly for fans of slasher films","Date":"10 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Urban Legend continues in the vein of slasher revival films Scream and I Know What You Did Last Summer. If you liked those films, you'll like this one as well, though maybe not quite as much. If you hated them, you'll hate this even more.This time there is a shortage of celebrity actors, Jared Leto and Tara Reid really being the only ones. The original actor who played Freddy Krueger makes an appearance. But the actors who are here do a decent enough job. The film is mostly centered around trying to guess who's the murderer. It's not easy since there are so many good candidates. Props to anyone who guessed right! Some pretty weird urban legends here, as well. "},{"Title":"I loved it then  I didn't and now again I love it!","Date":"3 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I have seen this movie few times, it was a few years ago the last time I saw it and I didn't enjoy as much as my I first watch.but now that seen once more, I have found this really enjoyable this time around, I guess this movie one of those movies you need to be THE right mood to watch it.I really enjoyed the start of the movie, I found that scene really well made, this movie had some really good suspense for that scenes and though tout the whole.The are some quite scenes in the movie that still keep your attention and I did not find this those boring.The movie had the right amount of dark humour added in the mix, not too much like Scream a lot less and still worked really well with rest of the movie.I did enjoy some of the death scenes, there are few very memorable gory death scene that may stay with for a while, dose make killer in a coat look and feel more scary.The acting from the whole cast was really good 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Dogs in Microwaves......","Date":"8 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Urban Legend tells the story of a group of college students at a remote New England university.Natalie is an academically-gifted student at the Pendleton University. Natalie and her friends are all involved in the Folklore class being taught by Professor Wexler.Wexler regales his class with urban legends, which include Pendleton's own urban legend about a Psych professor who murdered six students at Stanley Hall 25 years ago.Natalie is the first one to suspect there's a killer on campus, especially after she has ties to all of the victims. First, it's her high school friend, a guy she's in the woods with at night, her roommate...No one, including her friends, Wexler, Dean Adams and security guard, of course, believes her until it's too late and everyone begins to die according to famous urban legends.Natalie believes it's all tied to a dark and horrible secret from her past....After the success of Scream and IKWYDLS, it was inevitable that these films would carry on until they dripped the last bit of profit they could from the genre.This movie was when the genre was beginning to falter just a little, but the film is still breezy, and has a fantastic story to it. It's just a shame that the script wasn't polished up a little, as the ending should have been sorted out.The cast are great and nauseatingly beautiful, and the idea of an urban legend killer has to be up there with Ghostface, It's just the killers rant at the end of the film is so poor, it taints the rest of the film.It's not the performers fault, they are really good, the lines they spout are just too cringe inducing.With references to other films, not just horror, Urban Legend is one of those films you can watch, and then come across it a few years later and forgot who got killed and how.It's a guilty pleasure, good to look at, with some great editing, but the writers should have left out the speech and the fact that a lot of characters spend a lot of time running in the rain. "},{"Title":"Cookie-Cutter, Late 1990's, Teen, Slasher Movie","Date":"18 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" For some reason, thinking about this movie kind of makes me smile. It came out after Scream when all of these sorts or movies were being shoveled off the conveyor belt as fast as they could be made with little to no thought. Initially I rated this as a five, but after a bit more thought I had to scale it back. I know this film is not supposed to be any sort of masterpiece and you need to watch it for what it is, but it is wrong for movies to be treated as lackadaisically as this. I mean, high school students can write movie scripts as simple as this. The addition of the killings following urban legends did add a little uniqueness to this film, but just a small amount. Although, instead of that quick fix, perhaps they should have made a better movie with better dialogue and done something outside of a cookie-cutter formula. If you're looking for a stupid movie that you don't need to think about and follows the Scream formula, this is probably one of the better ones (excluding Scream, of course). "},{"Title":"Rural Myth","Date":"2 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Urban Legend is yet another teen horror which comes off the success of Shriek and Buffy. Indeed it is almost like a hilarious screamer, but with less funny bits. It has the familiar story of a bunch of pretty (ugly) teens (30 somethings) being hunted down by a cloaked killer with some sort of vendetta. The main character is our lovely innocent heroine, but who is trying to kill her? Her boyfriend? Her crazy room mate? Her boyfriend's freakshow friend? The spooky teacher who just happens to be Freddy Kruegger? The petrol pump guy? Her best friend? The bin man? The Fonz? A ghost? Bin Laden? The slut? The jock? The nerd? The Greaser? The head master? The campus cop? Someone else? Some Thing else? Who knows? The killer seems to kill his victims in a way that recalls spooky stories we tell as infants, known in America as Urban Legends for some reason. For example. A babysitter is phoned by a spooky man who says 'I'm going to eat your babies!' She hangs up and phones the police to say a weirdo has been phoning her. The police phone back to say that the caller is phoning from inside her own house! She tries to escape but is eaten by a bear. Ironically, the babies have also been eaten. Such is the way the killer kills in this film, except he/she/it uses and axe and a microwave. I wish they had used my favourite Urban Legend- A couple are driving at night and listening to the radio. An emergency news broadcast is broadcast about a local maniac escaping from a local asylum, and is believed to be local. The couple are also local. The man needs a dump so he decides to go into a nearby house. The girl is scared but has a gun, so waits in the car, in the dark, in the rain. She turns on the radio only to hear What A Wonderful World. The sheer awfulness of the song makes her implode. Meanwhile the husband has entered a nearby house. He thinks it is a bit strange that the residents keep cocking their eyes to and fro and cooing at him, but is busting so much he goes for his dump anyway. Afterwards he opens the toilet door and finds he is stuck up a tree. Terrified he almost falls, but hangs from the branch. He realises that the pressure on his bowels made him hallucinate and that the house was really a nest, and it's occupants were pigeons. Just as he wonders if pigeons live in nests, a lighthouse which had recently collapsed on a nearby mountain rolls over the top of them, crushing them all. The car has been watching all this closely and decides to drive home by itself. On the way it sees a hitchhiker. He picks him up. Of course the hitchhiker is the local maniac. The maniac sees the girl's wrecked corpse and cries as he was the one who should have murdered her. Suddenly, the man and the woman leap up from the back seat and eat the maniac's brains, shouting 'We only pretended!' five times. On the fifth time they all vanish and several years later are found inside a mirror.That is my favourite story. Why it wasn't used I'll never know.Best Scene When the killer chases the girl into a room of barbed wire, cuts off her leg with a pair of hedge clippers, puts a firework into the stump, lights it, and she flies up into the air exploding, and the sparks spell out the message 'I'm coming for you next, Sydney!' "}{"Title":"Clever thriller excellent scenes and superb acting","Date":"20 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The first time I saw this movie was years after it was released but I can still remember sitting in the cafeteria in high school when this girl told us we should watch it. Its like scream but scarier were her exact words. I should have listened to her! OK so this movie is a college 90s horror genre but really stands out because the plot is very cleverly written, the cast is excellent, and the acting is unexpectedly good. The scenes are done in such a way that has a very spooky yet surreal quality. It holds true to the way urban legends are like anyone at any town and all of this adds to the cliffhanger/twist element all the way to the end and more, its amazing to watch! If you haven't seen it go rent it! "},{"Title":"Not bad!","Date":"6 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Actually this movie is pretty cool and scary I think. Well not very scary, I mean the Twin Peaks is scarier that's for sure but it has some scenes that freaked me out a little bit. Also this movie is funny and not too serious as many teenage-horror movie wanna be. It's just funny, bloody entertaining stupid horror film with stupid people and...Oh I forgot! There is Robert Englund of course! Freddy Krueger! One of my favorite! The girls are hot, the humour is good (my personal favorite is the Dawson's theme...you will know what I'm talking about), all you need is a lot of beer, friends, some popcorn and a sense of humor. If you have all these things you will enjoy this movie a LOT! You won't be disappoint I promise! "},{"Title":"Ehhh...not bad...but no sequel was necessary","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When this came on television the other day, I thought I'd sit back and watch it. I'm definitely one experiencing a major nostalgia for the '90s, especially the late '90s. In addition to that, I had never seen this film before, and it features two actresses I happen to like, Alicia Witt and Danielle Harris (even though Danielle's character is short lived). The acting wasn't terrible in it, but I was never really scared by this film, so points deducted there. I was, however and quite embarrassingly, stumped as to who was offing all of the people. I liked the homage to Halloween at the end with all of the dead bodies popping up inside the abandoned residence hall as the heroine comes to the aid of someone she thinks is a friend in need, when Alicia's character finds her best friend laid out on a bed in the all too familiar image that Jamie Lee Curtis saw in Halloween, and when the killer is blasted out of a top story window by someone shooting him/her out the window. And one more homage the dead dog (killing a dog via microwave...innovative...but yuck...just in there for some shock value). The acting wasn't terrible, although I just couldn't stand Josh Jackson. He was okay in the Mighty Ducks films, but when it came to this film...uh-uh. What was with his bleached hair? Was he even thinking? Points deducted for that. Alicia Witt did a decent job of playing the heroine. And my hat goes off to the legendary Brad Dourif, playing Michael McDonnell the creepy but innocent stu-stu-stu-stuttering g-g-g-g-g-gasss st-sta-sta-station at-t-t-tendant, Someone's in the back...SEAT!. Classic. But for the most part, the film follows many clichés that horror films have fallen into. It's almost unavoidable. But that doesn't keep this film from getting a decent rating from me 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Above average slasher-film with interesting premise and great opening-scene.","Date":"17 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Urban Legends is one of my favorites of the wave of 2nd generation slasher-movies created after the release of Scream. The story isn't bulking with originality but the premise is pretty strong and interesting. After a brilliant opening scene ( the best in the whole wave of films) the film soon falls into a formulaic horror pattern, leaving the viewers disappointed and bored at times. Don't get me wrong, there are some thrilling slashing-scenes and fans of Scream ( like myself) will certainly get a kick out of it. There are a lot of plot holes but who cares about that as long as you get a scare out of it. The purpose of these films is nothing more than that so in that object it succeeds.The acting is above average for a horror film, despite the horrible Tara Reid, who has yet to produce one decent acting achievement. Joshua Jackson , Jared Leto and Alicia Witt ( who we can also admire alongside Mr. Pacino in the recent 88 Minutes) steal the show. Joshua Jackson is a perfect fit for his role and we can almost see the joy jump from the scream in his scenes. He has a really fun part to play and does so with a lot of liveliness. Keep your eyes open for the hilarious subtle Dawson's Creek gag.To conclude If you're looking for a thrill-ride and don't mind some plot holes, if you were a fan of Scream and I know what you did...it's a must-see. Probably the third best of the 2n slashers generation.If you're looking for something more than some thrills, avoid it. I'd recommend you rent the fantastic Zodiac. If you're a horror fan with high standards I suggest '1408'.C. "},{"Title":"An Original Idea","Date":"9 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The Plot Someone is stalking and killing off the students on Campus by basing them on Urban Legends, will anyone survive or end up being part of an Urban Legend. A journalist and his female friend try to dig deeper into the story.Despite being labelled as another Scream Rip Off, Urban Legends became one of the more successful ones and spawned 2 lackluster sequels, one being released straight to video titled Bloody Mary. This is a personal favourite actually even though I know that many people hate this movie. See, this didn't just have a masked killer, it actually tried to do something creative and have the killer base his murders on urban legends which, according to me, was an absolutely brilliant and original twist which made this flick stand out among all the slasher flicks that were released at the same time. Most people have probably seen this slasher so I figured that I really didn't have to describe the story too much. This is definitely one of my fave modern day slasher flick but I guess you've all ready figured that out. I love teen slasher flicks so it was a shame that the sequel for this flick became responsible for the death of the slasher wave along with the cool and sexy chick slasher Valentine. I can't see why some slasher fans don't like these high budget slasher flicks because I think that even though they are very mainstream, most of them are still very entertaining. If you still haven't seen Urban Legends, I definitely recommend you to check it out because this is one slasher flick that you should not miss!The acting I found was good, such as Jared Leto (Paul) does good, he acts well in teen films and other projects such as Fight Club and Girl Interrupted. Alica Witt (Nat)does OK as the female lead, Rebecca Gayheart was also great as Nat's best friend finally getting a chance to shine unlike her five minutes of screen time in her other slasher flick Scream 2. Joshua Jackson (Damon) shows up long enough to slap a few laughs in the flick and Tara Reid (Sasha) to show her ample cleavage bobble has she runs. We also get Danielle Harris (Tosh) acting like a beeyatch, having sex with too much makeup, Robert Englund (William) acting till the next Freddy sequel and Loretta Devine (Reese) was also great in her role.All in all, underrated by critics by labelling this as another Scream rip-off, the critics never took the time to realize that this has an original idea by using Urban Legends. "},{"Title":"Urban Legend Offers Decent Suspense And A Few Terrifying Jolts!","Date":"25 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" You know you're in trouble when you get to college to find that your folklore professor is Freddy Krueger, the dean is the Well-Manicured Man from The X-Files,and it's the 25th anniversary of a dormitory massacre. Urban Legend is a teen-age moviegoer's dream. It has familiar young television stars, familiar older stars with cult followings (Robert Englund as the aforementioned professor, John Neville as the dean), an edgy sense of humor, a tricky plot and characters too genre-savvy for their own good. Maybe there will be an over saturation of Scream-inspired horror films someday soon, but this one feels fresh. Someone at Pendleton University, the fictional safest college in the United States, is committing murders in the style of contemporary urban folk tales. There's an ax murderer lurking in the back seat of a car, a boy hanged in the secluded spot where he and a girl were parked, a killer on the telephone calling from within the victim's house, even a pet in a microwave. Alicia Witt (Zoey, the smart-mouthed daughter on CBS's Cybill) is Natalie, whose biggest problem at the beginning of the film is her creepy Goth roommate's active sex life. Rebecca Gayheart, of Scream 2, is Natalie's best friend, Brenda. Jared Leto (Claire Danes' dream guy on ABC's My So-Called Life) is Paul, the blue-eyed student reporter whom both girls are attracted to. Joshua Jackson (Pacey of the WB's Dawson's Creek) is everybody's pal Damon. Loretta Devine, from Waiting to Exhale, plays the only admirable adult, a campus security officer who likes to practice her pistol-firing stance while watching Pam Grier movies. Audiences may guess the identity of the killer, although clues point in several different directions toward the end of the film, but the original motive is skillfully hidden until the last minute. Appropriately, the final encounters take place on a dark and stormy night (although the rain stops mysteriously just long enough for Natalie and Brenda to run, terrified, through the woods for a few minutes). One clue to keep in mind in the chilly Northeast, lots of people own parkas with fur-lined hoods. "},{"Title":"Not good or bad... Actually it's better than expected.","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" There's nothing much to say about this one. It's part of the huge teen slashers that became very popular in the late 90's.The plot is interesting but regularly executed.The production values aren't that bad because it looks like a lot of budget was used.The cast is also surprisingly good with popular and good actors like Brad Dourif, Rebecca Gayheart, the great Robert Englund, and Jared Leto. The always naughty Tara Reid also stars in this one. But Gayheart delivers the best performance of them all. She's sexy even as a psycho.The death scenes were also good and creative. Expect a guy hung on a tree, a death caused by drowning, etc. Some really creative and decently gory enough death scenes. So if you are into teen slashers give this one a try but be warned, it's a regular almost bad movie with an overall good entertaining factor. The twist ending is also acceptable for these kind of movies. Decent slasher overall...If you don't like slashers, avoid it!! I watched it because it aired on late, late cable. Otherwise, I wouldn't even consider it for a rental. "},{"Title":"Great premise that delivers what it promises.","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The movie Scream has an awful lot to answer for really. The amount of teenager packed, pop culture filled horror movies that have been released in its wake is astonishing. Movies such as I Know What You Did Last Summer and Urban Legend are a direct response to the above movies success. Each involves fantastic looking people being killed one by one by an unknown executioner. They manage to include sex, comedy and popular music and the audience are subjected to cliché scenarios and inevitable twists and turns. It would be so very easy to just dismiss them all as redundant, money making exercises, but to be honest, when they're done well they are thoroughly entertaining despite the obvious plot holes, unrealistic acting and overuse of cheap scares. Urban Legend is a very good case in point.When students at a fictional university are being slaughtered one by one, it becomes apparent that the killer is using common urban legends to take each of them out. The movie starts with a young woman having her head cut off by someone that had been hiding in the backseat of her car. It's a very effective scene utilizing a story most viewers would have been told at some point, with great camera angles, a thunderstorm to create the appropriate atmosphere and a suitably creepy Brad Dourif whom makes it work. You know what you're in for from this point onwards and while not all the scenarios work as well as this opening they are all reasonably well done. Over the course of the film, the creators manage to make just about every single member of the cast appear to be the assassin. A combination of red herrings and coincidences regularly come into play to confuse and sidetrack. I must admit that the first time I saw the film I had no idea who the killer was until it was revealed, which is a credit to the cast and crew involved.Urban Legend, as is the case with many modern horror films, doesn't take itself too seriously. There are clichés all over the place which I guess can be excused considering the theme of the film. It's a little difficult to make things seem fresh when most of the film is actually attempting to clone other well known stories. There are a few too many cheap scares for my liking. You know the ones! A girl walks into a dark library and thinks she's alone. She walks slowly around saying hello, is anyone there? Then she backs down a corridor only to wander straight into an innocent bystander while the music raises several decibels in an attempt to make the audience jump. Repeat several times throughout the movie and it just becomes really predictable. I guess directors of these horror movies that contain so much comedy really find it hard to build up creepy atmosphere so they simply have to resort to regular little shocks. The movie isn't excessively gory, yet it does include decapitations with axes, people being run over with cars and hangings. There's actually not a lot of blood and most damage occurs slightly off screen. It's also worth noting that a couple of horror legends get some screen time during all the fun. Robert Englund (Freddy Kruger) and the previously mentioned Brad Dourif (voice of Chucky) are welcome inclusions.Overall I'd have to say Urban Legend is an entertaining horror movie with a really great premise. Pretty much none of it is believable (the killer seems to be in two places at once several times and the killer appears to be immortal by the end) but then it really doesn't try to be a serious and realistic film. Its purpose is to give you a fun night in, a few good jolts along with some awesome eye candy for both sexes. I believe it succeeds in exactly what it tries to do and therefore recommend it for those inclined. You know who you are. "},{"Title":"Worth watching","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The story of a serial killer re-enacting urban legends at a university -a simple but effective premise that explores the idea that sometimes the scariest stories are the ones that never happened. As these cultural admonitions come to life and students start dying, it is up to the main character (Alicia Witt) to find the killer and save herself.Strong writing and directing, and a welcome change from the mediocre or worse horror flicks that emerged from the 90's. The story works on a similar premise to the Scream films but is much darker. Maybe not the scariest horror film around but still highly enjoyable with a chilling menace throughout. Christopher Young's haunting score fits the atmosphere of the film perfectly, as does the lighting that the director uses. There are strong and entertaining performances all round, especially from Michael Rosenbaum and Rebecca Gayheart.Horror movie buffs might also find themselves looking at a few familiar faces. Robert Freddy Krueger Englund plays a creepy psychology professor. Brad Dourif, the voice of Chucky in the Childsplay films, makes a brief appearance as the stuttering proprietor of a gas station. Finally Danielle Harris, Jamie Lloyd in Halloween 4&5, plays Tosh, Natalie's goth roommate.The death scenes are gruesome and imaginative. The gore isn't OTT because the story is strong enough that it doesn't need to be - a couple of the death scenes are left up to the imagination of the viewer, which is perhaps even worse than actually seeing them. Finally, when the killer is revealed, the motive is interesting and there's a nice twist (or two) right at the end.Definitely worth either renting or buying if you're looking out for the best of 90's horror. "},{"Title":"A lean and stripped down version of Scream or I Know What You Did Last Summer.","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Urban Legend was pretty much globally ignored when it came out. It's release was timed badly and resulted in it coming out at the same time two other teen-horror movie franchises were kicking off, Scream and I Know What You Did Last Summer (You may have heard of them lol). Still, several years on and with the teen-slasher fad all but dead (check out Cry_Wolf if for some perverse reason you want to watch it's death throes P) Urban Legends stands up better to a repeat viewing than it's peers.Part of the reason for this is it's pacing. Although Urban Legend is smart and sassy enough to punch at the same weight as Scream, I'll cover that later. Urban Legend is paced in a similar fashion to the early slashers from the 80s, with a high bodycount, large cast (who are noticeably less numerous by the end ).) and very little time spent on overbearing witticisms. It's fast, it's punchy and it's one of those films that you enjoy enough that you don't really feel the time passing.It helps that it's also funny and self-deprecating without it getting in the way of the movie. Instead of setting up a 'and here's the funny...' scene like Scream does, Urban Legend builds it into the plot, saving valuable time for horror. In fact, a lot of the humour in the film is built into the horror sequences, again drawing on the movies of the 80s, especially the latter half of the Friday the 13th series.All well and good, it sounds fantastic, so why the 7 and not a 9 or 10? Well, despite all its advantages it is still a 90s style teen horror, and with that come all the genre stereotypes, dumb dialogue peppered with 'dude' and all the popular actors from sitcoms/teen dramas that you can muster. It isn't as achingly and offputtingly hip as the Scream series or I Know What You Did Last Summer (C'mon, Sarah Michelle Gellar and the Love-Hewitt at the same time? That's just plain wrong lol) but it is still a little overbearingly 'down wid da kids'.Anyhow, the fact is I still like Urban Legend and can see myself enjoying it for quite some time, whereas the need to rewatch Scream hasn't exactly gnawed away at me to be honest. It's the kind of movie that despite obvious shortcomings is enough pure simple fun that you'll keep it in mind over other films, and that's something I can say of very few movies. Oh, not to mention it has a good sequel to boot. "}{"Title":"An original slasher","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" After a tacky opening sequence featuring Natasha Gregson Wagner getting slaughtered by the killer with an axe hiding in the backseat of her car, Urban Legend tells the story of a group of pretty college students at a remote New England university. The focus of the story is Natalie (Alicia Witt), a beautiful, academically-gifted student at the fictional Pendleton University. Natalie and her friends (who include Jared Leto as a brash journalist, Rebecca Gayheart as her best friend, Michael Rosenbaum as the party-hardy boy, Joshua Jackson as a practical joker and Tara Reid as the sexy campus DJ) are all involved in the Folklore class being taught by Professor Wexler (Robert Englund). Wexler regales his class with urban legends, which include Pendleton's own urban legend about a Psych professor who murdered six students at Stanley Hall 25 years ago. Natalie is the first one to suspect there's a killer on campus, especially after she has ties to all of the victims. First, it's her high school friend, a guy she's in the woods with at night, her roommate (Danielle Harris), including her friends, Wexler, Dean Adams (John Neville) and security guard (Loretta Devine), of course, no one believes her until it's too late and everyone begins to die according to famous urban legends, and Natalie believes it's all tied to a dark and horrible secret from her past. Now she finds that she and her friends are part of the killer's ultimate urban legend--the story of their own horrific deaths...This slasher flick is extremely satisfactory and it is very very original. The acting seems to be good and the dialogue is decent. The only problem is that the first death is quite stupid but luckily Tara Reid's chase scene is very well done (but not as good as Sarah Michelle Gellar's from I Know what you did last summer). "},{"Title":"SO great","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Okay, first of all movies in Belgium aren't that great. the biggest film fans under you may heard of 'the case Alhzeimer' but that's the only one that looks at something. But actually I think no one has ever heard of it. But that's beside the point...This movie was so GREAT! I just loved it. I first saw like half of it on TV and then, over a year of looking, I found the cassette in a store in a village nearby. Since then I've been watching it over and over again. The only remark I have is that, almost at the end, it suddenly stops raining from one moment at the other. And if there are more mistakes that haven't noticed, that's all forgiven 'cause Jared Leto is SOOO hot! One of my favorites, actually I think it is my favorite...And I've seen really a lot of movies. "},{"Title":"Would have been better if the ending was...","Date":"15 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I love Urban Legends, and so when I heard about this movie I was gung-ho on seeing it but just never did. Well, I finally watched it last night and was actually enjoying it up until the last half. The portrayal of the well-known urban legend murders are great, and even a little spooky...especially aren't you glad you didn't turn on the light. I liked how they made reference to ones that you might not have heard of unless you're a real urban legend fan, like about the girl screaming during the Roller-coaster song. Unfortunately, it was almost as if they were trying to cram as many legends in as possible. And when you finally see who the 'real' killer is, it's such a disappointment it makes you regret spending your time watching the movie (I was also left wondering how she could have moved all those dead bodies by herself). I realize it's meant to be a 'unforeseen twist' a-la Scream, but...PLEASE! The Noxema Girl does not portray off a sadistic killer very well, and the reason behind the killings is even more comical than the killer herself.If you like Urban Legends, rent this one. But if you prefer a suspenseful thriller that won't disappoint, look for something else. "},{"Title":"This movie contains some good things, just not enough","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Urban Legend is one of quite a few movies from the late 90's that tries to capitalize on the success of 'Scream'.The movie starts off strong with the girl in the SUV and the interplay she has with the gas station attendant.It's not the best thing when the movie peaks at the very beginning.If I wasn't a fan of the genre I probably would of given a lower score.The rest of the movie is not awful,there are a few more scenes with suspense,though the director likes to use the loud music too much.The ending of the film just leaves you feeling limp. The acting in the movie is not too bad,even though I can't think of too many standout performances.Alicia Witt is OK in the lead,far from a Neve Campbell or a Jamie Lee Curtis.Jaret Leto is solid and I can understand how Rebecca Gayheart isn't the best, but I think she's hot so I'm biased.Joshua Jackson and Michael Rosenbaum annoyed the hell out me through this flick.They get what they deserve though.Loretta Devine would be a good Mrs. Jefferson if they ever make a movie. If you come into this flick with low expectations you'll find it an enjoyable ride. "},{"Title":"different look.........","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Contrary to popular opinion,I thought this was a well crafted horror movie that though not a classic horror still had it moments and enough uncertainty to keep you on the edge of your seat. Alicia Witt,of Cybill fame,is a college student who finds out that people on campus are being murdered by someone using deaths as recounted in the myths of urban legend. As she delves into the ever increasing number of deaths she fears she could be next. This film had its fair number of killings ,some pretty graphic and some not so graphic.The scene with the little dog was a bit too graphic for my taste and unnecessary in my opinion but that is only a minor quibble. Alicia Witt is a good solid heroine and the supporting cast does well.Joshua Jackson,from Dawsons Creek,is impressive though he is only in it for a short while before he is routinely dispatched by the killer. Robert Englund puts in a good performance as a teacher of urban legend folklore and it was nice to see him in a role that didn't involve him killing teens in their dreams. This may not be a purists type of horror movie but for someone like me who enjoys sitting down in front of a decent slasher movie it is a pretty decent flick. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"16 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie was a good movie it was about what i expected from it. It is not over the top gore and definitely not scary but this movie is definitely fun. I like the plot and the idea that they actually stick to the plot. Robert Englund is good in it and there are some good attack scenes like when the guy is hit by the car and the tire spikes go in his back. So here are my final ratingsScares 3 out of 10 Plot 9 out of 10 overall 6 out of 10 a good horror movie Rated R,Violence language a short sex scene(no nudity) You'll like this if you like fun horror movies "},{"Title":"a group of school kids are killed in the theme of urban legends","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I really liked this film. The idea itself intrigued me. I have always been interested in urban legends and have read a lot about them. You would here them at Halloween and it used to scare the crap out of me. So i knew i would enjoy this film from the very beginning. There are many reasons that i like this film, one it doesn't take itself too seriously and it also uses humour. There are some very talented actors contributing to this movie as well. I love being scared and this film is short of sudden thrills and jumps. It does keep you guessing as well you always look for the most unlikely person as the killer and your never right in all scary films that i have come across and Urban Legends is no exceptance. It is a fun, scary and jumpy movie that is just waiting to scare the pants off you! If you see it in a rental shop don't hesitate to pick it up you will not be disappointed. Unless you have a weak stomach that is, of course. Recommended to everyone, also check out urban legends 2the final cut! and i hear urban legendsbloody Mary is coming out soon as well! "},{"Title":"Did you hear the one about this Scream knock-off??","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" New England college students are terrorized by a mysterious murderer who is offing his victims in the fashion of old urban legends (hence the title).Obvious knock-off of Scream (1996) has plenty of the slasher film conventions and suffers from a weak conclusion. However the film is entertaining enough for genre fans. There's a decent plot line, gory murders, and a gloomy atmosphere to boot.The cast is probably the films highest point though. Alicia Witt is good as our leading victim and Jared Leto as her love interest. Rebecca Gayheart does a nice turn as Witt's best friend. Tara Reid, Joshua Jackson, and Michael Rosenbaum make for some funny, if some what cheesy characters. Robert Englund of 'Elm Street fame appears as a college professor.While it's hardly Scream, or I Know What You Did Last Summer for that matter, Urban Legend is an amusing enough follower for slasher fans. Followed by the lousy sequel Urban Legends Final Cut in 2000.** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"A very fun addition to the SCREAM clones!","Date":"3 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" URBAN LEGEND (1998)starring Alicia Witt, Jared Leto, Rebecca Gayheart, Joshua Jackson, Michael Rosenbaum, Tara Reid, Natasha Gregson Wagner, Loretta Devine, Robert Englund, John Neville, Danielle Harris.plot A group of college friends are stalked and killed one by one by a serial killer who uses urban legends as motivation for the murders. Natalie (Alicia Witt), a co-ed with a dark secret, realizes that the killer is mainly targeting her while a greedy reporter (Jared Leto) rallies to discover who is behind the costume.my thoughts In 1978, a slasher film called HALLOWEEN had so much success that it started a chain reaction of slasher films about a masked killer stalking a group of teens. One of those was Friday THE 13TH, which also had a chain reaction of a killer stalking teenagers in a camp setting.This happened again in the next decade. SCREAM had so much success that it started a series of slasher films where everyone is a suspect, one of those was I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER, which was equally as successful. The first to come after the great SCREAM and the fun but unoriginal I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER was URBAN LEGEND. Now when I first saw the preview to URBAN LEGEND, I was young and unaware of the 'SCREAM generation' and I figured it was a supernatural thriller about urban legends coming to life in a supernatural way (I have yet to see URBAN LEGENDS BLOODY MARY, but it seems to do that). But when I saw it on video, it was definitely inspired by SCREAM. Instead of using pop culture references like in SCREAM, URBAN LEGEND uses urban legend (duh) references. We even get grisly murders inspired by those legends.Being a slasher film, the murders are the most mentionable. I won't give them all away but they use some pretty cool ones, including the one where that girl is driving and someone is in the back seat (a great scene) and the one that ends with the words Aren't you glad you didn't turn on the lights? painted in blood on the wall. The rest of the murders are cool too, but mostly suggested. But even though it's not shown, that microwave scene was pretty disturbing.This also sports a fun cast. Alicia Witt (AMERICAN GIRL) actually didn't do so well because she seemed too gloomy and unenthusiastic. But Jared Leto is great as the greedy reporter (kind of like Courtney Cox in SCREAM), Rebecca Gayheart (SCREAM 2, FROM DUSK TILL DAWN 3) is pretty good as the best friend with scary eyes, Michael Rosenbaum (tv's SMALLVILLE, CURSED) has great screen presence, Loretta Devine (also in the sequel URBAN LEGENDS FINAL CUT) is funny as the Pam Grier-loving cop who takes a beating and survives (kind of like Dewey in SCREAM), Tara Reid (AMERICAN PIE, THE CROW WICKED PRAYER) plays the usual blonde bimbo to a T and Robert Englund (A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET series) is creepy as usual. This also has quite the supporting cast with Joshua Jackson, Natasha Gregson Wagner and Danielle Harris.The director, Jamie Blanks, also knows a thing or two about directing a film. It is very stylish with great strobe light-like murder scenes. Christopher Young also gives us a creepy and subtle score which worked for the mood of the film.So if you love those typical slashers only with a big cast and some good style, definitely check out URBAN LEGEND! "},{"Title":"'Urban Legend' has a clever idea but routines it","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Urban Legend (1998) Jared Leto, Alicia Witt, Rebecca Gayheart, Michael Rosenbaum, Loretta Devine, Joshua Jackson, Tara Reid, John Neville, Robert Englund, Danielle Harris, Natasha Gregson Wagner, D Jamie Blanks. Tepid horror film about coeds at a New England college being killed one by one by an unknown murderer in the style of famous urban legends. Clever concept gets routine treatment, and is further sunken by too many false alarms and an unsatisfactory ending, turning out to be just another SCREAM slasher clone. Red herrings keep one off-balance and logic is sacrificed for some good scares in this more-entertaining-than-most horror entry. Followed by a sequel. 100 min., rated R. ** ½ "}{"Title":"Urban legends, full of clitches?","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" *** CONTAINS A LOT OF SPOILING *** I have watched this movie twice, I saw it the second time yesterday when it was shown on TV, and I got to say there were more than one clitches which could've been done a lot better to maintain the reality of the movie. This movie should probably be somehow horrific but I would put it in the same category as for example Scary Movie.First of all, the murderer is absolutely not human, since she always knows where the victims go, and on top of all that, her timing is also perfect. In the middle of the movie it starts bothering since she's always waiting in the bushes or waiting in the garage or whatever. Of course it's possible that she followed the victims all the time, but It's a wonder if they didn't notice anyone following them. In the end, when the cop shoots the murderer in the chest making her fall out of the window from the second floor, she remains alive, and without any bigger trouble she goes hiding on the backseat of the car. But when she falls from a bridge to the water, she suddenly dies (?). I'd call it pretty unrealistic.Second of all, how is it possible that so many characters are wearing/own the same coat as the murderer. Of course it brings along the excitement but still, in my opinion, is very poor. And when the massacre was mentioned, what does it got to do with the professor being let to keep his job if he shuts his mouth? Maybe It's just me being stupid but I don't think the idea was brought up very clearly.The last clitch would be the whole plot. I don't know if it was the same girl who killed all the people on the campus, but before she even knew that Natalie (or whatever her name was) was responsible for the death of her ex-boyfriend, she had already killed 3 or more people. So, was she doing it just for fun or what's the real deal? Obviously, as you can see, I didn't like the movie very much. The directing, special effects etc. were above average but the story itself was a fiasco. Yet, if you want to spend an hour and 30 minutes of your life on something useless, this is exactly what you're looking for.(I apologize for the bad English) "},{"Title":"It's worthy","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" 'Urban Legend' stars a hip young cast of characters(Alicia Witt, Jared Leto, Rebecca Gayheart...)who are attending a prestigious college in New England when all of a sudden their quiet existence comes crashing down. There is an anonymous killer on campus who is knocking off students and basing the kills on modern urban legends, which are basically the stuff you hear about in horror movies or from someone who knows someone you know, you get the drift? Examplesthreatening phone calls coming from inside the house, an assailant hiding in the backseat of your car, a cry over the radio for help from a woman who is actually being killed... The premise is superb and very original and some of the cameos were great(Robert Englund Freddy, Brad Douriff Chucky, Robert Wagner's daughter... hehehehe). The radio station scene with a then-unknown Tara Reid is definitely one of the highlights of this film, and the unveiling of the killer at the end is kind of surprising...Most of the time I would enjoy this more than the Scream trilogy because when the day is long and I feel like chillin' out with some popcorn and a movie then 'Urban Legend' is worth the hour and a half because it is not very involving and I don't feel exhausted by the time the credits roll. However it does insult your intelligence sometimes like in the scene where Tara Reid's character narrowly escapes certain death and then runs into a nearby elevator when she could have just ran out of the front doors to safety. Also, there is a questionable scene in the beginning where a woman gets decapitated while driving a car and the killer miraculously survives and is even unharmed. But those are minor drawbacks which are present in almost every B-movie slasher. Still most of the viewing audience will probably discard this and consider it a trashy Scream rip-off, but for most of us die hard slasher-fans Urban Legend will eventually join the ranks with the best of them. It's definitely not better than the Scream trilogy, but it's worthy of a viewing. I rate it 6/10. Avoid the sequel, unless your a fan of Eva Mendes. "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!Yes yes, in the wake of Scream, everyone started to make teen slasher movies, most full of useless in jokes and awful ironic comments. Scream is undoubtedly an excellent film, but naturally most of the films it spawned are not. However, a few of them are half decent, some with good idea, if not well executed. I would say Urban Legend is one of these. The film starts well with a good idea, a killer on the loose basing their murders on Urban Legends, and there just happens to be a course about Urban Legends being taught on Campus. Maybe it's just N.America, but do these modules actually exist?The film progresses, we meet a large cast, any of whom could be the killer, until the few survivors remain. The idea of the Urban Legend soon fades though, and the killer is just another psycho with a vendetta. Some of the deaths are good, others are awful- note to those in peril from masked murderer- if you don't want to die, don't sit in the corner crying, and covering your head with your hands. The film is full of today's, or yesterday's newcomers, some show talent, others are just supposedly pretty faces. Leto is good, Harris gets a rubbish role, but gives a good performance, and Gayheart does some terrifyingly bad over-acting. The film will probably keep you guessing, but with a little more thought and time it could have been better. Just an average Scream clone, better than most of its genre buddies. 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Wacko weekend part 1 Killed by lengthy, cliché ending","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Urban Legend is a very decent to good slasher film ALMOST throughout. I admit that it has it's weaknesses, like the fact that the acting isn't always very good (as in the opening killing), but it still manages to entertain and to thrill a great deal, because of relatively good acting, original killings and some good twists. There is even a good twist in the ending when the killer is revealed and the motive that follows is good as well. I even felt that when the full blown psycho finally got a face and became fully alive with anger and rage, the performance was very believable and good. After that the film get's a twist for the worse though, because what follows is a Halloween / I know what you did last summer sort of ending, which I totally did not like and which was absolutely unnecessary, nay STUPID!!! An open ending would have done perfectly after the first cliché ending, which was stupid enough and sort of impossible in my opinion, but the second one really topped it off nicely in stupidity. A true shame!6,25 out of 10 (with a 6 given upon voting) "},{"Title":"Cashing in","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend is, like I Know What You Did Last Summer and the Halloween revivals, a formulaic slasher flick that came about in the wake of the success of Scream. The genius innovation (or gimmick, rather) of this little monster is that the serial killer is making grim urban legends realities.With a higher standard of characters and dialogue, the tiresomely predictable plot would forgivable. Unfortunately, Witt's wilting flower of a heroine gets no one's sympathy. Her awkward performance doesn't help. Aside from her, the rest of the cast barely have a character between them. The dialogue, meanwhile, is completely devoid of wit and overstuffed with cliches. It's all expectedly slick and clean, with some of the death scenes particularly well-executed, but the deadening lack of suspense renders them insignificant.As the final reel unravels, it's like watching a particularly brutal screwball comedy, the action is so farcical. And nothing can prepare you for such a depressing stinker of a conclusion.         2/10 "},{"Title":"Clever premise, horrid execution","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Probably the most entertaining thing about watching this movie was trying to figure out what the actors actually were saying, and how the victims were dying.  I say this because I watched Urban Legend on basic cable and not only did they re-dub the profanity, (`Holy shoot!') but they would offer (possibly) a split second shot of the murder victim.  At one point, two of the main characters discover a body in a trunk, and I had absolutely no idea who it was because all they gave us was a reaction shot.Regardless, despite a fun premise, the movie was trite, boring and predictable.  One can't entirely blame horror films anymore for being completely derivative since with a few exceptions, the genre has run its course.  But we can certainly blame a film for knowing this and still trying, and then failing to break out of the mold, which is pretty much the only thing Urban Legend does well.--Shelly  "},{"Title":"Textbook example of a decent idea gone bad.","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Just in case you missed SCREAM 1 or 2 and I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER, here's (yawn) yet another big-budget clone about 20-somethings getting chopped up by a mystery killer. At Pendleton University, where a serial neck slasher supposedly struck 25 years earlier, Alicia Witt (who walks through her role in a very disinterested fashion) and her friends discover that the victims of a new killer tie into a book about popular urban legends.First off, the premise established by scripter Silvio Horta, a sort-of CANDYMAN minus the supernatural aspects, is serviceable and promising. It's just too bad that aside from this initial conceit, nothing even mildly interesting or scary happens, the characters are poorly developed cardboard cutouts (or just plain annoying) and the ending gives new meaning to the term desperate motive.Even sadder, this thing peaks in the opening sequence with an uncredited Brad Dourif as a creepy gas station attendant and Natasha Gregson-Wagner getting her head whacked off. Robert Englund has a useless professor role, Danielle (HALLOWEEN 4 and 5) Harris shows up in goth (she's actually better in her tiny, restrictive role than all three of the lead females) and Loretta Devine fills in the race demographic as a Pam Grier worshipping rent-a-cop.Score 3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A GREAT FILM","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this film it was scary fun. The cast and crew were awesome. Not to much bad words that makes a film fun to see. I saw this film on TV and i loved it so I asked my dad if i could have it and he said yes. So now i see it all the time On a scale of 1 out of 10 I would give this a 10 it was awesome. "},{"Title":" I prefer the term eccentric!","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"   Alicia Witt is phenomenal as Natalie in this awesome horror flick. Rebecca Gayheart is sleek as Brenda, the unknown killer best friend. Jared Leto is astonishing as well. On the other hand, Tara Reid and Danielle Harris were terrible. They were killed off, thankfully. Urban Legend is a chilling horror film that will keep the viewer's hairs standing up on the back of their neck. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"man, this was bad","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If it wasn't for the hot chicks, I would've turned off my TV set. The story is so awkward, the characters act so illogical. Not to mention the forced unexpected ending. And again tons of gore to make up for the bad script. Why didn't they place one or two nudes in it to make it more enjoyable? "}{"Title":"Average at best. (spoilers ahead)","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  You know those movies that people watch on cable TV on a boring Saturday afternoon because they haven't got anything better to do? Those movies that they wouldn't watch in the theatre because they know it would be a waste of money? Urban Legend is one of those.So today I saw it on HBO, right, because it has the gorgeous Jared Leto, right, and for 2 hours, right, I was kinda, like, wondering where the casting director got his/her actors (with the exception of the fine Jared Leto and a few other people whose name I'm not bothered to know), particularly the annoying one who played...what's her name? Natalie's best friend? Yes, that girl. Ooh yes! Her name's Brenda! So anyway, Urban Legend is definitely better than its sequel...but it doesn't say much, because Final Cut is one hell of a bad movie. But that's not the point. I think what I'm getting at here is...how many times does Scream need to be remade until Hollywood is satisfied? I Know What You Did Last Summer is silly enough; do we need crap like Urban Legend and its stupid little sequel? I don't think so.Urban Legend not only has an incredibly hilarious plot, it has some hilarious acting to boot. But let's talk about its plot first. So some psycho college kid decides to go on a killing rampage (sp?) based on urban legends. That's great, really, but the next time someone does that again, please give him/her a believable motive, because the one provided by this movie made me laugh. I wouldn't spoil it for anyone, so I'll just leave it at that.The acting. Okay, Jared Leto, like I said before, is fine, as always. Ever since My So-Called Life I've been wanting to see more of this gorgeous and talented young man, and I think he was the best thing out of this mess that's called Urban Legend. My only real gripe (sp) I have with its cast is that girl who played Brenda. She annoys me. From her very first scene until her last, I kept waiting for her to die so that I don't have to look at her annoying face and hear her annoying voice and watch her annoyingly over-act. (spoilers) Who would've thought SHE was the killer? That came as a surprise to me, I'll grant you that, but why her? Why couldn't she be one of the victims? Why couldn't she take, oh, Joshua Jackson's place? Why did the film-makers have to put me through the agony of watching her??Another one is Tara Reid. She was okay, until her death scene. Her version of fear is really laughable; I've never seen fear being so badly acted out. The way she tried to convince the audience she's really scared is so pathetic, I found myself wishing the killer would get it over with and just chuck that axe into her.Urban Legend is really not that scary. Or rather, it's not scary, period. Unless you're really bored and like Jared Leto or Josh Jackson, don't see this. You'd want to bash your TV in if you do.2 out of 10, one for Jared, one for Josh.  "},{"Title":"Fresh Premise Ruined With By The Numbers Direction","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  One of those post Scream horror fests that might have been something excellent if the murder scenes among other things weren't half baked.  The acting in the entire picture is average at best except for the reliable performance of Robert Englund.  Danielle Harris is wasted in a role that never uses her properly.  The murder of the character played by Danielle Harris is film in the mode of many Italian Giallos and is a rare good highlight from this picture.  The rest of the film fails to maintain the suspenseful engine of the opening scene.Lousy direction with no taste for daring or innovative horror.  The death scenes build up well but finish poorly.  Remade into Valentine(2000) which basicly has the same kind of plot with sightly different ideas.  Will never be mistaken for a very good film of its kind ala, Candyman(1991).  An example of what has happen to the horror genre in Hollywood and why most of these type of films during the last film years are garbage.Some of the film's plots appear to borrow heavily from the much better 1980s slasher flick, The Burning(1980).  The story of Urban Legend(1998) is half Prom Night(1980) and half The Burning(1980).  Even rips off the final scene from The Burning(1980).  Tara Reid's death scene is a sightly sympatetic moment in Urban Legend(1998).  Urban Legend(1998) is one of those films that had potiential to be something special but in the end wasn't any good or entertaining. "},{"Title":"Bourbon Legend One Big Drunk","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILIES!!!!This. to my regret, is a typical Teen Slasher Flick. Need a definition?Teen Slasher Flick AKA TSFA teen is able to survive the random slaughter of his or her friends by a lunatic and summon the power to overcome the murderer. Note thatA) The murderer is dressed in a laughably ostentatious outfit, and after removing the outfit looks entirely dissimilar. This time it's an Alaskan Parka that sticks out a mile.B) Killer is who you'd probably expect and for the right reasons, except in those cheapos where None Of The Above was the killer.C) Sex, drugs and rock 'n roll are plentiful, and the F-Word gets a good workout too.Let's be frank, people. I HATED HATED HATED this movie. The premise was interesting, but it cashes in its originality for the sake of buckets of gore and mindless cinematography. The cast is roughly 75% Pretty Young TV Actors, and the rest are eccentrics who have little purpose other that to kill or be killed.The movie goes something like this Creeps. Jolt. Murder. Creeps. Murder. Jolt. Jolt. Creeps. Murder. Murder. Bloodbath. Creeps. Jolt. F-Word montage. Need I go on?Hate it. A poor dog gets no respect. His master tortures him by forcing him to guzzle alcohol, and then gets stuffed in the microwave. And that dog wasn't even a stupid teenager! Janitor is killed for no reason. Dean's death doesn't really affect me, as only an IDIOT would crawl AWAY from a rolling car, wait until he's over the safety spikes and throws up his hands, so that his impaling is as dramatic as possible. Gas Station Guy is thrown in jail for no reason other than that he is inable to communicate effectively. He also looks a lot like Larry, you know, with his other Darryl and his other brother Darryl.This movie is stupid, and the climax of the villain going into histrionics (GREAT acting there) and F-Word-a-thon, just tops it up. And Queen Latifah is just as annoying as ever, shrieking and scolding and doesn't even get killed! She was the one I WANTED to die! At least this was good training to dealing with psycho kids in Boston Public! "},{"Title":"Worst of the worst from the rebirth of horror films (Some Spoilers)","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, I have to start by saying that I do love these teen slasher films. Even bad slasher films can be fun. But when you get a piece of fecal matter such as Urban Legend .... well, you have to draw the line somewhere!Let's start off with the characters. This film takes EVERY SINGLE stereotype about horror films and, rather than building on them or trying something new, simply recycles them. You have the pretty virginal girl (Think Jamie Lee in Halloween), the weird girl who doesn't fit in (Think Valerie from Friday Pt 5, the professor/older guy who gets killed (think Henry Winkler in Scream), and OF COURSE the obligatory prankster whose death is thought of as a practical joke (remember the fat guy from Friday Pt. 3? Oh, and the required creepy janitor guy, not to mention that all of the teens in this flick look like they stepped out of an Aaron Spelling TV show. Trite, trite, trite. Then of course you get the authority figures who are shown the truth but refuse to accept it, instead thinking that there's a rational explanation... until there guts are hanging out or their heads are missing.But my favorite came in the scene with the death of one of the charactersS P O I L E R   A L E R T!   S P O I L E R   A L E R T !Ok, so you have the goth chick who is made to look like a suicide. Ok, so the dean says oh, it wasn't murder, it was suicide, and she wrote the message on the wall in her blood for you, Alicia Witt character. Uh - huh. SO she slashes her wrist, goes to the wall, writes this message on the wall, and then dies -- WITHOUT LEAVING A BLOODY MESS ANYWHERE BUT ON THE BED! And if she wrote it on the wall (without losing conciousness), what did she use to write it with???? And the coup de gras So it's maybe a murder, maybe a suicide --- and the campus police are the one's investigating?????Man, makes me reeeeally glad that I went to a non - prestigous school, as these characters are just too dumb for their own good!Bottom line just avoid this and rent a classic horror flick instead! "},{"Title":"Scraping the Bottom of the Slasher Film Barrel","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Long ago, in a galaxy far, far away, the horror genre spewed forth the original slasher film  Halloween.  While Halloween will never be an all-time great film -- its appeal is distinctly limited, after all -- it did become the standard for slasher films, combining gratuitous gore with a high level of suspense and terror.  The fact that Halloween still remains a scary film today for new viewers is a testament to its enduring strength. Then came Friday the 13th, and Nightmare on Elm Street -- both good, scary films, although not in the same realm as Halloween -- and then came a horde of other forgettable sequels and series, each one worse than its predecessor, until the slasher genre had degenerated into a unmitigated pile of utter crap.Then, nearly twenty years later, Scream arrived in the theaters, and the slasher genre was reborn, arising out of the ashes like a reborn phoenix. A new cycle had started.Then came I Know What You Did Last Summer, which pushed this new cycle onto the downward spiral towards the toilet.And now, we've arrived at Urban Legend.  The toilet.Still want to know what this awful film is about?  Fine.  A psychotic killer is re-enacting a slew of urban legends, myths about killers and murders that seem to be whispered lore in high schools and colleges all across America.  The killer in question is stalking the young, attractive co-eds of a college campus.  In a half-hearted nod to Scream, the co-eds are smart enough to recognize the urban legends and realize that they comprise the killer's modus operandi . . . but not smart enough to use that knowledge to keep themselves from getting killed.  Lots of blood, gore, and co-ed sex ensues before the killer's identity is finally  revealed.As a fan of the horror genre, and as a fan of slasher films, I don't have particularly high expectations for a slasher film.  I expect to see one or two imaginatively engineered death scenes, I expect to jump out of my chair in surprise/shock at least once, I expect one or two characters to have some funny, sarcastic lines spread out through the film for comic relief, and I expect maybe one gratuitous, well-shot sex scene between the Handsome Jock and the Pretty Troubled Girl.  That's it.  Yes, that's formulaic beyond nearly all belief, but that's also the formula for a decent slasher film.Well, Urban Legend lives up to none of these expectations.  The direction is dull and plodding, the scenes produce no sense of fear or tension, and the gore is uninspired.  All the big `surprises' can be seen coming from a mile away.  Considering there's actually a promising set-up with the use of urban legends as the catalyst for the death scenes, this is incredibly disappointing.  (Ooh, the killer's got . . . a butcher's knife.  Gee, that's original.) There's also the obligatory scenes of one character tapping another on the shoulder at what's supposed to be a tense moment, the character trapped in the darkness with nothing but a flashlight, the killer sprinting past the unwitting characters in the background as they helplessly moan about their plight . . . unfortunately, these scenes are so ineptly scripted, and shot with such lifeless direction, they don't serve any purpose except to make you check your watch more than the movie (or TV) screen.  It's typical, ordinary, obligatory scenes like these that can be tweaked into something special into the better-than-average slasher film -- but in Urban Legend, these scenes are only typical and ordinary at best. At worst, they stink.  And they usually stink in Urban Legend.The cast is undeniably good-looking, but apart from that, they also don't do very much of interest, apart from either brooding, whining,  pouting, asking incredibly stupid questions, having sex, or getting butchered like sheep. Sidebar  the three main female leads; namely Natalie (Alicia Witt), Brenda (Rebecca Gayheart), and Michelle (Natasha Gregson Wagner), are completely interchangeable in this film.  You will easily confuse their names throughout the film -- indeed, you will easily confuse THEM throughout the film, because they are all the same character.  The producers of this film could've saved some cash by only hiring one of these actresses, and by having that one actress perform some extended monologues.  Absolutely nothing about Urban Legend is scary, interesting, or for that matter, worth watching.Not even a brief appearance by Robert Freddy Krueger Englund is able to resuscitate this rotten, insipid waste of film.  Avoid Urban Legend (and its sequels . . . shudder) at all costs.  Grade  D- "},{"Title":"Good premise, bad film","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film was worse than I expected. I mean, come on! It's so pathetic. The reason why I rented it was because the premise sounded interesting. This could have become a pretty good slasher film, but it becomes ridiculous after about fifteen minutes or so. The idea behind the film isn't treated the way it should have been treated. And the last fifteen minutes&#133; I'm not even going to comment those. You know, I've seen episodes of Winnie the Pooh that are scarier than this. Watching ice melt is more entertaining&#133; A stupid, stupid film. The only reason why I won't give this film a 1 is because Alicia Witt and Jared Leto are quite good. The rest of the cast though&#133; I don't find words. (2/10) "},{"Title":"Very Clichéd","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Almost every horror cliché is present in this movie. Cars not starting, a girl not believing the guy is really getting killed, the dumb authority dismissing the heroine's cry for help as nonsense and many, many more. All teens (actors in their 20s) are booze and sex hounds who do nothing more than party and laugh at serious stuff. How annoying.Once you find out who the killer is you realize that it would have taken precision planning on the scale of Desert Storm to pull off the murders that happen in the movie, even if some of them are purely by chance and some don't even coincide with Urban Legends which is what the whole movie is based on. Many characters are given (very) brief roles and (very) small personalities. Then they are killed. Like they are just teenage meat that are killed for our pleasure. I thought Hollywood had stopped making conveyor belt movie like this, but obviously not.When will filmmakers realize that horror films should be surreal, elaborate, scary, daring and manipulative? Never apparently. The only reason for watching this movie is Chris Young's pounding musical score. Once again he has creating a soundtrack that is simultaneously action packed and creepy. But compared with trash like I STILL KNOW, this is a good movie. "},{"Title":"A trashy, poorly written attempt at teen horror","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend is a very disappointing film. It breaks absolutely no new ground in the teen horror genre and is incredibly predictable right to the very end. At no point, does Urban Legend even show the slightest signs of realism and in parts, becomes so unrealistic it becomes hard to watch. The performances are not bad, with the likeable prankster Joshua Jackson and a rare performance by horror king, Robert Englund. The cast seems to do well with a very flat, cliched script. It is not made clear whether the killer is human, because from what is presented, it appears that he\she is super human, as he\she survives being shot, falling out of a two story window and flying through a windscreen of a truck over the edge of a bridge into an icy river. All in all, a very unlikeable, annoying little film. "},{"Title":"Absolutely horrifying...","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ...but not in the way you're hoping it is. Oh no. No, Urban Legend is awful. I mean really bad. It's craptastic.First of all, it's part of the genre that's killing good horror teen horror. I can't stand movies that feature hot, fresh young stars and try to pander themselves to the teenage audience. Absolute crap like the Scream trilogy, Teaching Mrs. Tingle, and the I Know Who You Boffed on Tuesday movies. Kevin Williamson should be strung up by his intestines for inventing the worst movie genre in the history of man, an atrocity to my favorite movie genre.But that doesn't even begin to explain what's so abysmal about this movie. Anybody who has ever taken a serious interest in urban legends is going to be mortified by this movie. Urban legends themselves are pretty ambiguous and the story changes from person to person, but there are always a few constants. To avoid spoilers, I won't mention any in particular, but I'd like to point out that every single urban legend featured in this movie has been perverted beyond recognition. They aren't the real urban legends. They're interesting ways to kill people. And had the movie been marketed that way, it might have been more appealing.So let's recap. Crappy cast. Horrible writing. Lousy direction. No thrills, chills, or spills. Awful kills. And above all...desecration of one of the most interesting parts of American culture.Yeah, Urban Legend sucks.  "},{"Title":"Making urban legends","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend is a horror flick about a campus killer, who ismaking some kind of urban legends, like the one about an axe killer in the back seat at a gas station.The college reporter Paul (Jared Leto) and Natalie Simon (Alicia Witt) are a couple of teens in danger.Robert Englund, who you might remember from the role of Freddy Krueger, makes a cameo in Urban Legend. The suspense is high, when you look those college students running away from the killer.And it's a surprise to see who the killer is.Urban Legend is a thrilling horror movie.And the young actors do a great job. "}{"Title":"How Typical!!!","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban legend is another example of a typical 90's horror film....With numerous amounts of cliches and annoying scaring sound,a good plot,with miserable acting,and guess till the end trivia! Heres basically ratings as the film progressed... 10 mins --Wow....This film seems awesome...Great intro..20 mins --Hmmm...abit too much talk,but should get around...30 mins --Cliches,and more cliches....Getting abit tired...40 mins --This is going DOWN!1st hour -Boring...............75 minutes -Is it over yet???85 minutes -Yawn............95 minutes -Yes!!!!The Credits this trash is finally over!!!Dont waste your precious time, I would have expected better from these actors....But it slapped us back in the face. 4.5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"What can I say?","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  1)Scream rip-off 2)Almost your usual cast of teen flicks of today 3)Very uninteresting plot 4)Endurable This is what horror movies have become a copy-cat of low-budget horrible acting slasher films from the 80`s. You can save your money from watching this trash as it steals all of its best moments from other movies.It seem very boring after the first minute or so, it is another whodunit scenario.Save your money and rent a real thriller like (The Day of the Jackal or North By Northwest). "},{"Title":"A great idea that goes nowhere","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I gave this movie 3 stars out of ten in the IMDb voting section and the only reason I rated it that high was because of the great beginning.  And in the opening sequence, who do we have playing the role?  Brad Dourif as the gas station attendant.  Brad Dourif is a horror veteran first of all ( the voice of Chucky ) but further more he is a great actor ( Mississippi Burning, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest ) but what really makes the beginning work is not so much who is in it, but how it is directed.There is true terror in the beginning.  There are false scares and then just when you think the person is safe, WHAMMO, she gets it.  That is what the rest of the movie is missing.  There is no real suspense.  And that is what made horror films so popular in the 70's and 80's.  You can talk about classics like Psycho and Halloween but you can even go into mindless, quickie films like The Prey, Pieces, The Forest and any other 80's film that we saw as teens.  They are really not that good, but what they did is they scared you.  Horror directors emulated what they knew from guys like Polanski and Carpenter.  They had an icon to look up to and even if their films left quickly, at least they scared us as teens on video in the basement on a Saturday night.  This film is like every other recent film ( with the exception of Scream ) that has tried to be a horror film.  It just doesn't get it right.  There is no blurry image of the killer lurking ominously and imminently in the background.  There is no fancy camera work to make you think the killer is coming from one way and then all of a sudden just when you have no idea what is going to happen, someone gets a machete in the head and they roll down a flight of steps.What we have here is a bunch of good looking actors that are killed off one by one in ways that really didn't scare me.  They were actually laughable. And the other thing that really bothered me in the film is the identity of the killer.  There is no way that person could accomplish some of the feats they did.  They were not  The Undead  like Jason.  They were not dream characters like Freddy and they weren't as mentally unstable as Michael.The idea behind this film makes for an intriguing story, it's too bad that maybe Sean Cunningham or Steve Miner from the early 80's couldn't have done something with it.  That would be a movie I would pay to see.  But I do hope people keep trying to make the next great horror film, because it is a fun genre.  It just has to be done right.  "},{"Title":"Nearly as good as Scream","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend is a good movie. Nearly as good as Scream, but the people in this movie are not as interesting as the ones in Scream, and Scream 2. Urban Legend is a bit scarier than Scream, but not as entertaining as Scream, and Scream 2. But it's still an entertaining movie. I give Urban Legend *** out of ****  "},{"Title":"What's new on the slasher front ?","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, since you've been so far, you're interested in the genre, so let's have a look at the new, improved recipe for slasher movies compared to Halloween/Friday rips-off. All this is like teenagers post-Halloween stuff, but now the average students are supposed to be modern and sometimes (sometimes.) really fleshed-out. And. it's obviously the end of the girls as just Screamers and psycho-fodder  just as in real life, they fight back (Jamie Lee Curtis did away with those clichés in H20). THOUGH. not on UL, or just once  the radio attendant just sits waiting for the axe to go down. The killer has his gimmicks  not horror movies this time, but urban you-know-what. But. he keeps on taunting the characters with the references they both have, as well as, presumably, the audience. This wasn't featured in the old slashers, which weren't thinking that far. They still relies on non-stars, or better  some guy straight out of TV and anxious for his/her BIG BREAK. Aaaand. asking for less money ! Some says those movies are inexpensive, and they are compared to Gibson/Schwarzenneger stuff, but they have better production values than the old slashers. Look at The curve, with somewhat similar post-SCREAM premises  it's not a good movie, but it cost just one million bucks. 1/15th this one. Have I got your attention ? On this one and IKWYDLS 2, clichés are back  the killer bumps off an entire cast before getting to the one he really wants, he seems to be ubiquous  and still appears and disappears mysteriously. Aaand. let's wait for that old favorite, when the heroine has bodies falling on her head ! (THIS was also in IKWYDLS 1/2) There are one or two good shots on that one, especially the one where one victim's face is reflected in the void behind the killers'hood, seen behind a window. Okay, nothing new camera-wise, but some decent cinematography. But next time, maybe they could just maybe figure out that everybody in the audience condones stupidity in his/her fun, right ? No offense taken, "},{"Title":"Stupid, stupid, stupid, stupid, stupid","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend is a moronic film.  I wish I could put it more elegantly than that, but the word moronic fits the film perfectly.  This is a carefully constructed attempt to cash in on the teen-slasher market, nothing more.  It has no flair, logic, imagination, or spirit.  I only hope tripe like this has had its day at the box office.Every cliche in the book is used in Urban Legend.  People jumping out at each other from the dark and then asking, What are you so jumpy about? The weirdo who has some knowledge about the murders that are occurring.  The massive cast of characters, each person possibly the killer.  The surprise ending.  And so on and so on.Jared Leto's main character is a bland, arrogant doofus.  I was praying, hoping, wishing that the lame parka-clad killer would gut him like a freshwater trout.  (By the way, how come no one says anything about a person walking around the campus in a parka.  In the _summer_??  And how ridiculous is it that three different people have the SAME parka?? Arrgh!)Alicia Witt is the one bright spot.  Her charisma and ability shine through this muddle, believe it or not.  I will also give credit to Joshua Jackson for abandoning his image and getting slaughtered.The premise of a serial killer knocking off people using urban legends is good, but it falls to the tired old situations that populate movies like this.  The identity of the killer is painfully obvious, just because it is the one character who is so UNobvious.  The showdown is dumb, the surprise ending is laughable, and the final scene is ludicrous.  This pathetic pretender is a big plate of lousy. "},{"Title":"What a mess.","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend is a mess. The only reason to watch this film is the first 10 minutes, after that it falls apart quickly. The acting isn't bad and the direction is pretty good, I think that the screenplay was a little weak though. I heard somewhere that the film was originally supposed to be shot in the winter. That would explain the abundance of BIG winter jackets. Looked sunny outside to me.....strange winter. It had some interesting twists, but was just not good enough. Waste of time, unless you like your horror movies so bad they're good.  "},{"Title":"Good idea wasted on a bad movie","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  What a waste of time and money. If they hadn't followed the teen horror flick template, this film would have had a chance at being actually scary. Was a bit surprised at the end though, but not enough to say this was even a mediocre movie. It had its funny moments though, not enough to redeem the whole stinking, awful movie. "},{"Title":"anyone with half a brain can predict this movie","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If you have seen any of the other late nineties, teen horror flicks, you have seen Urban Legend.  And if, in addition, you have read any urban legends in your lifetime, you can predict the end of this film halfway through, along with the murderer and motive.  However, if you like attractive young actors screaming and cracking a couple pop culture references and want to leave your WB and go rent a movie, I suppose Urban Legend is a good bet for you.  "},{"Title":"thanks tara reid","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  thank god that tara reid has a role in this movie because otherwise i would have shot myself just in the middle of the projection "}{"Title":"For all those that hated the movie....","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend is one of the most inventive movies to come out in awhile. I loved Scream. I thought it was excellent and have loved the horror genre ever since. Urban Legand was made to be nominated for any major awards. No horror movie is ever made for that purpose. Movies are supposes to entertain. Also, I hate these reviews from people that call any horror movie coming out a Scream-rip off. The only way this movies is related to Scream is that it features good-looking people being killed by a serial killer. By that logic, Fallen is a Scream rip-off. No movie trivia. No phone terror. Unfortunately, no Rose McGowan. Urban Legand and I Know... were written way before Scream. Just take the time to watch these movies and try to have a good time. "},{"Title":"Unique Horror Film!","Date":"9 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend was an excellent horror movie.  The sequence of events, the multiple characters with motives, and the twist ending all made Urban Legend a unique movie to see.  The action was fast and the characters were in a way people we all know.  One boy was a practical joker and another a writer for the school paper.  One girl was working for a school radio program and another was an athlete on the swim team.  The people were diverse and well defined.  Also the movie's ability to shock you was amazing!  Just when the veiwer thinks one thing is going to happen something you didn't quite expect occurs instead.The actors and actresses in the film were mostly new comers with the major exception of horror movie veteran Robert Englund. It is refreshing to see so many new faces in the movie industry. Especialy ones who can act so well.  The fear and the insanity of the film are very much alive in the actors portrayal of the characters.  Especially in Rebecca Gayheart's performance.  I personally liked Urban Legend better than Scream.  I highly recommend Urban Legend to all horror fans.  It's expertly written, has a unique plot, and is brought to life by wonderful acting performances.  A funny, scary, and thrilling movie. "},{"Title":"Totally awful, tasteless, pathetic, predictable","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I feel used and abused.I was forced to see this movie by my girl-friend and I am still regretting saying yes. To put it mildly, this movie is bad. To make it simple for everyone to understand, I have 5 reasons why this movie was so bad.1) Terrible acting- The cast of this film should each be sentenced for a year of acting school after some plain and unmotivated performances. 2) Predictable plot- I almost managed to successfully predict who got killed, who didn't and who the killer was. No surprises here. 3) No likeable characters- The audience feels ripped-off because there is no one in this film to relate to, unless of course you are a pompous, over-confident jerk. 4) Over-extenuated ending- This film just never seems to end and the ending itself is so unbelievable,it---wait, it mirrors the rest of the movie. 5) Underdevelopment of the Urban Legend theme- I feel that this movie could have succeeded if the Urban Legend theme was worked upon more. It was the only source of potential for this movie.I was very disgusted with this film and haven't seen such a bad one since BEAN. The only reason I am giving it two stars is because 1. It is a film. and 2. There is a plot. Enough said.2/10 stars. "},{"Title":"It's definitely not a Scream...","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Well, I have to admit that I saw this movie thinking it was going to be a drama, so I'm half responsible for not being knowledgeable about the type of movie.  Okay, so as I was watching the movie I was thinking, I've seen Scream 1 and 2 and I Know What You Did.  I'm pretty sick of those but I'll sit through this anyways.  The movie totally lacked a good story.  The writer obviously didn't research beforehand on the attitudes of college students because he/she was way off.  Plus I can't stand in movies how they make all the characters really gorgeous.  It's just not realistic.But I'm going to have to watch what I say because I can't expect this genre to be realistic anyhow!  As soon as the credits came up I screamed for the exit and never looked back (true story) ) "},{"Title":"A bad movie that had potential","Date":"6 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  With the revival of the horror genre that has taken place since the 1996 release of Scream, there are bound to be some poor attempts to copy that movie.  Unfortunately, Urban Legend is just that.  Having heard urban legends since I was about 5 years old (and being a fan of horror movies), I went to see Urban Legend with eager anticipation.  I left the theater shaking my head in disappointment.  Instead of being treated to a fresh, scary and perhaps even mildly comedic take on the legends everyone has heard over the years (killer in the back seat, pop rocks and soda, etc.), the film is simply a typical and very unoriginal slasher flick.  There was not a surprise to be had in this movie.  All of the plot twists could be seen coming long before they happened.  In short, Urban Legend ends up being a poor rip off of the very successful Scream movies and I Know What You Did Last Summer.  If you want to see a well made  and very scary movie, go to the video store and pick up The Exorcist. "},{"Title":"Can anybody make a believable horror movie?","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  As anonymous wrote above, this movie is a waste of film and insults my intelligence.  Are we to believe a 98 lb. woman threw around 180 lb. men as she slashed them? Rebecca Gayheart is great eye candy but can't act to save her life. There is the standard two scares to every kill and so many idiotic things going on it was hard to stay the whole movie. ( Ex  Why was the girl at the poolside wearing a parka in warm weather?) Unfortunately, there were enough 13 year olds in attendance that this movie will make $60 million and we'll have the sequel Legend Has It You Screamed Last Summer. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time or money","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Why was this movie ever made?  Nothing special about it.  A sub-par slasher movie; and that's saying quite a bit!  The 'scares' are predictable.  The suspects are no surprise.  Just lots of blood without a good story.  Don't even rent it. "},{"Title":"It's no 'Scream,' but it'll do","Date":"28 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I guess history really does repeat itself. After the success of the 1978 horror classic 'Halloween' we were bombarded with slasher flick after slasher flick. Some turned out to be pleasant surprises, others were just complete wastes of time and money. By the 90s the slasher genre was pretty much dried up and it was time for something new. Fast forward to 1996 when Wes Craven came up with his next hit 'Scream,' a film that took the slasher conventions and played with them while still being scary. So it's no surprise that other filmmakers wanted in on the new craze and soon we got films like 'I Know What You Did Last Summer' and this film. But is this like those earlier films that were nothing more than a cheap knockoff not worth a damn? After seeing this all the way through for the first time I'd say it's a bit better than that.Pros A good concept for a slasher flick. A wicked sense of humor. A talented young cast. A beautiful, yet sinister location. Moves along at a good pace. A good score by 'Hellraiser I & II' composer Christopher Young. Some cool appearances by genre veterans such as Robert Englund and Danielle Harris. Some of the kills are creative and well-staged. Some suspense.Cons Has many clichés. Doesn't take too long to figure out who the killer is. Aside from Alicia Witt and Jared Leto's characters no one else stands out enough for us to really care for them. Unnecessary set-up for a sequel.Final thoughts Unlike some of the other slasher films I mentioned above this one won't be remembered as one of the greats. However, it's just entertaining and professionally done enough to make it worth a watch and to bring it a little above similar films.My rating 3.5/5 "},{"Title":"Fun and entertaining slasher; kept my attention","Date":"29 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Urban Legend was overall a very great and satisfying movie for what it was worth, and people seem to forget that teen slashers are just meant for fun anyways. It's negative criticism is understandable, as is any film of this caliber, but is just a little unfair, because I can see why a lot of people would dislike it for it was very mediocre in ways at times and of course it certainly has no masterpiece script/dialog, but this film makes up for all that with great deaths, a decent plot, and overly passable acting by all the cast. I said this film was satisfying enough, and that's because I was expecting it to be brainless entertainment, and I got just that and a little more. Although there were a few minor parts that were low quality, as I have said, like there are in many teen slashers, I think this movie deserves a higher rating and more appreciation than it receives. It is a very good film that sure will change your outlook on urban legends. . . maybe. I assure anyone who watches it that they will be at least minimally pleased with how it turns out, in some way, hopefully. I especially love Tara Reid's chase scene, for instance.Although this movie does not deserve to be called the best movie ever, in my opinion at least, it sure does deserve more respect for the fun time that it gives, as do many movies, but Urban Legend is sometimes taken way too seriously by it's audience and criticized for the most random things when really you should just sit back, relax and enjoy. Watch it if you are a horror fan or can have an open mind about it, for it has one of my favorite chase scenes of all time, and a pretty pleasing twist at the end. "},{"Title":"Better than average but falls apart at the end","Date":"20 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" At a college in New England there's a serial killer who's killing people and using urban legends as a method. He seems to be targeting Natalie (Alicia Witt) and her friends...but why? And who is it?Well-done and very good addition to the slasher film genre. It starts right off with a scary and atmospheric murder (which also makes good use of Bonnie Tyler's Total Eclipse of the Heart) and keeps getting better. They have some good acting (Witt and Rebecca Gayheart are just great), a pretty fun script (the basic idea itself is not bad) and some very well-done murders (Danielle Harris' was a highlight). Also it was fun to see Joshua Jackson from Dawson's Creek and casting Rober Englund (Freddy Krueger himself) as a teacher was a nice touch. BUT it all falls apart at the end.DEFINITE SPOILERS!!!!! ENDING IS REVEALED!!!!! We find out Rebecca Gayheart is the killer. That's right--a petite woman kills all these people (she was able to overpower Jackson?) and manages to move and hide all the bodies in an abandoned building. Uh huh. Also how does she get a car when Witt is running away at the end? How did she know Witt would end up at the abandoned tower? How did Leto know they were there? Far too many questions. We're also expected to believe that she is shot point-blank, falls out of a tower, gets into a car Leto and Witt are in, goes crashing through a windshield into icy cold waters...and is STILL alive!!!! That's just insulting the audience to a large degree. SPOILERS END!!!!!Also Michael Rosenbaum is lousy and Jared Leto (blue eyes blazing) walks through his role. So this is, at first, a smart and amusing slasher film that completely falls apart during the last half hour. Too bad. I give it a 6 for the opening hour. "}{"Title":"the stuff that legends are made of","Date":"9 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Urban Legend is nothing special. Mostly, it's just another movie about a psycho killer targeting a bunch of twenty-somethings. The whole part about the killings being based on urban legends - for the uninitiated, those are stories such as the boy and girl who drive off with the killer's hook hanging onto their car door - was the main interesting part. Otherwise, there's little that we haven't seen in better movies (namely Scream). Still, it's always a pleasure to sit down and watch a movie like this and wonder whether or not any of these urban legends could ever come true.All in all, an OK way to pass time. Starring Jared Leto, Alicia Witt, Rebecca Gayheart, John Neville (aka Baron Munchausen), Natasha Gregson-Wagner (Natalie Wood's daughter), Robert Englund and Brad Dourif.PS Urban Legend was one of three really profitable movies in autumn, 1998, along with Rush Hour and The Waterboy. A slasher movie, a buddy comedy, and a football comedy. Hmmm... "},{"Title":"Best post-Scream style film","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Urban Legends is one of the most underrated films of the post-Scream slasher films.**SPOILERS**Pendelton University is home to a group of friends like many other campuses do, but they've got a twist an urban legend around campus that's true but no one knows. Paul Gardener, (Jared Leto) a journalism student, hears the legend being told by fellow student Parker Riley (Michael Rosembaum) about a teacher who massacres his students, but no one else in the group, Natalie Simon (Alicia Witt) and Brenda Bates, (Rebecca Gayheart) believe the story. During a demonstration by Professor Wexler, (Robert Englund) they both hear the story about a woman murdered on campus. Even though Natalie swears she didn't know her, the murdered woman was an old friend of friends, which Damon Brooks (Joshua Jackson) picks up on and asks her to talk about it. While talking, she finds out the true nature of Damon's advances and kicks him out, only to see him killed by a mysterious figure in a black hooded jacket. When she gets back, no one believes her, since he also has a convenient alibi for being away. As more people disappear around campus, Natalie and Paul find out that the killer is basing their crimes on urban legends, and that anyone can be behind the hooded mask.The Good News Back when this movie came out, the gimmick of using the deaths based on urban legends allowed for some pretty inventive and original kills. The dead boyfriend suspended over a fleeing car was an expected one, and one that you can see coming from a mile away, but several others are quite original. The sex/strangulation misidentification death is really cool, and the backseat driver decapitation is a great one to open a film on. That sex/strangulation death is my favorite, mainly because the circumstances needed to make it true are so astronomical in their probability that it simply becomes a nice surprise. To have the back-story needed to make sure Natalie couldn't see anything, the killer gaining access to the room without violent means, and the actual sounds of the incident are all mixed together and it makes a marvelous scene. The hanging car death is also masterfully excised to create some wonderful suspense scenes, as the killer is revealed in the early part of the movie, and does away with a likable character, Damon, right away. Their ensuing chase of Natalie adds extra juice as they try repeatedly to break into the car, setting off the events that lead to Damon's death. Only one non-death scene was really effective for me to prove an old urban legend, two woman stand in front of a building and say Bloody Mary five times. From inside the building are the ghostly screams of supposed dead souls from an old massacre twenty-five years past. Gasping in shock, they back away, only to bump into someone. A cheap gag, but the effect worked because it comes from the unexpected source. It isn't the screaming ghosts, but the bump afterward that gets the scare. Also of note is the identity of the killer and how their secret is kept is some great writing. The way there are so many different red herrings involved, and all of them given good alibis to clear them, so by gaining more clues to their identity, it broadens the suspense by making a extra clue for the people to solve. One great scene, where Natalie watches someone in the killers know attire stalk one of her friends in a swimming pool, while she is helplessly trying to get her attention. A great little suspense scene that mainly works because we know what the killer is dressed like, but its effective.The Bad News The main problem with this film is that it was aimed for the masses to consume, so it has a lot of toned-down gore. Many of these killings should've been a gorier, and it will probably disappoint the many out there looking for a good gory slasher film. It also falls into the realm of those post-Scream films, where they're trying to poke fun of the genre at the same time as trying to scare you, and here is one example that people can point to as having a ton of cheap scares that aren't frightening. What makes it worse is that many of the jokes aren't funny, so it is a bit flat in some places. Also, two of the murders aren't based on urban legends being dragged by a car onto the tire spikes in several buildings, and being chopped up by an ax. Not real urban legends, so it has a false title. One last thing this scene is so stupid I have to comment on it. After surviving a vicious car crash, Natalie rolls down the car's window and opens the locked door to get out. The window was already down; you didn't need to open the door! That's just letting the killer catch up to you.The Final Verdict While certainly not for everyone, this is a far better flick than its reputation would have it. It has some fresh kills, a couple nice suspense scenes, and a new gimmick at the time. Slasher fans will want to give it an open-minded look, but post-Scream horror film haters will think a little harder than others will.Rated R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language, some alcohol use, a scene with a dog drinking and a brief mild sex scene "},{"Title":"Even after 7 years this movie is still a classic to see.....","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie is just as good if not better than scream. I found myself completely blown away by the identity of the killer, I never, ever saw it coming. Well I won't say more for the people who haven't seen it. This movie for some reason got terrible reviews and I don't know why, The previews did make this look like an I know what you did last summer rip off, but man this movie blows that movie to shambles.This movie also has some really hot women, in Rebecca Gayheart (nothing to loose) and that red head chick whose name I can't remember. Let me say this, you just won't see the ending coming at all. it's just the exact way you execute a slasher mystery.10/10, one of my favorite ultimate slasher movies. THis movie should've gotten the attention it deserved and not just passed as anohter general slasher as it was more than just that. "},{"Title":"NO GORE, NO SEX, NO REASON, NO INTEREST!","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend is another teen slasher that was conceived only to cash in on the Scream trilogy success! There's almost no gore, there's no nudity or sex and even if some very attractive actresses are in the cast the wardrobe is as unsexy as it gets and the director chooses not to explore any sensuality all movie long!  The plot has an interesting premise and the movie starts very well with a suspenseful sequence that's well built and executed! Brad Dourif is fantastic and his presence is a big bonus and a pleasure for the horror fans and especially Chucky freaks as I am! Freddy Kruger himself, Robert Englund is also on the cast even if he is wasted in an empty, paper character! Very nice to see him too! However these appearances while pleasant are also cruel since it reminds us of original, frightening and cool horror, something Urban Legend is not!The cast is filled with somewhat famous young actors! It's funny to see how today still no one has really exploded into stardom! Alicia Witt has what it takes to be the heroin, good looks, innocence and strong screams She carries the movie with no apparent difficulty! Rebecca Gayheart unfortunately overacts to the point where her acting turns ridiculous! Not convincing, too over the top, too bad! Tara Reid, a real pleasure to the eyes, has an easy drop dead character! No talent needed!Again, it's a shame the director didn't take more advantage of the beauty of his female cast! Jared Leto is way too good for his weak character but he pulls it off with class! Joshua Jackson has charisma and lights up the screen with his brief appearance! Michael Rosenbaum is perfect for his role and the veteran John Neville is very amusing with a strong presence on screen! Loretta Devine is the only real miscast! She's annoying, irritating and manages to ruin every scene she's in! God, what a bad, uninteresting performance! Oh the pain!The music is horrible, with really high notes and no personality!  The director has nice moments with some interesting shots and he achieves good levels of tension in some key moments in the movie! Good cinematography too!The script however is dull, formulaic and lazy! There's nothing remotely original in it! The characters are walking clichés. The Urban Legend idea is appealing but then we fall on a boring death spree with nothing happening in between but a laughable investigation that leads nowhere!   Every cliché in horror movies is used! We have the killer chasing the hot girl sequence, people not believing the main character, the boyfriend being a big suspect and so much more that I cant say without going into spoilers! And the ending is just so stupid, illogical but at the same time predictable it's just sad! There's not the smallest effort in the story! And of course there´s the giant plot holes that after a while you just stop caring about!Urban legend is a politically correct teen slasher, with nothing new and no real reason to exist! Its not exciting, it doesn't have the smallest reality feel to it and it's almost an embarrassment to the true horror fans! Not even the deaths are cool! Its not scary, it's not sexy, it's just a pathetic attempt at being entertaining! A mediocre copy!  "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the worst horror ever made its funny its so bad * out of five","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Woah, how bad is this? And the most irratating thing is it had a good premise. But this is a weak sill predictable tosh! It actually had me rolling with laughter, it was so stupid and terrible. Honestly I'm sure they're have been B-MOVIES MORE frightening than this bunkemn "},{"Title":"A Short History about Nonsense","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  After watching this movie tonight on TV, I really felt  frightened like a rabbit. Having watched TV since the knowledge of the On/Off button of the TV-set there are not that many movies exciting me and surely this one is not eliciting the slightest extrasystolic stroke of my heart.Hollywood movies, are what they are. They devour money like a hungry bear and the outcome is the same as the worthless bear´s.Now a small dissection of the movies anatomy.The Surface After examining everything for a while you come to the conclusion that that the plot outline is the same as many others you have seen before, or just a mixture of them. ( Scream, Helloween, The Simpsons...)The Character study There are dummy-characters, you know they gonna die during the next half an hour ( let´s title them canonfodder ). They are normaly either timid or crazy or easygoers. Then you need characters to distract the moviegoers from the real evil guy. Two types of them the really suspicious ones ( often hunchbacked, one-eyed, three-legged or whatever -->let´s classify them as cheap-suspects) and the more decent ones ( they always seem to be your best friend--- In 95 % of the Hollywood movies the real murderer is hidden in this group ). Then you need one or two main characters ( normally hero and heroine ), who will survive anything in 99 % of the cases. Furthermore you need some assholes ( doing always the obvious WRONG thing, but still persisting that they are right-- In 50% of the cases they will meet their doom ) and a lot of happy people around.The Inner Parts 1. Why for god´s sake everybody in that movie wore the same overcoat ? Megasale or what ? 2. Why would someone go to a swimmingpool, dressed like an  Eskimo, just to take the coat of near the bassin ? 3. Why a murderer is always near you, all the same if you are in the desert coincidently, ran for ten hours into the wilderness in whatever direction, closed fifty doors behind you and when you take a rest the murderer is already there. A rabbit and hedgehog paradoxon ? Teleportation ? A case for Stephen Hawking ...? 4.If you call someone, no one will answer you, but instead sneak towards you, put his hand on your shoulder and frighten you to death. Maybe I should treat my friends like this too. 5.Instead of defense, move towards the corner of a room sit down and cry Oh, dear evil person please don´t kill me Effect a 100% dead sure. 6.Being a woman, eating two bullets, falling down at least five meters to the ground, opening a car and hiding there ( of course  after you have taken your axe with you ) for let´s say an hour ( still bleeding !) until your last burstout of energy, which will bring you into the most fortunate situation of falling down again 20 meters from a bridge ...Wow what a spectacular death for such an evil woman !! 7.In almost every horror movie during the climax-phase there have to be a thunderstorm, and when it happen that you urgently call the police, they tell you, that they are all out. Why ? Why everyone ? What may be the reason for it ? Coordinating the traffic ? Saving kittens from a sure thunderbolt-death in the trees ? A murder is normally not that important. But I believe, this the special time for all murderers to commit their crime and therefore chances are bad to find a free policeman in an emergency. Yeah, I believe so. Especially if all Hollywood movies show you, that it is the best time, it must be the best time. 7.If you here faint sounds of sirens, that means the evil person is dead and you are rescued, at least for that sequel (... but at last... strange ?!...police?.. here ? Thought they were somewhere else in mission ?) "},{"Title":"One of the worst horror films ever made --  1 out of 10","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I grew up in the late 70s/early 80s and enjoyed classics such as Halloween, A Nightmare on Elm Street, etc.  I also found the first two Scream films and the first I Know What You Did Last Summer to be well-made.  But THIS movie was so bad it made the bad 80s flicks (Friday the 13th...) look good.There wasn't a single fresh idea in this movie nor a single surprise.  The identity of the killer is supposed to shock us, but it is just done for the sake of surprise and it wasn't all that surprising at all if you look at it from that standpoint.The worst part of this movie were the lame attempts to scare the audience that were the usual false alarms interspersed with the real thing -- none of which was scary or suspenseful.  The characters are all one-dimensional and with the exception of Alicia Witt, the acting is inferior as well.  Rebecca Gayheart is particularly pathetic.Even if you like horror movies, avoid this one like the plague. "},{"Title":"Worse than I Know What You Did Last Summer!","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I got Urban Legend recommended by one of my friends (we both love Scream), but I'm very sorry, that I wasted the 25 kroner (about 4$) to rent it. It is absolutely the most ridiculous story, I have ever seen in a movie! You only have to see the first 15 minutes, and then you know the rest of it! Don't waste time - or money on this one!I voted 1/10 "},{"Title":"a horrible film","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  No suspense,    no horror,   not a good movie.   What more can I say?Rating 0 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Expensive Ripoff of Campfire Tales","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is merely an expensive ripoff of a nearly~as~bad flick called Campfire Tales, but with better~looking women.Closing twist is directly stolen from more films than I can name.Or care to.Avoid. "}{"Title":"The film is bad-don't waste your time with it","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I totally agree with what chainsaw-8 wrote about the movie. He is right, my comment would have been more or less like his (maybe less, because english is not my mother tounge). That's why I don't want to bother you with another review. The film is bad-don't waste your time with it.  "},{"Title":"This was an utterly awful twist on a recent rash of slashers.","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Urban Legend was a total failure on an otherwise good idea. This was a rare movie where I was tempted to leave the theatre near the end. The movie lured people in with an original plot and a promising TV cast, but managed to humiliate the young actors. The movie was improved only slightly by Alicia Witt and the comedic performance of the janitor. Rebecca Gayheart, who should stick to facial cream commercials suggested she doesn't speak, provided an embarrassing performance. The movie stuck to a mediocre level as the film progressed and left an essence of hope to the audience with clues that it could possibly improve, but no. As soon as the climax hinted its start you began to wonder how this production could get worse, that being your only incentive to stay.The writers stood with the classic slasher rules, to the best of their knowledge. Making the killer whom you'd least suspect became a bit of a novelty. I can just imagine let's see who've  made the least obvious through bad clues . . . I'd be more satisfied with the killer being someone we've never even seen before, like a guest celebrity, or Red Herring. "},{"Title":"OH BOY!!","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen this movie before. No wait that was Friday the 13th Part I, or was it part II, or was it part III.  Hmmm.  Maybe it was Scream. Or, maybe it was a combination of a few of other horror flicks.  It was a dark rainy night. Girl, alone runs out of gas. How lucky, a gas station. Couldn't it be run by a normal person? Of course not.  Or is it? After this opening scene and the girl drives off it is all DOWNHILL.  Too many cliches. The only thing different is the concept ( a serial killer copying URBAN LEGENDS).  Robert Englund (aka Freddy Krueger), is professor William Wexler, why is he in this movie? This movie is all too predictable, from the campus wanna-be cop to the Dean, to the students.  AGGHHHH no more. The trailers looked good.  Do yourself a favor, if you have to see URBAN LEGENDS, leave after the first 10 minutes. * out of *****.  "},{"Title":"No violence, no sex, no fun","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is probably the worst slasher-movie ever made! It´s not frightning, there´s NO violence and no nudity. And this should be a slasher-flick? Robert Englund have done many bad movies, but this must the most boring one. Watch out for this stinker!  "},{"Title":"Boring piece of ....","Date":"29 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Then I was a teenager I purposely avoided the ripoffs of Scream like the plague, saying thins like, I don't watch that trendy crap! or This ain't no Texas Chainsaw Massacre!. Ten years later everybody's ripping off Saw and now the teenage crowd is flocking to see torture porn at the cineplex. Movies like Scream made the late nineties kids feel trendy while these newer films make them feel both trendy AND hardcore.Films like Urban Legend are now (mostly) a thing of the past, so I decided that maybe now is the time to go back and see what I missed the first time around and my conclusion is that the thirty-year old Bill owes the teenage Bill an apology. This movie is a complete waste of time and a total piece of crap!Slow and stupid is a phrase that perfectly describes both this film and all the characters in it. How these morons ever made it to an ivy league school (much less high school) eludes me and they're unlikable as hell too! However, I forgot how cute Tara Reid was before she got fake boobs and started drinking all the time.As for the killer's methods, what is the point of imitating famous urban legends? Sounds very tedious to me and not exactly foolproof like it's portrayed. Someone going through all these ridiculous lengths to kill people would most likely get caught or killed very quickly. I'm all for the suspension of disbelief but this went way beyond the tricks that one skinny girl would be able to pull off.The final scene where the killer is unmasked and revealed to be none other than Rebecca Gayheart is a travesty. Here, Gayheart begins to desperately overact, becoming so unbelievably obnoxious that it makes her look like a complete fool. It was really quite embarrassing to watch her act like an idiot! The director should have stepped in, unless it was his fault! "},{"Title":"Entertaining slasher","Date":"22 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Urban Legend tells the story of a group of rather stupid college students who are getting killed off one by one in the manner of various urban legends. A lot of people are killed and the authorities don't believe there is a killer on the loose. Finally the killer and the motives are revealed.This is a fun movie, but don't go in expecting any kind of masterpiece. It's an entertaining slasher with some creative kills and a bit of a back story for the killer. It has some interesting kill scenes, some attractive actors and decent pacing, so you won't get bored. A lot of other users have said this has ripped off from Scream, and while I definitely think that this movie capitalized on Scream's popularity, I wouldn't call it a rip off.This is a good popcorn or date movie that does what it sets out to do-entertain the viewer. "},{"Title":"An okay horror flick with a nice plot twist.","Date":"30 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Urban Legend though nothing great has to be one of the better horror flicks of the past decade. The film is done in a surprise and stylish kind of way with a plot that twist in the end. Set in a New England college town that supposedly has a tradition of murder and havoc, one by one as tales are passed down from generations of students the murders of college students one by one start to return. Natalie(Alicia Witt) who's a lonely and shy new student will end up oddly enough finding herself at the center of these sadistic murders believed to be inspired by urban legends. Upon the 25th anniversary of some murders this party turns out to be a surprise twist. Overall nothing great still a watch for some pure horror and suspense fun. "},{"Title":"Urban Legend Should Keep Horror Movie Junkies Squirming.","Date":"8 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The fun of watching creepy slasher movies is to see how many clichés the films can trash without trivializing the conventions of the horror genre. Alfred Hitchcock launched this dreadful but adrenalin-laced genre back in the 1960s with Psycho. Halloween, Friday the 13th, and the Nightmare on Elm Street epics along with their sanguinary sequels carved out a cinematic niche for themselves in the 1970s and 1980s. Recently, the Scream and I Know What You Did Last Summer sagas have pumped fresh plasma into the slasher genre for the 1990s.As axe-wielding, serial-killer, whodunits rate, Urban Legend takes its cues from Scream and I Know What You Did Last Summer and features more than enough get-up and gore. Sadly, lacking a credible plot, Urban Legend adds only a creative stab or two, but never twists the formula enough to distinguish itself. Ultimately, the film relies on the usual quota of clichés, shocks, and cleverly staged homicides to conceal its flaws. Conspicuously missing are the lusty interludes that punctuated Halloween and Friday the 13th. Sexual activity is confined to the Kama Sutra sex chat of a late-night, campus talk-radio host, and an Elvira coed who reams out her roommate for walking in on her during sex with her guy. Unlike earlier slashers, Urban Legend doesn't punish its participants for their carnal urges. Thrill-thriving teens, may salvage a shriek or two, but veteran, old school horror-goers will scoff at the less than legendary treatment that the filmmakers afford their promising premise.Rookie film director Jamie Blanks and novice scribe Silvio Norta had a novel idea. An anonymous homicidal maniac is killing students, faculty, and administrators at Pendleton University, a prestigious New England campus. What sets these killings apart from ordinary homicides is that each slaying reenacts an urban legend. Urban legends are contemporary folklore spread by word-of-mouth that contain a modicum of truth. Alligators prowling the sewers of Manhattan and metal tooth fillings that transmit radio broadcasts exemplify urban legends.Scenarist Silvio Norta's predictable but abrasive 'cry wolf' screenplay paints paranoid college student Natalie (Alicia Witt of TV's Cybill) into a deadly corner. She keeps warning everybody about the serial killer but everybody ignores her. Paul (Jared Leto of The Thin Red Line), a scoop-hungry journalism major, refuses to believe that urban legends would inspire a murderer. Meanwhile, frat boy Parker (Michael Rosenbaum of Poolhall Junkies) exploits Pendleton University's own urban legend. Twenty-five years ago an insane professor slashed the throats of several undergraduates in their dorm. Parker commemorates this heinous occasion with a party. When Paul sees the truth in Natalie's 'cry wolf' stories, the campus security chief (Loretta Divine of Dreamgirls) reminds them that The U.S. News & World Report named Pendleton as the safest campus in New England.Urban Legend sticks closely to the horror formula in most respects. Urban legends like the babysitter who gets harassing phone calls from within her house, axe-murderers waiting in the back seat, and trying to get the car cranked before the lunatic smashes the windshield are skillfully woven into the fabric of the plot. Just about everything spooky happens at night, and everybody has a nasty habit of sneaking up on each other. The killer walks, while the victims run! Not only does Natalie have a tough time convincing her friends about her serial killer, but the filmmakers also have their own problems convincing us that their murderer could commit such crimes.Blanks and Norta imitate rather than renovate the classics. Looking like Nanook of the North, the villain wears an ominous but nondescript fur-lined parka. The serial killer is literally faceless because the hood obscures all facial features. Wisely, the filmmakers have complicated the identity crisis. Just about everybody in Urban Legend sports an identical parka. Unhappily, their efforts to distract audiences with red herrings about the murderer's identity misfire.Urban Legend opens with an exciting scene set at a back roads gas station on a stormy evening. A college student, Michelle Mancini (Natasha Gregson of Lost Highway) runs out of fuel. At the gas station, a stuttering attendant (Brad Dourif of Dune) who intends her no harm scares Michelle. As she spins her wheels to get away, the poor guy warns her about a person with an axe in the backseat. Indisputably, Urban Legend qualifies as both mischievous and mean spirited. The vicious killer wields a razor-sharp axe and enjoys swinging the bloody thing.Director Jamie Blanks choreographs each killing for maximum visual and aural impact. He doesn't really do anything innovative that previous horror directors haven't already done. He gets more mileage out of shocking than scaring. At least five times, he uses the old trick of having somebody grab someone else from off-camera. When he can neither shock nor scare, he resorts to sadism, like the dog in the microwave. Altogether, Blanks is a competent enough technician who never lets the momentum lag in Urban Legend. A capable but unknown cast bolsters the mystery. None have gained a reputation for portraying villains so the baddie is more difficult to spot. Sadly, these characters are too sketchy and stereotypical to win our sympathy. Robert Englund of Freddie Krueger notoriety raises a few hackles as a suspicious folklore professor with a closet of grisly weapons. Waiting to Exhale's Loretta Devine excels. She is cast against the grain as Pendleton University's Security Chief. The scene where she practices her gun-wielding speech to an old Pam Grier movies is cute. Nobody can say that Urban Legend doesn't smash racial stereotypes. Apart from its bizarre premise, Urban Legend spouts none of the ironic humor that highlighted the Scream movies.Urban Legend boasts a few surprises, and villain's slide show explanation for murder seems obligatory. Of course, the film leaves itself wide open for a sequel as the antagonist survives several gunshots and a night-time plunge into a deep, icy river. Nevertheless, Urban Legend should keep horror movie junkies squirming until the next slasher movie unspools. "},{"Title":"Teenage slasher who ultimately fails","Date":"17 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" URBAN LEGEND could have become okay, but the movie is neither scary, funny or clever enough to be remembered. The story is cheaply drawn and so is the acting, and the only thing functioning okay is the movie's un-serious draws. The opening act is a classical horror intro, but what URBAN LEGEND does is that it makes every piece rather boring than cheap fun. Where SCREAM was delicious fun, URBAN LEGEND is mainstreamed and tame, and where SCREAM acted wildly and groovy, URBAN LEGEND is once again mainstreamed. This could have been a nice spin-off of the teenage slasher movies, but it truly ain't, and although Jared Leto offers the best performance, surely he neither can do anything with this movie. URBAN LEGEND is boring, and the final climax truly puts a sock in it. "},{"Title":"So So Horror Film","Date":"18 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Enjoyed this so called horror film that would be a great film for a Halloween Night. Jared Leto,(Paul Gardener) along with Alicia Witt, (Natalie Simon) who are convinced that there is an Urban Legend which is told about their college and concerns the murders of various girls who have their heads cut off in their own cars and these murders also involve young guys and a professor and president of the school. Rebecca Hayheart gives an outstanding performance as a young girl who has some very dark secrets in her past and has the hots for Paul Gardener and Natralie Simon steals her boyfriend and causes a great deal of problems. This film is a rather a so so Horror film which goes in all directions and ends with no sense at all. "}{"Title":"Falling apart at the seams","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Okay plot! A group of high school/college/whatever kids are being stalked and killed one by one by a mysterious parka wearing killer. Seems simple enough? There are some nice touches along the way (such as the school's hide-up of a previous massacre) but not enough turns to keep things interesting.The cast are all pretty notable pulling off their respective parts well. Some nice character cameo's by Robert Englund and Brad Dorif make it a bit more worthwhile.Anyway lets just cut to the chase. This film is good, its interesting, the characters are built up well and with purpose and then the party scene arrives... The whole film then degenerates into a silly mess as intelligence, plot and purpose are all thrown out of the window.Take for example Tara Reid's character Sasha. Se is being chased by the killer (Noting that the killer has somehow teleported across campus). She goes down the stairs (killer doing some more magical teleporting) and could just run outside. What does she do? Run into the freaking elevator and go back up... Dipstick!Also past the party scene various ridiculous twists and stupid kills happen with the killer teleporting and various goofs happening.Anyway.. Ill stop here.Good Points - Good Acting - Start of movie is goodBad Points - Rest of movie is awful - Idiotic happenings all round "},{"Title":"A cheap copy of scream but with urban legend","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" they urban legends is a little slow in addition does not fulfill the requirements to then make a one good film of terror if we compared it with scream this films is a total copy that in you see take to the films of urban terror takes legend such as YOU HAD TO CATCH the LIGHT and those things are the same but they urban legends saw be serious a good one more good films because an assassin is the same urban legend are good who kills young people as in the urban legend he saw be a perfect one even films more good that scream or equal of potential for these points films is slow the first scene is very idiot and surrealist that person does not realize that brings somebody behind in the car by God is obvious in addition the scene that the assassin persecution to tara reid could aver be very good and given spear fear but in you see of fear doses that or he kills the young person and the end is a cheap glass of the end of scream or no? good the case is that this it films wanted to aver be scream but that with urban legend good for the fanatics of the films for slasher watch this this entertainment and so you see see that what said is truth "},{"Title":"The Embarrassing Sex Scene","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When I was in tenth grade, I purchased Urban Legend on DVD. I saw the entire movie from beginning all the way to the end. Then, I click on special features to watch the making-of-featurette. At the very end of the featurette, there was something so embarrassing that me wanna pee.When mom was on the phone, I was staring at a very buffed Michael Rosenbaum, in his blue boxers,looking at Tara Reid dancing around his bedroom. His character Parker was so in love with Hootie, his pet West Highland White Terrier.All of sudden, both Parker and Sasha kiss then they hump more and more.My mom stared at me with a mortifying smirk. Oops! and I turned off the DVD player.I felt like that Michael's steamy sex scene made me that I will go to the bathroom.Oops. "},{"Title":"Typical teen slasher","Date":"10 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I thought of starting this review with a quote from the film I don't want to watch this... but then again that would be a bit tacky. But on the other hand so is the film.Urban Legend is one of those films, which roll on with out any unique or surprising elements in them. There are lots of pretty, young actors running, screaming and dying mindlessly until the urban Legend killer is revealed in a typical whow, you didn't suspect him/her/it as a killer, didn't you? show down.This film will not surprise you, or provide you with a greatest cinematic piece of the movie history. Actually it could even be argued, that not even the fans of teen slasher genre will get a lot out of this. Then again it might be better than some of the genre films, but all in all it's so ridiculously clichéd and typical, that it's hard to think, that anyone would be take by a surprise by this film, unless it's a first teen slash film they see. "},{"Title":"Legends die hard.","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Unlike Friday the 13 th and stuff like that,Urban Legends  has a lot of black humor going for it.Danielle Harris's and Loretta Devine's deaths are more hilarious than scary it's experimental drama  is my favorite line.And Rebecca Gayheart overplays as Joan Crawford used to do at the end of her career.The surgical procedure is camp at its best.The professor's lecture is so dismal he really got what he deserved and the line Gayheart delivers when she sees his corpse is also worth the price of admission.Unlike so many adolescent horror movies ,there's at least a semblance of screenplay and the two leads Alicia Witt and Jared Leto are better than the average heroes of such thrillers.The latter showed big ambitions when he starred in requiem for a dream. "},{"Title":"The Perfect Plot line","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie is a bone tingling, nail biting, spine quivering theatrical masterpiece. The multiple plot twists is what gives this hair raising thriller it's good notoriety. Many others believe that this movie falls into the Too Cliché category. I disagree with this statement. The way the Killer's identity juggles from character to character is what keeps the watcher on their toes, metaphorically speaking. The way that the writers pack so many Urban Legends into one intricate web of hair raising madness. My only problem with this movie is the title, not that it's not a great title, it's just that it's gained me a large mass of notoriety. My name is Urban, and every time I meet someone they always associate me with the Title. Back to the topic, the choice of characters for this movie is positively staggering. Brad Dourif (Child's Play) as the gas station attendant, Robert Englund (Nightmare on Elm Street) as the suspected murderer, Joshua Jackson (Dawsons Creek) as the corky horny teenager, Tara Reid(American Pie) as the sexy radio host, and The lovely Rebecca Gayheart(Dead Like Me) as the raging serial Urban Legend murderer. Miss Gayheart's beauty can only be surpasses by her madness in this new-aged Urban slasher flick. I highly suggest seeing this climactic theatrical masterpiece. If you're a slasher movie freak then just check out your local Blockbuster, to find this teeth chattering film spectacular. "},{"Title":"Fun, but really just another Scream rip-off.","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A group of college students are being bumped off in gruesome ways & the murderer that's doing it seems to have a thing for Urban Legends & kills people in the same way that occurs in the legend he or she picks for them, but who is the killer & can he/she be stopped? This was yet another SCREAM rip-off that was made to cash in on that films success & while this was hardly anything new to the horror genre (What is now a days?) URBAN LEGEND managed to be a fun little horror item, that should keep horror fans occupied, the film has some scares & suspense, not to mention a little gore. The acting was fine & the direction was well done. Worth a look for fans of the genre, just don't expect something brand new. Followed by the wretched URBAN LEGEND 2 FINAL CUT, who's only connection to this film is the lead cop character & the unrelated direct to video sequel, URBAN LEGENDS BLOODY MARY.*** stars "},{"Title":"I wish this movie was an urban legend.","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It stinks! I like Alicia Witt, Jared Leto, Loretta Devine, Robert Englund, Brad Dourif, and Danielle Harris. They are all wasted. Throw in dull Rebecca Gayheart, dumb Tara Reid, and annoying Michael Rosenbaum for a real bad time. The surprise is that Joshau Jackson wasn't that bad for playing a cliché. The story may be an intriguing idea, but the execution resembles receiving a million paper cuts on your tongue. Another fact of horror movies is that if we don't care about the characters, we want them dead. Then we feel bad and never watch the movie again. There is a difference between healthily wanted one character dead and simply wanting them all to die so the movie will end. The cameo of Brad Dourif is cheap and stupid. This movie makes Scream seem better than it is. The scenes in Robert Englund's classroom are painful in their attempts at being clever. The elaborate deaths are neither scary nor fun. "},{"Title":"One of the best post-Scream slashers","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Urban Legend is one of the best post-Scream slasher movies I've seen. Most of the slashers of this time weren't great, but this one was one of the better ones. The film centers around college students who have been passing around urban legends. Natalie, a student, begins to suspect that a trail of murders are all linked to urban legends. As the anniversary of a supposed series of murders that took place on campus nears, some of the frat boys are throwing a party to have some fun... but as the mysterious killer closes in on Natalie and her friends, people begin to die one by one.I like this movie because it uses hints and clues to the killer's identity, although it doesn't really give it away. I was really surprised when I discovered who the killer was. The actors are all pretty good, and we also get horror veteran Robert Englund (Freddy Krueger from A Nightmare On Elm Street) as a folklore professor, and Brad Dourif (the voice of Chucky in the Child's Play films) as a strange gas station attendant. Another thing I'd like to mention was the killer's mask. Well it wasn't really a mask, it was a fur hooded parka and the hood was so large that you can't see the face of the person - it's just a black hole. I thought it was kind of original. There are many instances in this film were major flaws and clichés are present, but overall you have to take the film for what it is, and put those aside to be entertained by it. Overall, I'd recommend this movie to all horror buffs, but don't waste your time with the sequels unless you're really interested - this one is much better. It has it's flaws, but it's overall not that bad. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Teen slasher at it's best","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A funny/scary slasher film where a manic wrecks havoc on a quiet university by killing many of the students using Urban Legends. The plot is original and inventive however it is unrealistic as almost everything falls into the killer's hands and totally works out perfectly.The cast are all young gorgeous 20 somethings who have moderate talent. Tara Reid and Rebecca Gayheart stand way above the rest and steal all the scenes they are in. Alicia Witt displays some talent but not quite matching the efforts of the other girls. The guys are equally as gorgeous but less talented. The film also has many treat cameos for die hard horror fans like Brad Dourif (Chucky) and Robert Englund (Freddy Kruger).SPOILERS The end however is laughable when it turns out that Gayheart is the killer is just ridiculous the the fact that we are supposed to believe that a young girl could possibly;y have the strength to kill lots of fit young guys is just stupid. How could she lift all the body's from place to place etc. But over all the good outweighs the bad and i would recommend this film to any horror fan and i thoroughly enjoyed it. "}{"Title":"* *1/2 out of 4.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Well crafted and sometimes old fashioned film about students at a local college being systematically set up for slaughter by a killer with a penchant for using urban legends as the basis for his killings. Teen slasher with a good premise, also features tight direction, good performances, and style to burn. The film has plenty of excitement and scares and builds up to a huge ending, that ends up being a total disappointment and nearly ruins the whole production.Rated R; Sexual Situations, Extreme Violence, and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Yet another teen slasher &#150; but it's not terrible","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A group of students attend a class on the background to urban myths &#150; stories that are passed around as true.  However someone is making these myths true by killing the students in ways mirroring the myths.  As the murders continue fingers point at everyone.One of the many bad things about Scream was that it made studios start making teen slashers again.  Some were OK and many were terrible &#150; in fact Scream 2 and 3 mostly fall in the latter category.  Here this starts with an interesting premise &#150; that all the murders are carried out to mirror urban myths.  This creates interest despite the fact that the cast are all irritating teens and the gore and scares are low.However halfway through the killer starts&#133;well&#133;just killing people, and not always in the line of a myth.  This loses the principle, and although it tries to get it back, it's has become another slasher with a gimmick movie.  This evens fills the screen with so many red-herrings that the whole cinema smelt of fish.  Right from the very start we are given a cameo by Brad Dourif who then goes missing and so on&#133;..literally everyone could be the killer.  How original!!!Happily the film manages to show that it has it's tongue in it's cheek &#150; and this saves it.  For example the casting of Englund shows a use of post-modern wit, as does other in jokes such as a car stereo playing the Dawson's Creek theme music.  Unfortunately bits like this are few and far between and the film kills it's way to a typically silly twisty conclusion.The cast are all beautiful people &#150; the out-of-glossy-magazine look!  However only Witt has talent that is worth writing about &#150; and even she tends to just run and scream.  This pretty cast are so vapid that it doesn't matter who lives or dies.  They all scream, run and die in grisly ways.Overall this is OK to watch once &#150; it is good for a slasher movie.  However as a scary movie&#133;I didn't jump once&#133;..once you get past the gimmick of the myths this becomes a typical teen horror.  And what happened to the myth about the surprise party to find the birthday girl naked with her dog with her body covered in dog food!  It might have been better with that one! "},{"Title":"Derivative, Uninspired, Run-of the Mill Slasher","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I can see the powers at be now, in an office trying to come up with ideas for film.  One hippy-like guy says, You know...maybe we could do something with contemporary folklore...you know, urban legends...and somehow relate that to a psychotic killer that kills based on these urban legends.  Another listener says, Sure, we can make it at a college campus...that lets us use a lot of actors and actresses with great looks and hot bods...and little talent or expense.  Still another adds, Yeah, we can get that Robert Englund guy...you know Freddy...if he is still around and make him a red herring(alright I doubt they know what this means, but play along)as to who the real killer is.  Such, sadly, is the basis for the film Urban Legend.  It is a very VERY typical slasher film from the 80's and 90's style...a mad serial killer kills every nubile teen within miles at a college based on urban legends.  A girl has her head axed off, a man has his dog microwaved, a woman is brutally killed while another girl doesn't turn the lights on, and so on.  At the end of the film, the script-writers try to convince us that their story has some logic and reason, but they were never farther from the truth.  The plot of this film is ridiculous, implausable, derivative, and inane.  The actors are all pretty boys and girls with little(and in many cases) no talent whatsoever.  They are nice to look at(especially Tara Reid), but that really is not...or should not...be the basis for a film.  There are some older veteran actors like John Neville as a somewhat smarthy dean of the college, Robert Englund(doing a pretty good job I might add) as a professor teaching a whole class on contemporary folklore(?), Brad Dourif in a cameo, and a real nice, although incredibly silly, performance by Loretta Devine as a security guard who wants to be like her idol Pam Grier.  The killer isn't too hard to guess...I was going a bit without assurance, but in the end the final veiling and resolution are so ludicrous as to make you no longer care.  The film fortunately doesn't take itself too seriously...neither did I.  Not bad for mindless entertainment.  "},{"Title":"What a joke!","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Well, I haven't seen Scream, I Know What You Did Last Summer, Halloween, or Friday the 13th, so I can't do all the comparisons that everyone else has beaten into the turf anyway, but if this bilge is anything like the others I think I'll pass. For months I heard this was a good film, now I must ask, good for whom? The producers? The investors? If I didn't know better I'd swear Roger Corman directed this one because every creepy scene was accompanied by a lightning storm. Really this show was moronic in that it was utterly implausible. The killer was simply too good at his/her work to be anywhere near believable. I enjoyed the buckets and buckets of blood even though many of the murders made no sense to me; but who can fathom the mind of a psycho, eh? And that finale! Grisly. Gruesome. Horrifying. Trite. "},{"Title":"Nothing special","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is your typical (not well made) horror film with screaming girls, slashings and a killer who is a surprise to everyone (oooo).  Story isn't that bad though (Urban legends, based on true stories, happen to teens in a school), but it is executed so badly it makes the killing scene in Blood Simple look like the work of Jack Kevorkian.  Just another not to great horror film in a sea of death.  Only scene worth watching is the dog in the microwave scene (very cringy).  C "},{"Title":"What a bad slasher movie...","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When it comes to slasher movies, I lower my criteria. So even if the movie has some dumb moments, I can still like it. But URBAN LEGEND is SO dumb, there's no possible way to lower my criteria to a pass level and be able to live with myself! The characters are complete idiots (and are mostly sex-obsessed), and not one of them is sympathetic. There are an incredible number of jump-into-the-frame-to-scare-the-audience - oh-it's-only-a-friend-but-not-before-a-musical-sting-note! The killings themselves - the raison d'etre - aren't scary or terribly gory (mostly we just see pools of blood). And the ending...holy cow, that was one of the most pointless, unnecessary, and !!!STUPID!!! endings I've seen in a LONG TIME! I hope Robert Englund just did this for the money. The only thing of interest was the actress who played the black lady security guard - she has a funny scene watching a Pam Grier movie - but aside from that, she has nothing to work with. Hopefully, a casting director will see her talents and give her a better movie to work with. "},{"Title":"About Itself","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I've been having such fun with movies, and the worse the better! Here's the game pick a film at random and find something interesting to say, preferably something good about the film. I got lucky with this one.It is bad, sure. And derivative, in fact wholly unoriginal. But the cool thing is its self-referential nature. Originally, horror movies were seriously scary. Now recently we've had a spate of selfparodies, which have both some shocks and spook, but which also wink. Here's a much more sophisticated stanceUrban legends of various kinds populate the lives of hoards of stupid Americans, accompanied by conspiracy theories and the celebrity soaps. All of us delve into their addictive attractions while declaring to ourselves that we know better.So here we have an movie that is about those same low additions while being one itself. It's beautiful! What makes it so much better is reseeing the DVD version with the writer and director's comments. They are so dumb, they could have come from a jughead comic, which adds a third dimension to this piece of urbane art celebrating those who may never escape gullibility. "},{"Title":"creative premise,compelling storyline,and strong,likable characters","Date":"24 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" i'm amazed at the low rating for this movie(5/10)i though this was a great movie.it intelligently written,compelling and most of all unpredictable.but it also has strong,likable characters.sure,it borrows from other movies.but the actual general premise is unique,as far as i know.this movie kept me guessing right to the very end..that to me,says it's well written.you have a lot of people to choose from who could be the killer,and they all have their reasons.is is scary?no,but it is creepy and eerie and it does keep you interested.i really felt for some of the characters who were killed,which says something.i'n sure there are plot holes and inconsistencies,just like most movies.however,they are not as obvious in this movie.you really have to look for them.if a movie has blatant flaws that you can see miles away,that's different.the point is,in my mind,this is a great movie.i give Urban Legends a 9/10 "},{"Title":"Move over the the window, now, you loony psycho bitch!","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" If you like seen hot teens show off their cleavage and run around screaming, then this is the film for you. It is nothing but another in a long line of teen horror films about a serial killer who has some screwed up motives. I have to admit that I was thrown off track and would have never guessed the killer, but that is probably the only thing that was interesting.Hot teens for your viewing pleasure Alicia Witt (Fun, Playing Mona Lisa); Rebecca Gayheart (Jawbreaker, Santa's Slay); Tara Reid (3, count them, 3 Razzie nominations for crappy performances); and Natasha Gregson Wagner (Vampires Los Muertos, Modern Vampires).Also includes fan fav Robert Englund. "},{"Title":"Scream if you're tired of these movies.","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When confronted with films of various genres, I usually make sure I criticize the film based on what it is trying to do. For example, critiquing Scarface or Goodfellas for use of excessive violence or profane language would generally be a pretty silly thing to do. They're not family movies, and they're not targeted at children. The same typically goes for horror films (or films from any genre, for that matter). Who are most of the horror movies geared towards? Teenagers. And let's be frank the majority of teenagers don't give a hoot about quality. Guys take their girlfriends to see horror movies for obvious reasons; the girlfriends generally scream out loud at the screen and try to warn characters not to do certain things (Don't go in there, girl!). They don't really care if the movie is comprised of laughable dialogue unless they're picky filmgoers -- like me.I hate horror movies.Not all of them. I respect when they're done well (e.g. Psycho or even Halloween), but the tiresome reign of repetitive sequels and clichéd storylines have gotten very old very fast. Urban Legend is basically just another Halloween knock-off; there's a serial killer going around scaring people and jumping out at the screen. But oh, how Halloween was masterfully crafted, and Urban Legend is...well...not.This one has a twist it's about a serial killer who mimics urban legends. You know, those old stories that always contain hidden morals. I've recently become familiar with most of them via snopes.com -- the babysitter who finds out the killer is upstairs/downstairs in her own house/the house next door. The woman whose car is pursued by a crazy driver, only for her to find out that the driver was trying to warn her of a serial killer lurking in the back of her vehicle.I'll admit that this could have made a splendid, quite original horror film -- but Urban Legend resorts to clichés of the worst kind. Filmed in the era of self-aware victims (e.g. Scream), Urban Legend's characters are aware of the old myths that they are being confronted with. Too bad all of them are too stupid to avoid them. (If a killer were running around campus murdering people in a ritualistic fashion, would you ever wander into an empty dorm room located within an empty college? If you just said, Yes, then you're as stupid as the characters in Urban Legend.)Busty, ditzy female heroines are always so damned stupid that it makes me yearn for a heroine as smart as Sarah Connor or Laurie Strode. And don't get me started on the heroes! Freddie Prinze, Jr., anyone? Ryan Philippe? And now, Jared Leto? Puh-lease. Who's next Joshua Jackson? Oh, wait...never mind.Considering how idiotic and naive the recent heroes and heroines have become in the horror genre, it makes me wonder (and fear) what will appear ten years from now. Yes, every once and a while the delightful horror film comes along that is surprisingly good (Signs, The Ring, The Sixth Sense, etc.). Urban Legend is not one of them.P.S. Note the cameo by Robert Englund, a.ka. Freddy Krueger. His efforts at self-parody are completely wasted here.1.5/5 stars.- John Ulmer "}{"Title":"A Failure","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Ah yes urban legends a folklore story that is supposedly true . An example would be boy asks girl out on date , she accepts so just to be ready for anything the boy pops into the drugstore to buy some condoms from the man working in there . He turns up at the girls door step later that evening , knocks on the door , the girl`s father answers and the boy realises the man in the drugstore is the girls father ! Or how about this one  Man is in court on Monday looking at three months in the big house so he decides to make the most of his last weekend , gets hidously drunk and on leaving the pub bangs into some old geezer on the street  Watch where you`re going you old b*stard  the man says staggering off into the night . Monday arrives and the man is in the court , the judge enters the court room and to the man`s horror he realises the judge is the old b*stard he bumped into at the weekend and the three months in the state holiday camp suddenly becomes twelve months in a maximum security prisonI could use many other examples of urban legend . They`re always supposed to be true but they fall apart when you stop to examine them , usually down to the high level of coincidence involved . This is the problem with the movie titled URBAN LEGEND since there`s a bit too much coincidence involved , and being a slasher flick we`re treated to stereotypical horny teenagers who are totally dumb . For example when someone thinks they know who the murderer is they don`t thinking of standing beside a nearby crowd of people and screaming  I know who the murderer is  they run away in the opposite direction which contains a lonely woodland where they`ll be killed by an axe weilding murderer , in other words the victims have only got themselves to blame for not screamingAs you can guess I didn`t think much of URBAN LEGEND , it`s lazily written , formulaic and riddled with plot holes that really don`t bare thinking about ( Especially in the last 20 minutes which becomes totally ridiculous ) and doesn`t have the post modernist feel that made SCREAM just about passable . There was something else very annoying and that was the amount of scenes with strobe lighting that gave me a severe headache . Hopefully we`ll see strobe lighting abolished in movies along with nutters running around chopping up teenagers    "},{"Title":"decent","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  decent slasher flick is well acted and nicely made but predictable and a weak ending kinda hurt it although it is entertaining it just is not anything new in the slasher genre it is also kinda stylish though so that helps worth the watch **1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Urban Legend","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" One night Urban Legend was being shown(cut, mind you)on ABC Family's 13 Days of Halloween late at night as I passed by the living room with my wife watching. It put an interest to see it and I found it at a decent price so I said to myself I'd give it a shot.Urban Legend, as you should know, is part of that cycle of films that spurned successfully from the huge popularity of Wes Craven's SCREAM. This one is pretty silly, but far more entertaining than it should be. Quality camera-work and craftsmanship try to make-up for a screenplay which asks a lot from our viewer. We are supposed to accept the fact that this serial killer can move from one location to another in quick speed(with some of the deaths desiring elaborate planning and cunning)..and in a torrent rain-storm that would rival anyone having to stage death traps at just the right moment with success.Alicia Witt is the heroine who knew the murdered Natasha Gregson Wagner from High School. Around her are friends dying in different ways by a psychopath wearing a huge coat with a fur head covering that provides us with no way of seeing the killer's face. The gimmick of this slasher flick is that people are dying according to elaborately staged Urban Legends. Witt will turn to college-newspaper journalist Jared Leto for help.The film is loaded with the faces of youth television stars such as Joshua Jackson, Michael Rosenbaum & also features the likes of Robert Englund(as a professor of folklore), John Neville(as the college dean), scene-stealing Loretta Devine(as the security guard modeling herself after blaxploitation heroine Pam Grier), Tara Reid(as a radio-host who looks great with meat on her bones), & Rebecca Gayheart(as Witt's best friend). "},{"Title":"Maybe even the best post-Scream slasher","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Urban Legend rips off popular nineties horror Scream pretty unashamedly, but even so; this film really isn't bad, and that's high praise indeed coming from someone who usually has an adversity to dull slasher flicks. Like many of the best slasher films, this one has a method to its murders, and that method takes form of the fascinating idea of urban legends. The plot is your basic slasher fare, with a bunch of dumb, but good looking, college kids finding out that there's a killer on campus. Only this killer doesn't kill people any old how, they're all dispatched in the style of the aforementioned urban legends - and includes such ideas as a wet dog being dried in a microwave, and the classic 'kidney heist'. The film is quite annoying, however, as it delivers it's best sequence right at the start and never manages to top, or even match it's opening - which is hugely disappointing.It has to be said that the murders in this film are mostly very well put together, and it's obvious that director Jamie Blanks (who also directed the rubbish 'Valentine') was more interested in the murder scenes than most of the rest of the film - which is fine considering what type of film it is. There's enough suspense generated to keep the audience interested (even though the target audience is the same bunch of moronic teens that star in the film), and there's also a big part of the film dedicated to the idea of red herrings, and just about every single character comes under suspicion at one point. The only problem with this is that while the script is busy making us think that the murderer is any number of characters - it becomes obvious in the end as there is only one person that hasn't come under suspicion yet. The cast is dotted out with a bunch of young actors; along with performances from eighties horror 'icons' Robert Englund and Brad Dourif. It all boils down to a satisfying silly conclusion, and while this is hardly great horror; it's certainly not bad. "},{"Title":"He's probably shacked up in a hotel room with a girl.. or a guy... or a farm animal. One of the better post Scream rip-offs...","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Urban Legends starts one dark rainy night as Michelle Mancini (Natasha Gregson Wagner) has a close encounter with an axe wielding homicidal maniac hiding in the back of her car... Natalie Simon (Alicia Witt) is studying at Pendleton University, after attending Professor Wexler's (Robert Englund) mythology class she lets the annoying Damon (Joshua Jackson) take her out in his car. Unfortunately his motives are of a sexual variety which Natalie doesn't take too kindly to, he steps out of the car to take a whizz when Natalie is attacked by a duffel coated maniac who has murdered Damon. No-one believes her & her friends try to convince her it's Damon playing a practical joke but when her roommate Tosh (Danielle Harris) supposedly commits suicide Natalie knows something sinister is going on, she becomes increasingly irrational as she thinks the killer is after her...This American & French co-production was directed by Jamie Blanks & I happen to think it's maybe the best post Scream (1996) slasher that tries to ride on the success of Wes Craven's flick & the sudden return to popularity of the 80's slasher flick. The script by Silvio Horta which is played pretty straight has the neat gimmick of basing it's on screen kills around urban legends although some of them clearly aren't based on any such thing, the slitting of Natalie's roommates wrists for instance. I thought it was a pretty neat hook which makes Urban Legends stand out just that bit more than the usual slasher, I thought the teenage cast of character's were better than usual as well with a fairly likable set of protagonists. The dialogue is alright, there's a couple of decent red herrings in here to try & confuse you & the inevitable twist ending is rather good without being too predictable. So it's all good news so far but Urban Legends isn't perfect by any stretch of the imagination as it's perhaps ten or fifteen minutes too long & there's an absolutely scandalous lack of blood, violence, gore, naked chicks & exploitation. In fact I'd go as far as to say Urban Legends is one of the driest & tamest slashers out there which isn't good as it could have used a couple of really big gory set-piece kills, then again nothings perfect I suppose.Director Blanks does OK, the film has a very elegant & professional look about it. While it's not the most stylish or flashy film ever it's always nice to look at. There's a nice enough atmosphere to the whole thing, the stalk & slash scenes generate some tension on occasion & it tries to throw in a few genuine scares as well. Urban Legends is one of the few films I have on DVD which I actually bothered to listen to the director's commentary & I have to report that the lack of blood & gore was entirely intentional on the filmmakers part. In fact Blanks says there wasn't even a special make-up effects artist on set at any time, I simply don't understand why you would want to make a slasher film & totally ignore the boob & blood potential as surely that's what any fan of the genre is looking for, right? Anyway, forget about any gore as there really isn't any apart from a few after-the-fact dead bodies & an exploded dog in a microwave. The only real disappointing aspect of the film.With a supposed budget of about $14,000,000 Urban Legends is well made with good production values & has that Hollywood polish about it, this was actually shot at the University of Toronto in Canada. The acting is pretty good, the cast look nice enough both the boys & girls although I'm only really interested the ladies. You know, I hate Dawson's Creek (1998 - 2003) so I was absolutely delighted to see Josuha Jackson not only get killed but killed very, very early on. Tara Reid is suitably attractive enough as the films main looker.Urban Legends may only be another dull slasher to some & if I'm totally honest that's exactly what it is I actually rather liked it, sure the lack of blood & boobs don't help but there was something here that I liked & enjoyed. Followed by two sequels, Urban Legends Final Cut (2000) & the straight-to-video Urban Legends Bloody Mary (2005). "},{"Title":"Post-Scream horror garbage&#133;","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Even though Wes Craven's Scream wasn't a very good movie itself, it did cause a revival of the long-dead teen-slasher films. One of the most annoying trends in cinema ever, since these clones and rip-off's merely are dreadfully uninspired excuses to show attractive girls screaming. Every once and a while, a reasonable effort comes out of this (like `Cherry Falls' or `Final Destination') but the majority are just a waste of time (`I know what you did last Summer', `Bloody Murder' &#133;). Urban Legend also surely belongs in this last category, although it could have been better. The idea of mixing urban legends into a horror tale to itself is far from bad, yet the execution is downright lousy! Perhaps it would have been better if they focused on a slightly more solid script, but then again&#133;perhaps not! We'll never know and, frankly, I don't want to. Fact is that this piece of junk only has one good moment, near the beginning, with a small (uncredited) role of Brad Dourif. Hardly worth a viewing, is it? Urban Legend isn't gory at all and there's no nudity (at least the 80's slashers showed some ravishing meat) so why would you even consider watching it? I'm sure you got better things to do than seeing how the careers of former `Beverly Hills 90210' and `Dawson's Creek' stars evolve in the wrong direction?   "}]