[{"Title":"A film to make you feel","Date":"17 April 2004","Score":"38 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  SummaryThis is the story of a painfully shy girl who takes comfort escaping the harsh world of her overbearing mother by enclosing herself in a world of music. The peace she finds while playing her late father's records is the only world she's at home in. She sings the songs to her father's memory with an unbelievable ability to capture not just the voices of artists such as Judy Garland, Shirley Bassey, and Marilyn Monroe but also the tone, the passion and the quality that made them legends. This ability is overheard by a talent agent who sees fortune in her voice. He tries to rip her out of her private world and force her into the terrifying spot light.My OpinionI watched this film and was amazed. The characters of LV (Jane Horrocks) and Billy (Ewan McGregor) are just so adorable that you love them from the moment they are on screen. The performances of all the supporting players are good but the performance of Jane Horrocks is amazing. It's the kind of performance awards were created to celebrate, but got no where near the kind of recognition it deserved. Hardly saying anything throughout the first part of the film she communicates so much through her eyes and expressions. Then when she sings she does not just 'mimic' the voices of legends but proves she is a legend in her own right.  "},{"Title":"Raw emotional power from every performance, beautiful in so many ways.","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"28 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is a wonderful film that showcases not only the music, but also a full roster of powerful performances. Every one is excellent, but it's the two most subtle of them all that steal the show.Jane Horrocks has proven that she can be so much more than Bubbles, the airheaded secretary from AbFab. She's more than a match for every other powerful actor on the screen, and considering her co-stars that's quite an accomplishment. Her chemistry with the wonderful Ewan McGregor is remarkable; the story of their characters could have made a gentle, beautiful love story on its own, but as it is, their attraction gives hope for both of these gentle, quiet characters. I would've liked to see more attention paid to McGregor's character, but that could simply be because where McGregor is concerned, there can't really ever be enough.Michael Caine is deserving of his Golden Globe. Showy as his role undeniably is, he never pushes it too far. This performance is another example of his versatility and his formidable onstage presence.Brenda Blethyn has become one of my favourite actors since I saw Secrets & Lies; here again, she's a wrecked mother who lives in a dream world, but with added layers of violence and neglect toward her only child. She can speak volumes with her thickly-shadowed black eyes and an omnipresent cigarette. We never get the full story on her relationship with her late husband, LV's beloved father, but the tension and the words unsaid are brought to a boil in a key scene between Blethyn and Horrocks.Come Oscar time, it would be wonderful to see Little Voice get some recognition. "},{"Title":"I Never Thought I`d Enjoy This","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"32 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  To be blunt the only reason I watched LITTLE VOICE was because there was absolutely nothing else on and I was expecting some sort of substandard Mike Leigh film . And I wasn`t expecting my opinion to be swayed either as the opening credits rolled , based on a stage play and full of actors with  Eee by gum  northern accents and with a foul mouthed mother bullying her painfully introverted daughter this had all the hallmarks of a tedious 90 minutes , but the more the film went on the more I became engrossed . I`ve never seen Jim Cartwright`s play so I can`t comment if Mark Herman`s script is an improvement but what a great script it is , something that touches your heart and makes you smile . The scene with LV singing a medley is uplifting while the scenes with  Take Fat  and Trigger Smith - Knife thrower will make you laugh outloud . This is a great feel good movie with a great cast , Michael Caine and Jim Broadbent are very good ( Well they do have three Oscars between them ) , Ewan McGregor gives one of his better performances and Brenda Blethyn deserved her Oscar nod , but standing head and shoulders above the entire cast is Jane Horrocks as LV . The fact that she wasn`t Oscar nominated in the title role is one of the biggest travesties in recent academy award history Just to sum up this is a great film . British cinema experienced an upturn in the 1990s with the likes of THE CRYING GAME , FOUR WEDDINGS AND A FUNERAL , and THE FULL MONTY , but these films are as overrated as much as LITTLE VOICE is underrated . LITTLE VOICE is one of the best Brit flicks from the most recent golden age of British cinema   "},{"Title":"A wonderful movie, with a few annoying flaws.","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"27 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Little Voice is much more than simply a star vehicle for Jane Horrocks.It is a very clever translation of a stage play to the screen, which preserves the theatricality of the original by  deliberately cartoon-like design and construction of shot, and through calculatedly large acting performances. (Anyone who has seen Michael Caine's TV masterclass on film acting, which consisted largely of advice to reduce every effect to an absolute minimum, will be amused by the sheer scale of his performance in this movie.)It is a very English movie, in that it shows something of the oppressive decay of an English seaside town. Scarborough is in fact one of the prettier Northern resorts, as some of the external shots in the movie show, but the buildings and interiors could have been shipped directly from the grottier parts of Blackpool. I could smell the rancid chip fat.It is a fine demonstration of the power of popular songs. When LV sings Over the Rainbow in imitation of Judy Garland, anyone with any musical sense will be moved. As Noel Coward said, it's strange how potent cheap music can be.Contrary to the impression given by some reviewers (doesn't anyone read film credits these days?), Jane Horrocks does not sing every number in the soundtrack. Listen to the original Shirley Bassey belting out Goldfinger as Michael Caine (Ray Say) sits in the betting shop punting precious money for LV's launch concert on some three-legged nag. Horrocks is brave to compete with the originals in this way, and she is far from shamed by the comparison.Unfortunately, Little Voice has some annoying flaws. As in an English seaside postcard of the 1930s, fat people are funny. Why? Because they're fat. Pigs, actually. Roll on the movie where a tubby gets to belt out a Judy Garland torch song.Horrocks is extraordinary, but all the other actors in the film turn in first rate performances. Jim Broadbent as the seedy nightclub owner and failed comic Mr Boo is brilliant - sad, hopeless and hilarious. Brenda Blethyn as the raucous tart and abusive mother Mari is repulsive and cruel, but also pathetic. Ms Blethyn's performances often annoy me, but to attain the heights of Faye Dunaway as Joan Crawford - in a movie that is actually good - is quite an achievement. Michael Caine as clapped out agent Ray Say ranges from vulgarity to charm to vicious selfishness with utter conviction and apparently without effort. He cannot sing a note, but his raging punk rendition of Roy Orbison's It's Over reduced the nightclub audience in the movie, and the cinema audience at the Odeon West End, to jaw-dropping silence.This movie is grand guignol crossed with a postcard by Eric Gill. It is What Ever Happened to Baby Jane with great songs and North Yorkshire accents. And yes, Horrock's impressions are wonderful. Little Voice is not just a star vehicle, but she surely is a star.   "},{"Title":"Extremely Touching","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"20 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  At the risk of sounding overly sentimental, this is perhaps one of the most touching films I have ever seen, and also one of the most surprising.Jane Horrocks, Michael Caine and Ewan McGregor all turn in superb performances, with Brenda Blethyn being a tad melodramatic but remaining within the bounds of believability. It's a real pleasure to see Michael Caine in particular, in a role of a shoddy, second-rate agent who believes he's found his passport to 'the big time' in LV. That man is such a great actor.Bypassing Jane Horrocks' astounding ability to mimic people, it's also a pleasure to see her on the big screen again she does a heck of a lot of voice work, but to be honest I haven't seen her in a major role since 'Life Is Sweet'. She's a real star and can play demented, disordered, deranged or simply different people with such style...As for 'Little Voice', the story is a fairly standard setup unbearably shy LV has a talent, is discovered by the local agent, the road to riches and stardom opens... but love is in the offing, so which will she choose? That summary, however, is where the similarity to virtually any other 'standard' setup stops LV does not want stardom. She doesn't even really know she has her talent, which is completely passive. Her choice is not between stardom or love.Virtually nothing beyond the basic storyline is 'standard' here. There's no *gasp* Wow! surprises, but events turn in quite unexpected directions at all times. Many folks even complain at the end because it isn't an end or it isn't what we want. That's another reason to love the film it doesn't give the viewer a Hollywood (yawn) ending. It doesn't tie up all the loose strings.It's like life there's no tidy endings. Look past the obvious images and look at what's underneath. See the film for what it is, and enjoy. "},{"Title":"a review for American audiences","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  An absorbing, fanciful, and sometimes astonishing film, Little Voice is a modern fairy tale that owes a bit to both pop psychology and, of all things, the musical Annie. The film thrusts us into the peculiarly flawed world of a young woman still living in her childhood home.  Her nickname, LV (Little Voice) is pronounced in her mother's thick, northern English accent as Elvie.  In fact, her chief problem is her caustic mother, played with tragicomic skill by Brenda Blethyn, who received an Oscar nomination for the role.Blethyn's Mrs. Hoff is in many ways like the awful Miss Hannigan of Annie's orphanage, who, were it not for the story's overall comic mood, would be overwhelmingly evil.  Instead, Blethyn invests the role with a horny rowdiness that helps dilute Mrs. Hoff's self-absorption and cruelty.  LV, in response, confines herself to her tidy, attic bedroom in her mother's otherwise cluttered house.Though the timid and virtually silent LV lacks Annie's cheerful spunk, both yearn for their absent parents-LV for her dead father, who appears to her, soundless and gentle, whenever she is frightened.But what LV usually does in response to her mother's constant stream of verbal abuse and generally noisy demeanor is to play her father's cherished record collection at top volume.  It is in the voices of the women on the records that LV communicates with her mother and most other people.  Though Jane Horrocks says little in the title role, when LV does make noise, it is in remarkable, pitch-perfect imitation of these women, namely, Judy Garland, Shirley Bassey, and even Marilyn Monroe.  At first, I was convinced that this was a lip-synch, but Horrocks changes the tempo and inflection to match LV's mood.  Indeed, the first thing that appears in the credits at the conclusion of Little Voice is a note that Horrocks sang all of LV's vocal performances.  Wow.Little Voice will remind American audiences of the recent trend in British cinema that embraces down-on-their-luck characters from the UK's industrial north and the shuns the charmless folk who populate Merchant-Ivory-esque period dramas.  Little Voice's characters reminded me of both the pitiable unemployed steelworkers of The Full Monty and the rotten Scottish heroin addicts of Trainspotting. Michael Caine combines these comic and serious elements into a convincing performance as Ray, the seedy promoter who wishes to cash in on LV's extraordinary gift. Caine is the foxy Honest John to LV's Pinocchio, and typifies the sense of desperate amorality such characters face when they have pawned their goods and their limbs in order to bankroll a reckless scheme.With its quirky characterizations and working-class English setting, Little Voice may not be for everyone, but the film's story is timeless, the performances are energetic, and Horrocks's singing might just knock you out of your seat.  Little Voice is a truly gratifying film.  "},{"Title":"What an incredible performance","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Jane Horrocks! wow - I had no idea that she is such a tremendous mimic. I was slightly intoxicated whilst watching this film, and assumed that they were using the extracted original vocals of singers such as Marilyn Monroe, Judy Garland etc. I was gob-smacked when the closing title said 'Jane Horrocks performed all her own songs'. Christ on crutches.. to call her gift 'a talent' is a travesty. Anyway.. about the film. The acting is mostly excellent (apart from LV's mother who goes right over the top in parts.. although she does manage to make you cringe and really feel her desperation). Michael Caine plays a great dirty minded but likable agent character (the man's a god - watch 'Get Carter'). I felt genuinely sorry for LV - a sweet and agonisingly introverted girl with an amazing ability to mimic other singers. Thank god Jane Horrocks isn't as shy as the character that she portrays in this film - it would be such a shame if her gift had never been exposed this way. "},{"Title":"Quirky and Odd, well worth a rental","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  A slightly twisted film about a brutally shy young lady (LV), an overbearing cliche come to life mother, a slime ball agent and (of course) a slightly odd, yet kind hero(?) figure played by none other than Ewen McGregor, Little Voice is well worth the rental fee.This movie is absurd, dark, funny, dramatic and at times heart wrenching. A little compassion will get you a long way towards enjoying it.  The roles are played very well by talented actors, engrossing you in their turbulent little world.If you like your films off the wall, this is the movie for you.  If you prefer only mainstream Hollywood stuff, stay away! "},{"Title":"Unique","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Mark Herman's follow-up to 'Brassed Off' is another affectionate look at working class English life, although without that film's heart and anger.  Instead, it's largely an opportunity for a gallery of British acting talent to enjoy themselves, with Michael Caine, Jim Broadbent and Brenda Blethyn all outrageous in their roles.  Surprisingly, Jane Horrocks, the ostensible star, has a smaller role than might have been expected, although it's hard to think of anyone else who could have pulled off the part.  'Little Voice' is not entirely coherent, a fairy tale without the ending, but it is wholly distinctive and in places very funny.  One of a kind. "},{"Title":"Superb acting","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  ***There are spoilers in this review***Here in the U.S. we don't see much of Jane Horrocks except in Absolutely Fabulous reruns, and that's a shame because she has an amazing voice.  She is perfectly cast as LV (Little Voice) in this film about a hermetic wallflower living on the memories of her doting, late father while suffering the cruelty of her mother's over-the-top white-trash histrionics (Brenda Blethyn, in a fantastic performance).  Michael Caine, playing an oily, run-down nightclub promoter, smells money when he hears LV's heartbreaking singing.  Caine is simply perfect in the role.  One might call this a Pygmalion of sorts, not because LV goes on to fame and fortune as one might expect, but because she finally breaks free from her mother's suffocating presence and meets a handsome local man (Ewan McGregor). This is wonderful entertainment.  I highly recommend this film. "}{"Title":"Not SO little voice","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Waif-like LV(Jane Horrocks,a revelation!) is child-like,reclusive and almost catatonic,living under the thumb of her blustery,selfish and more-than-a-bit whorish mother(Brenda Blythyn,sucking up as much air as humanly possible). While mum is romancing(more like shagging)the local small-time promoter about town(Michael Caine,able to slip into yet another character with little effort),LV's rich,uncannily strong and facile voice catches his attention,and he sets about to use her talents to hit the big time. One who observes LV--a painfully shy girl who quietly,slowly mourns the death/absence of her father--knows that this course of action is going to be more ruinous than profitable somewhere down the line.Based on a somewhat obscure play written by Jim Cartwright--and penned with Horrocks and her brilliant vocal range in mind!--this movie,directed by Mark Herman,is a quiet little gem,not quite perfect,but packing enough charm to carry it easily. Ewan MacGreggor as LV's almost equally shy would-be-lover,Annette Badland as the near-mute hairstylist friend of LV's Mum and Jim Broadbent as an easily cowed local club owner add the right amount of plain,unforced depth that a charming,character-driven story needs. I saw this the first time as a free vid rent(love the perks of working in a video store!)eight years ago and decided to see this again and was charmed almost equally. Horrocks in particular is quite the find,both mousy and yet powerful,her prevalence over her problems,both internal and external are as rewarding as the talent she exhibits,watching this litle voice grow much bigger. A good movie that has become a GREAT cheap rent. "},{"Title":"A Gem of a Movie","Date":"26 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" 'Little Voice' is a simply made wonderful movie that revolves around LV, her mother Mari and her boyfriend Ray and Billy. LV spends most of her days in her room listening to old records of Bassey, Monroe and Garland. Her frustrated mother resents her attachment to music and spends her evenings partying and getting drunk. In the meantime, Billy, a young electrician, falls in love with LV. One day Mari brings along her new boyfriend Ray and Ray is introduced to LV. He discovers LV's singing gift and thus starts his obsession to make LV into a star. However, LV has other plans.'Little Voice' boasts of a talented ensemble cast. Jane Horrocks breathes 'LV' as if she was born to play the part. The woman sure is an amazing singer. Brenda Blethyn, as the hateful frustrated mother is indeed...hateful. She's simply brilliant. Michael Caine as the selfish Ray Say is excellent. Ewan McGregor as Billy and Jim Broadbent as Boo are wonderful.'Little Voice' also has some beautiful memorable scenes where the chemistry of the actors shine. The tender scenes between Billy and LV (as an innocent bond forms), between Ray and LV (where he tries to convince her to sing), the scene where LV sings on stage and the scenes with LV listening to her records are some of my favorites.Mark Herman's direction deserves full marks. Not a moment of this film drags on. It moves at a very fast pace and sticks to the main plot.What more can I say except This is one of the finest comedy dramas that shouldn't be missed! "},{"Title":"And the song fades...","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The movie was not known in my philistine city, don't mention the awarded original production on stage The Rise and Fall of Little Voice. To most of my townspeople, LV forever stands for Marianne's Louis Vuitton reticules, the association of John Bull's Little Voice ridicule would never come out, very unlikely.I picked the VCD solely because I was attracted by the bankable casting Brenda Blethyn, Ewan McGregor, Michael Caine, Jim Broadbent, they seldom let fans down. Yet, apologies, apologies. I don't have the slightest iota of a clue about who Jane Horrocks is&#133; well, maybe voice widely heard (in the UK) but face rarely seen (in the Universe). And now I logged on IMDb and am made dumbstruck by the 134 comments. Why has it never been shown in my town? Not even in small movie house. (Shall we bludgeon Hollywood to cranberry jam? Hegemonic, preponderantly.)Some viewers think that the flick does not deserve so many commendations. To me, my vote 7 goes to mainly the acting, the singing and the casting. If you intend to look for something else from it, disappointment is inescapable. Seeing the wardrobe and the look of BB, MC (funny outdated curly hair) and JB, I can't help thinking about the outrageous 1960s. Time seems to have frozen itself in sleazy Scarborough, North Yorkshire but not the wrinkles on people's faces and nor the weight on their arses. In actuality, the music and setting form an appropriate match, old songs in worn-out area.BB offers me lots of jolly good fun. I always like her acting. Her portrayal of a lonely, horny and vulgar mother of mercenary spirit is so life-like. I can imagine a Cantonese copy with roving eye, someone like the landlady in Kung Fu Hustle walking down the street in the red-light area at Wan Chai right after the evening twilight has just arrived. Terpsichore graced EM's feet five years later in Down with love where he is a dancing beau at the end of the film. If he were presented the flair earlier, he might have danced in LV's little voice.LV reminds me of Charlotte Church, the girlish diva. Her mother may not have experienced Mari Hoff's (BB) predicament after her daughter's refusal to continue to sing. Nevertheless the turbulent relationship and lavish spending of this opera babe do worry people. All her fans, though I am not one, we don't want to have The Rise and Fall of A Teen Soprano on show (too soon), it is forever good to have a prolonged The Rise to Stardom of a Welsh Cherubim. "},{"Title":"Impressive performances","Date":"7 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This film is about a shy woman who is incredibly talented at doing voice imitations.The performances of Jane Horrock is very impressive. Her shy personality, and the eventual emotional catharsis are both highly remarkable. The film also highlights the fact that she sings all the songs, which is an incredible achievement. I am amazed why she is not starring in more films as the leading lady. Brenda Blethlyn is also memorable as the controlling and oppressive mother. The idea of trying to escape from poverty in a socially deprived town is also well portrayed. I enjoyed watching this film! "},{"Title":"little voice, big talent","Date":"18 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I thought that Little Voice was one of the most fascinating movies of 1998. Obviously, the idea of someone overcoming obstacles is a common theme in movies, but the strong performances here easily keep this one afloat (but hey, when does Brenda Blethyn give a weak performance?). Jane Horrocks (happy birthday, Jane!) plays the title character, a soft-spoken, timid young woman still living with her mother (Blethyn). But when an agent (Michael Caine) discovers that she has a great singing voice, he intends to help her make something of herself...no matter what has to happen in the process.It's the sort of movie that - without getting sugary - makes you feel as though you've just flown through paradise. They got everything right in laying the flick out; and besides, how often do we get to hear the Goldfinger theme song? Anyway, I definitely recommend it. Also starring Ewan McGregor and Jim Broadbent. "},{"Title":"Extraordinary performance by Jane Horrocks","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This is a small and sweet movie. It is not perfect but it is worth watching.Brenda Blethyn's performance as an aggressive and self-centered mother is grating. But Jane Horrocks' performance as a shy, introverted young woman who has an extraordinary talent to sing in the style of famous singers is truly awesome. While watching the movie I assumed she was lip syncing because her range, from deep alto to high soprano was so great.If you are a musician or music lover, you should watch this tour de force of singing. "},{"Title":"Overall a sweet, charming movie.","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  LV (Jane Horrocks) is a painfully shy young girl who can never say a word, because her blatant mother's always got her mouth open.  She lives in her room, immersed in her music, and only comes alive when she sees the ghost of her father.  LV finds comfort in Billy (Ewan McGregor) who is almost as shy as her, but is brave enough to try to forge a quiet friendship with her. One night LV is overheard by one of her mother's new boyfriends Ray Say (Michael Caine), a desperate talent agent who is convinced he has hit the Jackpot, but makes the mistake of forcing LV on to the stage. Overall, this was a very touching movie, there were some really funny moments and all the performances were really well done.  From Ewan McGregor's love for pigeons to Jane Horrock's inability to answer the phone. But the thing I really loved about this movie was the relationship between LV and Billy.  They're both really quiet people, who need someone talk to. Billy is almost like an escape for LV because he doesn't make her do or be anything other then herself.  He can see a really nice person inside and instead of forcing his company on her he does it quietly and gently, helping her come out of her shell when she's ready.  "},{"Title":"One of the sweetest British flicks","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I never thought I would enjoy this movie, but I did.  It tells the story of a quiet and abused young woman who has a hidden singing talent, this is discovered by an agent(Caine), who then gets her to perform in clubs.  This is a very sweet little movie that came as a surprise to me.  Its short and simple, like this review.  ***1/2 out of *****. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites, just watched again...","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  One interesting aspect of this movie, beyond the extraordinary performances of all of its cast members, the great music, the fascinating characters, is that it is full of bird symbolism. Billy, Ewan McGregor's character, is obsessed with pigeons, but is a really quiet guy, and he gets a crush on LV, attracted by her silence. She becomes his bird. LV lives in a dreary, lonely world with her oppressive mother, saddened by the loss of her father, obsessed with her father's records. She can sing, and is forced to sing on stage (sing=bird stage=cage). Ray (Michael Cane) convinces her that even timid blue birds can sing. She braves the cage for the memory of her father. Billy is upset that Duane hasn't come home to him, even though he accepts that his birds like freedom. He is the only one not trying to exploit her; he tries to protect LV from her mother, keeping her from the cage, saving her from the cage (when it bursts into flames, burning her records--which she abandons). Then, she is realizes her father is gone, and she is living a life in death. In the end, she helps Billy exercise his birds, knowing that they will return to the comfort of the cage, which is ok, as long as they choose it. It is a very interesting film that works on many levels. It really captures a personality, a quietness and silent beauty not often seen on the screen.  "},{"Title":"Michael Caine at his best","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Michael Caine is one of the greatest screen actors working today, and this sleeper is one of his best.  No one exudes oiliness better!   The way he manipulates and tries to use Little Voice exhibits his own desire for success, but he gets the appropriate result.  This is a MUST see for all Caine fans, as well as a great musical for fans of torch singers like Judy Garland and Shirley Bassey. "}{"Title":"One of the best films I've seen","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This film is worth seeing for Jane Horrocks alone, and not only for her obvious talent as a mimic.  Few people can play such an eccentric character convincingly.  An almost-mute character depends largely on the actor's ability to convey feelings and thoughts through facial expressions and body movements.  Jane Horrocks does this to perfection.Brenda Blethyn is fantastic as the loud, overbearing, obviously emotionally-disturbed mother.  Her performance combined with Horrocks's makes for a dynamic mother-daughter relationship, in which I quickly began to root for Little Voice and despise Mari for first (in part) causing her daughter's inability to deal with life in what might be considered a normal manner, and then for not realizing she had done this, thus perpetuating the behaviour.Michael Caine is also brilliant as the would-be talent agent.  He managed to create a person I quickly came to dislike because of his emotional manipulation of a fragile girl he sought to exploit at whatever cost.When an actor makes you care about his character one way or another, it's good acting.  The only character I found to serve no other purpose than to establish Mari's feelings about Ray and her absolute brazenness was Sadie, Mari's best friend. It's hard to believe Mari would have a concept of the word friend.I thought the film's main climax was a bit over the top, but it did provide a catalyst for L.V. to find her own voice, as the tagline suggests.  And I did hope for more on the budding relationship between L.V. and Billy (Ewan McGregor, who was slightly wasted in this role), but overall this is a great film. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Fabulous!","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Jane Horrocks' voice is absolutely amazing.  That's what struck me first about this movie.  Second, that the chemistry between Ewan McGregor and Jane Horrocks is electric.  I felt that Ewan McGregor should have appeared more frequently in this film. He is an incredible actor.  His character is by far the most heart-felt and touching as the timid telephone repairman/pigeon keeper, Billy.  Jane Horrocks is wonderful as LV, who expressed much through her character despite the fact that she had very few lines at all.  Brenda Blethyn, as LV's low, vulgar mother is fantastic.  I was suprised by her character, after seeing her in films where she plays very nice, polite ladies, like Music From Another Room.  Ms. Blethlyn's performance was stunning.  Little Voice is a lovely little film.  I happily recommend it to all.  "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  When I first started watching this I could not figure out why Michael Caine won the Golden Globe as Best Actor -- but by the end of this great British film you will know why.Brenda Blethyn, Mr. Caine, Ewan McGregor and especially June Horrocks turn in stellar performances in this adapted-from-the-play (The Rise and Fall of Little Voice) film.June Horrocks is totally astounding as Little Voice -- especially if the only thing you have seen her in is the British Television programme Absolutely Fabulous.She does all of her own singing in this film and does a great job of it.  She is absolutely astounding.While it is difficult to say much of anything about this film without giving away the story, suffice it to say it is one of the finest films I have ever seen.I am very glad it was produced in Britain and not the United States.  The producers here would have tried to make it a MOVIE and it is not -- it is a quiet piece of art.Please, see this film. "},{"Title":"Little Film With a Memorable Voice...","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Mark Herman's LITTLE VOICE is another triumphant Miramax flick, one of those small, artistic pictures that is twice as good as your average brainless cineplex mainstay (Just check the papers).  Its great to see a touching and profoundly amusing film during the most empty and money-making period of the movie year.  Herman writes and directs the film based on a successful play that starred Jane Horrocks in the title role of LV, or Laura, whose mousy voice and meek demeanor plays wonderfully against Brenda Blethyn's powerhouse comedic performance.  Blethyn's Oscar loss is further proof that the Academy Awards can be farce.  Her huge part lost out to an 8 minute job well-done by Judi Dench in SHAKESPEARE IN LOVE.  For my money, Blethyn was robbed.  Anyhow, LITTLE VOICE is a breath of fresh air amidst mostly mindless Hollywood fare.Blethyn is the nasty-tongued Brit widow and matriarch to her husband's record store, which supplied LV (Horrocks) with her life's passion American records by Judy Garland, Billie Holliday, and Marilyn Monroe to name a few.  Keep your eyes and ears open when watching Horrocks, who quietly mimics the great starlets in her room whenever the lights go out. To my amazement, Horrocks (as revealed in the final credits) does all of her own singing.  This, coupled with Blethyn's hilarious turn as the vulgarian mother, jump starts this wonderful motion picture.  Michael Caine is the man who discovers her and tries over and over to get the sheepish LV (nickname Little Voice) to perform onstage.  LV still has a soft spot for her diseased father and sometimes has some nocturnal communication with him in some truly moving scenes.  Its really up to slickster Caine to convince her to do it.This is absolutely Blethyn's show, who is so funny and sleazy, your lips curl in dirty admiration and laughter.  One great line has her asking LV's awkward love interest Bill, a telephone repair man played by Ewan McGregor (pre Obi-Wan), if he is indeed the famous Phone Bill.  Her heavy-set neighbor looks like a wrestler and dances with Blethyn like a pre-historic John Travolta to Disco Inferno.  Blethyn provides physical comedy and a razor-sharp tongue that no doubt deserved that Best Supporting Actress nod.The climax and ending may leave you shell-shocked, but keep in mind what is being heaped upon LV throughout the film.  She is not exactly a normal person. The Caine character enters the story after what appears to be a life-long attempt to be a show-biz wiz, but has failed.  He is tired and he is ready to explode because of his misfortune.  The musical numbers are great to see and Horrocks remarkably changes lingo and dialect at the bang of a snare drum.  Just watch Blethyn and keep up with her antics.  You will not be disappointed.  A sweet comedy turns a bit serious, but for good reason.  Thankfully we get a few films such as LITTLE VOICE a handful of times a year.Rating 8 of 10 "},{"Title":"good acting and interesting characters","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Little Voice is an interesting film.  At first glance it seems to a bawdy,laugh outloud (which most people in the theater did) British comedy which it is. BUT it is so much more.  There is love story between Laura (little voice) and Billy.  These two young introverts were played excellently by Jane Horrocks and Ewan McGregor, who may be the best actor of his generation. This is one facet of the film I wish had received more attention. Brenda Blethyn who plays her mother and Michael Caine, a talent scout and her mother's lover also turned great performances.  Ms. Blethyn was great but may have been a little over the top as the self-centered, overbearing, and irresponsible mother, and Mr. Caine's performance was right on target as the middle aged, over the hill talent scout.Probably the most notable performance was given by Annette Badland, a zany, likable, and kind friend of the mother.  As I said there is also more.  There is a psychological aspect to the film as well. Sometimes it is dark and sometimes it is very upbeat.  There is also fine writing involved in that Mr. McGregor's character raises homing pigeons and draws a fine analogy to what is happening in the movie. If you like well written and acted films with well developed interesting characters you won't go wrong here.  Three plus stars!!!    "},{"Title":"Missed Opportunity","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Despite the wonderful performances by a highly talented cast, _Little Voice_ as a dramatic piece and as a film is ultimately anticlimactic and disappointing...for which the producer, Elizabeth Karlsen and the director, Mark Herman, should be blamed.No matter what the stage play is or was, the film has to stand or fall _on its own merits_.  And this one, much as I would have liked it not to, does fall and disappoint the viewer.Herman could have slightly reined in the wonderful comic turns in the first half of the film by Brenda Blethyn.  Her wonderfully bawdy dialogue and acting rendition comes directly from the stage version, which is naturally of a different level than film acting.Caine's and Horrocks magnificent, filmic, cinematic perfomances stand in contrast to the overblown turns necessary to project in a stage setting.  I want to emphasize that I think this is the director's, Mark Herman's, fault, not Brenda Blethyn's.If _Little Voice_ is truly meant to be a drama, it should have the courage of its convictions. The obvious climax of the film is Caine's wonderfully hurt and angry rendition of Roy Orbison's classic rock ballad, It's Over, and the simultaneous fire in which the audience fully expects Jane Horrocks' character to die, rather than be rescued at the last minute by the modern equivalent of a _deus ex machina_, meaning literally a god descending from a machine (in Greek times, a basket lowered on a rope, but in the present incarnation, a phone company cherry picker crane).Instead the film staggers on for a few minutes going steadily downhill toward an unsatisfying ending in which Little Voice's character is no longer haunted by her demons, but no longer is informed or inspired by them either.  They've been exorcised, but it leaves her the less for it.Are we to believe that all that went before was simply a prelude or rationalization for socialization with another lonely, painfully shy individual, the phone repairman Billy played by Ewan McGregor?The director's misdirection in attempting to render what was perhaps a moving theatre piece as a film is all the more disappointing because if the end had come with LV's death, we would all have good reason to mourn her lonely, soulful existence and the waste of a talented human being's life.As it stands, the audience is left with a feeling that we really _should_ like this film for all the good that is in it, even if it wanders off track completely and destroys all that came before with its trivial ending.We're left with a sappy attempt at a contrived feel-good finale which neither satisfies nor justifies the wonderful film that came before.When I first edited films, I had the following notes tacked to the wall above my editing bench  Movies Move!, A good short film is better than a boring long one, and An Editor is _Ruthless_.  No matter what was originally intended, written (the play), or filmed, in the end it all comes down to the final product.Changing the play's ending would not have been a disservice; there can be no _direct_ translation from one medium to another.The best example I can think of in this vein is _The Godfather_, which was a forgettable, trashy book but which in Francis Ford Coppola's hands became the best gangster movie ever made.The producer and director, Elizabeth Karlsen and Mark Harman, had the chance to do the same...make a masterpiece of something much less than a masterpiece...if they only had the courage and vision...but they blew it. "},{"Title":"Little gem more like","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is a very very good film, but I found it quite draining. It is not for those who are easily offended by language, or who cannot stomach the black humour often arising from the portrayal of human dysfunction.And we have more dysfunctional characters in here than you can shake a stick at, and most of the cast have had plenty of experience of playing them. Jane Horrocks (as Laura Hoff, aka Little Voice aka LV) cut her teeth in the wickedly funny but depressing Life is Sweet by Mike Leigh, who also scripted/directed Brenda Blethyn (LV's slatternly harridan of a mother, Mari) in Secrets and Lies. Then there is failed theatre agent Ray Say, with Michael Caine reprising the misogyny of Alfie (and the weakness of the professor in Educating Rita). Ewan MacGregor (Trainspotting was about as dysfunctional as you can get, and he wasn't operating with a full deck in A Life Less Ordinary either!) appears as Billie, a slightly geeky telecom engineer with a pigeon obsession. Add Annette Badland (who she? Oh I know, she was Griselda Fishfinger in Jabberwocky) as Sadie, the varicose veined, non talking compulsive eater, and Jim Broadbent as sleazy Mr Boo the nightclub owner, and you have a real recipe for humour - but also for human torment.LV has been gravely affected by the early death of her father. Never venturing outside the house, and too timid and withdrawn even to answer the phone, she consoles herself by playing her father's favourite records, and learning to sing in the voices of the original artistes. Ray hears her singing to cover the racket Mari is making during the course of an attempted seduction, and figures that THIS is the big break he has been looking for all his life. LV at first will have none of it, but she is cruelly and ruthlessly manipulated by the villainous Ray into allowing herself to be put on the stage. Half dead with fear she fluffs it, but Ray persuades her to have one more try. On the brink of another failure, she sees and takes refuge in a vision of her father; she gives her performance everything she has and is sensational, only to collapse into near catatonia when the vision fades. Unable to even speak, she is serially reviled by Mari and Ray, who break into a fight about each other's failings. Much door banging and general bad behaviour ensues and, for reasons I won't go into, a fire breaks out. LV is stranded alone in her bedroom, singing her songs to keep the fire away.Throughout there has been a romantic subplot. There is some good gritty set and location choice (mainly in Whitby on the Yorkshire coast), and dingy lighting and camerawork adding to the general air of despair, aided by some really good direction. But it is not all doom and gloom - far from it. The humour is bawdy and hysterically funny - the scene where Mari and Sadie are dancing to Disco Inferno by Trammps had my wife and  me near weeping with laughter. And for the soft hearted (eg me), the portrayal of the developing trust and affection between LV and Billie is handled with exquisite tenderness and complete believability.The acting is universally good. Jane Horrocks puts on the performance of a lifetime, both as the young woman painfully preparing to grow out of her helplessness, and also as the variety of stars she impersonates. You will swear Marilyn Monroe has returned when you hear her - and no it wasn't dubbed. The shrewish Mari is handled to blowsy effect by Blethyn, MacGregor's Billie is charming and vulnerable (and reassuringly not very handsome), and Michael Caine - well, he plays Michael Caine as usual.Most moving film I have seen in ages.Americans may need subtitles  "},{"Title":"And then it struck me...","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  When I went to see Little Voice last night, I had no idea what this movie was about. But I was not prepared for Little Voice. 15 minutes into it, I was somewhat sceptical about the tawdry, downtrodden lives of these 60s-like no-hopers living in the north of England. And then it struck me this is another film about the devastation of mental illness.Jane Horrocks plays a young woman with catatonia, an illness like schizophrenia accompanied by purposeless activity, or in LV's case, catalepsy. But she has a powerful talent she is a gifted individual who can mimic the old stars.My Yankie friends may care to note the connection between LV's life and that of one of America's cultural icons, a Ms Marilyn Monroe. Exploited and driven to (probable) suicide by a showbiz world who only wanted her for her sex appeal and treated her as a airhead bimbo blonde, LV is in danger of going down the same road. But along comes another misfit, a blithe spirit in the shape of the gorgeous Ewan McGregor who connects with LV in a way no-one else can (except momentarily Caine), and saves her from the tyranny of a shallow, prejudiced and meaningless world.Go see this movie, I recommend it. It is a gift. "},{"Title":"Little Voice Big Talent","Date":"7 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This film could be entitled the meek and the mild v the vulgar and wild.In one camp, you've got Little Voice (Jane Horrocks) and her 'friend', Billy, (Ewan McGregor), a thoroughly sweet pigeon breeder. Two shy characters who wouldn't say boo! to a goose. In the other camp - how do I put it? Well, if paint stripper could talk and sulphuric acid could walk, they would be Ray Say (Michael Caine) and Mari Hoff (Brenda Blethyn). Two contrasting camps and some very powerful performances.Brenda Blethyn is monstrously good in this. So much so, it's painful to watch. She is so nasty, my heart sank as I realised this over the top and brilliant performance was not going to spare me. The first scene was shocking as I took in the appearance and demeanour of her character. She is the true embodiment of vulgarity Fag Ash Lil meets Motor Mouth.As her character develops, you realise there are no spiteful depths that she will not plummet to belittle and berate her daughter who is far more talented, beautiful and gentle than she could ever hope to be. Little Voice's talent awakens the envious beast that's inside her mother. It's no wonder LV doesn't speak a word.Enter Ray Say, the small-time music manager who's chunky jewellery, flash car and underworld contacts can't hide the fact that he's one of life's losers. He never quite hit the big time. He's Delboy but without a sense of humour. And that's tragic. Like Mari, he tries to cover up his desperation but it seeps through the cracks like mud through broken concrete.When Ray realises the range of talent that Little Voice casually displays, he can't contain his excitement. He soon realises that he'll have to put up with her mother if he's going to groom the star that's living under the same roof as her. But Mari doesn't take kindly to being second best to her daughter and the open display of vitriol that she unleashes on LV is nothing short of the vilest verbal abuse.So that's it in a northern nutshell. Will Ray pluck LV out of obscurity? How will he do it? How much longer will he put up with Mari, the acid-tongued witch? A tongue with a life all of its own - when it's not lunging for Ray's throat, it's creating mayhem - two beasts, one woman. That in itself is a dilemma.Caine's performance is nothing short of stunning. He makes sleazy look so easy. What can't he do? He is 'Red Hot Ray' with his tacky clothes and car. His expletive-ridden karaoke at the end of the film is raw and powerful and the most memorable part of the film a goggle-eyed, seething, drunk desperado, the like I've never seen on film.Jane Horrocks is wonderful. She is clearly a fantastic mimic and is able to capture perfectly the voices of Shirley Bassey, Marilyn Monroe and Judy Garland. Jim Broadbent is also fantastic (no surprises there) as the nightclub host. Ewan McGregor is the sweet shy love interest and plays it well. With a line up like this, it's hard for Little Voice to be anything other than brilliant. But, there's no question about it, no amount of perfect mimicry can outshine Blethyn and Caine in this film. It belongs to them. The casting director deserves a place in heaven for this pairing. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" An interestingly unusual British comedy, it is not very but funny but it is almost always amusing, despite a couple of silly, even if not dull, romances thrown in. The acting is the department in which the film scores best, with Jane Horrocks excellent as the title character, Michael Caine, who is hardly ever bad to have on hand, and Brenda Blethyn, who generally suits her character quite well, even if she does go a bit over-the-top at times. The rest of the characters played by the other actors are somewhat oddly developed, and it is all rather predictable fluff, but the way light and colour are distributed keeps the film rather fascinating, and it is definitely a good film, albeit not a great one. "}{"Title":"Moulin Rouge Prequel","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Some good old fashioned performances here. Rather concocted story, but we never mind.I suggest you see this first, then immediately see `Moulin Rouge.' They really fit together so well that it seems manifest destiny. Watching this way turns this film into a self-referential study on why actors do what they do, how songs serve as stereotypical characters, and what performance is, "},{"Title":"baffling","Date":"2 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This movie baffles me. First, it seems to be several different movies. It begins with some laugh-out-loud humor from LV's bizarre mum. I was all set for a very weird comedy. Then LV is introduced. I did not react to her the way other reviewers seem to react. To me, she bordered on mental illness -- refusing to speak, refusing to react, hiding herself away in her room like a recluse with only her records and the memory of her dead father as company, afraid of the world. If I hadn't already read the plot, I probably would've stopped watching, but of course I knew that Jane Horrocks (LV) would eventually sing, so I kept watching and waiting. (And waiting, and waiting, and waiting...) The movie quickly became a rather morbid drama. Michael Caine was way over the top as the guy who decides that LV's voice is his ticket to wealth, and suddenly the plot becomes his desperate effort to force LV out of her isolation and into the glare of a stage. It was totally unbelievable to me that a girl who panicked at the mere thought of leaving her little cave would suddenly agree to step in front of an audience and sing. Then the movie becomes yet another movie, a story about an almost autistic but hugely talented girl who abruptly breaks free of her fears and performs like a pro, belting out this song and that (yes, Jane Horrocks did sing all those songs herself), in a bring down the house performance that was, I'll admit, thrilling and wonderful. But what does she do then? Does she use this sudden great talent to escape from her miserable life? Does she at last become happy and successful, or even try? No. She mumbles and mutters something about they told me once, they said one time, and throws her career away at the snap of a finger, preferring (according to the movie) to help a strange young man exercise his pigeons, so that the movie ends as a third kind of movie, some sort of deep literary exercise that's neither entertaining nor satisfying, just baffling. "},{"Title":"British talent shines","Date":"18 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Having seen Little Voice when it was comparatively new I decided it was about time it was revisited with one of its rare TV showings - I honestly didn't realise it had been so long!Undoubtedly many viewers, especially those from outside these shores, will find the acting and accents somewhat irksome, but don't let the decidedly downbeat, and grim vision of British Northerness put you off as you will be missing a a charming, perfectly acted movie.The headline is of course Jane Horricks as the titular Little Voice. She brings the character to life with not only the perfect mimicry of the singing greats, but also her portrayal of the clinically shy woman-child living in the shadow of her dead fathers music collection.The rest of the cast harness their talent to give equally great performances. Obviously most praise goes to Michael Caine's funny, manipulative and eventually quite slimy talent agent, or Brenda Blethyns foul mouthed mother, together with Jim Broadbent giving a solid portrayal as the nightclub owner where Caine trys to 'sell' LV.Across the many reviews often very little is said of the equally excellent supporting cast. The pre-Star Wars Ewen McGregor, ever solid Philip Jackson, and even a Pre-'Stenders Annette Badland, provide quiet depth or stoicness to their characters - literally in Badlands case who speaks very few lines.It's not a perfect movie with its less than flattering view of Scarborough, despite the rather nicer shots of the town at night. Also the background to the strained Mari/Laura (mother/LV) remains very much closed up until the very end, whereas I felt there was enough to warrant it being hinted at earlier.Overall though it's so very deserving of a mere 97 minutes of your life and most definitely shows that a handful of talent can trounce megabucks of CGI any day of the week. .... So just a few niggles and a well deserved and underplayed 8/10 "},{"Title":"Horrocks' Choice","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Mark Herman's (1998) film grows out of Jim Cartwright's stage play 'The Rise and Fall of Little Voice'. Set in the north of England sometime in the 70's or early 80's the play was first performed at The National Theatre in 1992.We join a severely withdrawn 'LV' (Jane Horrocks) and her grief-stricken mother Mari Hoff (Brenda Blethyn) in a grubby flat above a defunct vinyl record store which seems to have gone bust long ago.In their different ways, both are lost and floundering in the wake of the death of LV's Dad (Graham Turner) who remains a powerful force in their fractured lives.But within the protective shell that LV has developed there is a special, private metamorphosis occurring which is not evident to begin with. A visit from the telephone engineers George (Philip Jackson) and Billy (Ewan McGregor) marks the slow beginning of a return to normal service.It's not long before Mari hooks up with small-time theatrical agent Ray Say (Michael Caine) who hears LV singing to her absent father and immediately casts her in the role of the big discovery he has always been waiting for.Prematurely booking her for Saturday night at a local club run by glitzy Mr Boo (Jim Broadbent), LV gives an astonishing and cathartic performance as a variety of female vocalists from her lost father's heyday. But she is in no state of mind for stardom.Cranking up the pace, dodgy Ray books her and a full orchestra for the following week and invites London impresario Bunnie Morris (Alex Norton) along, but the performance takes a different turn altogether.A sudden fire at the flat - which has by now become a mausoleum to her missing father - finally unites her with Billy in the sanctuary of his pigeon loft. Billy's lost pigeon returns at last as LV quietly begins the next and most difficult phase of her life.A moving film, which takes us on a difficult and confusing journey but delivers us back wiser and stronger at the end. "},{"Title":"Nice performances in Vulgaria.","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I'll mostly skip the story, which involves the rise and unmaking of the career of a pathologically shy girl with a talent for mimicry, and the machinations of the people around her.The movie has a couple of good things going for it.  The performances are invariably good and some are outstanding.  Jane Horrocks is fine as the wimpy blonde who curls up with her record collection and lives in a fantasy world of her own making, hardly able to speak, unable even to look directly at anyone else.  She looks a little like Kate Blanchett.  Her mother is even better because she's thrown off the reins.  She's an overweight, sleazily dressed, overly made-up, stern-featured, libidinous late-middle-aged narcissist who is all mouth -- and what a mouth.  She follows behind Michael Caine and his friend, Boo, as they stroll towards Caine's flashy car, and she's shouting loudly at them, calling them the kinds of names that can't be printed.  Caine sweeps his hand proudly towards his parked car and says, Beautiful job, isn't she?  Says Boo  She might be, except for that mouth of hers.Michael Caine is as good as he's ever been.  He seems a semi-decrepit wreck but an extremely funny one.  Towards the beginning, Horrocks' mother challenges him to a twist and Caine really gets into it.  Watch his face while they dance.  Dead serious.  His eyes are bulging and puffy, his lower lip droops pendulously, as he stares down at their pelvises and concentrates on getting it right.  What a professional!Another good thing about the movie is the script, the dialogue that is, not the plot per se, which is rather elementary.  The dialogue is  filled with obscenities, sometimes muttered in an almost unintelligible Norhern dialect.  And there are casually tossed-off witticisms in between the curses.  Watching the passed-out Horrocks being carried off stage (she's fainted from fright), Boo, the Club Manager, remarks  And the meek shall inherit the earth.  But when, eh?  I realize it's not hilarious but the line is quickly disposed of, and all the dialogue is treated pretty much the same way.  And I don't want to give too many examples anyway.The end doesn't really do very much.  People get drunk and mean, as if the writers thought they'd better get serious sometime around this point.  There is a fire.  Horrocks may wind up consumed by the conflagration.  I have a feeling we're not in Kansas anymore.  But her boyfriend bursts through the window, and although her record collection is destroyed, so it seems is her rich fantasy life, to be replaced with a real life tending pigeons with her innamorato.  Her manipulators get more or less what they deserve, which is too bad because although they were rogues, they weren't dislikable ones.  I kept hoping that maybe Caine the promoter might find a trained seal that played La Paloma on the glockenspiel.Ah, well.    "},{"Title":"Caine is magnificent","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Excellent film. The scene where Caine sings is staggering; moving, poignant, funny. He is a truly class actor. Also worth a look at the film locations - I know the area of North East Uk well. Great place, great film! "},{"Title":"The actors make it particularly good (spoilers within)","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Sure, the story of Little Voice has a nice ring too it. The story of a shy girl becoming a star, then collapsing is told well. But what the movie makes it better than average is the acting. Horrocks is good, Blethyn and McGregor exeptional, but the two real stars are Caine and Broadbent. Their performances as sleazy agent and even sleazier nightclub owner couldn't have been better. Best moment of the movie is Caine singing It's Over at the end. 7/10. "},{"Title":"all star cast","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Wow, I saw this floating around the video shop for a while but never had the guts to pick it up. That is until I saw the name of Jane Horrocks on the credits. And after reading the names that popped up in the movie, I knew I had to watch it. Overall I think the movie is good with an above average storyline with great casting. This movie is better appreciated I think if you had seen some of the actors other movies. Coming from having watched, life is sweet starring Jane Horrocks, Secrets and Lies starring Brenda Blethyn playing the great Cynthia, and of course Ewen and Caine we all know about. And of course, I must not forget the Jim Broadbent in many a movies like 'Crying Game', 'Life is Sweet' and 'Moulin Rouge'. Come on, you got to love the cast! Each one of them can lead a movie by themselves!  "},{"Title":"Jane Horrocks is a wonder","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I was already a fan of Jane Horrocks for her comic portrayal of Bubble, the personal assistant, on Absolutely Fabulous. Here,s eh stretches her wings as LV (short for Little Voice), an adult woman muted by life. Her father has passed away, her mother is boisterous and loud, drowning her out.But LV actually has a very big voice when it comes to singing. She has an uncanny knack for imitating Judy Garland, Marilyn Monroe and Shirley Bassey. Her mother's newest and sleaziest boyfriend (played by Michael Caine) sees -- or rather, hears -- a goldmine in LV and convinces the painfully shy woman to perform at his nightclub for one night.LV meantime has met a pigeon-loving boy-next-door (Ewan MacGregor) and is figuring out what she wants in life too, and if she will ever get it.Horrocks performs all her own songs in this flick and she is a wonder! Rent or buy it today!  "},{"Title":"Simply Splendid!","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I watched this with my mother a few months before I got married. I was on one of my indie movie kicks, so the two of us loaded up on popcorn and ice cream, sat on the couch and watched this movie. I couldn't get over how wonderful the acting was. Especially Jane Horrocks as LV. Her impersonations of singers like Judy Garland were phenomenal! I haven't seen this movie since then, but I found it to be a wonderful film and a great one to watch with a friend.  "}{"Title":"Little Big Voice.","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Little Voice is an extravagant, wonderful, but also touching and moving story of an impersonator of classic movie stars.Jane Horrocks is Little Voice(LV) the overly shy girl who lives with her loud mother. Brenda Bethlyn is LV's mother, Marie Hoff - a loud (loud in every sense of the word) widow, who spends most of her time talking. Michael Caine is Ray Say, the smooth-talking manager of D Grade performers. Jim Broadbent is Mr. Boo, a Cabaret owner where Say's performers play to everything but perfect. Ewan McGregor, while in a minor role plays LV's love interest.LV spends her time in her Attic room listening to her late father's showtune records, she has also developed a talent of impersonating the great signers of these showtunes. Her mother spends her time in bars with gentleman her age. Hence one night, she brings home another middle aged gent, who happens to be a manager and hear's LV's incredible voice. It's from this point the movie gets some momentum going, but soon slows again. LV sings in Mr Boo's Cabaret and is an instant hit, however - because she agreed to only do it once as a tribute to her father, she refuses to do it again. This is where the characters and the movie begins to crumble into a less-than satisfactory ending.However, Horrock's amazing impersonation of singers such as Monroe, Garland and Deitrich is breathtaking as she belts out Get Happy and Over The Rainbow. Bethlyn, hams up the mother's arrogance with humour and some depth where you can also sympathize with her situation. Caine as Say is great (however, he appears somewhat out of character in this sleazy role.) Supporting is McGregor and Broadbant who are both good.Overall - an excellent film.Out of 10, Little Voice is a solid 8.  "},{"Title":"Breathtaking","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw Little Voice years ago and still remember it vividly as one of the best movies I have seen.Jane Horrocks, as the title character, is amazing, vulnerable, fragile, and stupendous alternately.  She is in danger of being crushed by 1) reality, 2) her mother, played by Brenda Blethyn, and 3) her 'manager,' played by Michael Caine.What a knockout performance by all involved. "},{"Title":"Adorable film!!!","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Everything about this film strikes my fancy!!! From Jane Horrocks' wonderful talent to Ewan McGregor's sweet face to Brenda Blethyn's outrageously funny performance to Michael Caine's equally outrageously funny performance!!!Blethyn really should have gotten the Golden One for this role, as Caine should have. Funniest lines Caine's repeated expletives about the faulty wiring in Mari and LV's home. F*cking house!!!Me husband's name was Frank Hoff so everyone addressed us as Mr. and Mrs. F Hoff!!!Mr. Boo is funny too!!!Rent this one, you'll love it!!! "},{"Title":"fabulous story","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" In this film Herman shows how he became a great master for directing business as well as for screenwriting and Michael Caine shows the true value of acting-transformation ability. As I have on several occasions stated one of the best sceens in film history when Caine(Ray Say) sings about his wasted life and the old place is burnt down. Magnificant!!! "},{"Title":"Who knew Jane Horrocks could do that?","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I have always thought Jane Horrocks was very funny in AbFab, but had no idea she had such talent as a singer and actress.  She does a great job in this film.  Her performance is the main reason to watch the movie.  It's an interesting story of a painfully shy girl who has hidden talent.Michael Caine plays the sleazy record producer quite well, although his character turns mean and nasty at the end...a little too over the top.  Brenda Blethyn's performance was also quite good.  I was glad I had the DVD so that I could put the dialog up on the screen.  She speaks with such a heavy accent that I missed half the words the first time.  Jim Broadbent was his usual talented self, and Ewan MacGregor was , well, Ewan MacGregor. I have read a few other comments, and I have to disagree with whoever didn't like the ending!  SPOILER...if they had made LV a famous singer, it wouldn't ring true to her character!  Somehow, I think a quiet life with her pigeon loving boyfriend would be more her speed.  (also, an aside, Michael Caine was NOT in Brassed Off..Pete Postelwaite was the name of the actor who played the band leader) "},{"Title":"SUPERB DARK GEM","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I'll be the first to agree. Don't be fooled by the cutesy cover art, the heart of this story lies in some pretty dark places. What it fulminates into is, a first rate movie that runs the cinematic gauntlet from pathos to comedy to drama like an Olympic athlete. LITTLE VOICE shows the hopes, dreams and struggles, and the devastating effect they can have when fame and fortune fall asunder. Kudos to the top notch cast, for putting out exacting performances. Jim Broadbent, as Mr. Boo, was phenomenal. Michael Caine is perfectly sleazy, and wonderful, all at the same time. Brenda Blethyn (in a well deserved Oscar nominated role) is desperate, bitchy and longing for anything to come her way. Jane Horrocks is great as the introverted, almost autistic daughter. Her singing talent is incredible. There will be those who don't appreciate a peek into the rather seamy side of life. Those that do, will be more than rewarded with this fine motion picture. If you're looking for THE WALTONS, look someplace else. Roses all around for those involved.HIGHLY RECOMMENDED.     "},{"Title":"Charming, quirky, inspirational film","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I didn't know what this film was about when I rented it, but it turned out to be something of a surprise.  The story is very uplifting, implying anyone could overcome their fears, either directly or indirectly.  With all the quirky characters that in their own ways, meant more to people who cared about them.  The cast of characters is great, with everyone giving it that extra edge to take the movie to the next level. "},{"Title":"A real charmer","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Jane Horrocks turns in a fantastic performance as seriously disturbed young woman who spends her days pining away for her dead father. She is an amazing vocal mimic, and I understand the play was written for her to showcase this talent. I wonder what her real voice sounds like, as I doubt that the mousy squeak she uses in this film is really her either. When she does her thing on stage she has tremendous charm and charisma, and the film is worth seeing just for that. I found the ending a little disappointing, although to be fair, I'm not sure what I might put in its place. Grade B- "},{"Title":"A real surprise","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  There have been quite a few movies set in economically depressed northern England recently, like Billy Elliot, Brassed off or The Full Monty and this one sits in neatly with those. This movie is also a real surprise packet though. I can't say I expected much from a movie about someone who sings show tunes but this was a rather pleasing affair. Jane Horrocks is best known as the airheaded Bubble on Absolutely Fabulous. Here she plays an entirely different character as the painfully shy LV who grows up singing along to her dad's show tunes records in her bedroom.Living at home with a totally overbearing mother, she hardly leaves her bedroom when one day Ray Say (Michael Caine), one of her mum's one night stands hears her singing. He is intent on making her a star for not entirely selfless reasons. This however is not as simple as booking her gigs and getting publicity. Much more is involved in actually getting LV to sing on stage. Ray may not have many talents but he can smooth talk and so eventually gets her to agree.There are some very good performances in this movie, particularly from Michael Caine as the initially well meaning manager who very quickly becomes a ratbag when he gets the first inklings of becoming big with LV's act. Michael Caine has done his fair share of real stinkers but when he's good he's better than most. Then there's Jane Horrocks performance as LV which may not be that outstanding acting wise but her singing is truly amazing here. The standout performance though comes from Jim Broadbent as Mister Boo, the owner of the nightclub where LV performs. He tells really bad jokes, introduces even worse acts and and wears horrid clothes. This was a bit reminiscent of Alexei Sayle's Bobby Chariot character but Jim Broadbent doesn't look down on this character. Instead he makes him quite likeable. Brenda Blethyn is good as well as LV's mum who wears way too much make up and is LOUD in every sense. It would have taken a bit of courage to play a character that is despicable in every sense like this.This story was written around Jane Horrocks talent of impersonating singers like Shirley Bassey, Marylin Monroe or Judy Garland and while this may not be to everyone's taste, it comes of remarkably well here. "},{"Title":"WOW!","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie was incredible, one of the major things which i at first found hard to believe was the fact that she sang all of her own songs! This girl can SING!The movie itself is very good, i was very impressed by it and it does have alot to offer but i was abit confused, when exactly was this movie made!?!? What timeline was it in? It looks all so confusing! One minute it looks like the 1970's and the next she's on about the spicegirls!Jane Horrocks is just plain fantastic in this movie, i really can't believe just how well this girl can act! One minute she's the ditsy air head bubble in ab fab and then she does this?!? WOW!This movie is something that you just have to see if u wanna watch a good movie with some good characters 0= Its got pretty much everything in which you would wanna see in a feel good movie and there are very few bad bits about this movie, the only problem that people might have are deciphering the accents of all those involved! But watch this and enjoy because it is a VERY good movie! "}{"Title":"My impressions in short","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This film is a timeless picture; with a simple story and an excellent casting it helps you to relax, and gives ample time to think about parent-child relationship and the love for music, intrinsic for all humans. Highly recommended for the old-fashioned, jazz-lovin' people. It was not made to win an Oscar; it is a simple film encompassing love, hatred, the evil power of ambition and many other ubiquitous emotions that we come across every day. Watch it! "},{"Title":"Michael Caine in peak form","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Quirky, gritty, utterly engaging film about the nature of hope and the reality of backwater ambitions features remarkable performances from Jane Horrocks, Jim Broadbent, Brenda Blethyn and the very finest role of Michael Caine's illustrious career. Ensemble acting has never been better, and Caine's spellbinding performance is even better than the similar role Laurence Olivier inhabited in The Entertainer. A stunning film. "},{"Title":"Jane Horrocks Is A Star!","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is a truly sweet little film that I have enjoyed over and over.  Jane Horrocks is a star. her impersonations of Garland, Bassey, Monroe, and Holiday are fantastic and dead-on.  Truly remarkable. Brenda Blethyn is one of the better actresses these days than most in Hollywood.  Kudos to you.  Rent it if you are looking for a few chuckles, a few sobs, and if you want to see a great movie.10/10 "},{"Title":"Stagey but worthwhile","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Likeable version of hit play The Rise and Fall of Little Voice. The original drama was written as a vehicle to the versatile Jane Horrocks, a slip of a girl with no shape to speak of but who does a killer impression of Shirley Bassey and not a bad take off of Marilyn Monroe. She plays the agoraphobic LV, still mourning the loss of her dad in the crumbling record shop which she shares with her blousy mum (Brenda Blethyn).When her latest lover, Ray Say,(Michael Caine) arrives on the scene, LV finds her life turned upside down. Say is a washed up showbiz promoter who knows a star when he sees one and thinks LV could be the next big thing.Trouble is, LV thinks Ray is a nutter and will hardly come out of her bedroom let alone make a shot at the big time. As with Mark Herman's previous movie, Brassed Off, this is a solid, human story with fine turns from all concerned. The supporting cast, including Jim Broadbent and Ewan McGregor make the film come alive while Annette Badland is a hoot as Blethyn's friend.A little too stagey at times but it scarcely matters. Little Voice is a worthy movie with a soundtrack to die for. "},{"Title":"Little Voice, Big Talent","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  	An introverted young lady who cherishes her late father and keeps his memory alive through his beloved record collection is at the heart of `Little Voice,' directed by Mark Herman.  Jane Horrocks gives an amazing performance as Laura, the shy girl with, as it turns out, a very big voice and the uncanny ability to mimic Judy Garland and Marilyn Monroe, among others, to perfection.  She lives with her mother, Mari (Brenda Blethyn), a vociferous floozy, in an apartment above their small record store.  Laura (whom Mari calls `L.V.' because of her retiring manner and the fact that she rarely speaks above a whisper), spends an inordinate amount of time retreating from her mother to the sanctuary of her bedroom and her dad's records, where she immerses herself into the music, as well as the persona, of whichever artist she is listening to at the time.  For the most part she is ignored by her mother, who also dismisses L.V.'s talent purely out of disregard.   	Enter Ray Say (Michael Caine), a sleazy, contemptuous, small time theatrical agent, who is picked up and dragged home one night by Mari.  It isn't long, of course, before he discovers L.V.  When he hears Judy Garland's voice coming from her bedroom, he thinks he's found the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow; this has The Big Time written all over it.  All he has to do now is figure out how to get L.V., the veritable recluse, up in front of an audience. 	Adapted for the screen by Mark Herman, from Jim Cartwright's play `The Rise and Fall of Little Voice' (written originally to showcase Horrock's unique talents), the success of the movie is assured by a cast that delivers quality performances all around.  Jane Horrocks does all of her own singing, and when she finally breaks loose it is truly a delight.  And Herman must be given credit for not allowing it to be over done; he gives you just enough of L.V. to keep it exciting and leave you wanting more.  Michael Caine gives an inspired performance that easily should have won him an Oscar.  His Ray Say is so finely shaded that you know exactly who and what he is, yet he manages to overlay him with a smarmy, irresistible charm that keeps him accessible.  His rendering of Roy Orbison's `It's Over' is an unforgettable cinematic moment.  Brenda Blethyn is outstanding as well, making Mari just unlikable enough that you can still empathize with her when she finally gets her comeuppance.  Ewan McGregor adds a subtle charm to the film as Billy, the telephone repairman who finds a kindred spirit in L.V, and Jim Broadbent gives a humorous turn as Mr. Boo, owner of the venue Ray engages for L.V.'s debut.   	Rounding out the supporting cast are Philip Jackson (George), Annette Badland (Sadie), Fred Feast (Arthur) and Graham Turner (L.V.'s father).  Funny, and touching as well, `Little Voice' is solid entertainment well presented.  It's one you're going to remember, even after, as Ray Say says, `It's over.'  I rate this one 9/10.       "},{"Title":"Little Voice Has A Big Heart!","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  A very unusual little film. Brenda Blethyn is great as the fast talking mother of the shy girl LV, who was a extraordinary abiltiy to sing.  The film is paced well, which is surprising considering most plays into movies aren't, however what is striking about it is the same thing that takes it on the down side, it wraps itself up too quick.  We don't truely get to understand LV's emotions, which hampers what could of been a near spotless film.  Little Voice goes along the theme If you love something, set it free, if it comes back to you- its yours, if it doesn't it never was. A saying I have always admired and I am personally glad it weaved into this film in an obvious manor or LV being the bird from the cage.  This film has Critic Praise stamped all over it.. which is actually irritating, because it is so obvious... like other films (Secrets and Lies and Shine, just to name a few).. that for some reason you always seem to put off seeing, for that reason.  But don't single out this one especially, it is a nice look at something different and it is heart warming to say the least!  "},{"Title":"Jane Horrocks is astounding","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Little Voice' is a little film. But it is a little film that convinces you that a film doesn't need to have a huge budget and Keanu Reeves in it, and that is can be excellent anyway.It's about Little Voice, an overly shy, bland girl with the perfect slag as a mother. She escapes from her reality by singing beautifully (really beautifully - and this is Jane Horrocks herself singing) to her dead father, who loved all the old Judy Garland and Shirley Bassey numbers.Well, a sleazy, two-bit manager played by Michael Caine, stumbles across the slutty mother and hears her singing. He immediately hears money in her voice and wants to coax it out of her. But she is not so willing....The acting is excellent by all parties - from the naive youth, played by Ewan McGregor, through the terrible compare at the club, Mr. Boo, and on to Jane Horrocks' stellar performance as Little Voice.You really feel for this character. There are heart-warming moments which never become sappy. There are edge-of-your-seat moments without resorting to ticking time bombs. You're with Little Voice all the way. Through the story and through the portrayals, you either love or hate all the characters, depending on what the film is trying to tell you. It links with your brain better than most films. You care. How often can you say that about a film. "},{"Title":"A magical, light-hearted film with major hottie, Ewan McGregor,in it as a plus!","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" What could be better than a magical film that sparks the imagination of all who view it? One that has major hottie Ewen McGregor in it. In this humorous and poignant view in the life of L.V., who's horrid mother (in a splendid performance by Brenda Blethyn) uses her to please her boyfriend, (a wicked Michael Caine) who wants to be L.V.'s agent. Billy (McGregor) is the shy cable guy who likes L.V. All in all, an excellent, Oscar worthy movie!  "},{"Title":"Funny, charming film with talented Jane Horrocks","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Charming film about L.V. (Little Voice), a meek-voiced, shy British woman who enjoys singing the music of Judy Garland, Marilyn Monroe and others.  Her mother, a sex-crazed record store owner, and the agent Ray Say (a terrific Michael Caine)both attempt to manipulate her into stardom.  This is an interesting, charming, and funny movie which takes some interesting turns along the way.  Jane Horrocks, as the title character, is terrific, and sings her own songs beautifully.  She is incredibly talented, and the movie is a charmer. Look for a nice performance by Ewan McGregor as L.V.'s wanna-be beau. "},{"Title":"i am in love with jane horrocks after watching this film!","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  i always knew jane horrocks was funny when i watched her in all those absolutely fabulous episodes.  but i fell in love with her after watching little voice and her outstanding performance as l.v..  if you haven't seen the film, i won't spoil it for you.  for those who have, i want to share this my 87 yr. old grandmother was resting in our guest room when i was watching the film.  she came in mid-way and asked what judy garland film i was watching.  she was taken in as well!  we rewound the tape and spent the afternoon watching the film.  my grandmom said she's a dead ringer for them all...  high praise indeed! "}{"Title":"Stunning film","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is a wonderful piece of movie-making. Set against the bleak (but increasingly popular) backdrop of working-class England the cast is an amazing ensemble of talent as they portray individuals each with their own peculiarities and weaknesses. Brenda Blethyn and Ewen McGregor are getting a lot of work nowadays and deservedly so. While Mari wasn't a likeable character she was portrayed perfectly - the aging beauty, desperate for a man to 'save' her. Caine is superb as a washed-up talent scout with his last crack at the big-time, and Horrocks is amazing as a fragile, shy but talented young lady around whom this tale revolves. For the yanks who whine about not being able to understand the dialogue - too bad, try translating Stallone and Schwartzeneger's mangled English for tough going. This is a moving and humourous snapshot of a fascinating bunch. See it. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Over the rainbow indeed","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I thought the movie was terrific despite the melodramatic scenes.  The character portrayed by Ewan McGregor was very interesting and he did not overdo it, ever.  Jane Horrocks was fantastic and her singing in the nightclub was one of the highlights of the movie for me. I enjoyed their relationship more than anything else about the movie. I respected Blethyn's performance more than I enjoyed it, even though I barely understood half of what she said. Lastly, it was great to see Michael Caine in a movie worthy of his talents. I can't think of another actor who has had a long career and a fan following,  despite being in some of the worse movies ever committed to celluloid.  "},{"Title":"It's from England? That's OK with me!","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Well, I think all I have to say about miss Horrocks had been said in others comments!  I just want to add a little something. In the 1990's, when a movie is from England, you've got 95 % of chances that it will be very good, very intelligent and original.  This one is sure part of that wonderful deal ! "},{"Title":"Cover your ears when LV's not singing..","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Funny as it may seem, Little voice is rather sad in its background. The people in it are struggling and trying to  find a way out of their lives, by finding a man or finding a talent. LV, is the skinny little girl with the BIG singing voice with a mother that makes Morticia Adams look like a faerie. LV is soon discovered by pathetic looking Ray Say, wonderfully played by Michael Caine, who instantly falls for her singing voice amazingly similar to the voices of Judy Garland, Shirley Basset and Marilyn Monroe. This is the movie's best moments, when LV sings her little heart out and it's in fact Jane Horrock who's singing all her own acts. Not only is she a outstanding singer but also a very talented actress. Ewan McGregor shows up in a role, which he didn't too much with, but this is a movie that belongs to Horrocks, Caine and Brenda Blethyn as LV's dominant and in your face mother. A strong cast with a really entertaining second half makes this movie a real gem. "},{"Title":"Why was this not a great success?  With great cast of Horrocks, Caine, McGregor & Blethyn all in top form.  One suspects sabotage!","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Why was this not a great success?  With great cast of Horrocks, Caine, McGregor & Blethyn all in top form.  One suspects sabotage! It opened and closed within a week.  I was lucky to see it in NYC and touted it to all as 1999s 'Full Monty.'  Brought one friend to it who loved it. Lined up others to see it ... and it was gone.Rumor has it that Hollywood wanted a 'big' name star, perhaps Paltrow?  No one could have bettered Horrocks.  Her transformation in the cabaret scene was theatrical magic.  And Caine's downfall was tragic and so real. Blethyn's performance was over the top ... she even got an Academy Awards nomination for this role! And McGregor was perfect as the shy telephone installer.  What happened? "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I caught this film on a Virgin flight to L.A at the beginning of the year. I had initially avoided the cinema release as I felt that the subject matter would not provide an enjoyable film.  How wrong I was.  The film was both captivating and funny with Jane Horrocks giving an outstanding performance as L.V.  I found the characters in general were parodies, almost caricatures of real people bit this did not detract from the enjoyment in any way.  The film is worth watching if not for anything else but the incredible singing performances of Jane Horrocks.  I also enjoyed Michael Caine's singing solo very much.  Overall a great, film. "},{"Title":"great british film","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Little Voice is a nice little movie, j.  horrocks is an awesome singer, the best part of the movie is defienitely the part when she sings on stage, im dying to buy the soundtrack is there anyone not a sucker for big band and nice woman singing?  Ewan macgregor and another one of his characters, very similar to the one in Brassed Off,  another nice little movie,  these brits and their nice little movies. . .  and L. V. s mother,  shes a riot,  i knew i had seen her in another movie,  thank god for imdb,  they eased my mind again,  she was in the excellent Secrets and Lies,  yet another nice little brit flick.  Do you like shirley bassey,  or even that propellerheads song,  history repeating?  Do you like judy garland,  marilyn monroe, billie holliday?  Then rent this movie today.  And turn on the closed captions because L. V.s mother has got this really heavy cockney accent.  "},{"Title":"I felt every emotion you could feel when watching a film...","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  At first this film really didn't appeal to me. I'd seen clips and adverts and just thought, Oh, another feel-good flick that actually makes you feel very sick. But finally, my mates persuaded me that we should all go and watch it. So we did. And believe me, I did not regret it. This film made me laugh, made me want to cry, and made me relate with Little Voice all the way through. The performances from all the actors and actresses were tremendous, and this film should have won all the BAFTAS it was nominated for.Give me Jane Horrocks over Gwyneth Paltrow anyday, at least her acceptance speech would be amusing! "},{"Title":"A powerful voice","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Even if you don't like the movie, you at least have to recognize the talent of Jane Horrocks, who plays L.V., the soft-voiced, shy daughter who turns into a different person when she sings to her dead father. After watching her play Bubble in Absolutely Fabulous, who knew she could perform like that? Her singing is out of this world. Combine that with her interesting portrayal of L.V., and you have all the reason you need to see this movie. It's too bad the Academy Awards didn't recognize her.However, she's not all there is to the movie. Brenda Blethyn plays the immature mother, and she deserved the Oscar nomination she received. Michael Caine is solid as the talent agent who is dating the mother and banks his career on L.V.Also, there's Ewan McGregor, who plays a shy telephone company repairman who loves pigeons. His character develops a sweet relationship with L.V. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good!","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  My wife and I loved this film! We had avoided renting it, because we felt that it was to be one more quirky British film with nothing more to offer than odd characters and undecipherable local dialects. We were really shocked to find out how stylish, moving, and hilarious Little Voice was! Michael Caine was marvelous as a tacky and desperate has-been agent (with the exception of his out-of-character violent behavior at the end). Not since Slap Shot has profanity been as hilarious - Brenda Blethyn's language was shockingly funny, and she made a nasty and selfish character sympathetic. Jane Horrock's talent is phenomenal and almost surreal, and she created a character for whom we really cared. Rent this movie! "}{"Title":"A bit detached, but wonderfully acted","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie, despite some very serious undertones, managed to be extremely funny.  Brenda Blethyn is wonderful (once you get used to her accent) and, I think, deserved her Oscar nomination.  She is, admittedly, over-the-top, but her character's mannerisms and dialogue called for it.  Michael Caine is very good as a sleazy agent.  Jane Horrocks, though, is wonderful as the mute Little Voice, and her singing impressions are amazing and worth seeing.  Also, this is the one movie that succeeded in turning me into a Ewan MacGregor fan (sorry, Star Wars didn't quite do it).  He is one of the funniest characters in the movie, in his own understated way.  His scenes with Little Voice at her window (There aren't any wires.  I don't know what to say now.) and in the concert hall are priceless and very well done. The movie as a whole left me with a sort of detached feeling--it doesn't exactly embrace the audience, but I have to admit that it boasts wonderful actors and, of course, great music. "},{"Title":"Jane Horrocks is brilliant","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie stands out for me on the basis of Jane Horrocks performance alone.  Not only is her ability to vocalize like Judy Garland or Marilyn Monroe outstanding, but her acting ability is terrific also.  The scene where she first meets Ewan McGregor's character crackles with chemistry. (McGregor is an excellent actor as well, but I feel like he should have been given more screen time in this movie)  I found their relationship a very touching one, not the type you usually see in movies and very refreshing. The scene where LV has her big concert is wonderful as well.  Brenda Blethyn made me laff out loud a few times, and Caine did a good job as well, but for me the movie was almost all about Horrocks.  More movies should be made in this way where the focus is on the characters and story as opposed to Eye Candy  i.e, anything starring Bruce Willis after 1994. ) "},{"Title":"I really love this film!","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is such an amazing little film. It is beautiful and tender and yet it can be disturbing at times. Each character is uniquely developed and 3 dimensional, and the acting is superb. I couldn't believe that Jane Horrocks did all her own vocals. She is simply amazing!For me it was the relationship between Jane and Ewan Mcgregor's characters that made the film so special. From the moment these two meet you care about them and want to see them together. It's refreshing to see a film that can show a relationship developing between a man and a woman that is not based on sex, but rather shy interest and concern for one another. As the two true innocents of the film, they deserve to be together and to be happy, and the ending is very satisfying. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, bloody brilliant!!!","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Quite possibly the best performed film in years, how each of these actors didn't walk away with an Oscar is beyond me.  From beginning to end this emotionally charged film is so enjoyable to watch you'd kill for an extra minute.  Michael Caine singing 'It's Over' is nothing short of extraordinary perfection.  Little Voice has the best and most surprising endings of any film I've ever seen (and believe me that's a lot). Jane Horrocks deserves much more credit than she has received, and Brenda Blethan deserves to be Queen.  As far as I'm concerned this is definitely one of the best films ever made, the scripting is great, the setting and characters are incredible and the ending deserves an Oscar all to itself! SEE IT!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Over-rated, but still good.","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  A lot of people seem to have loved this one. There were points at which it was very good, especially LV's show and every scene with Ewan McGregor. At other times, however, it tried to hard. The firey scene near the end seems too much, and Blethyn was just over the top and annoying. Why she got an Oscar nom, I don't know. "},{"Title":"Powerful, entrancing and ultimately inspiring","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Little Voice is an entrancing film. It creates a powerfully real world of heartbreak, frustration, hope and hopelessness. The performances of all the leads are worthy of the recognition they have achieved. Michael Caine is brilliant, holding back his true, sleazy self until those final, powerful minutes. His withering revalation of his relationship with Brenda Blethyn puts you through the emotional wringer. It's ideal preparation for the inspiring ending. It could've been very cloying and sweet, but Jane Horrocks and Ewan McGregor have involved you too closely in their struggling and moving relationship, to let it fall away. The final scene is truly liberating. A wonderful film.  "},{"Title":"easily emotional, but surprisingly timeless","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  It would be a shame if Little Voice were to be dismissed in criticism as the latest Northern film out of Britain to gain a following in the US, one inevitably evoking sympathy for hard times and admirable perseverance.  It would be a shame because this film offers so much more to the emotions and, surprisingly, to the character.  It is a unique work, combining introspect and exuberant expression, delivered through innovative displays of seemingly timeless ideals.  It tells us, perhaps, that while beauty and wonder can be found in nostalgia, there might be more to be found in expressing oneself through it.  It also tells us that, while grim hardship and sparse opportunities may be at hand, there are many wonderful moments to be found. Certainly these are not new ideas, but they are delivered in such a sensitive and delightful way that the is possible for the viewer to feel freshly inspired by them.  Jane Horrocks has been deservedly lauded for her performance (not to mention her impeccable replicas of some of the century's best-known voices), but the rest of the cast, especially a marvelous Brenda Blethyn, are instrumental in conveying the film's bright messages. Little Voice is also thoroughly respectable in less conceptual terms. The performance scene featuring Horrocks in all her impersonating glory is nothing short of exceptional it is easy to see why she was one of the biggest things to happen to London theatre in years. I regret not having the opportunity to see this film until 1999, because it may have been my favorite of 1998.  I was not entirely satisfied with the way in which the film ended, but I cannot imagine any better way to bring this film's brilliance to an adequate close.  Nevertheless, it is still an inspiring and rich film; one of the best I have seen in the last two years. "},{"Title":"Outstanding!","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  There are reasons that films like this are made - to give movie-lovers a reason to go to the cinema.  Action films dominate screens all across America to give movie-goers a thrill ride.  But, when a powerful film like this comes along, it should be seen on a huge screen, with lots of sound - only a real theater can do it justice.This is not a quiet film, nor is it meant to be.  These are some gut-wrenching performances.  The characters are not cookie cut-outs, though many people seem to disagree with me.  After reading previous comments on this film, I am hugely disappointed to see how many Brits disliked it or felt it stereotypical.  Ludicrous!  These are the same people who made Spice Girls and Oasis hugely popular!  Are you kidding?The people who ripped it apart need to rethink their words or perhaps study the film.  Of course we all know the ending before it starts, there is no doubt where LV will end up.  But, the journey there is the interesting part. Sometimes the road less taken is the one that makes all the difference in our lives.  I urge anyone who truly loves a well-written, well-acted movie to run to the theaters before this one is gone!  See it with someone you love, see it alone, just see it for yourself.  Draw your own conclusions!Maybe I was better off not knowing the premise of the film before seeing it, I went into it without any preconceived notions.  I am only sorry that it was not lauded at the Oscars.  I think these performances were stand-outs for Michael, Brenda, Jane, Ewan, and Jim.  This film has heart and soul! But don't believe me, see it for yourself.  To me, disappointment is watching Bruce Willis as John MacLean stop terrorists from taking over an entire city in Die Hard 63. "},{"Title":"Celebration of the eccentric","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  British film nowadays is pumping out so many interesting movies focused upon those individuals in society that don't quite fit in. Not quite along the lines of the great Ealing comedies of the 50s; but still a celebration (or commemoration) of what makes outsiders and eccentrics tick. And this film is a perfect example. Michael Caine, Brenda Blethyn and Jane Horrocks are suitably 'bizarre', with much emphasis on the suspension of disbelief. However there is a great humanity in their roles as well. I enjoyed this film immensely; Jane Horrock's singing is incredible. A must-see! (And how come Jane Horrocks and Michael Caine failed to get Oscar nominations?) "},{"Title":"Not just another comedy","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I went because I heard this was a great comedy, but it was more than that.  The comic lines are great but don't expect a laugh a minute. You are shown a window into a few characters' hopes, fears and desires.Each character can not only be kind but are often selfish - all are well-represented human beings, not just stereotypes.Overall, I don't think this will be as huge a success as some other recent films, but it is well worth a look. "}{"Title":"A good film which just misses being great.","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The performances of all the main characters were excellent, but for me the best was from Michael Caine, who was wonderfully repellent, but with just enough pathos to make one wish that he might find success, but not at the expesce of LV.  Other notable performances came from Brenda Blethyn and Jim Broadbent.  I found the character of LV less well developed and less than believable.  Jane Horrocks singing is amazing and she manages the transformation from one persona to the other brilliantly.  But she doesn't have the opportunities of other members of the cast to demonstrate her obvious talents.I left the cinema having really enjoyed the film but wishing that the central part had been more substantial.  It races along at breakneck speed from the first time that Ray hears her sing to her refusal to perform for the second time.  I was left wondering why she had really remained mute, what was the relationship between her and her father, and between her father and mother, who must have been an ill-matched couple.The film could be considered grim, but there is much to laugh at.  The failure of most of the characters to escape from their unhappy and shallow lives is  depressing, but there is hope for LV, once her record collection is destroyed and she emerges from her self imposed isolation. "},{"Title":"Good movie, great music, interesting characters, unnecessary profanity","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I very much enjoyed Little Voice and thought Jane Horrocks did a tremendous job playing both the mousey LV and a singer with a tremendous voice and stage presence.  I couldn't help think there must be two people inside her body.  I like 1950's music (Judy Garland, etc.), and I thought the music was great.  Michael Caine does a great job (as usual) playing the sleazy agent who discovers LV and pushes her onto the stage.My main complaint is that too much time was spent on her mother's loud-mouth carrying on and too little time was spent showing LV on stage.  The few minutes of LV's stage performance are a gem, but I got tired of hearing her mother's profanity and wished I could press the fast-forward button.Overall, this is a very good movie that is deserving of more recognition than it received.  I would love to see a full-length stage performance by Jane Horrocks. "},{"Title":"Music to the eyes","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Little Voice is an excellent film.  Jane Horrocks has amazed me, she can sound exactly like singers such as Judy Garland, Marilyn Monroe, and many others (both speaking and singing). I know a lot of people complained Horrocks was to old to play the part of L.V., but I thought she looked like a nineteen year old.And of course everyone else was great, Ewan, Michael, Brenda and Jim.  Such a superb cast (and everyone except Brenda was overlooked for an Oscar, which really ticks me off).  Such a superb movie. Go see it, you will love it.   "},{"Title":"Slice of Life","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Little Voice, based on the stage play `The Rise and Fall of Little Voice', arrives on our screens with much critical acclaim, especially for the three main leads, Brenda Blethyn, Jane Horrocks and Michael Caine and this acclaim is rightly due, thanks to the splendid performance by Horrocks as LV. The basic premise of the film is of a character, LV, who after her father's death, becomes a recluse whose sole pleasure in life is listening to, and imitating the singers of old records. In contrast to LV, we have her dominating mother, Mari (Blethyn), who likes nothing more than going out for a good time with her many gentleman friends, one of which is local talent spotter, Ray Say (Caine). One night, Ray listens to LV sing and not only hears the sound of her perfect voice, but the sound of cash registers ringing&#133; The film progresses to show the whirlwind of frenzy that whips up around LV's extraordinary talent, with Mari, the ever-present Ray, and local Night-club owner Mr Boo (Jim Broadbent) all attempting to cash in on LV's voice. A romantic sub-plot is thrown in for good measure, with local pigeon fancier Billy, Ewan McGregor, attempting to woo LV. Overall, Little Voice will please many people with its earthy characters, who aren't afraid to use colourful language, and powerful song renditions by Horrocks, who before this film was known to many as Bubble in BBC's Absolutely Fabulous. You'll be surprised to learn, as I did, that Horrocks performed all her own songs in the film, and her vocal likeness to stars such as Shirley Bassey and Judy Garland is extraordinary. The only criticisms that could be levelled at Little Voice are Michael Caine's appalling version of the Roy Orbison hit &#145;It's Over' and the weak ending, which would have been better if Blethyn's character found solace. In conclusion then, Little Voice marks the start of a promising year for both British film and talent alongside what looks likely to be a good year for film anyway, with Nicolas Cage in &#145;8MM' and Frank Darabont's follow up to the Shawshank Redemption, &#145;The Green Mile'.  "},{"Title":"The most moving film I have ever seen","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Quite simply I found this the most moving film I have ever seen.  I found Jane Horrocks' performance encapsulated the release and freedom from limitations that music and singing provides for some people.  I have never cried at a film in the cinema let alone have tears roll down my cheeks but this film touched something in me.  I can't find the words to describe how it made me feel. Aside from my personal reaction the film itself is great with some very down to earth acting all round and an excellent mix of humour and grit.  The story itself is reasonably straight forward and the film pulls no great stunts it is a wonderful film.  I hope others find it as special as I did. "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  While watching this film I was a bit depressed by the bleakness of the Yorkshire seaside town.  I'm from a similar town myself but it was never *this* bad. The best thing about this film is the performances.  I don't agree with some views that Brenda Blethyn's was over the top; I know some women like her! It's good to see Michael Caine back on form, much better than some of his recent crap parts.  At last he has a really juicy character he can stick his teeth into.  BUT!  the star of the show is without doubt Jane Horrocks, despite the fact that her character is pretty two dimensional, you can't help but feel sympathy and concern for her.  It's one of those characters that you want to just scream at her Sod the mushy stuff! Be a Star! but as always, it's in vain. The biggest shock of the film comes in the closing credits as pictures of the cast is brought up on screen, when it gets to Jane Horrocks a caption says; Jane Horrocks performed all her own songs.  Myself and the viewers around me all let out a big gasp... "},{"Title":"Great entertainment","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  In the right frame of mind, which I was when I saw it, this is a delightful way to spend a couple of hours. In the wrong frame of mind, it would be easy to be put off by Brenda Blethyn's blowsy, too-far-over-the-top performance, but if you're feeling good yourself, it's just fun. Michael Caine brings back Alfie, but grown old and unredeemed, and Jane Horrock's impressions are a hoot (though not as eerie as the hype would like you to believe).This is fairly slight fare, but very entertaining; you'll be happy if you're expecting only a snack. "},{"Title":"Good character study, well made movie.","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This was a very well made movie with well developed characters. I was reminded of Harold and Maude, in many respects. Jane Horricks, was, like Bud Cort, hiding from the world because of an uncaring and self absorbed mother.  In both cases, love liberates the characters and frees them from their self imposed prison.The Michael Caine character was surprisingly sympathetic. I expected him to be merely sleazy and exploitive, but he showed some genuine concern for LV.I enjoyed this movie and thought about it afterwards.  "},{"Title":"An unusual and unusually good film","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  If a Hollywood type were pitching this film, they would say it is The Full Monty meets Life is Sweet.  Of course, this is no typical Hollywood film. It manages to give the title character her chance to sing in public, without making her discard her character elements that made her so interesting. Brenda Blethlyn is great -- incredibly funny in an absolutely awful character.  Michael Caine does as well as always, and Ewan McGregor is surprisingly good as a quiet chap.This movie does not shy away from uncomfortable moments, and has lots of scenes of people being as small and petty as they sometimes can be.  It also has lots of fun and heartwarming moments too.And Jane Horrock's singing is terrific -- the soundtrack, unfortunately, only carries two of her songs. "},{"Title":"Horrocks sings, Blethyn drinks and Caine schemes. Bleak, funny and uplifting film.","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Laura Hoff (Little Voice) lives in a world of pre rock 'n' roll music.  A self imposed shut in who plays her father's favorite records on a little phonograph in her room that is almost loud enough to drown out her loud brassy drunken mother, Mari (played by the ripe and busty Brenda Blethyn). When Laura's talent as a singer is discovered, all hell breaks loose as she is used as a one way ticket out of poverty by her mother's agent/boyfriend and his sleazy contacts.  The cast of the film is a joy to watch.  All the adults seem a bit crass, pathetic and over the hill.  The two young leads, Jane Horrocks and Ewan McGregor come off as shy and nerdy until Horrocks hits the stage in a tight dress and sings her heart out. Fantastic! Americans may wish for subtitles, especially during Brenda Blethyn's quick patter. Michael Caine is solid as the agent, Ray Say. The plot takes a few nasty turns, but film has warmth and heart. "}{"Title":"Practically Perfect in Every Way","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  In a very bad film year, it pleases me to no end to see a beautiful small movie that leaves the viewer feeling so hopeful.Little Voice is a perfect example of a movie that has great acting, a lovely story and doesn't rely on lame, big-budget special effects.  The Weinsteins have done it again, and I for one, am grateful.  I always wondered what would become of Bubble from Absolutely Fabulous, and who knew Jane Horrocks had all of this in her? This role was perfect for her.  Ewan McGregor is always surprisingly different from one movie to the next.  Bravo for him for staying loyal to his Brassed Off director.  I suppose the big paycheck from Star Wars helps him keep it real.  Brenda Blethyn and Michael Caine are always good. Even when Brenda gets screechy, she's still funny and genuine.  I hope lots of people go to see this movie, just to take the edge off of such horrors as Saving Private Ryan and Armageddon.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious, touching and smart...Little Voice is a big winner.","Date":"14 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Based on Jim Cartright's play The Rise and Fall of Little Voice, this screen adaptation is a testament to what small town stories (and independent filmmakers) can accomplish.  Driven by an hilarious and very intelligent script, the seasoned cast digs deep into these characters and comes through with some fantastic performances.  Blethyn, Caine and McGregor are all wonderful, but the spotlight absolutely belongs to Jane Horrocks.  Her vivid, fleshed out, three dimensional Little Voice character is the ultimate underdog, but she plays her with such pathos and charm that she never enters the maudlin, hackneyed territory that might have come easily to other actors.  And most impressive is her amazing singing - Horrocks herself sings every note of every song in the film, and the impersonations/tributes to the likes of Billie Holiday, Shirley Bassey and Judy Garland are jaw-dropping.  Little Voice is one of those rare films that allows the viewer effortlessly to enter this little world that the characters live in, laugh and cry with them, and pull out again with that glorious warmth that a fully realized piece of art leaves in one's belly. "},{"Title":"Quirky & Creative","Date":"24 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I've been on an indie film binge and have been discovering little gems through netflix. I love Netflix for that reason. I found Little Voice and after reading the description thought this would be a Pygmalion-like movie. Sure, it has elements of Pygmalion but it's much darker, quirkier with an ending that's as far from My Fair Lady as you can get. Jane Horrocks is magnificent in the title role, LV. Rather than merely being painfully shy, LV seems slightly abnormal actually - perhaps even slightly challenged. If the movie is released today, a psychologist might provide a more accurate assessment of LV's mental condition. I'm mentioning this point because the only critique I have for this film is the unrealistic relationship between Billy (Ewan McGregro) and LV. While McGregor is always wonderful, I wasn't sure why Billy would have such interest in this oddly immature, challenged LV - I think that part/relationship of the film could have been better developed. But this is still a minor critique of the film. It's a bizarrely sad story that's elegantly told. And...of course, I love British casting of movies. The interesting, worn faces of Michael Caine, Brenda Blethyn, Jim Broadbent add so much to each character. I highly recommend. "},{"Title":"Michael Caine's best performance.","Date":"16 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" 'Little Voice' began as a play at London's National Theatre in the summer of 1992, directed by Sam Mendes and featuring Jane Horrocks and Alison Steadman.At 95 minutes in length, there isn't a wasted scene in Mark Herman's 1998 film version. It's rare to find a film which doesn't outstay its welcome and is uniformly well-acted by an impossible to better cast.The 'Little Voice' (LV) of the title is Jane Horrocks, a shy girl in a Yorkshire coastal town. She's often mute and introverted to the point of rarely leaving her room. Since the death of her father, she's had no real conversation with anyone - her only company being the show tunes from her father's LP collection of(Judy Garland, mostly). Horrocks sounds astonishingly like the real things - she belts out 'Big Spender' as if Shirley Bassey was there on the soundtrack. Her blank look is touching. If she rarely speaks it's because she can't get a word in edge ways because of her loud and monstrous mother played by Brenda Blethyn - who is best described as a pantomime dame crossed with a tart.Then there's Michael Caine as Ray Say, the has-been agent who puts LV on the stage of Boo's Nightclub for one-night only. He begins as a boozy and lovable rouge - manipulative and not without charm. But he's ultimately self-serving and unpleasant. At the end of the movie he's on stage giving a drunken, foul-mouthed and aggressive rendering of the Roy Orbison song 'It's Over' (a song about his showbiz career) whilst his creditors wait in the wings.In the end, LV speaks, is saved from a house fire by a BT engineer (a charming Ewan McGregor) and finds a life outside of vinyl and her mother. We even get to know her real name - it's Laura.Everyone in this film is terrific (especially Jom Broadbent as nightclub owner Boo whose acts include the sumo-like tribute band Take Fat). But the film belongs to Caine, in a Golden-Globe winning performance that I think is a career-best. Just watch the scene where he gently coaxes LV into performing live on stage -he even takes us in. "},{"Title":"Big talent in an impressive little film","Date":"15 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I was surprised at how much I liked Little Voice. It looks beautiful, with the photography striking and the scenery, lighting, costumes and locations equally so. The script has its funny and touching moments, and I liked how the story had sweet and subtle Cinderella-like undertones. The pace is also just fine, and Herman's direction compliments the film's strengths very well.In fact, my only complaints with Little Voice are its length, I feel it is too short, and sometimes in the film the working-class life is depicted a little too crudely.The acting is the film's biggest pro. Jane Horrocks is simply brilliant in the lead role, and she gets fantastic support from Brenda Blethyn, Jim Broadbent and especially Michael Caine. Ewan McGregor is also very good and charming.In conclusion, an impressive little film made especially watchable by the big talent on show. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Jane Horrocks Will Knock Your Socks Off","Date":"22 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Little Voice is worth seeing alone for Jane Horrocks' knock-your-socks-off performance.She plays LV, a painfully awkward and shy woman domineered by her blowsy broad of a mother (Brenda Blethyn). The only time she's able to break out of her shell is when she does impersonations of famous singers (like Liza Minnelli and Judy Garland), and when she does, stand back, because she (and by extension Ms. Horrocks) is a whirlwind of energy. Michael Caine plays a sleazy agent who's equally impressed and sees an opportunity to capitalize on LV's talent.Ms. Horrocks is a revelation, but only if you don't know that the movie was inspired in the first place by a live routine she was already known for doing. Blethyn received an Oscar nomination for her performance, but it's a shame the Academy couldn't find room to nominate Horrocks, as she's by far the most deserving member of the film's ensemble.Grade A- "},{"Title":"Come on, knock out a bit, make way for a woman in lust.","Date":"14 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This film by Mark Herman has enough interesting characters that it really keeps your interest.Brenda Blethyn received an Oscar nomination for her performance, and she deserved it. As the brassy mom who yelled and philandered her husband into an early grave, she is hilarious.I have to say that this is one of the best performances I have seen from Michael Caine as a loser who sees all his dreams go up in smoke.Jim Broadbent was also good as Mr. Boo, a failed comic and nightclub owner.Jane Horrocks was mesmerizing when she sang, especially doing Somewhere Over the Rainbow. Ewan McGregor was great as a perfect match for her.The music was beautiful nostalgia and there performances were first rate. "},{"Title":"Little Voice","Date":"3 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" From director Mark Herman (Brassed Off), this is a fantastic British film with some laughs, drama, sentimentality and great stars, based on the stage play The Rise and Fall of Little Voice by Sam Mendes (director of American Beauty). Basically LV Little Voice (BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Jane Horrocks) is pathetically shy and lives in seclusion listening to her late father's old records, this obviously drives her abusive, loud-mouthed mother Mari Hoff (Oscar and BAFTA nominated Brenda Blethyn) to distraction. At night however when her father's ghost (Graham Turner) visits, LV sings the songs of the great divas such as Judy Garland, Marilyn Monroe and Dame Shirley Bassey. Mari has a new boyfriend with loathsome dead-end talent scout Ray Say (Sir Michael Caine), and one night he overhears LV's innate talent and sees a big chance for making money. He gets local run-down seedy night club owner Mr. Boo (Jim Broadbent) to hear it to, Say gambles everything and forces LV to appear on stage at the club. As they prepare the event, LV and equally shy pigeon racer and telephone engineer Bill (Ewan McGregor) form a tentative, gentle friendship. LV did have a little bit of a bad start when she could only sing in the dark, but the second night she really goes for it, knowing that she can see her Dad in the audience. At the end of the performance though, Ray, Boo and Mari are all celebrating, but LV has gone back to seclusion and solace, and on the night when big talent agent Bunny 'Starmaker' Morris (Taggart's Alex Norton) will be in the audience. Say loses his rag and tries to drag LV to the performance, to be taunted by her many impressions, and when he survives falling down the stairs, he knows his career's gone, and he expresses this on stage with a fantastic performance of Roy Orbison's It's Over, with some dialogue about his situation thrown in. In the end, after surviving a house fire, LV reveals her real name (Laura) and confronts her Mum Mari about the death of her Dad, and it ends with her helping Billy at the pigeon huts exercising them. Also starring Philip Jackson as George and Annette Badland as Sadie. The play was especially written for Horrocks, so no wonder she is fantastic at being shy, singing as the stars and impressions, Blethyn is also great, and Caine sort of steals the show, a great film. It was nominated the BAFTAs for the Alexander Korda Award for Best British Film, Best Adapted Screenplay and Best Sound. Sir Michael Caine was number 44, and Ewan McGregor number 9 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, Caine was number 7, and McGregor number 2 on The 50 Greatest British Actors, and Brenda Blethyn was number 19, and Jane Horrocks number 16 on The 50 Greatest British Actresses. Very good! "},{"Title":"A funny, touched ballad for all us awkward people","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  LV is a shy girl who lives with an overpowering mother.  Her only happiness comes from listening to the records from her dead father's collection.  Even a meeting with the equally shy Billy doesn't bring her out of herself.  However, one night her mother brings home her boyfriend, amateur show business booker Ray Say.  Ray hears LV singing in perfect impression voices and immediately sees her potential.  However LV doesn't want to do any shows and needs a lot of persuading.I missed this at the cinema as I have grown tired of every new British film being hyped up to the point where it will almost always disappoint under the weight of expectations.  I remember The Full Monty being the `funniest film ever made' in most reviews but actually being a drama with funny moments (a good one &#150; but you get my point).  So recently, free of hype I sat down to watch this and, you know what, the hype was mostly true in this case.  It is a flawed but touching and very funny film.The plot is simple but it's the characters that really make it work.  You care about them &#150; you feel for LV, trapped by a loud mother, feel for the silent and thoughtful Billy in a world of brash loud men and feel sorry for the small time, desperate Ray.  The actors all really help.  Horrocks is good and is amazing with the voices but occasionally her nasal whine gets a little too much.  McGregor is better as he is shy and awkward and totally convincing.  Watching him give this performance made me realise just how wooden his Star Wars roles have been.  Caine steals the film easily &#150; his is a wonderful role of a man whose life is going nowhere and is desperately clinging to the one hope he has left.  Caine gets better and better as his character becomes increasingly unravelled.   Blethlyn working class mother is funny but is really quite a lazy working class caricature considering the rest of the cast and the similar roles that she has played better in other films.  Broadbent is good and quite amusing when viewed against some of his more recent characters.Overall this film is a small and quiet like LV herself.  It isn't the most amazing film in the world, but the characters draw you into their world and make you care.  Slowly increasing the emotion of the story as we become more involved with all these messed up or just plain awkward characters. "},{"Title":"Good mini-concert; Overwrought Film","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  In many respects, Little Voice is a very strange film.  What an incredibly simplistic look at what is basically a mentally ill person.  Still, Jane Horrocks does a fine job in imitating the voices of some of the great singers of the past!  It's a fine performance deserving of a more cohesive script.  The picture is a muddled mess in the last third.  Brenda Blythen is waaaay over the top as LV's mother.  No wonder her daughter is emotionally ill.  Caine is very good as the seedy promoter.  And, it's nice to see McGregor in a role not requiring him to use drugs or being out there in some fashion.  Still worth the admission to see Horrocks do Garland, Monroe, Bassey, and especially interesting as Billie Holiday.   "}{"Title":"Overhyped and Disappointing","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Why? Slight and undeveloped plot. Obvious, clichd, crass humour(aren't fat people hilarious?). Little original observation orinsight. Crowbar plot devices (Duane, bluebirds). Predictableendings. (Admittedly good) performances of trite, one dimensional characters the heartless, slapper mum; the lowlife,manipulative promoter; the failed comic, etc After five minutesI wanted to slap Brenda Blethyn &#150; wasn't this just her Secretsand Lies character with tits?I'm a fan of Jane Horrocks but this is certainly not her bestfilm. This is was a specifically written vehicle for her singingtalents not for her acting skills. I thought McGregor gave thefilm's best performance.It was moving at times... but with those songs how could it nothave been?Acid test if you removed the sound track, what would be left? "},{"Title":"Stereotype acting","Date":"29 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Not awful -good in parts - not great, The characterisations worked by the actors to me are struck awkwardly half way between comic and serious, the stereotypes characters are a bit too hard played and amplified, not enough nuance in the acting, to put the emotion of the plot over successfully, Ewan McGregor as romantic interest is a little too dishy, you can feel him awkwardly trying to play down as and ordinary quiet local lad and it not quite jelling or being convincing.Seems too much a Set Piece with the renown English luvvies of note filling their usual roles and giving each other some extra work. Little Voices - switch to stage seizing performer from shy recluse seemed almost to bi-polar and immediate, and the performance defeated the idea that she had no control over pulling her performance out of her self if such ability was in there, and the father figure apparition mechanic seemed a little too convenient to act as full reasoning behind the switch, definitely looks like something that might work as a jolly stage-work for the regions, but this was translated to film with little added nuance or sophistication. "},{"Title":"This is an interesting movie from a play written especially for its star, Jane Horrocks.","Date":"6 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The plot is that Little Voice (played by Horrocks) is practically mute in response to her brassy, overbearing mother (played with great over the top Ethel Merman joie de vivre by Brenda Blethyn). It turns out she's called Little Voice because she's shy and speaks barely audibly, but she's got a knock out singing voice that could make her a star if she overcomes her shyness. LV, as she's known, is discovered inadvertently by scumbag Ray Say (Michael Caine in a stellar performance) who tricks her into performing in public to great acclaim. Ewan McGregor and Jim Broadbent also have significant roles, but the duo of the evening are Blethyn and Caine.The metaphors (blue birds singing and flying to freedom, the homing pigeon who tastes freedom and won't come home) get a little heavy handed at times, but the actors keep the movie going. We get more and more background information on LV as the movie teases out her character, and I was surprised to find that Horrocks did all her own singing. And so did Michael Caine in one of the most moving performances of It's Over that I've seen and heard (ably summarized at the end by Broadbent's character, Mr. Boo).I thought the ending was predictable and trite, but I enjoyed the ride a great deal. I can't figure out why I never heard of this movie when it came out. I have to say I thought Caine's It's Over topped all Horrocks's performances, and he deserved his nomination for an Oscar (as did Blethyn). Overall, the movie is a comedy, but it takes a turn at the end when LV stops being Little Voice and confronts her mother.If you liked Blethyn here, you'll like her in Secrets and Lies, another British comedy but with all the comedic twists and turns of life that are missing in Little Voice. "},{"Title":"Makes you feel good","Date":"3 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Bought this movie on sale the other day and it was beyond all expectations.Michael Caine and Evan Mcgregor raised to their highest performance.And these two wonderful actresses Blenda Blethyn and Jane Horrocks. If you are stunned when it in the end says that Horrocks does the songs herself. then just wait till you see the interview with Blethyn in the extras. She is practically unrecognizable...This movie is good because it will make everybody who sees it feel good,no matter age or background. Its a good story about people.My only question is how may other Blethyns and Horrocks are the Brit's hiding for us? and when do we get to see them..This sure would be a nice new bringing too the cinemas, these days Jennifer Aniston makes movies that are spin offs of The Graduate and JLO gets to do all sorts of rolls.. I have no doubt that the little misfit Horrocks could bee way more passioned and exciting than any US actress with leads these days.Blethyn could do some of the rolls given to Susan Surandon, Gwen Close and Meryl Streep, all great actresses but I doubt that they could just as good a Mari? "},{"Title":"Amazing and wonderful singing, but otherwise ....","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The singing is amazing and wonderful.In the beginning, Little Voice's mother has a lot to say using a British accent that is likely difficult for non-British (at least Americans) to understand. That would not be so bad, but she talks in a very annoying manner; quite the opposite of Little Voice's. All that annoying talking is enough to drive many away, before we hear the first word spoken by Little Voice. The movie does eventually progress beyond that after about a half hour. It could have been a a wonderful movie, but it uses too much drama and not enough humanity. It probably is, though, worth watching just to hear the singing.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable entertainment...","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I just wondered what do people think--have read too many comments that suggest that the film needed a d i f f e r e n t ending--should have happened?Potential spoiler....Surely it isn't implied that a 'good' movie dealing with someone dancing around the edges of the entertainment business only happens when the protagonist 'makes it' in the industry? presumably with attendant drug usage, alcohol abuse, sexual libertinage et cetera? even better of course if we are permitted the Schadenfreude arising from his subsequent collapse into whichever variety of nastiness is currently most titillating.  Heaven forbid that such a person may realize that there are more important and rewarding pursuits in life!  Little Voi... Laura, that is, makes a journey and discovers a certain joy in life, in her life. Lovely film, although another fifteen minutes to allow Brenda Blethyn to deepen our understanding of Laura's mother would have been great.  "},{"Title":"Typical British movie, blending comedy with drama.","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The critic Ebert has an unusually complete and accurate review. The tone of the movie definitely changes during the last third as Michael Caine's character is less kind and more severe, which takes some of the lustre off the story. However, for anyone that generally likes British movies, like Secrets and Lies, Brassed Off, The Full Monty, or Trainspotting,  Little Voice is also a worthwhile 100 minutes. The DVD sound is nothing remarkable, and the image transfer from film is marginal, with lots of blemishes that show up. Still, a very sweet story about a crude and overpowering mother and her shy daughter, LV, with the little speaking voice but the big singing voice.some SPOILERS, for my own recollection. When Caine finally gets LV to sing for a big paying audience, playing up her dead dad and how proud he would be, she said, OK, but only one time. Caine said, Uh, alright, whatever. But he really expected her to follow up her smashing performance with more and more, but she wouldn't. She saw her dad during that first performance, and when his image faded out, she quit singing. She had no interest in performing for others. One performance was all they got, and the big talent agent who came on the second night went away disappointed. And, at the very end, she explained her small voice to her mum, in a very BIG voice, You never let me get a word in, that's why. And, we presume both will be changed forever by the experience. "},{"Title":"Major plus Jane Horrocks is not LV","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  No doubt, the big bonus of this movie is the equal uniqueness of its main character and the actress who impersons her; the movie is tailor-made for Jane Horrocks and her fascinating talent. But it is an even bigger plus that two brilliant old stars in acting were cast beside Horrocks. Michael Caine won a Golden Globe, and Brenda Blethyn was nominated for the Academy Award. This means that `Little Voice' is not just a movie filmed to make a talented person a star but to tell a whole story, in which this person is only one of a few important characters. The makers of Little Voice do NOT act for the same low motives as the promoters of Little Voice in the film. A surprise.Another surprise from the view of some one who is prone to prejudices against music films (like me), the film does not portray LV's life or career over many many years; it is not the typical `rise and fall'-movie (as the title of the original stage play suggests). On the contrary, the plot covers only about a few weeks in the characters' lives. This fact helps it to seem quite unpretentious.Only the ending disappointed me a little. Obviously, the unpretentiousness of the movie caused problems to find an appropriate and satisfying ending. The ending they took is neither appropriate nor satisfying.But apart from that, Little Voice has a lot to offer fine actors, loud and silent ones, intelligent camera motions and the catchy songs of Marilyn Monroe, Judy Garland and Shirley Bassey.  "},{"Title":"I Felt For Duane The Hero Pigeon","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  LV shares many strengths and weaknesses with director Mark Herman's earlier effort, Brassed Off.  The female lead is for my taste just too flat and sweet (Herman has a much better knack dealing with his male leads, Michael Caine is just as great as Pete Postlethwaite was in Brassed Off), the working - class scenario is too romanticized and somewhat patronizing (Tapas bars, Dim Sum restaurants and Starbucks do exist in England nowadays, you know (not that that's a good thing, but they exist)), the nice people are a bit too likeable and the villains are too villainous -- and this time Herman blundered seriously, because Blenda Blethyn plays the evil mother with so much frailty that I liked her loads more than her conceited daughter.  Blenda's just such a star, she could make Adolf Hitler likeable if she'd take on the role and stick on a mustache.  And Ewan McGregor playing the likable lad AGAIN, god spare me!  Overall Herman just always seems bent on turning everything and -one into a clich, and I don't really understand why.Another slight problem has to do with LV originally being a musical -- live on stage Jane Horrocks was probably very impressive, on celluloid her talent just doesn't come across so well.Anyway, a good imperfect movie, the reason why I have ranted on for so long about its weaknesses is because I am a bad person who likes to tear down other people's efforts. "},{"Title":"Disagree with all the Horrock praise","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  A lone face in the crowd, I really thought the LV actress was the one weak link in the movie.  As much to do with her acting as with the way she was filmed and treated by the director. She didn't do it for me at all.  As far as dysfunctional families go, I couldn't see the connection that kept her in that house.  The relationship between her and her mother was only on paper, in the script.  Beyond that I thought everyone else was good to great, though Brenda B. didn't quite achieve the effect of Shelley Winters, who is the the penultimate! "}{"Title":"A collection of cliches and caricatures","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Despite everything this film is a tolerable way to spend an evening. The acting is on the whole pretty good, even Michael Caine, hardly known for his subtlety, manages to inject some pathos into a character who, like so many on the film, is a terribly corny caricature. Horrocks and McGregor struggle to with characters that came across incorrectly as shallow and lifeless (although maybe Billy was meant to be that I don't believe that LV was).Maybe Caine's performance appears better than we would normally expect from him because Brenda Blethyn delivers the sort of ridiculous performance that makes everyone else look good. I do understand that the character is supposed to be dislikeable, but for the most part she is dislikeable not for the way her character is established than for the way it is performed.I'd like to say it should have been better but ultimately I think everyone was put to work on a story that may have worked perfectly on the stage but just seemed a tad pointless on the screen.For all that Caine singing It's Over is worth the rental fee alone. "},{"Title":"Singer who sings like Judy Garland & Marilyn Monroe","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I thought the movie was rather slow and boring at times.  But it came thru when Jane sang like Marilyn Monroe and Judy Garland.  Such a power voice and great imitator of these famous legends.  I thought the ending was sad but good. "},{"Title":"The little voice worth listening to.","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie proved me, skeptical at first to watch it, very wrong. Fantastic performances all around and a delight to watch on the small screen.  Caine was brilliantly convincing as a drunk and 'LV' added a whole new dimension to movies.  Chuckles throughout the movie.See it. "},{"Title":"A magical, light-hearted film with major hottie, Ewen McGregor in it as a plus!","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  What could be better than a magical film that sparks the imagination of all who view it? One that has major hottie Ewen McGregor in it. In this humorous and poignant view in the life of L.V., who's horrid mother (in a splendid performance by Brenda Blethyn) uses her to please her boyfriend, (a wicked Michael Caine) who wants to be L.V.'s agent. Billy (McGregor) is the shy cable guy who likes L.V. All in all, an excellent, Oscar worthy movie! "},{"Title":"Can not believe Horrock's performance.  I will have to see it again.","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is the first time that I have seen Ms. Horrock is a film.  What is she really like?  Are the credits correct and did she do her singing numbers herself?  The english english was a bit heavy by the mother and it did take awhile to understand, but I enjoyed. "},{"Title":"Delightful!","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The whole movie is worth the 15 minute onstage performance by L.V. What a talent! What a delight! "},{"Title":"A joyful experience","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Though I felt some trepidition in shelling out money to see this movie, I found this movie to be an entertaining work.  I was especially dumbfounded to find that all the songs were sung - not lip-synched.  Additionally, the writers should be congratulated on a magnificent story. "},{"Title":"Great performance, great One-Liners!","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Could such a movie be possible in any country outside Great Britain? I don't think so. If you ever wanted to see Take Fat - go and see it!Honest You will both be caught by funny situations and great athmosphere. "},{"Title":"Viva LV","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Once my ears adapted to deciphering heavy British accents, I began to fall for this movie.Jane Horrocks and Ewan McGregor were good playing withdrawn weirdos, but the standout for me was Brenda Blethyn.  She played Little Voice's brash mom for all it was worth, and it had me cracking up.  Michael Caine was also entertaining as a desperate talent agent.This movie proves that simplicity can be just as good as a hollywood blockbuster. "},{"Title":"Good Acting from the stars","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The film is adapted from a successful playscript entitled 'The Rise and Fall of Little Voice', and perhaps it should have remained as a play instead of going to the box office.  The plot is good, and some of the acting excellent, particularly from the Jeckyll and Hyde character of Michael Caine, and an undersung offering from Ewan Mcgregor.  However, at times the film remains too 'arty' to be hugely captivating to the average film goer.Not bad though....but Michael Caine and Ewan Mcgregor are both capable of choosing better scripts.  "}{"Title":"A wonderful movie!","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Little Voice was the best movie I've seen in a while. This movie will have you crying one moment, and then cheering the next.  Although every actor gave a great performance, Brenda Blethyn stood out above all the rest.   "},{"Title":"Fine film . . . very entertaining","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Fine film that featured an amazing performance by Jane Horrocks as the Little Voice of the film's title . . . she deserved an Oscar nomination, as did Michael Caine . . . Brenda Blethyn, as the overbearing mom, deserved her nod. "},{"Title":"Go see this movie","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I liked this film a lot. All the actors were outstanding in portraying their mostly skewed and low life personas. Although the plot was predictable to some degree, there was enough suspense to keep me wondering how every thing was going to turn out.                               "},{"Title":"The Best Of British","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  British films are on the up. Since Four Weddings And A Funeral its success has been followed by Brassed Off and The Full Monty and now this brilliant production of Little Voice. The cast is a film-makers dream.(This must be Michael Caine at his best). The script - an original stage play - is unique and very funny and the sound track is simply the best ever.If you haven't seen it yet go now - you'll regret it if you miss it. By the way - to all Coronation Street Fans - look out for 70's regular Fred Gee walking his dog. "},{"Title":"Wonderful film and solid cast but I was disappointed with the ending.","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I enjoyed the cast.  They were convincing and each had a key role to play which reflected life. The theme was most convincing and makes you think of your own aspirations and the many roadblocks in the way.  I wanted more at the end.  Did Little Voice and the pigeons have something special in common?  "},{"Title":"Jane Horrocks steals the show with her incredible talents!","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Jane Horrocks' talent is a must-see for any film buff.  Her talent in imitating the popular female vocalists is uncanny, and her range as an actress outstanding.  The film is a moving story about Little Voice's hidden gifts, all kept private for her deep love of her departed father.  A reminder to appreciate the gifts we all have, no matter how small.  "},{"Title":"Quite cute, but what does the film actually say?","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Some good performances.  Good to see a new location (Scarborough) used in the film.  Also good to see different type of character portrayed in the film (ie, shy individuals who do not fit well with others - also non-stereotypical English people)However, the film does not really have a message.  While you accept that for an action film, I expect more of a good European film.  I expect to have learnt more about my fellow man at the end of the film.  I didn't.It's better than average, but not life changing. "},{"Title":"Nearly wonderful","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  For the first hour, I thought this was the best British comedy of the decade; then it nose-dived. Much hinges on the talent of Horrocks, whose imitations are sufficiently close to merit much applause, and whose repressed performance deserves credit. Michael Caine fits into his role as if into a glove, and Ewan MacGregor was surprisingly persuasive (especially considering he can command much bigger parts than this). Blethyn was over the top (although it wasn't wholly her fault, given the way the part is written), and some of the humour relied too much on crass jokes.Unfortunately, once Cartwright has set up LV he has to make her take the inevitable tumble, and does so in a very heavy-handed way. The intercutting of Caine's awful singing with the house fire was a clumsy, aggressive and hysterical sequence, and nearly ruined the film for me. Once this was over, there was little left for any character to do, and the film petered out into a rushed and cliched conclusion.7 out of 10, then, for that hilarious and warm first hour, and because of Horrocks. About time she made it big. "},{"Title":"A Don't Miss film--Oscar Worthy!","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Little Voice is an incredibly acted film which deserves multiple Oscar nominations! Jane Horrocks and Brenda Blethyn are sensational! Ditto Michael Caine and Jim Broadbent! Horrocks is wonderful--touching, funny and brilliant in her depictions of Garland , Monroe and Dietrich, among others. Blethyn makes Shelley Winters in A Patch Of Blue seem like Mary Poppins! Michael Caine proves again why he's one of the best actors around! Don't miss! "},{"Title":"Way to go Jane Horrocks!!!   Bravo!","Date":"22 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Fantastic performance by Jane Horrocks in the title role with great support from Blethyn, Caine and Broadbent.  Easily could have slipped into melodrama without such a great anchor performance.  Really quite touching...great music  great British humor.  Another nifty little film from the director of Brassed Off! "}{"Title":"Mmmmm","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I didn't really want to see this film in the first place - that's why it's taken 8 years . You need to be in the right frame of mind to appreciate many films, otherwise they just don't click. But it was quid pro quo for the crappy sci-fi and horror and offbeat arty-type films I like to watch occasionally. From all I'd heard about the singing, I thought this film was going to be a musical. So when I realised this wasn't a musical, had Jane Horrocks, Michael Cane and Jim Broadbent in it, I thought it couldn't be all bad. The film seems to have been accepted as a real peach. Sadly it's not, but instead more of a curates egg - good in parts. The singing is good - but not exceptional enough to carry the film on it's own. Michael Cane puts in a very classy performance, and Jane Horrocks certainly does a job with the lines she was given. Jim Broadbent has a marginal, but significant role. Ewan McGregor, does OK with his 5 minutes but his character's involvement after the first 10 minutes seems to be a bit of an afterthought. Annette Badland, is a really excellent actress with a wide range(Archers and Dr Who fans will know this), and was wasted on this part, though she plays it well. Brenda Blethyn must have been told play an actress who is hamming up a performance as a busty irritating Hilda Ogden on speed. If so, she did a very good job. Somehow it just felt as if they had rehearsed their roles separately, and the director has then taken the first cut on every shoot to get it over with as quickly as possible. Even though I wasn't expecting much from this, it feels like this film could have been so much better than it turned out to be. All in all not a bad film, but somehow it's much less good than the sum of the performances - frustratingly disappointing. "},{"Title":"So True!!!","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This film is so True to Life!!! Contrary to some of the other reviewers, I have actually met real-life versions of LV and her awful mother! Sadly, these are not just caricatures - LV is a sufferer of Social Phobia or Social Anxiety Disorder (the modern name for extreme shyness!) from which I have suffered myself! And I have met many examples of Mari Hoff - although thankfully, not my own mother!!! (but in terms of scary school teachers & unsympathetic people from my childhood - yes, I have met many a Mari!) This film has me in tears every time, weeping with LV and struggling to take every breath with her. I tense up as I watch her tense up on stage, and long for her to be left alone so that she (and I!) can breathe again! I cannot imagine how on Earth her poor father managed to end up marrying Mari... it is a complete mystery! "},{"Title":"A classic example of deceptive marketing leading to disappointment","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  *** possible minor spoilers***From the trailers, and the box covers (which were basically all I had to go on when I rented this movie) this was billed as a comedy. I returned it and for the first time complained at the video store and got my money back since I felt I had been totally deceived. They agreed with me.For a movie like this it should at least be noted that this is a DARK comedy, so dark as to be depressing. There was one 3-minute scene that showed some of the sparkle promised by the promotions, and yet after that it plunged right back into darkness again. There was no resolution for the main character, her life didn't get any better...and her talents went to total waste. I was left sitting there thinking that I had been totally gypped.The only thing that saves this movie, in my opinion, is the vocal talent of the lead...who does all her own work and is quite amazing. There is not enough of this however, since most of the movie is just the horrid antics of the character of the mother.If you are in the mood for a dark British drama than this is the movie for you, if you looking for what this movie bills itself as, an inspiring dramatic comedy then look elsewhere.  "},{"Title":"Little voice, big disappointment","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" *POSSIBLE SPOILERS* After all the glowing reviews, I finally had the chance to watch the DVD. Jane Horrocks' performance was stunning, but the rest of the movie didn't keep up with her. The free bird metaphor wasn't presented as much as it was beat over the audience's heads at least four times. Okay, we get it find your own voice, break out, take a chance, blah blah blah. Unfortunately, the heavy-handed nature of the metaphor broadcast the ending so it was incredibly unsatisfying. I found myself following the dots, pretty much predicting the high points before they happened. Overall, it didn't live up to what I was expecting. "},{"Title":"Great songs disguise a bad film","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Highly Over-rated. Brenda Blethyn is virtually unwatchable. Ewan McGregor is not much better, neither is jane Horrocks (except when she's singing). Michale caine manages to salvage some dignity, but the film is the usual insult to the Bristish working class from the English film-making class. "},{"Title":"vile, mean-spirited and snobbish","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Little Voice is *not* a masterpiece, it isn't even a good film.  The prevailing tone is of unspeakable snobbery and patronisation of working class people.  The attitude is Oh aren't working-class people horrible when they try and be cultured?  They should stay at home, meditate on the lowliness of their position, and not impose themselves on us cool people. From the moment when a scene of a fat woman disco-dancing is presented as a piece of comic horror, the film sneers at its characters.  The happy ending occurs when LV and Billy decide,  in the style of Caliban to be wise hereafter, and seek for grace, ie to reconcile themselves to their lowly place in the film makers' worldview.  The saddest thing about the film is Brenda Blethyn's appallingly OTT performance as Mari - we know she can do better than this from Secrets and Lies, so we can only blame the director for forcing her to play such a caricature.  Ray Say is, by the close of the film, utterly destroyed as a human being, yet the film-makers appear to regard this as a just punishment for crimes against taste.Everybody involved with this film should be forced to go and see John Water's pecker, to see how a similar plot can be presented in a warm-hearted manner which is funny without spitting on its characters. "},{"Title":"Needed more singing","Date":"26 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" One of those little Miramax trifles from Britain that dominated the art-house back in the mid-to-late '90s. It stars Jane Horrocks as the title character, a painfully shy young woman who barely speaks at all, but has an outrageously good singing voice. Michael Caine plays a man from the music business who accidentally discovers her while he's visiting her abusive, skanky mother (Brenda Blethyn). Caine's attentions turn wholly to Horrocks, and Blethyn becomes even more wicked to her. Ewan MacGregor co-stars as Horrocks' pigeon-raising love interest and Jim Broadbent appears as Caine's friend, a night club owner. Brenda Blethyn received an Oscar nomination for her work, but she probably didn't deserve it. It's like she reprises her Secrets & Lies character and cranks up her obnoxiousness to 11. Horrocks is the entire show here, really (though I did like Caine's work). She's quite adorable in her shy mode, and when she does sing, man, does she nail it. The original play (directed by Sam Mendes) was written specifically for her to showcase her talents. I'd probably give the film a passing grade, but, really, there's only one sequence where Horrocks gets to show off in full force. It's exquisite, but I really wanted more. A lot more. "},{"Title":"Charming Horrocks vehicle","Date":"19 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Jane Horrocks isn't a name familiar to the average American by any means. Michael Caine is the bigger draw of this film stateside. However, Horrocks is a recognisable and much-loved TV actress in the UK and Little Voice, a film about the emancipating potential of unique talent (and music) is a film built for one of her special abilities the ability to mimic singing voices of the golden postwar period of variety broadcasting.Horrocks has a much wider range than stylised karaoke might suggest and this makes the clothes-line plot (guardian angel dad and opportunist wide-boy promoter make good parochial girl's lot) work. Caine is very good as the small time schmoozer who realises he's struck gold, and picks up the girl's mother (Brenda Blethyn) into the bargain. Ewan McGregor has a sweet cameo as another quiet 'un but without the showbiz edge to his passion that LV falls for. Surprisingly, the only thing rather average about the film is the music itself. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Little Voice  BIG Talent, NOTHING Story","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  It has been reported that `Little Voice' was originally a play written for Jane Horrocks, an incredibly talented mimic. If this is true, then the playwright did Ms. Horrocks no justice.  For he made Ms. Horrocks a supporting player in her own showcase, even giving the best roles to Brenda Blethyn (Mari) and Michael Caine (Ray).   Blethyn is terrific as the refreshingly crass and slutty Mari, Little Voice's mother.  Caine is equally good as the charming, but desperately sleazy Ray, a talent agent.  Horrocks performs her mimicry for about eight minutes of a 97minute movie.  The rest is populated with predictable `cymbal-ridden' story (You know that one; the producer tells the writer he wants lots of `symbols'.  The writer thinks he meant `cymbals' and keeps CRASHING them together.). BOTH Horrocks and the audience would have been better served had she taken her one woman show on the road and spent the time entertaining with her amazing impersonations, which include Judy Garland, Shirley Bassey, Gracie Fields, Marlene Dietrich and Billie Holliday.By all means, watch `Little Voice' for ALL the fine performances, including Ewan McGregor (Billy), Philip Jackson (George) and Jim Broadbent (Mr. Boo)  Just try not to despair too much about what MIGHT have been.  Also, if you live anywhere but the UK, make sure to turn on the `Close Captioning'.  "},{"Title":"Little Voice, big movie.","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  A very British, raucous, wacky comedy/musical/drama, Little Voice tells the story of a withdrawn and reclusive young women, with an incredible talent for singing like great who musical theater, who is discovered by a seedy talent scout. Anyone with a taste for Broadway musicals will enjoy Horrocks warbling. However a taste for British comedy is required to fully appreciate the rest of this much lauded and critically acclaimed film as you'll bloody well be up to your bollocks in it, ya will. "}{"Title":"Strictly a One Trick Pony","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The screenplay is a muddled mess.  One can only hope that the stage play had something to redeem it.  The Ewan McGregor character, Billy, appears to be there solely as a means necessary to save a life when no other plot element offered itself.  Jane Horrocks is an accomplished voice mimic but the character she is called upon to play here is such a vapid creature that we simply cannot buy the short lived transformation to knock'em in the aisle performer.  It is a gimmick pure and simple. The other performances are wildly inconsistent.  Caine is, as usual, reliable, believable, and at the end rather pitiable.  And then there is Brenda Blethyn delivering some of the most irritating, over wrought, hammy work of a highly overrated career.  The performance might have worked on stage where on has some aesthetic distance but that's doubtful.  The mother is surely a monster but even a monster requires some subtle shadings, some layers, a bit of nuance.  Blethyn delivers one long slap in the face with a rubber chicken.  It is possible that there is a good movie buried somewhere in this dreck but this crowd didn't find it. "},{"Title":"Fell for the hype, was so disappointed!","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Possibly the worst performance ever by the wonderful Brenda Blethyn. An over the top caricature of a tarnished, would-be 'good time girl'. The good in the film added up to maybe around 20 minutes including the kitchen scene (Caine/Horrocks) and the performance on stage.I was embarrassed by the final hideous tirade by Michael Caine. It was beyond belief, no credibility at all.No club owner that awful could have kept a club going. Far from being portrayed a loser, the effect was embarrassment.I don't know what went wrong, there was a great story in there. If the director had avoided the cliches of foul language and concentrated on classy dialogue to tell a story it could have been so much better!Oscars, Golden Globes.... no way. Jane Horrocks was the only actor to deserve any sort of critical acclaim. "},{"Title":"Shamefully reinforces Northern stereotypes.Enough already.","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" One day the people of the north of England are going to rebel against consistently being portrayed as blowsy overbearing foul mouthed women and boozy overweight violent blokes with the intrapersonal skills of a warthog with piles and severe halitosis.I sincerely believe this despite having watched countless movies in which the main characters are exactly as I have described them including Little Voice which is but one of the more recent.The seedy nightclub owner,the seedy agent,the seedy seaside town - there's more seed in this movie than in the parrot house in London zoo.Mr Michael Caine is the token Southerner,seedy as all get out and representing the parasitic Londoners leeching off the talent of the North,lover of LV's mum - a none - -too - subtle performance by Miss Brenda Blethyn.Mr Jim Broadbent,desperation showing in his eyes,goes through the movie looking as if someone has told him some distressing news about his ferret.Mr Ewan McGregor - despite a cute balcony scene played on a rising platform - fails to convince as LV's ardent swain.Miss Jane Horrocks is a clever mimic.This attribute,unfortunately,is not enough to carry her through a full-length movie.Many years ago a friend of my late father's would,when sufficiently drunk,do a pretty good imitation of Anne Zeigler and Webster Booth.Regardless of how much India Pale Ale he had consumed he had the sense to realise that 60 seconds was long enough to employ his one trick.Leave 'em begging for more,he used to say.If only Little Voicehad exhibited such restraint. "},{"Title":"I feel I should clarify","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Having read a few of the other reviews posted since I last commented on this film I feel I should clarify exactly what I was disappointed in. I did not receive what I felt was put forward by the film's promotional campaign, and therefore my entire experience of the film was badly tainted.The acting in the film is excellent, and as many have mentioned, the vocal talents of the lead are amazing. I simply think that that talent should have been given more screen time. That does not mean I think that it should have been turned into a Hollywood-ised positive falsehood, simply that more time should have been given to what the movie was promoted as. As for the ending, I have no problem with unconventional endings - I usually enjoy them a great deal more than typical ones. I always enjoy endings that are not what I expected. What disappointed me so greatly about this one is that it didn't appear to go anywhere..I saw no joy or change in Laura's life, no deeper appreciation of herself (which I would have enjoyed far more than a 'success' story in the first place), nothing. I'm all for not tying up all the loose ends - it keeps up the suspense, but introducing and ending that does not address, in my opinion, and of the issues of self-awareness and personal independence put forward in the film is lacking in something.Perhaps if/when I return to see the movie again (as I said my first viewing was tainted) I may see what everyone else is seeing. For now, it remains a disappointment. And,though I do this seldom, I feel the need to respond to one specific commentSurely it isn't implied that a 'good' movie dealing with someone dancing around the edges of the entertainment business only happens when the protagonist 'makes it' in the industry? presumably with attendant drug usage, alcohol abuse, sexual libertinage et cetera? even better of course if we are permitted the Schadenfreude arising from his subsequent collapse into whichever variety of nastiness is currently most titillating. Heaven forbid that such a person may realize that there are more important and rewarding pursuits in life!No. A good entertainment movie deals with the trials tribulations and hard work involved in getting into and staying in the entertainment industry. Whether they make it or not. I said more screen time, not success. This the movie handled well - but failed to note the balance between the pain and the enjoyment that comes with working in the arts. In reference to your comment about drug use etc...that is a stereotype that most artists do not fit and go to lengths to avoid. Yes, the industry can destroy you, and for many it has. But making it a 'presumption' that anyone involved in the arts is a druggie and an alcoholic is an insult to those of us who work in the field and take our profession seriously.The entertainment industry is and important and fulling pursuit and it is a tough one, and this movie does do a fine job of showing the tough aspect of it. I simply think that certain aspects of it could have been handled better or emphasised more. "},{"Title":"SEEN (MUCH) BETTER","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  'Little Voice' is aimed at the 40something crowd, and so I shouldn't be surprised that I didn't enjoy it. Yes the impressions are excellent. But a pretty weak film is hung on this talent. I'm bore with the tired, cliche representations of the Northern working class. They're almost up there now with the Dick Van Dyke cockneys.   "},{"Title":"Tone-deaf.","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  A famous stage hit in London (and a notorious bomb in New York), LITTLE VOICE was written specifically for Jane Horrocks, whose performance has been hailed to the stratosphere.  I'm here to tell you it just ain't so. Horrocks is a talented actress and a really gifted comedienne, but a mediocre singer and a very hit-or-miss impressionist (only her very funny Marlene Dietrich impressed me) and the role of LV is too under-written for the actress to work up to a good head of steam.  Jim Broadbent seems to think he's in a David Lynch film; Brenda Blethyn, jiggling aggressively in various states of undress, is lucky Oscars can't be revoked retroactively; and Michael Caine ... sings!  The slight and obvious story hasn't been filled in with any original insights, the required dark fairy tale tone is rarely achieved, and there are at least two endings too many.  The unfamiliar Scarborough location is the movie's most entertaining element. "},{"Title":"Hitting Some Sour Notes","Date":"29 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  If, like me, you thought Little Voice sounded promising -- the story of an extremely timid young woman who can barely speak, but who has the remarkable ability to belt out, in private, standards in the styles of her favorite legendary singers -- then, like me, you might have been guilty of half-writing the plot out in your mind ahead of time. The premise is, of course, the stuff of show business fables -- the shy but talented person who blooms in the spotlight, using her talent to transform herself and express herself in ways that she can't otherwise. However, this movie refuses to go the fable route -- with, I think, less than satisfying results.I appreciate that the makers of this film have avoided the clichs of the genre. What I can't appreciate is what they've put in place of those clichs. Little Voice turns out to be a surprisingly sour film, one in which the main character, who's called Little Voice (LV for short), learns to express herself in spite of, and not because of, her talent.LV's attitude toward her gift is, and remains, totally passive; when she sings, she does so only for her dead father. A side plot involving a shy young man who keeps pigeons as pets and who befriends Little Voice holds out the promise that she'll find someone else to sing for, but the movie refuses to follow through. (Did the moviemakers think that would be too corny, too false?)The movie strives for a realistically upbeat ending; I don't think it's the one we want. It makes a hash of what has gone before, telling us that talent isn't all that it's cracked up to be. Why impress us with a glimpse of that talent, only to end up saying, in so many words, that it doesn't matter?Jane Horrocks (who, we're told, did all of her own singing) is smashing as Little Voice (she's so good, she almost gets away with a bizarre scene in which LV, facing a crisis, begins reciting lines from the close of a famous movie); Michael Caine is delightful -- until his last couple of scenes -- as the low-rent showbiz agent determined to bring Little Voice to the world. Brenda Blethyn is over the top as LV's overbearing mother; the character is written and played with all of the subtlety of a bazooka.(P.S. Yes, I knew that was Shirley Bassey singing the Goldfinger theme on the soundtrack.)  "},{"Title":"Interesting but ultimately disappointing","Date":"9 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Jane Horrocks is dazzling as LITTLE VOICE, about a small, shy gal who has one very powerful set of vocal cords. Michael Caine as a seedy impresario and Brenda Blethyn as Little Voice's overbearing mom try to push LV onto a cabaret stage where she can show off those impressive vocal cords -- and make them rich. The wonderful Jim Broadbent is on hand as the owner of th seedy cabaret where LV is to perform. LV has other ideas. All comes to a terrible end -- at least it does for Caine, Blethyn and Broadbent. Ewen McGregor is on hand as LV's aspiring beau. While there are some very funny moments, this is a dark, dark drama, and being a British film, it does not end up playing out like ROCKY, which the plot of LITTLE VOICE strongly resembles. LV may be an underdog, but she isn't interested in becoming what Blethyn and company want her to. The ending is romantic in its own way, but odd. And decidedly off. But then, this is not a Hollywood movie with a typical Hollywood ending. LITTLE VOICE is really a dressed-up art-house flick that is not going to satisfy mainstream American audiences. Horrocks, a great singer, does get to belt out several classic tunes about two-thirds of the way through, but it's not nearly enough. "},{"Title":"Hardly Funny, Only Mildly Interesting","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Michael Caine and Jane Horrocks give this film it's only charm but it's not enough to save it. Brenda Blethyn nominated for an award for this role?? Huh??   It would help if the writers realized that putting the F word in front of lines that are poor attempts at humor to begin with doesn't suddenly make them hilarious. Unfortunately they do not appear aware of that here. One highlight is the scene where Ray (Michael Caine) is conning LV (Jane Horrocks) to go on stage and perform for him, the interplay of these two is appealing and  more of these two together may have helped this film allot.  A  disappointing 4/10.         "},{"Title":"Run away! Run away!","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is a very bad movie.  The director hates any character not bordering on autism.  It's populated by buffoons.Subtlety is not its strong point.  It makes it's case within minutes; certain characters are hideous and others are sensitive, virtuous and bland (MacGregor).  After half an hour, stomaching any ten consecutive minutes of this movie becomes extremely difficult.  Jane Horrocks is an amazing mimic, but it's not worth suffering through the rest.  Brenda Blethyn's character is wretched and shrill from the word 'Go', with no appreciable difference throughout.Every once in a while the script drops in a hollow emotional payoff to break up the monotony.  Fat people are especially singled out to look asinine here.  Overall the movie is about as crude and obvious as a cinderblock dropped on your toe.  "}{"Title":"Who was the one who sang....","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Jane Horrocks is one of my favourite actresses.She has been so ever since her choctastic appearance in Life is Sweet.  I have been gob-smacked by her versatility, more often than not ignoring her naturally broad parochial vowels.  (I write as a Lancastrian.)Jane Horrocks is one of my least favourite mimics.  Her TV spectacular, in which she majored with her impressions, descended into a freak show.Why did Jim Broadbent, who should know better, put her through this?Ron  "},{"Title":"A comedy???","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The heroine is a catatonic whiner.  She can mimic fair to middlin' and would be a good vegas lounge act - but I wonder if there's any talent of her own there.  The people surrounding her are almost without exception living lives of loud desperation.  Michael Caine is the good guy hero we expect him to be through 2/3's of this mess, and then flip flops suddenly into a raging screeching bad guy.  Brenda Fricke starts loud and sloppy and really has no place to go except to STAY loud and sloppy.  The one performer who *did* catch my eye was Sydney, the next-door best friend - some good humored shining humanity. "},{"Title":"Out of control","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  First off, let me say Jane Horrocks is the real thing.  Having liked here the few times I've seen ABSOLUTELY FABULOUS and in LIFE IS SWEET, I still was unprepared for her performance here.  She's an extraordinary mimic, and she makes believable the rest of her character.  But the rest of the film is way out of control.  I can respect the seeming decision of writer-director Mark Herman to avoid a tearjerker approach, but the result is loud and boorish, particularly when Brenda Blethyn(who deserves better) is on screen. Every character here is no more than a caricature, and the film shoves that into your face instead of letting it develop naturally.  The only exception, besides Horrocks, is Michael Caine's character, at least part of the time. True, it's a stock character, but Caine makes him likeable in a ramshackle way, until he too falls victim to the boorishness of the film.  If there's a soundtrack to the film featuring Horrocks' imitations, buy it instead. "},{"Title":"Predictable, cliched, boring with 1 knock-out performance","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This was so boring my husband left the room after 15 minutes and after 30 minutes I fast-forwarded through large sections until I reached Jane Horrocks' absolutely knock-out performance before an audience.A great cast did its best but the movie was so horribly cliched and predictable it was exhausting to try to watch.It's sort of a non-event to hear someone imitating other singers in a movie, because there is no way to tell if the performances were simply good lip-synching to previous recordings, that is, to tell who was actually singing, since all the singing would be dubbed in anyway. "},{"Title":"Trying too hard.....","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Unfortunately, Little Voice doesn't live up to the hype at all.In trying too hard it presented its characters as caricatures with no real depth and an uncanny ability to be really annoying. Although there were a few poignant moments which were admittedly quite touching, it often failed to make a real impact by including unnecessary jokes which spoilt the atmosphere.The plot was merely a string of cringe worthy moments designed to make the viewer remarkably uncomfortable. Not only that but they were predictable too. It was these moments especially which left a sour taste in the mouth.Avoid at all costs. "},{"Title":"One of the worst British Movies of all time?","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  A very boring film. Don't believe the reviewer on IMDB. This film is so bad its embarrassing. All through the film I just want someone to pull out a gun and shoot Little Voice for being such punny face, annoying, self obsessed weasel. And when she sings it sounds so bad. Just a real typical bad english film which has sooooo much pretense about it I don't know where to begin.  "},{"Title":"A complete waste of time","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Little Voice is freakish, 30-something recluse living with her mother, and has a weird obsession with her dead father. Her mother's boyfriend, played by Michael Caine, discovers LV's knack for impersonating divas, and tries to exploit that talent. However LV refuses to work with anyone, unless she is having a hallucination of daddy in the audience. At the end of the movie, LV's house catches fire, but she is rescued by her admirer, Ewan McGregor, in a cherry picker. As if he couldn't do better than her! Too bad. I was hoping she and her squeaky voice would burn. Avoid this piece of garbage at all costs. Go see a drag show instead. "},{"Title":"ugh","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This movie was so bad. Really, really bad. It was boring and stupid. It may have been the longest hour and a half i have ever spent watching a movie. I wondered after watching why anyone would have made this piece of trash. I can't believe that Micahel Caine and the actress who played LV's mom were both nominated for awards. i like and respect Michael Caine, but this has to be a sympathy vote. He played a sleazy guy. The character wasn't at all complicated. And the mother? She was annoying. It was like the writer took everything about women that was bad and put it into a character. This was horrible and a waste of time. It was so clichd. All the characters were hollow and just stereotypes. I would never watch this film again. Ever. I saw it because Ewan MacGregor was in it and he's a favorite actor of mine. He was good in it, but he is always good. Do not rent this unless you like watching fairy tales that have been told better before. "}]