[{"Title":"a small scale gem","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"21 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  For admirers of quality movies, one of the greatest sources of frustration has always been the inverse ration that exists between movies that are good and movies that make money.  The essential rule of thumb is that, with few exceptions, the larger a film's budget happens to be, the less likely that that film will have anything new or original to say.  The corollary principle is that, given the choice between patronizing a film that is original, complex and meaningful and one that is derivative, simpleminded and thematically empty, the mass audience will go with the latter type every time.  Driven by the need for profits, large studios are then forced to cater to this `lowest common denominator' mentality.  The result is that wonderful little films are almost invariably squeezed out of the marketplace, left to languish in obscure art houses scattered in a few major cities, while bloated, mindless multi-million dollar monstrosities fill sprawling megaplexes found in cities, suburbs and rural areas stretching literally from coast to coast.How many people, for instance, have even heard of, let alone seen, `Where the Money Is'?  Yet here is a film dedicated to the spirit of pure fun, a lighthearted black comedy that is blessedly free of the hardboiled cynicism and explicit violence that plague so many such films.  The film hooks the audience from the very start with the originality of its plot and setting.  Set in a small Oregon town (though the film was, rather inexplicably, filmed in the environs of Montreal), the movie stars the superb Linda Fiorentino and Dermot Mulroney as long time high school sweethearts who have married right after graduation, found their comfortable little niche in the small world they inhabit and now begun to take each other for granted.  (The opening scene introduces us to them as they are roadhousing around on prom night in his prize Mustang, the one symbol of a rebellious youth that he still clings to all these years later).  It is at her job &#150; as a nurse at a local convalescent hospital &#150; that a measure of excitement reenters their humdrum lives and relights the long dormant spark of adventure that she, in particular, has been missing.   This novelty comes in the form of an aging bank robber (Paul Newman) who has apparently suffered a stroke and is sent to the rest home due to overcrowding at the prison hospital.The early scenes of the film are wickedly funny as Fiorentino, suspicious that her new patient may just be faking it, plays a clever little game of cat-and-mouse to try to catch him in his impressive charade.  Suddenly, having achieved her goal, she is not quite so sure who is really the cat and who the mouse.  To say more about the plot would really do a disservice to this film, which manages to keep us intrigued by the unpredictability of its most unusual setup.  Fiorentino and Mulroney are thoroughly believable as a couple of once-edgy youngsters grown into responsible, comfortable but slightly restless adults.  She, in particular, finds herself stifled by the humdrum quality of both their life and their marriage together.  Mulroney, on the other hand, seems to have pretty much lost that desire for living on the edge, yet, for her sake and, perhaps, for the sake of that tiny spark for adventure that still lives unquenched somewhere deep inside him, he is willing to meet her halfway &#150; even if a bit reluctantly &#150; on the field of lawlessness.  Newman, as the expert bank robber who stumbles unexpectedly into their lives, provides the perfect catalyst for renewed adventure.The amazing thing about `Where the Money Is' is that, thanks to its writers, Max Frye, Topper Lilien and Carroll Cartwright, and the director, Marek Kanievska, the film never ends up taking itself too seriously.  It always knows that its prime purpose is to give the audience a fun time.  This it does with the help of its three dazzling stars, who seem to be having the time of their professional lives (Fiorentino is especially wonderful).  It sure must be infectious, because we, in the audience, have a pretty damn good time watching them. "},{"Title":"Newman shines","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Paul Newman shines in this implausible, but highly watchable caper flick about three unlikely armored car robbers.  It is hard to believe that Newman is 75.  He is fitter and more energetic than most men who are fifteen years his junior.  He single-handedly elevates this film from mediocrity.The story is nothing unique.  Henry (Newman) is a bank robber who is delivered to a nursing home after a debilitating stroke.  His nurse (Linda Fiorentino) suspects he is not the vegetable he appears to be.  After she gets him to admit his ruse, she exhorts him to knock off an armored truck with her.Director Marek Kanievska and writer Max Frye leave numerous gaps in the story.  We never discover what tips off Carol that Henry is faking.  They didn't do enough character development of Carol and Wayne (Dermot Mulroney) to make it believable that they would want to become criminals, no less hatch the scheme.  The idea that Carol was pretending to be the dispatcher for the armored car company from a cell phone in the truck is a flimsy concoction.  Even with digital technology, most cell phones in moving vehicles sound like cell phones, and you can hear road noises and the engine running.Still, despite a lackluster script, the film is enjoyable because of Paul Newman.  Newman gives a fantastic rendition of a stroke victim, and his hardened and cantankerous portrayal was marvelous.  Linda Fiorentino plays the scheming sex-kitten nurse in one of her better performances.  The screen chemistry between Fiorentino and Newman is excellent with undercurrents of sexual desire constantly flaring up between them.  Dermot Mulroney is relegated to a role that was essentially a fifth wheel and is adequate as Carol's loser of a husband.I rated this film a 7/10.  It is good entertainment and an opportunity to see a master at work.  Newman hasn't lost a beat in a movie career that spans almost a half a century.  It is worth seeing for him alone. "},{"Title":"a rousing good time","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In playing a small town girl taken by the world wise con man, the chemistry between Fiorentino and Newman is perfect. Mulroney is basically Bud Bundy while Paul Newman is, well Paul Newman, and Fiorentino effortlessly falls for him, as does the audience.Well cast, well acted caper flick that runs on Newman's star quality. "},{"Title":"Quality Paul Newman Flick.....","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  My girlfriend took me to an advance screening of this film so we had no idea what we were in for.  I had just seen Nobody's Fool so I was well prepared for the pace of the film, and Newman's sly, charming style.  Fortunately, he didn't disappoint, (he's still as reliable as ever), and the film still held plenty of surprises for me.  I will admit I was less than interested for the first 20 minutes, but by the end, I was impressed.Newman plays Henry Manning, a old thief who crosses paths with Carol Ann MacKay (Fiorentino) who is a restless nurse at a rest home.  As you can guess, it's a heist film with plenty of hilarity and real suspense.  Keep in mind, it's a mild hilarity and suspense, with subtle exchanges and real emotional investment.  The scenes play slowly and meticulously, like a heist, waiting for the exact moment to give us the payoff.  They hit the mark more often than not in both arenas of comedy and suspense,The chemistry between the principles is strong, especially with Fiorentino and Newman, with intelligent dialogue that takes the plot through a natural progression that doesn't betray the two lead characters.Make no mistake, Newman's presence elevates this film, as he often does, and he does it with such ease that it's a joy to watch. If you like Newman's recent work, this film will not disappoint you.As I have indicated, it's a slow film, not too deep, not overly witty, but subtle.  It works on many levels, so I have no problem recommending it to fans of Paul Newman.  "},{"Title":"sweet!","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  i just love this little ditty. Nothing heavy or too meaningful here...just good old fashioned entertainment. A neat little story told very nicely and believably, with good cohesion and style. Intelligently shot and scored with a good dialogue which keeps this smart little story rolling along very nicely.Very funny at times and thoroughly enjoyable. I highly recommend it as a feel good temporary diversion. Great cast and an interesting plot that will keep you looking forward to the next viewing, which is what it is all about... "},{"Title":"glad i found it","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  At the time of it's short theatrical release, Where the Money Is just didn't seem like a very appealing film. And due to it hitting video store shelves within only a matter of months, I had decided that this film just wouldn't be that great. But, I decided to check it out anyway and I am very happy I did. What we are given with Where the Money Is is a classy caper flick with some good performances. Although not a classic, WTMI is definately good wholesome entertainment. The script focuses more on intrigue and comedy, rather than the profanity and violence that most caper flicks are centered around. This one is a rare gem, and I'm glad I found it. 8.5/10  "},{"Title":"Top crime caper","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Henry robs banks because that's 'where the money is'.  Unfortunately, he has suffered a stroke and is confined to a wheelchair rendering his stealing days over.  Or does it?The film starts with a flashback to Carol and Wayne leaving the prom as newly crowned King and Queen driving recklessly and crashing.  Years later their relationship and life is stale and boring - but only Carol thinks so.  It could be argued that the flashback is just an extraneous piece of action to keep the audience interested - which is true - but it also shows where Carol and Wayne are coming from and contrasts with the dull life they have now.The film asks you to root for criminals and isn't the first film to do that by any means but what I find interesting is what makes the normally moral cheer amorality.  Harry had to all intents and purposes retired from a life of crime but, ironically, he gets his stolen money stolen and can't go to the police - for obvious reasons.  Many in the audience would identify with Carol wanting to escape to something better.  The potential victims are all big businesses and one of the owners in particular is a snotty tosser.  And the plan is to rob without violence or the threat of violence.Where the Money Is never drags as it reaches its conclusion.  The dialogue is always excellent and there are at least a couple of classic lines in there.  Being very picky about plotting I couldn't fault the screenwriters' work.What struck me most about the film was the simplicity and economy of the writing.  It's a crime that the film didn't make its money back domestically in theatres.  It's meant to be Paul Newman's last ever film and it's good that it's something so artistically successful if not commercially so.  "},{"Title":"GOOD TO HAVE PAUL NEWMAN BACK AGAIN","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is no STING but it is an entertaining Paul Newman film. We are Paul Newman fans from way back and enjoy seeing him in virtually anything.  This was an enjoyable romp and we certainly recommend it to any movie goer. "},{"Title":"Newman's Own","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Age has pared Paul Newman's fine features to a sketch - it's also honed his huge movie appeal to such basics that he can pretty much maintain our attention while in a coma. But as if to test his powers, in the shagging and intriguing caper Where the money is, Newman plays Henry, a former famous bank robber and current guest of the prison system who actually is in a coma, or at least a stroke like state of suspended animation. Slumped and glazed, Henry sits for hours in his wheelchair at the nursing home to which he has been transferred tended to by Carol (Linda Fiorentino) a less than angelic nurse and onetime prom queen. Carol lives with her husband, in the same drab town where she grew up. She's bored as a former prom queen always is. And she's convinced that Henry - who had led the only interesting life around - is faking his stupor. So she bamboozles him into dropping his act, then promises to keep the secret, if he'll include her on just one more Bonnie and Clyde size heist. British director Marek Kanievska counts on the audience knowing that Newman's fame is tied to playing heist pros and hustlers, and that we're not just seeing some gravel voiced coot in a wheelchair - we're seeing what Butch Cassidy might have become had he not messed up in Bolivia. The minimalist acting the star has done in recent films like Message in a bottle and Nobody's fool serves him well, because he's confident - rightfully so- that the audience will fill in the blanks. Incorrigible Henry is fundamentally opaque, but canny Newman lets his eyes do the talking. As for Fiorentino, the star of The last seduction reprises her dangerous, restless woman persona as if to remind us (and casting agents) that if she got every role currently going to Catherine Zeta Jones, movies would be a lot more interesting. The payoff is the clash between a taciturn bandit faking feebleness and an angry Florence Nightingale, faking compassion, played by two actors who are the real thing.  "},{"Title":"Fun for fans of Newman","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Yes Newman is still acting and although he is definitely starting to look elderly, still has a very strong screen presence. He plays a former bank robber who is now a stroke victim and with the help of his nurse manages one last heist.  If you like bank robbing movies, or Newman, you won't be disappointed.  It moves at a very quick pace with a lot of twists and excitement.  Newman gives another good performance especially when he stays comatose during a lap dance by Fiorentino. However the direction is a little too compact.  You almost wish it would slow up a bit and add a little more flavor or atmosphere. The idea of a nice law abiding couple suddenly doing a major crime seems a bit hard to believe. Also the color schemes within the hospital are downright ugly! Overall a good time filler, but certainly no award winner. "}{"Title":"Newman still has it","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This little movie is all about Paul Newman - it's a heist flick, not of the same caliber of The Sting, but good fun nonetheless.  Ole Blue Eyes at 75 yrs old still has more charisma than the current, top 5 highest earning movie stars combined.  Linda Fiorentino has great chemistry with both her co-stars - no surprise there.  She's so good, it's a shame she's not given more dialogue to chew on.   Dermot Mulroney is every woman's complete package - OOFA!   Catherine Keener (his real-life wife) is a one happy woman.   This is worth seeing on the big screen!! "},{"Title":"A Must For All Paul Newman Fans","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"   You know, a lot of the reviews that I have read on this movie pan it. I'm afraid that I can't agree. THIS IS A GOOD MOVIE. Sure it doesn't have explicit sex, gratuitous violence or four letter words. What it does have is Paul Newman. The eternally youthful Newman returns to the role that he does best...the con artist. In Where the Money Is, Newman plays an imprisoned bank robber who cons prison officials into believing that he has suffered a stroke. Because of overcrowding in the prison hospital, he is temporarily transferred to an outside facility. There, he comes under the care of nurse Linda Fiorentino and her husband Dermot Mulroney. Fiorentino suspects that Newman is faking it and sets out to find out what he is up to. What follows is a delightful caper reminiscent of some of Newman's earlier films. Newman, in his best part in years, really makes you believe that he has suffered a stroke, and even in his mid-70s proves that he can still charm the ladies. Fiorentino is sexy and ambitious and you wind up rooting for her and Newman to pull their caper off. Mulroney is also good as Fiorentino's sceptical husband. I don't think that today's younger movie goers really appreciate the talent of Paul Newman and I can only suggest that they go back and watch some of his earlier work to gain a better appreciation. Where the Money Is is a thoroughly enjoyable movie and is a must for all Paul Newman fans. "},{"Title":"Can't Totally Blame Newman For This Bomb","Date":"13 June 2007","Score":"15 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is one of the few Paul Newman movies in which even the critics all agreed it was pretty bad. For once, I agree with them; this was not a fun experience watching this garbage.Actually, I liked Newman's character Henry Manning, or at least thought he was a very interesting guy. The problem I had wasn't him; it was the two younger actors, Linda Fiorentino and Dermot Mulroney. Have you noticed how many low-life people Fiorentino plays in films? Check out The Last Seduction, Jade, etc. This woman is not appealing to me. Mulroney is another actor who plays a lot of punks, including the guy in here, Wayne MacKay. Both of those people ruined this film for me, although all three leads are not good people. That was a main problem for a number of viewers no good guys, meaning nobody to root for. The story starts out promising but sinks fast, and never recovers. It's tough to like a story when you don't care about any of the characters and it's a weak script to begin with. Still....one wonders why Newman went into this project. "},{"Title":"A Great, Fun Film to Be Seen to Be appreciated!","Date":"22 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I became a fan of Linda Fiorentino from watching her on Dogma over and over again on Comedy Central. I hope she's getting residual checks and new fans all over again. In this film, she plays Carol Ann McKay, a bored nurse in a retirement or nursing home who meets Paul Newman's character who is a retired professional heister. With her husband played by Dermot Mulroney, the three plan the ideal heist with an armored car. I read that Fiorentino and Newman got along very well on the film and both live in the same town in Connecticut. Fiorentino would have been willing to do a sex scene with him if she was given the opportunity. Anyway, the three are a great team. The story is pretty good because Fiorentino, Newman, and Mulroney make the lines come alive. I wish Fiorentino and Newman were still working making movies. As you get older in this business particularly females, you are over the hill over 40 years old. For men, it's different but even Newman has given up the acting part of the business because it's so uninspiring. Films like this never do well at the box office. It could have done very well on television or cable. Fiorentino is stunning at the end of the film. It's not all about the money as it is about getting away with it and the thrills and adrenalin of being and feeling alive. "},{"Title":"excellent film","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":" this is a great film if you like caper flicks and/or paul newman. for those of you who have not yet seen this movie do not read further. but for those of you who have seen it but don't understand why carol was suspicious of henry consider the sex scene between her and her husband and how she placed henry's wheelchair so that he could not see what was occurring. after they finished and she returned to the bathroom area where henry was, she noticed that the bathroom mirror seemed to be in a different position, one which probably gave henry a clear view of the lovers. how could this have happened? next, when the old lady is choking on the nuts and there is no staff member around there is a sudden noise which brings everyone running. after the old lady is rescued carol notices that a lamp inexplicably had crashed which brought everyone running, and it had crashed right at henry's wheelchair. how could this have happened? but still, she is not certain that he is faking since she was readying herself to jump in the reservoir and rescue him when he climbed out of the water on his own.as to why two such upright citizens would suddenly become bank robbers, the opening scene of the movie shows carol's rebellious streak and wayne's willingness to go along with whatever she wants to do.by the way, carol is played by linda fiorentino, not florentino, and she starred in the last seduction not the last deception and it was great, if you haven't seen it. "},{"Title":"Newman is great but Linda Fiorentino also shines.","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  My wife and I enjoyed this film. Hey folks, it is a comedy so do not get hung up on the story not being plausible. As the comments below say, Paul Newman (even at 75 years!) is wonderful. Linda Fiorentino is no mega star like Newman but her performance is commendable, along with nice eye candy. There is much to like in this light comedy, and we also think that the old age folk had a ball taking part in this film! "},{"Title":"VERY Good Movie!","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie was very good!  I picked it up after hearing great things about it and I thought it was going to be good, but not as good as it was!Paul Newman and Linda Fiorentino have marvelous chemistry onscreen, I couldn't take my eyes off of them.  The plot was interesting and the movie never dragged.  I was surprised at how clean the movie was.  It was never vulgar or mean spirited, which added to its fun.Go out and get it if you can!10/10 "},{"Title":"Entertaining, Funny, and Original","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  We took a flyer and rented this movie last night and really enjoyed it.  Paul Newman does a great job in the lead role, as he usually does in my opinion.  The plot is good, plausible, and interesting. The interraction between the 3 main characters is fun to watch and again, entertaining while maintaining realism.  While this movie is similar in some extent to previous bank robber movies, the plot is original and tight and we basically were into from start to finish.  I highly recommend this movie, it is well worth your time. "},{"Title":"Out Done","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Paul Newman has out done himself again. It seems like the older he gets the better and better he gets. He still has his looks also with rocks. He is the best all time actor I swear. I loved the movie. I loved the story line and the actors and the cleanness of it (if that's a word). I loved it! "},{"Title":"A low-key caper film that hits the spot","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie, like most caper films, builds slowly to a pretty satisfying conclusion. The three main stars are likable, and of course Paul Newman is a jewel as always. Linda is not as seductive as in some of her roles, but is,as always, a pleasure to watch. Some younger folks might find this too slow, but more mature audiences will probably enjoy it "}{"Title":"a very entertaining film","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised when I viewed Where The Money Is because I didn't hear much about it. Where The Money Is happens to be one of the most enjoyable films I've seen all year. I knew I could count on Paul Newman to deliver a top notch performance as he has done in the past.Newman leads a cast, which includes Dermot Mulroney and Linda Fiorentino. These three are on a mission to pull off a bank job. It is not as simple as we think; Newman, a master bank thief, has been remanded to a hospital after suffering a stroke (or is it). This is where he meets a nurse who is sees through his charade and wants in on the action. The stakes have risen when the nurse's husband gets wrangled into the bank job.Where The Money Is plays to everybody's funny bone because Newman gives one of his most engaging performances. The one aspect of the film I enjoyed the most was Newman's captivating presence on screen with each scene he was in. He pulled the audience in with his charm and made them a part of a film.Though the plot has been done before in other movies, the way it was performed left me breathless because it is so unique. I have to give credit to Fiorentino and Mulroney because they play off Newman very well.Where The Money Is is captivating as it is funny. When you add Paul Newman's humor and comedy with great support from Linda Fiorentino and Dermot Mulroney you have a rousing success in Where The Money Is.  "},{"Title":"He's still got it","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Ladies, even at 70 Paul Newman is still sexy as hell.  This is no 'As Good As It Gets', which kind of grossed people out with the Jack Nicholson / Helen Hunt romance. Newman and Fiorentino create a delicious sexual tension that makes the film always interesting and provocative.Newman and Fiorentino deliver a fun, witty movie that is really entertaining to watch.  This is not one to take your parents to, but definitely go and see it yourself. "},{"Title":"So cool...","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Paul Newman is still one of the sexiest men in cinema today, and this cool film is a perfect stage for him to display his talent. I didn't expect much from this, but went as I have never seen him on the big screen, and what a perfect choice it was.  Not overly witty or fast, it was a good, entertaining story and he played his role perfectly.  It was like watching Cool Hand Luke in his older years... No one suits a blue denim shirt better, and Fiorentino played with him wonderfully. The film's colors were great and I know I will watch it again... there will never be a classier guy on film and I would take him in his 70's over any styly young guy out there today.  I can only hope that he won't quit just yet, as he still has so much in him...   "},{"Title":"Newman works his magic","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised when I saw Where The Money Is because I didn't hear much about it. Where The Money Is happened to be one of the most enjoyable films I've seen all year. I knew I could count on Paul Newman to deliver a top notch performance as he has done in the past.Newman led a talented cast, which included Dermot Mulroney and Linda Fiorentino. These three are on a mission to pull off a bank job. It is not as simple as we think; Newman, a master bank thief, has been remanded to a hospital after suffering a stroke (or is it). This is where he meets a nurse who is sees through his charade and wants in on the action. The stakes have risen when the nurse's husband gets wrangled into the bank job.Where The Money Is played to everybody's funny bone because Newman gives one of his most engaging performances. The one aspect of the film I enjoyed the most was Newman's captivating presence on screen with each scene he was in. He pulled the audience in with his charm and made them a part of a film.Though the plot has been done before in other movies, the way it was performed left me breathless because it is so unique. I have to give credit to Fiorentino and Mulroney because they play off Newman very well.Where The Money Is is captivating as it is funny. When you add Paul Newman's humor and comedy with great support from Linda Fiorentino and Dermot Mulroney you have a rousing success in Where The Money Is.  "},{"Title":"Newman at his best","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised when I saw Where The Money Is because I didn't hear much about it. Where The Money Is happened to be one of the most enjoyable films I've seen all year. I knew I could count on Paul Newman to deliver a top notch performance as he has done in the past.Newman led a talented cast, which included Dermot Mulroney and Linda Fiorentino. These three are on a mission to pull off a bank job. It is not as simple as we think; Newman, a master bank thief, has been remanded to a hospital after suffering a stroke (or is it). This is where he meets a nurse who is sees through his charade and wants in on the action. The stakes have risen when the nurse's husband gets wrangled into the bank job.Where The Money Is played to everybody's funny bone because Newman gives one of his most engaging performances. The one aspect of the film I enjoyed the most was Newman's captivating presence on screen with each scene he was in. He pulled the audience in with his charm and made them a part of a film.Though the plot has been done before in other movies, the way it was performed left me breathless because it is so unique. I have to give credit to Fiorentino and Mulroney because they play off Newman very well.Where The Money Is is captivating as it is funny. When you add Paul Newman's humor and comedy with great support from Linda Fiorentino and Dermot Mulroney you have a rousing success in Where The Money Is. "},{"Title":"Wily Newman and Sexy Fiorentino make a fetching December/May","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  WHERE THE MONEY IS (2000) **1/2 Paul Newman, Linda Fiorentino, Dermot Mulroney. (Dir Marek Kanievska)Paul Newman has always displayed a certain laid-back, world weary cynical charm that has provided a wide cast career, rarely getting a shot to show how skillful a comic actor he is through subtle shadings of his own demeanor.  In this fish-out-of-water caper comedy he is at a full tilt sublimity altogether.Newman is career criminal Henry Manning who's latest long-going con is assuming the identity of a stroke victim to get him moved out of the cooler into a nursing home but finds his cunningly sly façade picked apart from by shrewd and sexy Carol (the alluringly appealing Fiorentino), a nurse looking for a quick way out of her hum-drum post-high school senior prom queen decline.  Her suspicions lead to a comic melange of experimental stunts to break the seemingly comatose geezer out of his haze and finally succeeds when she enlists her spouse Wayne (Mulroney) for an outing to a near by river where she proceeds to run Manning's wheelchair off the pier and relieved when he emerges from the drink scowling at his masquerade.Manning explains how he came to adopt his charade to the couple (he read a lot on yoga, tantric hypnoticism and a lot of New Age philosophy enabling him to remain statue-like) who enlist him on his next crime.  Deciding on an armed money truck heist the trio hatch the plan with nimble and clever strokes ultimately leading to the not-so-perfect crime.The film's structure resembles a watered down Elmore Leonard (the story is by E. Max Frye, who penned `Something Wild', which oddly enough the film echoes in its character driven responsibilty shirking tone) Manning's foxy cool exterior is only circumvented by the ballsy yet vulnerable Carol who clearly has fallen for the older man and his daredevil existence that she can't help but want to drink in her parched life for his intoxicatingly inviting alternative. But by the time the act takes place the film betrays itself in the unspooling of its aftermath and the choice of the usually leaden Mulroney deflates its breezy execution.But Newman shines once again in a memorable turn oddly enough resembling the Burt Reynolds crime comedy `Breaking In' where he played an aging safecracker giving pointers to his protégé in training.  His glistening glacier eyes sparkle even when masked in his faux-frozen grimmace in the earlier half of the film, waiting to spring to life again almost relievedly when Fiorentino finally breaks his spell.  He's always exhibited a carefree, to-hell-with-authority repose that echoes some of his classic characters including Cool Hand Luke and Fast Eddie Felson.  His match is made in the curvy nervy Fiorentino's Carol, who realizes her looks are still smoldering in spite of her salad days behind her, yearning for that rekindling herself.  A near perfect pairing of the old and the new.  "},{"Title":"At least it's short","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Was this supposed to be a comedy? The idea of it is funny, but no one moment in it conjured up so much as a giggle. There are several reasons for this I think. One is that no one really seemed to be enjoying themselves. Especially Dermot Mulroney, who must be the most dull actor in the business. His role, the reluctant partner in crime/ cold and uncaring husband--about as close as the film has to a villain, had its opportunities to provide some much needed comic relief. Had they cast the role with someone who had more personality, it would have made a world of difference. Linda Fiorentino is adequate in her role as Carol, bored small town wife/physical therapist. She's right for the role, but doesn't command your attention the way a lead character should. She's always been a bit of a stiff anyway. Not surprisingly, the best performance here is Newman, playing ex-bank robber Henry. He's been at it so long he could pull this stuff off in his sleep. For much of the movie, he literally does. To its credit, it moves along nicely and actually contains a few surprise twists. Credit the writer and director for this. I was disappointed, though. This could have been much better. Grade D+ "},{"Title":"Small pleasant film better seen at home","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It is doubtful this very pleasant film could have been better acted by Linda Fiorentino and Paul Newman. Rave newspaper reviews raised my expectations too high. The film was smaller and flatter than expected. Still, it is very pleasant and accomplishes all it set out to do. Depends on your mood, but this film is probably better enjoyed at home on DVD rather than shelling out for movie tickets, sitter, whatever.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Flick with funny moments!","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  OK so this is not the greatest film EVER made. But it is funny, nicely paced with adequate to excellent performances. Newman shines as does Fiorentino. I don't think she has been better since the LAST SEDUCTION. She exudes fun-sexiness and her and Newman have great chemistry. I am a little biased as I love heist films, but this would be a good night out when you want to clear your head. "},{"Title":"Hysterically funny and successful on many levels","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I thought this film was a perfect 10.  Linda Fiorentino's offbeat screwball ex-prom-queen nurse was 50 times funnier, better-acted, and more interesting than Renee Zellweger's Nurse Betty.  This movie was also more true to its own world.  It also is a delightful throwback with no cursing, no nudity (although some very perverse sex with clothes on), and minimal violence. The triangular chemistry, repartee, and interactions between the three stars was marvelous.  Newman was brilliant as the zen-like bank robber.  But, Mulroney more than held his own as the small-town loser husband, and was excellent in his relationship with Newman.  I saw a couple of reviewers call this slow.  I found it very fast, snappy, and whimsical.  And, the sound-track was great too.  All in all, this is one of the best caper films to hit the big screen since The Sting. "}{"Title":"The Money Certainly Isn't Found Here.","Date":"3 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Where the Money Is (2000) Dir Marek Kanievska / Cast Paul Newman, Linda Fiorentino, Dermot Mulroney, Susan Barnes, Anne Pitoniak We don't really care where the money is but rather where the screenwriter was. Title possibly references Linda Fiorentino's view of Paul Newman in her quest to flee her lifestyle. He is a notorious bank robber transferred to a nursing home. She is a nurse who doesn't buy the act and attempts to expose him. Her marriage to Dermot Mulroney lost its passion in favour of merely functioning. Central plot regards robbing armoured trucks but this becomes repetitious with a shameless ending that not only applauds theft, but also allows the wrong participant to take the fall. Director Marek Kanievska does well with touches of humour but production seems flat. Newman is in top form as a patient whom is tested in very funny sequences with regards to his condition. He takes command but at the cost of someone else. Fiorentino as the nurse seeks excitement and adventure and does so at the careless cost of her marriage. Mulroney as her husband goes along with the scheme in hopes of reconnecting with his wife but ultimately must sacrifice himself for the wrong happiness. This is where the film hits a moral issue that some viewers will likely resent. We are ask to celebrate a conclusion that reeks. The film never arrives at any moral conclusion or purpose. Score 4 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Linda Wants A Little Excitement","Date":"18 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Where The Money Is turns out to be a very weak and slightly impossible vehicle for Paul Newman to carry with his talent. It was not one of his better career choices for a role.Newman who was 76 when he made this film plays an aging bank robber who was transferred from state prison where he had a stroke and is now in a regular old age nursing facility. His assigned nurse Linda Fiorentino doesn't believe he's as sick as he makes out and she eventually finds out her suspicions are correct. How she does it you have to see the film for.But when she does it she's just intrigued by the rogue life Newman has led. Life for her as the prom queen who married football hero Dermot Mulroney has turned really dull. Linda needs some excitement. She should just have let Newman go his merry way and played dumb when the authorities would have asked her did she suspect anything. But she doesn't, in fact she plans a caper and actually gets Mulroney roped into it as well.After this the film becomes just way too preposterous for my taste. Newman's role essentially is Butch Cassidy or Henry Gondorff now as a senior citizen and he does well, but his talent just does not carry an incredibly preposterous story to success.Paul Newman had some good roles late in his career like Twilight, Road To Perdition, and Message In A Bottle. But this one in no way stacks up to those films, let alone the things he did in his prime. "},{"Title":"Great fun with Paul Newman","Date":"14 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Henry Manning is a legendary bank robber.He ends up in a nursing home after a massive stroke.Nurse Carol Ann McKay starts to suspect Henry isn't as sick as he seems.Soon those two, with Carol's husband Wayne, are planning a robbery of an armored money transport.Where the Money Is (2000) is directed by Marek Kanievska.Ridley and Tony Scott are two of the producers.Paul Newman is brilliant as Henry.Without his performance this would be a much more mediocre film.But it's also a treat to watch Linda Fiorentino playing Carol.Dermot Mulroney is also very good as Wayne.It's pretty unbelievable to watch those three do their heist.The way Paul's character turns himself into someone he's not.This movie is very entertaining, plus it has Paul Newman in it.A totally positive movie experience. "},{"Title":"This World Is For Who Dares to Live It !","Date":"10 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":" For a moment you'd feel that this movie is all about nothing. But fortunately it isn't.Here, I preferred Paul Newman's Henry Manning over his Henry Gondorff back in The Sting (1973). True that it seems as ordinary flick, with the word TV written all over it (frankly I thought many times about the irony between the 18 million dollar budget and the 5 and a half million gross !). Though, it is a fine entertaining movie, for me, more than that Oscar winning movie of the 1970s.I liked Linda Fiorentino's both role and performance. She made it well as sensitive, hot and most of all understanding her character not as a lover of the old man, but a mentor's pupil. Just notice her eye look whenever she's with Newman; she's hungry for his brilliance so his experience.The thing about this movie is all in the last 15 minutes, not with the clever twists but where the meaning completes clearly. The movie's world centers around dead people (the old folks), live people but subsist as dead (the married young couple), and one truly live man (the master thief). The whole story is about the journey of these 2 love birds through the vivid world of this thief. And who'd have the ability to stand it and continue living it as it should  daringly and smartly. Because outside this way you'd be either a cowered or a loser (both dead anyway). So where is the money ? As the last shot tells us  It's where the guts, and the lust for life is.I believe Newman was one of the best actors who could portray this latent passionate love for life or precisely being alive. Observe him driving his car at the end chase, Oh God ! This 75 year old guy, who's originally famous of riding speed cars, seemed really convincing, mastering his moves as a wild heart of a man. This is so simple; just a solid heist with a point of view about life. Yes, again and again the genre movie can carry out messages. So&#x85;what could be missing ? Maybe more good music score. And that's it.For the fans of the heist movies only  besides (Where the Money Is), 2000 got others such as (Reindeer Games) and (The Opportunists). Before a revival would come with the whole next decade along with 2001's Ocean's Eleven and many more. "},{"Title":"Watch it for the acting.","Date":"20 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I caught this movie on cable every soon after it's theatrical release. I watched it for two reasons Paul Newman and Linda Fiorentino.The plot is somewhat unrealistic but when you keep in mind it's a movie, then it's easier to get in the flow and enjoy.All the situations are delightfully delivered by a hysterical Paul Newman who is in charge of the best dialogs in the film.Linda Fiorentino also delivers a strong, clever performance and the fact that she's extremely hot (that nurse skirt ohh my) helps a lot because she's very easy on the eye.After the end credits you will feel pleased. A must see! "},{"Title":"Paul Newman, RIP","Date":"28 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Two days ago, one of the greatest actors of all time left this life. Paul Leonard Newman was best known for films like Hud, Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid and The Verdict. But he also starred in small, less noticed movies over the years. One example is Where the Money Is. Newman plays an aged crook who moves into a nursing home where it becomes clear to the woman (Linda Fiorentino) running the place that he's not as disabled as he claims to be and might in fact be looking for help in pulling off another heist.OK, so an elderly criminal going in for one last scheme is sort of a hackneyed plot. But in this role, Newman doesn't even need to talk much; it seemed to me as if his eyes functioned as actors. Not to mention that there's some great chemistry between him and Fiorentino. This might not be the most noticeable movie, but it's worth seeing, if only once. There will never be another Paul Newman.Also starring Dermot Mulroney. "},{"Title":"Competent, but no Hudson Hawk","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie had some real laughs here and there, but the caper itself was merely competent, and seemed foregone. As much as I love Paul Newman and Linda Fiorentino, I just couldn't bring myself to care about their characters. If you're looking for a caper with comedy to spare, try the much maligned Hudson Hawk. "},{"Title":"Average","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Not so bad movie about criminal Newman who fakes to get out of prison and put into a long-term health facility. But Linda Fiorentino has some doubts and she'll try anything to discover that he fakes. Beautiful Linda has a few tricks of her own! This movie is no classic but quite entertaining.7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Decent movie, has some funny, but cliched moments","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The movie is short, but still seems boring at parts. Newman does a good job, his presence alone is enough to make a difference in the movie, and Fiorentina lights up the screen whenever she's on it. Dermot Mulroney takes on the task of portraying the annoying character, but his performance was at times very entertaining. Don't see this movie if you have a ton of others you'd like to see, but it's enjoyable to watch. Decent plot, good acting and some funny scenes. Overall, an average movie, but nothing exceptional. "},{"Title":"Newman Charm Carries Standard 'Heist' Flick...","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I've been a Paul Newman fan all my life (in fact, I'm only two years older than his film debut, in 'The Silver Chalice'), so whenever he appears onscreen, it is a cause of celebration for me...at least until I see whether or not the film is any good!'Where the Money Is' gets a mixed review from me; as a character study, it's terrific, with Newman combining the cranky, elderly gruffness that has become a staple of his recent films, with that charming, still boyish smile that for a moment lifts the years, and harkens back to 'Butch Cassidy' and 'Cool Hand Luke'. Add to this a wonderful performance by Linda Fiorentino, as a small-town girl who deserved a chance to grow, but ended up tied into a mundane life with a dull husband. She captures a quiet desperation and desire to 'live' that most of us can identify with, and also conveys a sexiness and passion that no one else in town even comes CLOSE to!Where the movie lets me down is in the routine plot. One would think that a 'master' criminal like Newman would come up with something more creative that an armored car heist, even if he WAS saddled with novice crooks Fiorentino and Mulroney (who, as the husband, plays another of the 'not very bright' characters that have become his trademark). The planning and execution of the heist and subsequent robberies is so 'by-the-numbers' and routine that it lacks any real suspense (even the 'glitches' are predictable!).What it all comes down to is this; if you are a Newman fan (like me), and enjoy watching a screen legend show a new generation of actors and audiences what defines a 'star', 'Where the Money Is' certainly deserves a spot in your film library! If, however,  you are looking for a great 'heist' movie, pick up 'Entrapment' or 'The Thomas Crown Affair', instead! "}{"Title":"Paul Newman, back in a wheelchair","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  There is a lot to like here.  But unfortunately, that lot is Paul Newman. I wouldn't trust this story because it's so flimsy, but Newman puts it together so well (at the age of 75) it's just so good to see him up on the screen doing what he does best.  The co-stars (Linda Fiorentino and Dermont Mulroney) are also good, but they just act as catalysts through the movie. For fans of Newman, this is the treat of the year.  For fans of story, it might not be as good.  B+ "},{"Title":"Average plotting and characterisation but still works as a light, if unconvincing caper","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Carol MacKay is a nurse in a retirement care home. When a new patient arrives in chains and a wheelchair having suffered a stroke, Carol is surprised to learn he used to be a bank robber. Henry Manning is none-responsive though as a result of his stroke &#150; hence his release from prison; however after several strange things Carol starts to suspect that Henry is putting on an act to get his release and sets out to force him to respond. She has to go to extremes to do this but, once he has come clean, Henry and Carol start to get on and develop a rough friendship &#150; a friendship that inspires Carol to become more daring like Henry, specifically, she wants to rob a bank.By the time a nurse had sexually abused and then nearly drowned a comatose patient I had got the idea that this was not the film to look to if you're hoping for a plot that is totally coherent and logical. Indeed that is pretty much the way this whole film goes &#150; we are expected to buy into characters that don't ring true and a plot that doesn't totally convince but it manages to still be entertaining thanks to the light touch it has and the slight charm that it has. It is still hard to shake off the feeling that this is nonsense because it really is, albeit it quite enjoyable nonsense.The cast really help carry the film by all buying into it. Paul Newman glides through the film with a sense of cool that covers up how silly his character is. Fiorentino is sexy and sassy enough to do the job but it shows that even she is struggling to understand her character's motivation. Mulroney is so-so but he does well enough for his support role. Although none of the three are brilliant, their deliveries do enough to give the film a light but engaging air that does help cover all the problems.Overall a fairly poor film in terms of plotting and characterisation but one that somehow still manages to be fun and entertaining. The performances are where it is at and the caper-style story keeps it all moving as long as you don't take it too seriously. Stupid but fun. "},{"Title":"Not brilliant, but worth an hour and a half of your time","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Paul Newman is on the con again, this time he's a bank robber feigning a stroke in order to get him moved from prison and into a hospital on the outside in order to get to the money he stole. Linda Fiorentino stars as the nurse assigned to look after him, who is more than a little suspicious of him, while also being totally fascinated by his past so much so that she plans to `do a job' herself &#150; with the aid of `invalid' Newman. An okay thriller that mainly suffers from the lack of action involved, Newman is good as usual and Fiorentino is very sexy in a nurses uniform(!), while Dermot Mulroney does all right as Fiorentinos husband, reluctant to go along with her plan. I don't think this got a cinema release over here in the UK, and without Newman's involvement you can't help feel that this would have been a TV movie.  "},{"Title":"Candid assessment of the films overall quality","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A classic heist film starring one of the greatest heist film actors of all time, Paul Newman. In this movie, Newman is the singular star, saving the film from being a complete flop. Not a big budget production, the co-star (Linda Fiorentino) seems to have been an out -of-place casting selection. This flick drags in the beginning, but picks up with Newman playing a mastermind thief operating under cover of a brain-dead invalid.I really wanted this picture to be a big hit, as I am a fan of both Newman (for his consistently great work) and Fiorentino, since her one really great performance in the Last Deception. Unfortunately, this one has to go down in the books as another average picture for Fiorentino, and one more great acting sequence for Newman. Worth watching if you're a fanatical Newman fan, NOT worth watching for any other reason "},{"Title":"Awful script sinks this one","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Newman wonderful in everything.Linda Fiorentino is a sexy and underrated actress.The film has a great premise.Unfortunately it is still pretty bad.  This script is fair for 2/3's of the movie and then it just ends leaving gaping holes.  Even Newman and Fiorentio's interplay is not enough to salvage this movie. Very disappointing. "},{"Title":"A good, not great Newman film.","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I found it sad when I heard that after WHERE THE MONEY IS, Paul Newman plans on doing just one more film. He is one of the greatest actors in history. Having said that, WHERE THE MONEY IS, is only an average film. It's so full of cliches, that there is never a moment where the audience doesn't know exactly where it's going. The only thing that keeps the movie afloat is the considerable charm of Newman himself and his wonderful co-star Linda Fiorentino (THE LAST SEDUCTION). The film is about a nurse (Fiorentino) who hooks up with an old criminal (Newman) to pull off a daring robbery. It's fun and entertaining, without anything really special about it. "},{"Title":"Where is the Passion?","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A curiously muted affair, this. Paul Newman is, as always, highly watchable as a wily old bankrobber, but the film itself ('boasting' incidentally an entirely misplaced soundtrack) stirs up hardly any excitement, the kiss of death for any self-respecting heist movie. Linda Fiorentino's motivations, a crucial factor in the plot, are rather poorly drawn so that her decision half-way through the film to go crooked does not at all ring true. Nor does the fact that Paul Newman's character should decide at the drop of a hat to renounce the thing he's been meticulously preparing himself for for years. And the ending is simply ludicrous, like something out of a very bad sixties flick. Altogether, then, pretty much of a disappointment, albeit a painless enough way to while away a couple of hours. But strictly if you have nothing better to do. "},{"Title":"Good acting, bad script","Date":"4 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Paul Newman stars as an aging bank robber who stages a different type of prison escape; Linda Fiorentino and Dermot Mulroney are the small town couple (former king and queen of the prom) who are bored and decide to go along with Newman's new life of crime.  All the actors are good, especially Newman, but the material isn't it's very slow, and a weak story.  An example of when the actors are much better than the material.Vote 5  "},{"Title":"Not even a pleasant timewaster.","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This starts off with promise, then acts and looks like every other mediocre crime caper that's been done.  The heist had little suspense, and the laughs were very few.  The script might have saved itself if it had bothered to make a comment about the plight of the elderly in nursing homes--they had several opportunities to do so.  Instead, the other senior citizens were foils for Harry and Carol's antics.  Mulroney's character could have been written out, but the writers had to give the nurse character something to rebel against.  There was no chemistry between the married characters, either.  Don't waste your money if you don't have to. "},{"Title":"Fails despite Newman's performance","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":" 	It's pretty much a lock that if you have Paul Newman in your movie, you're not going to have to worry about his performance - no matter how weak the script is.	In Where the Money Is, Newman is spectacular. He plays a convicted bank robber put into a nursing home after apparently suffering from a stroke and becoming incapacitated. A nurse (Linda Fiorentino) at the home, however, begins to suspect that Newman's character is actually only faking his illness.	While Newman is stupendous, Fiorentino is only adequate in her role. She tries to play a charismatic character with a rebellious nature, but the script never provides for enough incentive for her to make the radical choices she makes in the movie. She in fact plays her character with a reckless mixture of ditziness and brilliance. Her character doesn't really have any character.	Lots of other problems litter the movie, as well. The aforementioned script is weak not only in structure, but also in dialogue. It's depressing to see talent such as Newman's not used to its potential.	But it's also depressing to see a relatively fresh idea spoiled (warning reading past this point might ruin some of the surprises in the film).	If you've seen any of the trailers for the film, you've seen the scene where Fiorentino's character pushes Newman's wheelchair-bound character into a river. Newman's character is then seen climbing the ladder of the dock and telling her, OK, so you're smart.	The most intriguing part of this movie is the question on whether Newman's character is actually incapacitated, or simply faking it. This spoiler makes the first half of the movie - the best half - completely irrelevant.	But this is a problem seen way too often with Hollywood movies. Action movies show the best action sequences (which usually occur at the end of the movie) during their previews. Comedies use all of their best jokes in their previews. If Hollywood could have learned anything from last summer, it was that the best publicity a movie can get is word of mouth. Two of the largest money-makers, The Sixth Sense and The Matrix made their plots completely unclear during their previews, much to the delight of audiences.	If viewers are lucky enough to go into Where the Money Is without seeing the previews (or reading this far into my review) the movie could be interesting for quite awhile, although it still lacks any original thought in the end.	If for no other reason, avoid Where the Money Is to show Hollywood where the money should be - in not spoiling films before audiences have an opportunity to see them. "}{"Title":"Good actors in tired script","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Where the Money Is isn't a bad film, but take out Paul Newman and Linda Fiorentino and you've got a mediocre TV movie.  The cat and mouse game between Fiorentino and Newman liven up the first part of the movie, but then they get into a tired caper that just dragged.  I've heard that Newman says he's only going to do one more film; I hope he has something more substantial than this in mind. "},{"Title":"When too high your expectations, disappointed you will be. (Yoda)","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If it hadn't been for Paul Newman, I'd have voted this a 1.I struggle to find the required four lines.Very implausible.Yoda got it right. "},{"Title":"Paul Acting Someone who is Acting","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I always ask, why did this movie get made? In this case, the answer is easy Paul Newman wants to `keep his hand in' to `exercise his chops.' Paul has been a very fine actor in his later career and what do actors in school value the most? Why it's playing a role where the character is acting. So here we have Paul playing a brilliant old man who is acting brilliantly, using Paul's method.The whole setup is to allow Paul to explain (and show) how he internalizes until every heartbeat is Sinatra. And you can see him acting his heart out when he's just drooping in the wheelchair. It is worth it for just that, if you are interested in fine acting.The story is weak but I suspect it was not originally so. In fact, I delayed this review for a week so I could ask around. It seems the original story emphasized Paul's struggle between acting and the sexual attraction of Florentino. Much of the original story was his scheming to get the girl. Apparently, the test groups washed this out and the story was re-edited to be more sting-like. Early reviewers saw a more earthy version.I was also interested in the director. The first few minutes are masterful, up until the arrival of Paul at the hospital. Thereafter, we have fairly pedestrian pacing. Who is this guy? I was unable to discover, but I imagine him as a quirky film intellectual that Paul selected, and who may disappear for another decade after how the studio hosed this film around.See it if you honor the art of acting, and can get behind a homeopathic approach, less and less is more and more until you are acting someone acting a stroke victim. Pretty cool to watch. "},{"Title":"Slow Paced Thriller","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I remarked this film time ago and recently I found it at a very low price in a movie store. I didn't expect much and I was ready to spend a relaxed evening. I was really not far away to fall asleep but fortunately the running time was not too long and there were some pretty scenes with the legend Paul Newman. In fact I slept very fine all the night. He was cool in his role but the story is too slow paced and didn't impress me at all. The soundtrack of this low budget film was very poor and it is a typical cable movie. Catch it on TV if you can but don't spend money for this one. Too overrated on IMDb with actual 6,2 because it deserves not more than 5/10. "},{"Title":"Where is the money","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I saw the first half of this movie and I almost fell asleep... Boring! The only good part in it was when Paul Newman was on screen. The story couldn't interest me unfortunately and maybe it was because of Miss Fiorentino no charisma at all and really annoying. But hey, who am I? So I didn't (couldn't, actually) finish seeing this movie. Still, I found it too bad because Mr Newman has always been a favorite and I enjoyed most of the movies he's been in. I guess if the storyline doesn't 'grab' me it's just wasting time. Dermot Mulroney however has a great body! LOL! No but seriously, I thought his and Mr Newman's performance were good. All in all not my favorite Paul Newman movie. My husband thought it was a nice movie, so no comparing in taste is there? If you want to see a movie that isn't that complicated or exciting, thrilling etc. okay then it's a 'must see'. But don't blame me if you missed it because of falling asleep during watching it... "},{"Title":"Good Cast In A So-So Movie","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  There are some strong points to this movie. It features a very good cast (Paul Newman, Linda Fiorentino and Dermott Mulroney are the leads) and at 128 the story is relatively fast-paced and never bogs down. It's even a relatively interesting concept about a man who pulls off an escape from prison by pretending to have had a stroke and who becomes involved in a scheme for a bank heist with the nurse at the nursing home he's sent to and her husband. But there are also problems here.It's billed as a Drama/Comedy. The problem is that as a drama it's not particularly dramatic, and as a comedy it's not particularly funny. It also leaves far too many things unexplained in my opinion. Why was Carol Ann (Fiorentino) so enamoured with Henry (Newman) from the time of his arrival in the nursing home? What about him made her suspect he was faking? There's nothing overt in the story that made it obvious. And how would Henry have managed to fake a stroke for - was it two and a half years - without getting caught once? And - without getting too crude - faking a stroke through that lap dance Fiorentino offered him would have been a difficult job. That strikes me as unbelievable in the extreme. The whole armoured car heist also seemed to go down much too easily.Frankly, it has more weaknesses than strengths. It isn't a really bad movie, just a sadly medicore one (sad largely because of the potential in cast and story I mentioned to start with.) It's worth a look-see, but don't expect greatness.4/10 "},{"Title":"I miss The Sting","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Weak and far-fetched adventure yarn where the always magnetic Paul Newman plays an old crook who is an internal of a geriatric hospital. Once there, he made acquaintance with a sexy and witty nurse (Fiorentino) and together they decided to try one more great robbery. Only Mr Newman gives some spark and passable moments in this lame movie with a routine and unconvincing ending. I give this a 4 (four). "},{"Title":"Here is your fair warning...","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you have just made the trip down to your local video store and picked up this movie expecting to enjoy a half-way entertaining 90 minutes, think again. This movie is awful.  Instead of investing 90 minutes sitting in front of the TV, perhaps you should do your laundry...cut the grass...I don't know - do something constructive...take a nap ( if you decide to take a nap , by all means - plug the movie in) I prefer a story to be at least half way plausible. This story asks the viewer to throw their common sense out of the window. I wondered why I did not remember hearing about this Paul Newman movie when it was originally released. "},{"Title":"Not up to the usual standard I have come to expect from a Paul Newman movie","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Even though I rated this film 3 of a possible 10. 2 of the 3 are directly related to Paul Newman's part in the film. I did not feel that this lived up to the usual high standards I have come to rely on in Paul Newman's movies. It is, however, somewhat entertaining. "},{"Title":"Where's the money? Where's the comedy??","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Where the Money Is is a lukewarm light comedy/drama with very little going for it beyond three excellent core actors and a cute premise. Newman, a malingering and savvy thief/convict, is upstaged by Fiorentino's refreshingly unique mix of larceny and loyalty in this so-so production which dwells too much on logistics and details and not enough on relationships. "}]