[{"Title":"One of the best I've ever seen...","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"34 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I found 'Still Crazy' to be marvelously entertaining, and not only to those of us who lived through that raucous era of late '60s, early '70s rock. My 15 year old daughter watches it with me every time I drag out the DVD (don't worry, it's only been three times) and she loves it too.It is a truly loving, poignant and hilarious nod to the era, and every actor hits his/her notes with perfection. It was my first introduction to Bill Nighy and I am glad his somewhat similar turn in 'Love Actually' brought him more attention. Bruce Robinson was incredible as Brian, bringing real life to what could have been a caricature of the drug-damaged rocker stereotype. It was interesting to see that Robinson has made quite a name for himself as a writer.I live in Sherman Oaks, California, and after the first time I saw the movie I bumped into Billy Connolly at the local mall (he lived here at the time) and told him it was one of my five favorite films of all time. He invited me to sit down at the food court with him and we discussed the movie for some time. We even talked of the idea of an American-oriented remake before wisely dismissing that. Why mess with the original?My only problem with 'Still Crazy' is that it wasn't hugely popular in theaters and too many people have missed out on a wonderful experience. "},{"Title":"Hilarious & Stand-Out Performances Rock This Movie","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"32 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is tremendous for uplifting the Spirits.Every time I watch it, I see & hear funny little things that I missed before.The soundtrack is unbelievable. Mick Jones (Foreigner) and Chris Difford (Squeeze) penned the songs, making Strange Fruit the best thing that ever hit today's music scene.Unfortunately, Strange Fruit are a strictly fictitional washed up '60's to 70's band that were never good to begin with, due to drug use and inner fighting. One wonders what might have been, while listening to their fanatstic soundtrack.The Fruit draw inspiration from The Rolling Stones, Deep Purple, David Bowie, and The Who.Each member of Fruit are quite memorable. Stephen Rea stars as down-and-dead-broke Tony Costello, who is asked by a festival promoter to reunite his band for a reunion tour, with hopes of reaping monetary benefits. Costello haply approaches ex-roadie Karen Knowles, played by Juliet Aubrey, to help him rekindle the flame of a dream long past.Juliet gathers up the bitter Jimmy Nail (Les Wickes), blundering Timothy Spall (David 'Beano' Baggot), and extravagantly glamouresque Ray Simms (Bill Nighy). Tumbling in is another ex-roadie, the hippy-toker-jokester Hughie (Billy Connolly), who never let the flame burn out.As Juliet searches for the last member of their motley band, the elusive guitarist-songwriter Brian Lovell (played by the brooding Bruce Robinson), the reunited members squabble, just like old times, fighting over each others' rusty talent.The band is then given the chance to do a small Dutch tour, to prepare for the festival. With young Hendrix-like Luke Shand (Hans Matheson) taking the place of Lovell, the crew hits the road. The sparks fly as their memories flame forward, threatening to burn their unfinished goals...Be prepared to laugh, sing, cheer, and cry, as these memorable characters etch themselves back into your hearts... "},{"Title":"More Fruit please","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"30 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Hello, I was alanrickmaniac. I'm a Still Crazy-holic. It was just another movie I watched partly on TV. Then I had to get the video tape to finally find out how it ends. Then I wanted the DVD, because the tape showed first signs of decay after a few weeks. After the DVD I had to lay my hands on the soundtrack. Then on several film posters and the film script. Right now it has become that worse that I try to push other people into addiction with my website and Still Crazy parties. How could that happen? What drove me into addiction? OK, it's one of those funny but somehow sad and melancholic intelligent comedies like only the British can produce. Alright, the movie is worlds apart from stuff like ''This Is Spinal Tap'', because of the characters, that aren't childish or ultra cool, but real. This is a story about men getting older, too. A story about men getting along with each other. Or don't. It contains some of the best actors possible. Tim Spall. Stephen Rea. Bruce Robinson. Jimmy Nail. And Bill Nighy. Bill Nighy who puts on one of the best performances I've ever seen in a film.Good, the soundtrack is unbelievable. Foreigner's Mick Jones has written the songs for the imaginary band Strange Fruit. Jimmy Nail who plays bass-man Les Wickes and Bill Nighy portraying the egocentric but awkward singer Ray Simms are really singing. We know that about Jimmy Nail, but if you've only heard Bill Nighy's singing in Love Actually, you have no idea how great and powerful his voice is. Well, you'll fever for every scene to come for the x-th time, especially those concert scenes. You'd die to be able to really stand in the dancing crowd when Strange Fruit is doing All Over The World, singing on the top of your lungs. You long to cry and celebrate with thousands of people the rebirth of the real Strange Fruit at Wisbech's festival stage. It's hard but... I'm addicted to this film. I'm addicted to Strange Fruit. If there's a world where this band really exists I'd like to move there. Got Still Crazy... anyone? "},{"Title":"The Greatest Film . . .","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"24 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"       Brian Gibson's Still Crazy was not a film on my list.  However, one afternoon I was channel surfing on a satellite dish and came across this AMAZING film about a 1970's rock & roll band who comes back together twenty years after their disasterous final concert.      For keyboard player Tony (Stephen Rea), guitar player/backup singer Les (Jimmy Nail), lead singer Ray (Bill Nighy), drummer Beano (Timothy Spall), road dog Hughie (Billy Connolly), and manager Karen (Juliet Aubrey), a second chance is a God send.  Unfortunately, they are lacking two players, Keith, who died of a drug overdose two years before the Strange Fruit's final concert, and Brian, his brother, a stunning guitar player who was the genious and the glue of the band.      Still Crazy is a fabulous mixture of British comedy, damn fine music, and superb performances, especially by Bill Nighy as the pathetically egotistical Ray Simms.  Helena Bergstrom is also hilarious as Ray's over-protective wife, Astrid.  Watch especially for a couple of poignant scenes between Juliet Aubrey and Bruce Robinson, who appears in a touching cameo.      Out of 10 stars, I give this hilarious and sweet rock & roll resurrection film a good, solid 10! "},{"Title":"A fantastic film.","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"25 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This is perhaps the best rockumentary ever- a British, better This Is Spinal Tap. The characters are believable, the plot is great, and you can genuinely empathise with some of the events- such as Ray's problem with fitting in the band.The soundtrack is excellent. Real period stuff, even if it is in the same key, you'll be humming some of the songs for days. What I liked was the nearly all-British cast, with some of the favourite household names. Ray's wife is priceless...The film never drags, it just goes at the right pace, and has some genuinely funny sections in it. A generator of some really good catchphrases!It's a hidden diamond. "},{"Title":"Very Funny, BUT sadly,  very truthful","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I'm 60 years old, a guitarist, (lead/rhythm), and over the last forty years, I've been in four bands, it's all there, the fights, the foul-ups, the rotten food, the worse accommodation, always travelling, little or no money, and every one was drunk or high. But, the clubs, the fans, and the music, made it all worth it! Just like Strange Fruit! I'm too damn old for it now, and the arthritis in the hands and hips mean no more rocking, but for the length of that video, it all came back, and it was all there! The birds, the brawls, and the booze! And I was young again! It's just like Billy Connolly's voice over, God likes that 70's stuff! Rock On Forever! "},{"Title":"Probably the best movie to date about Rock n'roll","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  What a good movie! At last a picture revealing a unknown side of rock illusions of fame. Well-known Rockers are getting old and forgotten, not the music. And with a good sense of humour. Have you ever danced on Bill Haley's Rock Around the Clock?Anyway, Still Crazy is probably the best movie about rock n'roll I have ever seen. Far much better than Spinal Tap for instance. Why? Because in Still Crazy, people are mature. They have a different point of view about rock, about love and about life. They want to catch up with their crazy youth they miss so much. Beyond the story itself, we see characters with their own personality, weaknesses and dreams. Like anyone of us.Spend a good time watching this (listen to the awesome soundtrack! )and finally thinking of your own future.Bye! "},{"Title":"this movie makes me shed tears every time and that is a rare phenomenon","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Alright. The cast is superb. these guys are all probably real big in UK but to me they were total strangers that I fell in love with. the story is real and makes one realize what the life of a rock band really is like. the funny moments and drama are very effective and realistic. And the song of the film will bing tears to the eyes of those who watch it. I have this film ad have watched it many times with different friends. and everytime the ending kicks in we all sit back and smile and say AAAAAH how nice. PS the soundtrack is fantastic, even though a song I heard called ROCK N ROLL PROPHECY by LINES OF D could have had the same effect in the end but for a more ROCKIN audience. The soundtrack is superb. One thing I kept asking people was whether or not STRANGE FRUIT were a real band cause they seemed so real. "},{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"7 May 2004","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw this when it first came out, and could barely remember it except for the fact I enjoyed it and that Bruce Robinson's performance really stood out, enough for me to remember his character five years later when I could barely remember anyone else (doesn't help that we watched the film first time round as part of a midnight marathon of films so I was spaced out from lack of sleep).Then I got my hands on the DVD and watched it... and found myself wondering how I could have forgotten it.Without spoilers, the plot is simple A rock band formed in the late 60s, peaks in the early 70s. With tremendous potential and a huge following, the band is torn apart by the tragedic death of their lead singer, Keith, by drugs. Two years on, they've got themselves a new lead singer, Ray, whose glamorous, larger-than-life rock-star lifestyle and ambitions clash with the quieter, broodier, more ballard-loving song-writing base guitarist, Les. With Keith's brother, lead guitarist Brian, the acknowledged heart, soul and genius of the band, set to follow Keith to the great rehab in the sky, the band exits the limelight in an ignoble lightning explosion that mirrors the flames that engulf the band from within.Simmering with anger and bitterness, the band, complete with its two faithful roadies, Hughie and Brian's girlfriend, Karen, seperate and go their seperate ways, never to contact each other again... ... Until 20 years later, the son of the promoter of their last ever gig, approaches Tony, the keyboard player whose life has deteriorated into refilling condom machines in resort bathrooms, and asks Strange Fruit to reunite for an anniversary gig of their last infamous festival. Tracking down Karen, now a frustrated hotel clerk, with a divorce behind her and sulky teenage daughter looking over her shoulder, he convinces her to climb on board. Together, they begin the long, hard process of tracking down the rest of the band members in the hopes of reforming Strange Fruit for one last gig to prove to the world they really did have what it took to be great.But their unresolved grudges threaten to tear them apart before they can even begin, and when they finally track down the last missing member, Brian, to a single impersonal fax stating he died 5 years beforehand and bequeathed his Royalties to a cancer foundation in America, the band are left with no option but to recruit young and naive guitarist, Luke as a replacement. With time running out, the heart of their group dead and old wounds festering like sores as they career from one disastrous gig to another, can the band really bury the past before the past buries them?All the way through you can see exactly why the band fell apart and the issues that prevented them from ever jelling as the team they needed to be in order to achieve the heights they all knew they were capable of reaching. But slowly, as the film progresses, you begin to see what brought them together as a band as well. As they struggle to learn how to recapture the glory, they gradually begin to understand what it is they've really lost. You can empathise with all the characters. Bill Nighy produces the best comic performance, but Stephen Rea, Juliet Aubrey and Bruce Robinson reveal the emotional core that shows how these people were so inescapably bound together regardless of whether they loved or hated each other.This is an excellent film. Worth watching at least once and in my opinion, worth watching multiple times. "},{"Title":"Here... I've got one - it's got THREE bits of the body in it!","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" ...Heads, Hands, and Feet - a band from the past, just like Strange Fruit. A triple whammy there. Those who have professed not to like this film are either heartless or under 40, and have had no experience of the real thing. Sad for them. This is an achingly well-observed little picture that is an excellent way of passing an hour or two, and will probably not even fade much on the second showing. Stephen Rae, Timothy Spall as the fat drummer (in many ways quite the most delightful figure of all), and Bill Nighy - a new name for me - as the neurotic vocalist and front man all turn in super performances, and Juliet Aubrey has lovely doe eyes to go with some sharp acting as Karen, who tries to hold the band together as they spectacularly self-destruct.The Syd Barrett/Brian Wilson echoes are loud and clear, Mott the Hoople rear up before one in all their inflated ridiculousness, and the script is never mawkish for more than a minute. Don't compare this with Spinal Tap or The Rutles or The Full Monty - it's unfair on all of them. The nearest comparison is The Commitments, and that's no bad thing. And any film that can conjure up memories of Blodwyn Pig - a band I do not remember ever seeing, but the name lives on - well, it shows somebody in the team knew what they were on about.A small delight, and thanks for the memory.Oh... and I've got ANOTHER one - Stiff Little Fingers; a-a-and what about SteelEYE Span... Spooky TOOTH... Ten Inch NAILS anyone? (You have to see the movie or have been on the road)  "}{"Title":"I wanted to rent Hardcore Logo, but they didn't have it.","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  So I rented Still Crazy instead. When I described Hardcore Logo to the guy at the video store, he said that sounded kind of like Still Crazy. So I rented it. Was I disappointed? Well, yes, as Still Crazy focuses on a classic rock band rather than a punk band, but that's OK. Still Crazy tells the story of the Strange Fruit, a rock band that broke up in the 70s at the peak of their popularity at a large rock festival. Twenty years later, the band members are all struggling to make a living, and are offered the opportunity to play a concert at the twenty year anniversary of this festival. They take up the offer and decide to reform on a permanent basis, touring Europe in the process. Some quite funny hijinks ensue, and all the characters go through subtle changes. Watching this movie, you feel more like a viewer of a carefully edited documentary than a participant. And that's not bad at all. "},{"Title":"Not Spinal Tap... but still a good movie","Date":"18 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Don't expect This Is Spinal Tap, even though DVD packaging, advertising and movie critics might lead you to that expectation. True, Still Crazy is about an aging 70s rock band staging a flaccid comeback, but that's where the similarities end.Spinal Tap delved into the utterly absurd and featured songs whose lyrics were so laughably adolescent that you'd have tears streaming from your eyes before the 1st chorus ends. What's brilliant about it is that, despite its outrageousness, Spinal Tap was basically a true chronicle of rock history, with only some exaggerations. It was a case of absurdity being more real than reality.Here in Still Crazy, there are no disastrous hijinks (except maybe the first 5 minutes when the band gets struck by lightning), and the characters aren't as phenomenally thick and/or stumbling drunk as you'd expect rockers to be in a comedy. Contrast this against the reality of, say, Jimi Hendrix splitting the seat of his pants onstage at the Isle of Wight, or Ozzy Osbourne mumbling incoherently about sniffing a horse's butt (on The Last Supper), and immediately you get the feeling that Still Crazy didn't go as far as it could have.OK, that's where my criticism ends. If you can get past the idea that this is not a nonstop laugh riot, you can really enjoy the movie for its story and characters. The story is linear and mostly predictable, but there are enough twists & turns to keep you entertained. And the characters, particularly the lead singer Ray, have a way of endearing themselves to you like a lost puppy dog.Still Crazy is not a spoof of rock music. It's a pretty realistic story of a bunch of geezers rekindling their musical dreams and having some good & bad times along the way. The music was written by Mick Jones of Foreigner, so it's pretty good with some rousing numbers toward the end. This is an entertaining film from start to finish.If you want a riotously funny spoof, check out Spinal Tap, The Rocker, Music & Lyrics or the hilarious documentary Anvil! The story of Anvil. I would put Still Crazy in the category of a light comedy like Face the Music, Pirate Radio or the obscure gem Ladies and Gentlemen The Fabulous Stains. "},{"Title":"When good bands go bad...","Date":"1 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I spotted this movie in the video store a few years ago and rented it. My husband and I enjoyed it so much we bought the VHS and have enjoyed it ever since.The plot has been well-discussed, so no need in going over it again. The point is this movie deserves repeated viewings. Americans, especially, aren't going to get all the jokes the first time around. I know I didn't.This movie is funny, touching, sad-- all at the same time. When Ray proposes the toast at his daughter's wedding, it's cringe-inducing. When Karen calls Tony Brian as he attempts to kiss her, it's heartbreaking. When Beano is finally cornered by the woman in black, it's too funny for words.And the music it's as good as any movie soundtrack I've heard in years. I was dancing in the living room to All Over the World. Every performance is absolutely perfect. Bill Nighy has been justly complimented for his portrayal of Ray, a man who has had one too many bad trips. Stephen Rea is perfect as Tony, the lovable keyboard player who has carried a torch for Karen all these years. He has an appealing hangdog look that makes women want to hug him. But all the actors are equally brilliant.Ignore any pans you read about this movie and see it. It's a gem. "},{"Title":"THIS IS NOT SPINAL TAP","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I can't believe there are so many comparisons between this and Spinal Tap they are both comedies about British Rock bands and thats where it ends. While ST is an out an out spoof about music, SC is a Comedy Drama exploring relationships within the band. Billy Connolly is watered down but that is only because if he was his normal abrasive self he would outshadow Spall, Nail et al. The film does have cliches yes, but these cliches work. Timothy Spall as the drummer is a particular favourite, Bill Nighy is v.Ozzy-like as the lead singer who can't remember anything and is best when he is on stage. Jimmy Nail downplays as Les and Connolly is funny when he has to be and serious when he has to be. The tour bus scenes are bloody hillarious, the songs rock and it even has the ability to make me cry. This is one of the best films of all time. This Is Not Spinal Tap "},{"Title":"This funny film is a bit of a hidden gem.","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I'm not sure why this film didn't get more of a release in the U.S.  It's a lot easier to understand and faster paced than THE FULL MONTY and it's a lot more accessible than TRAINSPOTTING.  In this era of sleeper hit indies from The United Kingdom, it certainly seems like there could have been room in the American cinematic marketplace for this charming film.  The plot revolves around a 60's/70's band called Strange Fruit whose members decide to reunite in the late 90's.  Their lives are in shambles and they all seem to miss rock stardom, so the reunion seems natural, but before they know it, they are reminded why the band broke up in the first place.  The squabbling bandmates are played by a great group of actors.  Their attempts to recapture their old magic are at first pathetic (and hilarious), but by the end of the second act, you'll be rooting for these guys.  Billy Connolly plays the band's 'road dog' and he lights up the screen whenever he's on it. The direction (Brian Gibson directed WHAT'S LOVE GOT TO DO WITH IT and THE JOSEPHINE BAKER STORY) and script are first rate as well. "},{"Title":"Full Monty meets Spinal Tap","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is very entertaining--the characters are engaging and it's nice to see Stephen Rea finally let his hair down and appear in a comedy (he's a great actor, and not just for The Crying Game--check out the HBO movie Citizen X for some of his greatest acting). The antics of the reunited (and it feels so good) Strange Fruit are funny and sometimes poignant (especially the David Bowie wannabe--can't remember his name). If you haven't seen This is Spinal Tap and/or The Commitments (two superior rock-n-roll comedies), then get yourself to a video store NOW.  Still Crazy brings back memories of those two movies, which is not a bad thing.  The idea of middle aged ex '70s rockers making a comeback also seems lifted from the Full Monty. But I'm not complaining.  The movie is just as irresistible as The Full Monty.  Question--what real band is Strange Fruit supposed to be poking fun of?  My guess is The Sweet, but I'm sure others will think of Mott the Hoople.  "},{"Title":"A very funny, delightful and affectionate treat","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The funky, yet strictly second-tier British glam-rock band Strange Fruit breaks up at the end of the wild'n'wacky excess-ridden 70's. The individual band members go their separate ways and uncomfortably settle into lackluster middle age in the dull and uneventful 90's morose keyboardist Stephen Rea winds up penniless and down on his luck, vain, neurotic, pretentious lead singer Bill Nighy tries (and fails) to pursue a floundering solo career, paranoid drummer Timothy Spall resides in obscurity on a remote farm so he can avoid paying a hefty back taxes debt, and surly bass player Jimmy Nail installs roofs for a living. Former loving groupie turned patient, understanding, long-suffering manager Juliet Aubrey gets the group back together for an ill-advised, largely ineffectual and hilariously disastrous twenty years later nostalgic reunion tour of Europe. Our lovably ragged bunch try gamely, but fumblingly to reignite a flame that once burned quite brightly back in the day. Scraggly zonked-out roadie Billy Connelly and cocky eager beaver young guitarist Hans Matheson tag along for the delightfully bumpy, trouble-plagued, but still ultimately rewarding and enjoyable ride.Director Brian Gibson shows tremendously infectious respect and adoration for both his amiably screwy characters in particular and loud, ringing, flamboyantly overblown preening 70's rock in general, this imbuing this affectionate little pip with an utterly engaging sense of big-hearted charm and tireless verve. The astute, sharply written script by Dick Clement and Ian La Frenais likewise bristles with spot-on dry wit and finely observed moments of joyous on the road inanity, capturing a certain bittersweetly affecting and frequently uproarious vibe that gives the picture itself an irresistibly luminescent glow. Ashley Rowe's lovely, elegant cinematography ensures that the movie always looks quite visually sumptuous while the perfectly catchy and groovy music does the trick with right-on rockin' flair and aplomb. Kudos also to the across-the-board terrific performances that vividly nail the burnt-out soul and tattered, but still fiercely beating heart of a past its prime has-been ragtag rock outfit desperate to regain its erstwhile evanescent glory in one final bid for big time success. All in all, this radiant and touching gem rates highly as one of the true seriocomic sleeper treats from the 90's. "},{"Title":"Loved this movie, moved to tears by the last song","Date":"21 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" > Contrary to most reviews I've read, I didn't feel this followed any of the other rock movies (Spinal Tap, etc.) The story was more unique, although I feel most people wanted to see the sex, drugs & rock and roll vices that the band kept alluding to.> As an American, I knew a few of the actors - Spall, Connelly & Rea. Surprised to find out Brian/Bruce Robinson was in Zifferedi's (<sp?) classic Romeo & Juliet. Guess I'll have to rent that next.> THE FLAME STILL BURNS - My wife, who hails from Mexico, didn't follow the English/British language too well, missed some of the jokes (which I dutifully explained) but she cried her eyes out at the concert scene. She loves the song so much now.> Funny that Amazon.com has the soundtrack for $30+usd when I bought the DVD in the bargain bin at Wal-Mart for $5.50usd. Price non-withstanding, I first saw this on late night cable and have been dying to find it ever since. "},{"Title":"Surviving a predicatable story arc","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  There really can't have been 50 films about a has-been rock band reuniting for one last grasp at glory--it just seems that way. And like most of these films `Still Crazy' has a predictable arc--no spoiler here  Band reunites, band breaks up again because the basic conflicts were never resolved, band gets back together and has a successful comeback.  And even when `Still Crazy' tries to throw a surprise into this mix it comes across as farfetched.  Having said all this, the movie still works.  There are three reasons The acting is good (particularly by Stephen Rhea, Juliet Aubrey and Bill Nighy) and the music is surprisingly good (largely because of the efforts of Mick Jones and Jeff Lynne).  Most of all, the movie feels right.  The band makes you believe they actually did perform in the &#145;70s, and that they could make a comeback 20 years later.    "},{"Title":"Brit version of Spinal Tap","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This reminded me of Spinal Tap, on a more serious level. It's the story of a band doing a reunion tour, but things are not harmonious between them. I was especially impressed with the performance of Bill Nighy as Ray. You felt sorry for him, yet he had a certain creepiness about him. It's a great movie to watch if you have ever seen your favorite band get wrinkly,old and pathetic.Bittersweet, highly recommended.. "}{"Title":"Moments when you laugh, cry and squirm with total embarrassment","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Still Crazy is an affectionate look at that most wonderful human being, the aging rocker. Although the characters are never really fleshed out, it never stops you enjoying this film. It's the genuine affection for its subject which makes the film work. There's plenty of comedy, anything with Billy Connolly playing a refugee from a drug addled 70's is guaranteed to do that. More importantly though, there are some very real moments if you've had anything to do with aging rock stars. It's spot on, and you can't help squirming with embarrassment while wiping away tears of laughter and joy. An absolute hoot. "},{"Title":"What is life like for aging rockers? Funny, sad, but sweet.","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  What happens to washed up rock-n-roll stars in the late 1990's? They launch a comeback / reunion tour. At least, that's what the members of Strange Fruit, a (fictional) 70's stadium rock group do.Tony (Stephen Rea) has the concession on condom vending machines when he runs into the son of the promoter of a famous music festival. It was at that festival in the 70's that Strange Fruit broke up. The 70's are retro and the time is right to wide that wave. He sets off in search of the other members of the band.Part of what broke up the band was the death and replacement of Keith, the lead singer and brilliant song writer. The band was known for its excessive lifestyle and now they are all back amongst the working class from which they came. Beano, the drummer, played by Timothy Spall (who was brilliant in Secrets and Lies) is a layabout, the bass player is a roofer, and their lead singer is still a rocker. While he owns a huge mansion he has been forced to sell it, as his fortune has not lasted. Brian, the lead guitarist, is dead, so a young guitarist is hired to replace him.Somewhat reluctantly the band agree to give the reunion a try. Abandoning their day jobs, they begin to rehearse, and their manager approaches their label about reissuing their albums. But he wants them to start touring again first. And so they hit the club circuit around Europe. The club scene is not kind to these overweight, dated, old rockers.It is on tour that the film really starts to develop. All of the old conflicts rearise, with the figures of Keith and Brian hovering throughout. They all hang together because they are all in search of a second chance for the greatness that eluded them earlier. And they rediscover some of the interpersonal chemistry that made playing together so enjoyable.Still Crazy starts as Spinal Tap II but gradually becomes a more dramatically focused film, following the relationships of the band members. While it is still a very funny movie, it is the evolving characters, struggling to deal with the deaths of Brian and Keith and with their own personal demons, that make the film work.  "},{"Title":"Still Crazy for Strange Fruit.","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  One of the best films I have seen in ages, it had me laughing and giggling all the way through. Basic storyline - Glam rock band splits in the 1970s due to the excessives of rock life and internal agruments. Twenty years later the band reunite for a reunion festival, with all the old frictions still going strong. Can they make a go of it this time or will they bollocks it up again. The experience writing of Dick Clement and Ian La Frenais coupled with superb acting by Jimmy Nail, Timothy Spall and especially Bill Nighy makes it a film well worth watching! "},{"Title":"Excellent Fun","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  If you need cheering up on a cold weekday evening, this is the film for you! Excellent script and perfectly cast actors.  I especially loved Ray psyching himself up in front of the mirror before gigs - inspired! "},{"Title":"Rock N' Roll","Date":"31 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Still Crazy was certainly influenced by This Is Spinal Tap, and elements from that classic can be found all over the place, but the two should not be compared. You won't find the sharp satire of Spinal Tap in this movie; nor will you find the scope and heart of Almost Famous. Still Crazy is a small, sweet comedy in the vein of Brassed Off, The Commitments and The Full Monty, and it's highly recommended for anybody who enjoyed those movies and has any fondness towards the grandiose stadium rock of the 70's. Still Crazy is funny, fast-paced and heartwarming, and backed with some of the finest actors the UK has to offer, it's a fantastic piece of entertainment and one that's fun returning to over and over again. It's a bit slow in its first half, but by the ending it's irresistibly fun, thanks to the wonderful characters (every member of the band was well-developed as a believable and likable character) and the contagious soundtrack. A great, light-weight movie for fans of true rock n' roll. "},{"Title":"Category Feel Good","Date":"22 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This is a straight-forward movie of a 70's Brit rock band trying to recapture their glory days. Whereas 'Spinal Tap' purported to be a rockumentary, this is just a film about some Has-Beens looking for the Good Old Days.The plot is as above. But the cast are supremely adequate for the story, the story is funny and touching, the soundtrack will moisten any 70's rock lovers; the whole deal will make you laugh.If you enjoyed 'School of Rock' and 'The Ship that Rocked' then you'll no doubt enjoy this. There's no need for any 'deep' analysis, because there isn't anything profound. It's a story, funny, rocking and nostalgic.Enjoy! "},{"Title":"great music movie","Date":"20 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I agree with what veinbreaker wrote with regards to the Ahhhh feeling you get at the end of this movie. I absolutely loved the locations they chose to film, the songs were well written and interesting, especially the psychedelic sounding track on which Hans Matheson sings. It's trippy. Nighy was fab in his role, Nail nailed it, Beano was the typical drummer, and Rea kept it together. Bruce Robinson was awesome. Helena was a lovely girlfriend. But I felt Juliet Aubrey's performance was gorgeous. The scenes between Aubrey & Robinson killed me! Perfectly played and the music behind the scene was spot on! Too bad not many more musicians have checked this movie out! They ought to!I've told all my musician friends. great quote by Jimmy Nail's character it's supposed to be rock & roll, not the Phantom of the f*****g opera! "},{"Title":"This really is my favourite movie","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" It's not without flaws, but even the flaws are charming. It's one of those films I can honestly watch several times in a row, and, despite having owned it for over a year, I still find nuances and bits I hadn't caught in prior viewings. The plot is basic. Washed-up 70's rockers have another chance at stardom. The secret is in the amazing actors and the fabulous music. There isn't a bad performance in this film. Bill Nighy is amazing, and Timothy Spall steals several scenes. Bruce Campbell only appears briefly, but it was enough to renew the crush I'd had on him at 13 after seeing Romeo & Juliet. My only real complaint is that whoever did the casting felt that 29-year old Juliet Aubrey is a contemporary of the actors portraying the band members, who were in their 40's and 50's. Watch for Frances Barber in a brilliant but small role. The music is equally wonderful. I realize it was a bad time for music, but I'm amazed these songs didn't get radio airplay. I love the music so much I picked up a copy used from Amazon. It's not a great film, it's not a serious film, but it's a film of which you will not tire. "},{"Title":"A must see.","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I thought this movie was fantastic. It was hilarious. Kinda reminded me of Spinal Tap. This is a must see for any fan of 70's rock. (I hope me and my friends aren't like that in twenty years!)Bill Nighy gives an excellent performance as the off kilter lead singer trying to recapture that old spirit,Stephen Rea fits perfectly into the movie as the glue trying to hold the band together, but not succeeding well.If you love music, and were ever in a band, this movie is definitely for you. You won't regret seeing this movie. I know I don't. Even my family found it funny, and that's saying something. "},{"Title":"Just like it was","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Having seen this film I was transported back to my days as a bouncer and then disc jockey touring with some of the upcoming bands of the 70s. The tour of some of the dives was as authentic as possible. The only difference I found, was these guys actually had a bus and not the freezing cold, overloaded panel van, with at least half a dozen hangers on that we had rolling around in the back. The music is brilliant and quite a few of the characters must be based on actual band members that were around at the time. Billy Connelly is an inspired choice as the road dog Hughie, and to me Timothy Spall is fantastic as the hell for leather drummer.All round it is a great evenings entertainment (with a few beers on the side).  "}{"Title":"A tribute to the 70's revival","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is just one of those films that, when watched by a real fan of 70's rock, makes you really appreciate what a band has to go through to revive themselves into the modern music scene. Alot of bands have actually done that recently (e.g. Aerosmith, Tom Petty and the heartbreakers, Rolling stones, etc) with alot of success.This film has it all, comedy and drama, all rolled into one. The soundtrack is brilliantly written by Mick Jones (of Foreigner fame)and performed with that classic rock vibe that I love more than anything in the world.If you are a fan of rock from that particular era, or just looking for a good laugh, I highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Fans of the superb mocumentary This is Spinal Tap will chortle at this nineties British remake.","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The film has ageing rockers Jimmy Nail, Timothy Spall, Stephen Rea and Bill Nighy (along with roadie Billy Connoly) re-forming successful seventies group Strange Fruit to go on the road one more time. There are all the clashing egos, old grudges and bad rock numbers you'd expect, plus a deft script from comedy writers Dick Clement and Ian La Frenais, but the true plaudits should go to the performance of Nighy (as the narcissistic lead singer) and the strangely moving cameo from Bruce Robinson (writer/Director of Withnail and I)A gem. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  If you like Deep Purple, you will enjoy in this excellent movie with Stephen Rea in main role. The story is about the most famous rock group back there in 70s, Strange Fruits, and they decided to play together again. But, of course, there is going to be lots of problem during theirs concerts. Jimmy Nail and Bill Nighy are great, and song The Flame Still Burns is perfect. You have to watch it. "},{"Title":"Good film, great soundtrack!","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  When I sat myself down to watch this movie, I did not know much about what kind of movie I was about to see.Its starting off rather slow; a rock band was cut off by lightning in the middle of a gig. They never stepped up on stage again. One day, though, twenty years later, someone starts digging up old dirt, and the band reunites.But are the old grumps up to enlighten the world as they once did with their music?It would not be fair to say that Still Crazy even nearly lives up to the qualities of The Commitments. It does, though, sometimes pretty much, resemble the Irish music movie classic. The ending of this movie also is not much of a surprise to the audience. It is nevertheless a good movie. The soundtrack should definitely be rated among the 15 best soundtracks of all time. I'm actually still humming on one of the songs; The Flame Still Burns, sung by Jimmy Nail. "},{"Title":"Full Monty with Rock Band","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Excellent Movie, very funny in places. It rates along side full monty so if you liked that movie you should like this. Great songs through out to keep you entertained and a good mix of cast ie Jimmy Nail and Brain Connolly.A must see movie! "},{"Title":"Loved it","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I was completely entertained by the movie and have already recommended it to people. Especially enjoyed Billy Connolly.  My only problem with the movie was the gimmick of the 'mystery woman' following Timothy Spall's character around.  Other than that, I loved the movie.   "},{"Title":"Thoroughly entertaining","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I have rarely emerged from viewing a film with such a warm, happy feeling. I felt as if I had been out with really good friends and had a wonderful time! I thoroughly enjoyed this film.  The acting was superb, although I would have to mention Bill Nye in particular as giving an absolutely faultless performance.  Bill is an excellent actor and would love to see him in more films.  Timothy Spall and Jimmy Nail are also favourites and always love to see them as they give such a solid performance.  And Billy Connolly, as always, totally gorgeous.  It was a wonderful ensemble performance from all concerned.  Such a refreshing experience to see a well-written, superbly acted and good-looking movie.    "},{"Title":"A Must See For All Musicians","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I watched the movie in a preview and I really loved it. The cast is excellent and the plot is sometimes absolutely hilarious. Another highlight of the movie is definitely the music, which hopefully will be released soon. I recommend it to everyone who likes the British humour and especially to all musicians. Go and see. It's great.  "},{"Title":"So Awesome","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Still crazy, directed by Brian Gibson, is a movie about a 70's rock band called Strange Fruit that plays at the Wizbeat Rock Festival in England where an accident takes place and the band splits.Every member of the band continues their lives in different directions. But when about 20 years have past, Stephen Rea, the bands bass player, gets in contact with the son of the founder of Wizbeat Rock Festival, who's looking for all the bands that played Wizbeat in order to make a reunion festival. Stephen, who's now working with fixing condom machines, is thrilled with the idea and he puts up the hunt for all the other band-members.The crew of actors like Billy Connolly (Hughie the Roadie), Jimmy Nail (Les wickes), Timothy Spall (David 'Beano' Baggot), Helena Bergström (Astrid), Stephen Rea (Tony Costello) and Bill Nighy as Ray Simms give the movie an extra entertaining touch. I've watched the movie several times and each and every time I've laughed like a madman. It's really a good laugh and every character has an important part in the movie. For example Beano, He's one of my favorite characters in the movie, he has a sarcastic attitude and a great sense of humor.He owes the State a whole lot of money and a mysterious Lady in Black stalks him, and seeing him try to dodge every attempt she commits to try to get him is really amusing. And there is so much more to the movie. Although I've seen it many times it still hasn't grown old, it's really a classic. "},{"Title":"Maybe not an original film - but still a really enjoyable one","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  No - I agree not as ground breaking as Spinal Tap. But this film has warmth, and no great pretentions. Just a nostalgic funny look at growing middle aged and still being a wannabe rockstar. I thought Billy Connolly was slightly disappointing in his fairly small role, but the rest of the cast were all excellent - the superb Bill Nighy, Stephen Rea, Jimmy Nail. And spot Bruce Robinson - writer/director of cult classic 'Withnail and I' as the ex-lead guitarist and wild child Brian. "}{"Title":"Funny, affectionate tribute to classic rock","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  In the voice over which begins the film, Hughie(Billy Connolly), a roadie for the great 70's band Strange Fruit, said the reason lightning struck at a rock festival to stop Strange Fruit's set was that God was sick of 70's excess.  Indeed, it's been popular to put down that era of music, and see punk as a welcome antidote to it.  While I agree the excess was tiresome(as well as the misogynistic urges which came out of it), and like punk, I still am a fan of what is considered classic rock or glam rock, and this film about Strange Fruit's long, strange reunion is an affectionate tribute to those days.One of the reasons the film works is the care of the people behind the scenes.  Brian Gibson directed WHAT'S LOVE GOT TO DO WITH IT, about Tina Turner(while I had problems with the dramatic parts of the film, the music was handled very well), writers Dick Clement and Ian Le Frenais co-wrote THE COMMITMENTS and were behind the music-oriented British TV show OVER THE RAINBOW, and the songs Strange Fruit played were co-written by Foreigner's Mick Jones(not to be confused with The Clash's Mick Jones), so it was a meeting of people who knew what they were talking about.  Also, two cast members are musicians in their own right(Bill Nye I don't know about, though the film credits him with his own singing, and he certainly looks like a lead singer of that era, while Jimmy Nail was in another British TV show which was music-oriented, though I forget the name, and he was in EVITA), and the others are convincing at it.  And while, as I said, a lot of 70's bands like Strange Fruit behaved badly towards women, the movie doesn't make the same mistake(except for the woman who follows Timothy Spall around); as the manager of the reunion, Juliet Aubrey is quite good and plays a fully rounded character.The other actors are all good as well, with special praise to Stephen Rea, who handles the more dramatic role well without sentimentality.  There are a couple of plot points which don't work, but overall this is quite enjoyable. Oh yeah, and the music is good too. "},{"Title":"likable group","Date":"23 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" 'Strange Fruit' was a 70s rock band of excesses. Their last gig in 1977 was cut short by a lightning strike. Twenty years later, keyboardist Tony Costello (Stephen Rea) is looking to reunite the band. Karen Knowles was the band's gofer who is now a single mom to Clare (Rachael Stirling) with a hotel job. Bassist Les Wickes does roofing. Lead singer Ray Simms (Bill Nighy) is now sober but hasn't produced a thing. Drummer Beano Baggot (Timothy Spall) works in the nursery, lives in a trailer on his mother's property and running from the tax woman. Lead guitarist Brian Lovell seems to be dead. Their roadie Hughie Case (Billy Connolly) shows up with all their old gear. They find a new lead guitarist in young Luke Shand.This is a likable group of actors and characters. There are some emotional drama and a few good laughs. It's a nice light-hearted comedy. It could be funnier and there is room to be wackier. The songs could also be better. Nevertheless, the group is sweet and they have good chemistry together. "},{"Title":"An all-star cast and rocking soundtrack make up for the conventional plot","Date":"5 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" STILL CRAZY is a film that I knew precious little about, save some of the cast members. Now having just seen it, I think it's an incredibly fun portrait of an aging rock band reliving their glory days. It follows the basic narrative trajectory that you would expect from this type of film, which is a good and a bad thing. It's good because it works with a tried-and-true formula that is entertaining, but also a little disappointing because it doesn't go out of its way to try anything new or outside-the-box. That being said, it executes the concept very well and benefits from revolving around a fictional band so that it doesn't have to be a slave to formula and history. The characters in the band (including the roadie) created by the principal actors were outstanding, and some of the best work I've seen from these people. They include Bill Nighy as the lead singer, Timothy Spall as the drummer, Stephen Rea as the keyboardist and Billy Connolly (of all people) as the roadie. They (and the other band members whose names I'm not familiar with) were all fully fleshed out and quite funny, perhaps none more so than Timothy Spall who has this great running gag which I won't spoil. They also had great chemistry on screen and made it seem like they had known each other for years. Last, but not least, the music in this film was amazing. All of it was original and I'm pretty sure that it was performed by the cast as well. The only time when the film falters, in my opinion, is the few moments in which it tries to be a little too sentimental. Again, it's par for the course when considering what genre this is, but it didn't completely work for me. Still, the finale was genuinely touching and mostly made up for the previous missteps. Overall, STILL CRAZY does suffer a bit from following the typical plot mechanics, but the performances and music are enough to highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Funny and endearing.","Date":"9 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" It's irresistible to watch this superior British cast play ageing rockers in this affectionate tribute to classic rock and its characters. The film chronicles the 20 something year reunion of Strange Fruit, a band that had had some success back in the 1970s. Naturally, when the men get back together some resentments once again resurface. For example, the lead singer Ray (Bill Nighy) has to live in the shadow of some former band members that have passed on. Fortunately, our heroes are able to take advantage of the interest in retro entertainment.While fans of This is Spinal Tap could find this quite to their liking, Still Crazy is played more seriously, and has some awfully poignant moments. It gets sentimental but never overly sentimental, and earns its emotional responses honestly. The cast couldn't be better Nighy, Stephen Rea as keyboardist Tony (the man who initiates the reunion in the first place), Jimmy Nail as bass player Les, Timothy Spall as drummer Beano, Juliet Aubrey as Karen, who helps set the wheels in motion, Billy Connolly as loyal roadie Hughie, and Hans Matheson as Luke, the young new addition to the band. Connolly also serves as our narrator, and his voiceovers are hilarious.This is written with great affection by Dick Clement & Ian La Frenais, who are trodding on fairly familiar ground for them, as they'd previously concocted The Commitments, among other things. And helping to serve as the icing on this cake is the music, which is actually pretty damn good much of the time.A real gem, worth a look for lovers of rock music and fans of these actors.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Still Crazy","Date":"3 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" When you see the poster for this movie it tells you everything you need to know. Its a mock cover of the famous Rolling Stone magazine featuring the aging 70's band 'Strange Fruit'. You can tell quite easily the movie is going to be a good laugh by the quite disturbingly haggard and unsexy looking pose from Nighy in the centre, its funny and icky at the same time.The plot, as you can imagine, is all about getting the band back together for a reunion concert. Back in the day 'Strange Fruit' were on the brink of stardom but it all fell apart when their lead singer died of a drugs overdose. Twenty years later Rea trying to get the guys back on-board whilst having to deal with each members current problems and the confrontations that have reared up again. Eventually, once everybody is brought together again, it is discovered their old lead guitarist (brother of their old lead singer) has also apparently died of a drugs overdose (as is the norm in this business). This forces the band to hire a much younger guitarist for their comeback adding more tension. Can the lads all come together and prove to themselves they've still got what it takes? or they had what it took originally to make it to the big time?I think the casting is the one main factor that makes this film work, the small British ensemble casting of Nighy, Nail, Rea, Connolly and Spall. Not only does this group of oddball character actors gel together perfectly but visually they actually look like an aging 70's rock band too. Nighy as the flaky somewhat slow long haired rock-star lead singer, Connolly has always looks the part of a hippie rock singer so no worries there, Rea with his curly Brian May hairdo, Nail the deep conscientious heart of the band, the hard worker with strong morals and family values and finally Spall looks like a dirty unwashed biker with Inland Revenue issues.I liked the whole loggerhead scenario between Nighy's character and Nail's character. Nighy's character being the epitome of a glamorous fame obsessed money grabber, his larger then life rock-star lifestyle clashing against the quiet brooding song writer of Nail's character. Nighy does tend to be the problem in the band for the most part with his overbearing wife and the fact he is still haunted by the reality that he was hired as a replacement for the bands old lead singer. He tries to elevate his performances with glam costumes and stage effects because he's insecure over his own abilities, now being much older. This in turn affects the band and their overall performances which provides both amusing and sober sequences.The situations and scenarios are really authentic within this film. The group having to slum it around backstreet nightclubs for work and recognition, dodgy stage safety, trying to re-tune their skills whilst bickering with each other, bad food on the go, little money, poor accommodation and the obligatory sex drugs and booze problems. This angle is stronger because its also about a group of old men trying to rekindle something great they once had, reigniting an old flame. The outlook on life and the music is very different from their younger days, its not all about sex drugs and roll 'n' roll anymore, there is more to it than that. Sure they wanna be like their younger selves again and uncork that lightning in a bottle but the team has to learn to settle old scores, move on and help each other with their dreams.The locations humour visuals and dialog is all typically British and it is a hoot to watch but the fall outs and reconciliations along the way do get a bit frustrating, you just wanna slap them and tell them to get on with it. The movie does tend to drag a tad through the middle, there are some nice montages and some great original musical numbers but the break up of the band midway brings with it lots of moping by Nail's character who can be overly broody. Its mainly Nail Nighy and Rea who carry the film honesty, Connolly and Spall tend to fade in and out of the background whilst Matheson does his best Liam Gallagher walk at one point. The finale and its little twist is cute but completely predictable, but we all knew it would end on a happy note I'm sure.A fantastic nod to the late 60's 70's glam rock era of course, many influences, very relatable for many I'm sure and very very very British with its dry wit and toilet humour. Personally I think the film should of been called 'Strange Fruit'...rock 'n' roll forever!8/10 "},{"Title":"Still Good","Date":"22 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Since I was a teen in the 70's, this movie is soooo up my alley and soooo reminiscent of experiences then. I can understand that for anyone not of this era or not going through the aging process that we all go through (good Lord willing), this movie may not be as enjoyable (relatable). So that could be the one fault. Yet the acting is fabulous (Astrid actress deserved an Oscar!), the characters are fantastically real and quite funny, the portrayal of what bands go through to try and make it (or make a come back)... the struggles, the arguments, the egos hiding the frailties are absolutely spot on. I am totally transported to the back stage during performances of the Strange Fruit rock band and can feel the euphoria, thrill, soul-reaching and binding music and rhythm. Love it like crazy. "},{"Title":"Wish I'd seen them the first time round!","Date":"20 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Dick Clement and Ian La Frenais have a solid hit rate as far as their TV work is concerned. However, their film work has been much more chequered (2008's The Bank Job was fine, the previous year's Across The Universe decidedly weak, for instance).Still Crazy, fortunately, is a solid success. It has a great story, excellent performances, a lot of humour, fabulous music and, above everything else, real heart.I savour moments, and this film has one of them - just when everything is going pear-shaped at the festival reunion performance...Hugely enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Greatest rock movie","Date":"7 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Still Crazy is without a doubt the greatest rock comedy of all-time. It has been erroneously compared to This Is Spinal Tap, which it has no relation to. Spinal Tap is a satire (and, quite frankly, not a very good one, in spite of it's outing of many rock clichés). Unlike Tap, Still Crazy is populated by great actors, great songs and great human situations. You CARE about the people in Still Crazy. That's all that matters. Oh, yeah, the music's pretty damn good, too, written by Mick Jones of Foreigner and Chris Difford of Squeeze. American audiences were already familiar with Stephen Rea (The Crying Game), but would only later become familiar with Bill Nighy (Underworld, Love Actually, Pirates Of The Caribbean II) and Timothy Spall (the Harry Potter movies). "},{"Title":"best movie nobody I know has seen","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Saw this movie on premium TV HBO, showtime, or starz and could not believe it was not a big hit. Soundtrack as all comments I've read was excellent and all round just a damn good flick. I have had a Tivo for about 8 months and have been looking for this movie but it has not been on at all. I guess I'll give it another couple months and then breakdown and buy the DVD. If you are a fan of 60's/70's rock this is a must see and probably a must have. I sang in rock and roll bands as a young man and really got every thing they went and were going thru. I had never seen Bill Nighy (or at least had never noticed him) until I saw this movie. I really started to be a fan after watching a few more of his movies including a little gem called (i think) the girl in the cafe. "},{"Title":"A group of 1970s rockers trying to get their mojo back.","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Still Crazy is one of those movies I forget how I came about seeing it, other than I found the DVD in the inventory of my public library.It is about a 1970s rock band named Strange Fruit, long since disbanded, and now one of its members tries to get them back together after 20-something years. Since they were popular each member has gone his own way, and one of the former members is believed dead. So, they get a young guitarist, assemble the group as best they can, do a quick rehearsal, then head to Holland for a quick tour to see how they are received.One of the nice things about the movie is that the two singers for Strange Fruit, played by Bill Nighy and Jimmy Nail, actually do their own singing and are very good. In fact, it reminded me of some of the other 1970s rock bands who have in reality done this very thing.Everyone is good in this typically British comedy. While I wouldn't consider this a superb movie, it is entertaining for anyone who enjoys British comedies.Stephen Rea as Tony Costello, Billy Connolly as Hughie, Jimmy Nail as Les Wickes, Timothy Spall as David 'Beano' Baggot chased by a woman all the way, until he finds out she just wants to jump his bones, and Bill Nighy as the lead singer Ray Simms . "}{"Title":"10/10","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I still havent figured out the comparision between Still Crazy and Spinal Tap, in my opinion Spinal Tap was s***, where as Still Crazy is top notch. From the writers of one of the best sit-coms ever (Auf Weidersehen, Pet), with an excellent, all-star cast (including Jimmy Nail and Timothy Spall from Auf Weidersehen, Pet), and with an excellent sound track, what more can you ask for?all round a highly entertaining movie, that unklike several great movies you can watch it over and over again. and unlike those who doubt the credibility of the plot, goto google and search for Pink Floydps, is it just me or is Brian really Syd Barrett and Ray really Ozzy Osbourne? "},{"Title":"Put me in a good mood for days","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Hey.  This was a great, funny, touching movie.  And not just because I went to high school in the seventies.  Any one who listens to rock & roll and is approaching their forties will love it.  The actors were amazing, especially the guys who played Ray and Brian.  Can't wait to see the next Clement/Lefrenais production.  "},{"Title":"90s movie, 70s band, 50s sensibility","Date":"5 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I wanted to like this movie. I love classic rock and I already liked the cast (those that I had heard of) and it's kind of OK, but just not great. Plot-wise, I knew what I wanted and what I was gonna get. Once great rock band, ravaged by tragedy, time and drugs get back together, against the odds to heal the hurt and pull off a great comeback. To pull off a story this clichéd, the movie needed better script, better acting, bigger scale, bigger budget and more authenticity. As it is it just feels cheesy and the empathy with the 70's rock band seems second-hand, based on folklore and not actually from having lived it. The writers were born in the 30's,so they would have been past it way before the heyday of the band in the film. I guess that's why it just seems clichéd rather than genuine. It was enjoyable mostly, but it's been done better before, several times. "},{"Title":"Aging Performers","Date":"16 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Bill Nighy playing the lead singer with relationship, financial, and past alcohol / substance issues leads this movie and provides most of it's comic value. This is not his Greatest performance, but adds a lot of depth and range to an actor I first noticed in 'The Girl in the Café.' Where did I get the idea that he could only play stodgy old bureaucrats? I have certainly seen Nighy in some Great Movies, but don't always come away remembering his parts like I will from this one.Juliet Aubrey brings heart to this film, as one who has moved on, but still feels the call of these crazy performers that she loved.I wasn't that crazy about this movie. There will be viewers who will love it more based on credible backstage drama of getting rock star egos together to perform, not just in their Youth, but years later when they carry the baggage and scars of their earlier dreams.I don't know how this film got an 'R' rating? Drugs and Sex are real part of the Rock Band environment, but do not seem to be glorified in this film. Per the plot - these characters paid dearly for the substance abuses of their youth in Death, Separation, and Lost Loves. There's not enough Vulgar Language, Nudity, Drugs or Sexual Situations to deserve more than a PG-13! (Maybe for an 'R' I was disappointed there wasn't MORE!) "},{"Title":"Awesome Film!!","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" As an aging rocker, this movie mentions Heep and Quo - my 2 favourite bands ever - but with the incredible cast (everyone) - and the fantastic storyline - I just love this piece of creative genius. I cannot recommend it more highly - and Mick Jones added so much (Foreigner lead and primary songwriter along with the greatest rock singer ever - Lou Gramm) - I have watched this great work more than 10 times- Bill Nighy - what a voice - and Jimmy Nail - talent oozes from every pore - then Astrid.... and Karen..... what more could an aging rocker ask for!! 10/10 - bloody brilliant.Alastair, Perth, Western Oz, Originally from Windsor, England. "},{"Title":"This movie is funny, slick and a true to life story of a has been rock band.","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I love this movie. It is one of those movies that you can watch time and time again and still find engaging. Congratulations!! I believe everyone involved in making the movie and the script should be proud of themselves. It is so eerie, you feel like you are watching a real life band. I would like to see more movies like this. I am glad that they did not choose famous Hollywood stars to be in this movie because it probably would not have worked. And even if Billy Connolly is quite well known, he really got stuck into the role and I could not imagine anybody else playing it. Congratulations again, I really believe this movie deserves the Peter Sellers Comedy Award for Bill Nighy. And when you get to the final scene..... well what can I say!!!! "},{"Title":"Mixed fruit","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" 'Still Crazy', the story of the comeback of fictional seventies rockers Strange Fruit, has a televisual feel to it, and a formulaic construction there's little in the tale that you wouldn't expect. But it's also genuinely funny in quite a number of places, and offers a believably shambolic representation of its heroes. It has to be said that the group are more convincing when they're meant to be bad then in their eventual triumph, when they're dependent on the limited talents of Jimmy Naill to pass themselves off as a much-loved institution. But the piece lacks the pretensions of Todd Haynes' 'Velvet Goldmine' and can be enjoyed as simple fun, rather more enjoyable then perhaps it should be. "},{"Title":"I'm very thankful to people behind this movie!","Date":"22 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie maked me cry at the end! I watch at least 3-4 movies a week. I seen loads of great movies, even more crap - ones. But when ending scene - catharsic at it's core - came I Cried! And if you didn't - you have serious problems! The story is archetypal - nothing new or original. But it's real - because that sort of things really happened and that people really exist. Glam isn't my sort of music but I really admire all that they went through in early 70's... At some point this directed me toward Velvet Goldmine! Docudramas never really work very good. But this movie really meked us believe it all...Because they don't try to make it as a path full of glorious concerts, present musicians that are superheroes, groupie girls that are stupid and emotionally numb, they don't glorify drugs and alcohol, they promote rehabilitation and redemption that comes even 20 years late... Once again great movie. Since Leaving Las Vegas I was never so moved by a movie.  "},{"Title":"ROCK....and you won't get older ! ! !","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Rock-and-roll as old-age antidote ! Ironically and tenderly this movie deals with the efforts and difficulties of a rock band members who haven't spoken to each other for twenty years and have now to seize again the enchantment of music and the missed opportunities. Will they manage not to let this new opportunity slip ? Great rock for a little, but heartfelt movie !  "},{"Title":"Much more drama than comedy, but thoroughly enjoyable","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  An excellent cast makes this movie work; all of the characters are developed exceedingly well and it's clear that the actors enjoyed filming this movie.It's not quite the comedy I expected, much more a lighthearted look at the attempt to reclaim youthful glory than bawdy humor. For music fans there are quite a few subtle references that in themselves are intelligently funny.I hate drawing direct comparisons to other movies, but so much of this movie reminded me of Alan Parker films I can't help it imagine if The Commitments actually did make it big -- and then tried to recapture said glory 25 years later. "}{"Title":"Hanging on to youth.","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Still Crazy is a film about a rock band that had a chance and blew it. It is also a film about getting older and realizing everyday that you could have your dream if you wanted badly enough to have it. The film cast is excellant and there are some stand out performances from Billy Connolly and Stephen Rea. The music in the film is dated, but I loved the 70's rock bands and it reminded me of the excessive days of rock and roll. The direction is solid and the cinematography is really well done. Strange Fruit ROCKS!!!!  "},{"Title":"If you were in high school in the 70's, this is the film for you","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I enjoyed Still Crazy more than any film I have seen in years.  A successful band from the 70's decide to give it another try.  They start by playing some gigs in some seedy European venues, with hilarious results.  The music is fantastic, the script and acting are terrific.  The characters are spot on, especially the lead singer with the high heavy metal voice, makeup and personality problems.  The concert at the end was unreal. Go and see it, preferably in a cinema with a good sound system ) "},{"Title":"Moments when you laugh, cry and squirm with total embarrassment","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Still Crazy is an affectionate look at that most wonderful human being, the aging rocker. Although the characters are never really fleshed out, it never stops you enjoying this film. It's the genuine affection for its subject which makes the film work. There's plenty of comedy, anything with Billy Connolly playing a refugee from a drug addled 70's is guaranteed to do that. More importantly though, there are some very real moments if you've had anything to do with aging rock stars. It's spot on, and you can't help squirming with embarrassment while wiping away tears of laughter and joy. An absolute hoot. "},{"Title":"Spinal Tap gets veklempt","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  A great movie!  A must for Spinal Tap fans, and a great movie in its own right.  Includes a fabulous post-humorous appearance by Jimi Hendrix' tooth. Enjoy it!  "},{"Title":"wonderful heart-warming movie","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  wonderful movie with good story great humour (some great one-liners) and a soundtrack to die for.i've seen it 3 times so far.the american audiences are going to love it. "},{"Title":"A Great Escape!!...Very British...Very Funny.","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is definitely a movie worth seeing. In my opinion a brilliant performance by Bill Nighy, Timothy Spall, Billy Connolly especially and an excellent supporting cast. The Wisbeach concert in the last scene is a real tear jerker....apart from that loads of laughs from start to finish. Some potential stars in the background i.e the new guitarist to the band and Jason the record producer's assistant, played by Delroy Atkinson. Go and See it!!! "},{"Title":"Perfect","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Forget mindless Hollywood blockbusters, this is a truly brilliant movie. Anyone who has not seen it has missed out on one of the best examples of cinema in the last 20 years. Extremely funny whilst still able to blend poignancy and a smart script without ever slipping into schmaltz or stupidity, it builds throughout the movie to an exceptional ending, made all the more excellent for the song The Flame Still Burns, (in my mind a song that if this was a fair universe would be remembered along with classics such as Layla, or Alright Now). A script by the superb Dick Clement and Ian La Frenais. Incomparable acting by their long-time Auf Wiedersehn,Pet collaborators Jimmy Nail and Timothy Spall, amongst a cast of British stars such as Bill Nighy and Juliet Aubrey, what more could you ask for?  "},{"Title":"Feel-good movie that feels good","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Still Crazy has been compared to the Spinal Tap since both are comedies about wash-up R&R groups. Actually, here the similarity ends because Still Crazy is much better written and acted out, whereas Spinal Tap script deteriorates from the mildly amusing first 10 min into a drivel that makes Beavis and Butthead to appear sophisticated in comparison. Still Crazy is formulaic but the likability of the characters and the unexpectedly high quality of some musical numbers for me managed to offset the a priori predictability of the movie. People who expect Spinal Tap-like attempt on satire would be disappointed by the light-hearted nature of the movie, but I'd take a successful self-ironic romp of Still Crazy over a pompous but failed shot at satire which is Spinal Tap. "},{"Title":"Strange Fruit","Date":"15 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" In the seventies Strange Fruit were it. They lived the rock lifestyle to the max, groupies, drugs, internal tension and an ex front man dead from an overdose. Even their demise was glamorous; when lightning struck the stage during an outdoor festival. 20 years on and these former rock gods they have now sunk deep into obscurity when the idea of a reunion tour is lodged in the head of Tony, former keyboard player of the Fruits. Tony sets out to find his former bandmates with the help of former manager Karen to see if they can recapture the magic and give themselves a second chance. Is This Going To Be Remembered By The Oscars? No, Is This Top 250 Material? No, Is This The Funniest Thing I Have Seen In A Long Time? Yes. Now This Music Is Surprisingly Good. All The Performances Were Outstanding...Especially Bill Nighy Because He Was Supposed To Be Playing A Flaky Character & He Does It Well. This Is One Great Movie. I Won't Go Poking Holes In This Movie Because It Sounds Kinda Bad When The Director Died 6 Years Ago. At Times Like Watching This You Wonder If Your Favourite Band Acts Like This...I Doubt Evanescence, 3 Days Grace Or Poets Of The Fall Act Like This...Still Other Bands Might. All In All A Funny Movie. "},{"Title":"Bill Nighy is genius!","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I discovered this gem of a film in the Hot Picks section at a local Blockbuster Video store. When I read the synopsis, I though I'd probably like it because it's about a rock band. This film marked the first time I'd ever seen Bill Nighy, who was absolutely brilliant as Ray. He really captured the personality of a rocker with a fragile ego who's fresh out of rehab and torn between his feelings of vulnerability and wanting very much to seem completely together and able to just go right back to the good old days of Strange Fruit's glory years. I feel that this movie is arguably second only to This Is Spinal Tap as the best(and funniest) movie ever made about a rock band. I'd highly recommend it to anyone! "}{"Title":"It's not 'Spinal Tap' - but it isn't supposed to be.","Date":"5 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" A great movie. Well acted. Good story. And excellent music. Unlike other 'band' movies whose execrable songs let them down by removing all credibility (that old Neil Diamond vehicle 'The Jazz Singer' comes to mind), the songs are well written and believable as hits. It won't appeal to everyone, though. If you didn't grow up in Britain in the seventies you probably won't truly appreciate it. It helps if you were around when 'Strange Fruit's' supposed contemporaries, such as Status Quo, were in their heyday. In other words, it was essentially written by middle-aged Brits for middle-aged Brits. But nothing wrong with that. If you liked this, check out the movies 'That'll Be the Day' and its sequel, 'Stardust'. "},{"Title":"And the flame still burns...","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I can only recommend this heart-warming little British film. The entire cast is superb, and you can't help falling in love with these wonderfully eccentric characters. With some hilarious moments, and quite a few bittersweet and touching scenes, this is still a perfect feel-good movie. Jimmy Nail, Bill Nighy, and Brian Connolly all perform their own songs. I can't stress enough how wonderful the cast is. I love how *close* the script brings you to these characters, with seemingly so few words and so little effort. Also highly recommended the very good soundtrack. I don't know how they managed to completely nail that 70s sound, but it adds much to the realness of the film. "},{"Title":"Think you can't teach an old dog new tricks? Think again!","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  With four band members left of the five and loads of tension what happens when a suggestion for a tour comes up? Made up of an ex-alcoholic, a condom salesman, a tax evader, a slight depressive and a new guitarist, the band doesn't seem to have much going for it. But soon we realize that they actually aren't that bad! After an argument and a near death experience for Ray, the band turns in a new direction and go full on for new fame proving that there's still some life left in the old dogs! Throw in comic relief, Billy Connelly as Hughie their grass smoking roadie, a love interest, Karen their ex groupie, and you've got a hilarious, heart wrenching story of what happens when old meets new, with a good twist towards the end. "},{"Title":"An underated brilliant British comedy","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  There are many British comedies that have an allstar cast that just have nothing to all the way through the movie, like Notting Hill, but Still Crazy uses it cast very well.  From the writes of the smash hit 80's T.V. series Auf Wiedersehen, Pet, Still Crazy Stars Bill Nighy (Auf Wiedersehen, Pet), Jimmy Nail (Auf Wiedersehen, Pet), Stephan Rea (Interview With the Vampire), Timothy Spall (Auf Wiedersehen, Pet), Billy Connolly (Billy Connolly's World Tour of Ireland, Wales and England ), Juliet Aubrey (Iris), Bruce Robinson and Coronation Street fans ,if their are any, will be happy to see an appearance from Brian Capron who played Richard Hillman.The movie starts with road dog Hughie (Connolly) telling the story of how 70's rock band Strange Fruit broke up at the Wizbeat Rock Festival.  Then fast forward to the 90's where we see keyboard player Tony Costello (Rea) at work filling condom machines.  Before we see what it is he does he bumps into the son of the orginal promoter of the Wizbeat Rock Festival, who is putting it on again for its 20th annivary and he wants the Fruits.  Now, Tony and ex-girlfiend of the lead guitarist Brain Lovell (Robinson) Karen Knowles (Aubrey) have the challenge of recruiting the band, which have all gone thier own ways.  Bass guitarist Les Wickes (Nail) is fixing slates on roofs, drummer David 'Beano' Baggot (Spall) is working at a Plant Nursery and lead singer Ray Simms (Nighy) is working on a solo album.  At first, Les and Ray thinks it's a bad idea.  Then, they learn of Brian's death and agree to do it for him.Nail and Nighy's arguments are so funny, like Hello, Belgium Holland, you prick.  Brilliant jokes, brilliant script, brilliant proformances.  My overall Rating***** "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I'm a little prejudiced, as I love rock music, and I'm dealing with middle age too.  This movie is priceless.  Too funny, with a decent story, some nice p***-taking of rock band reunions, and fabulous characters. Especially Ray and Beano.  And Billy Connolly's roadie is the icing on the cake.  A great film. "},{"Title":"Re-Watchable","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I rate movies based on how often I enjoy watching, not necessarily how great it is. Still Crazy is enjoyable, no matter how often I watch it ... or just listen to it in the background. "},{"Title":"A funny and slightly sentimental flick for boomers.","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Although a sort of comedy/drama-lite, Still Crazy does something which most of the recent raft of formula romantic comedies fail to do. Specifically, the film manages character development so well that their absurd nature, necessary to be funny, does not interfere with the emotional buy in making it possible for the audience to empathize with the characters while enjoying their humorous antics. SC tells of a motley bunch of aging ex-rock stars who, after 20 years apart, reconstitute the band to have a go at touring again. The film uses the Rea and Aubrey characters as the center of gravity (straight wo/man) around which the rest of the band can create off-the-wall humor, some decent music, and some poignant moments. The result is a very good journeyman effort which will likely be enjoyed most by baby boomers...even those who may have outgrown rock music. "},{"Title":"An old recipe","Date":"2 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" O.K. so there are hardly ANY Rock movies out there, that is... when we consider how big a THING Rock is, and how many movies are made every year on this busy little planet. But BOY, what a downer to chance upon such a string of clichés as this. And all the scenes HAVE to wrap up with some 'comic' tidbit. I stared getting worried when I heard the film soundtrack. Not so much the actual songs, no... the 'filling-in stuff'... that typical schmaltzy crap which was dangerous even to a great little film like FISH CALLED WANDA, and which lurks about in 90% of British TV movies and sundry stuff... SPINAL TAP lovers BEWARE! catching the funny/sad side of Rock 'n Roll is no easy task and the TAP bunch really found the recipe and intelligence to tread this tricky line. Mr. Brian Gibson and his (merry?) bunch go straight through all the classic 'bits' but with the subtlety of a Belgian Bar Girl. Hey! Come on! EVERYBODY wants to be teased into FEELING clever! So why does the poor viewer have to cringe time after time? In short. It's a VERY old British TV recipe being served up. Even On the Buses was far better . Rockers can be pompous,childish, twittish,farting, dreamers (God only knows I AM ONE) but... let's get a NEW angle on this miserable list of pathetic 'adventures'. Pity... this fruit COULD have been strange... but somehow turned out being boiled. "},{"Title":"Worth a look, but not top drawer","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  A fairly enjoyable piece of light entertainment which has funny moments (most of the good lines being Timothy Spall's) but never reaches nor sustains the heights of This Is Spinal Tap, from where it obviously borrows it's main plot-line. Jimmy Nail provides the obligatory lightweight song and there is generally a disappointing lack of Craziness and too much of a soft edge to the film. The treatment of the old guitarist returning from mental illness is too politically correct for a comedy. For all that there is general light-hearted enjoyment to be had from the film. "},{"Title":"Affecting","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is a genuinely affecting film with a great cast. Everyone acquits themselves wonderfully, and Jimmy Nail finally uses his voice to good effect. This is a movie for anyone who's ever been in a band or wanted to be in one (go see it even if you haven't).  "}{"Title":"Still Crazy","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" If you liked This Is Spinal Tap, then you will love this rockumentary focusing on a fake band reunion. Years when they had success it was shaken by a lighting bolt hitting their gig, and recently a member of the band disappearing, maybe dead. Basically one of the members of the band, Strange Fruit, has the idea, years later, to bring everyone back together for a reunion concert. The members include Tony Costello (The Crying Game's Stephen Rea, Hughie (Billy Connolly), Les Wickes (Jimmy Nail), David 'Beano' Baggot (Timothy Spall), Ray Simms (Bill Nighy) and Brian Lovell (Bruce Robinson), by the way, one of them is the one they suspected was dead. Personally, I preferred this to This Is Spinal Tap, and not just because of an all-star cast, but there was more laughs and more unique moments. Also starring Juliet Aubrey as Karen Knowles, Helena Bergström as Astrid Simms, Hans Matheson as Luke Shand, Rachael Stirling as Clare Knowles, Phil Daniels as Neil Gaydon, Zoë Ball and Corrie's Tricky Dicky Brian Capron as Senior Executive. It was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Comedy/Musical and Best Song for The Flame Still Burns. Good! "},{"Title":"VERY GOOD FILM ABOUT A BRITISH BAND","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I´m a biggest fan of Oasis and when I watched this film I thought about what will happen with Oasis after twenty years.The screen is funny and Stephen Rea Simply perfect.This films is for all ages young,adult and old people.The Band is like Rolling Stone or David Bowie. SENTENCE FOR STILL CRAZY***EXCELLENT*** "},{"Title":"Amusing - but may I suggest Spinal Tap?","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Seventies band Strange Fruit decide to get back together and do a small tour of Europe.  Along the way they struggle with the same problems and pitfalls as before as personalities clash.  Can they hold it together long enough to be a success again.This is a British comedy that tries to mould itself on a Spinal Tap style set-up.  The plot is pretty simple - a tour of Europe that allows the band to go through one funny crisis after another on the road to success.  Every time they want the plot to move on they have something happen, Stephen Rea says It's a sign and they all continue (this happens 2 or 3 times).  It's not that bad because it is quite funny and short enough to not show the plot holes.  However comparison with Spinal Tap show the weaknesses up.The cast is strong with well known faces but only Timothy Spall has a consistently funny character.  The only downside of having all these faces is that it can be more interesting to name the people than get the jokes.  At one point Zoë Ball turns up in a cameo and it does feel like it's saying look at me - I'm a British film!.Overall it's quite entertaining but it's not anywhere near as good as Spinal Tap and eventually falls into predicable sentimentality. "},{"Title":"Not as good as I hoped for.","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I was really looking forward to watching a cutting edge comedy but I was really dissapointed in what I saw. Don't get me wrong Still Crazy is an entertaining film but it is nothing we haven't seen before , which is a real shame considering it stars the likes of Timothy Spall and Billy Connolly. It never seems to get off the ground until the last 10 minutes.6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"1/3 Spinal + 1/3 Monty = 2/3 great movie","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Not a bad movie, but it's standing on the shoulders of giants.You could do worse decent cast, decent writing, decent soundtrack.  Some pretty funny moments, but it's not gonna get anywhere near the cultural icon that Spinal Tap has become.A little too sappy for me at the end.Still, a likeable little film.  I give it four (out of 10) stars. "},{"Title":"Not crazy enough","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I was mildly amused by this film, but only gave it 5 stars out of 10.  It just seems like I have seen this before.  I know that it was supposed to be an ironic little slice of real life, but I wish that there had been a bit more pizzazz i.e. bizarre characters and/or happenings that would be standing out now in my mind.  After all, this IS supposed to be rock and roll, isn't it? "},{"Title":"Rather a weak Spinal Tap, but a noble effort all the same","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I was recommended Still Crazy from an obsessed friend who lent it to me in the vain hope that I would become as interested as he was. What I found was a sweet film without the balls of other great British comedies such as Spinal Tap or Withnail & I. I found Still Crazy worth the watch but one of those 'best-bits-in-trailer' comedies that just wasn't sharp enough to be put into my video collection. Even Billy Connelly had been toned down and was disappointing as the narrator/roadie - and in fact rather pointless. Although the characters worked well on paper I was left with little empathy or genuine interest in most - especially Jimmy Nail and his achingly dull portrayal of the jealous guitarist. Bruce Robinson's cameo role as 'Brian' was little short of embarrassing for someone who had written some of the funniest material in film history, what was he doing there? Overall, Still Crazy came across as a second-rate spinal tap, and although it was rather heart-warming at times it failed to impress. Sorry Tom. "},{"Title":"Dull & Duller","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This film isn't even interesting enough to make me hate it. If there was ever an exercise in wasting time, film, and money then this was surely it. I waited for it to be funny, but it never happened, and the characters didn't evoke the slightest compassion. I am stunned at it's none eventfulness if there is such a word. What a miss use of such (usually) brilliant character actors, apart from Billy Connelly who should really stick to his standup routine. Do yourself a favour, do something more interesting with the money you would have wasted on this film, like put it in a bank and watch the interest grow. "},{"Title":"Give me back these 97 Minutes of my life","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The trailer for this film looked funny, heck, even uproarious! But as the drama unfolded, I wished I had rented something else. There is little humor, no real belly laughs and all the dialogue, plot and acting is predictable and plodding. This was billed as the British Spinal Tap, but was sorely disappointing. Even overlooking the implausibility of the plot turns, this is a bad movie and a waste of time. "},{"Title":"Nice but neglectable","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  What we got here is a half-ready attempt to make cash with a Full Monty copy, without ever reaching its charm and class. The plot is thin, the running gags are too strained. A nice little film which circles aimlessly around itself. "}{"Title":"A big disappointment","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I really do try to avoid spending money on bad films and that is why I do read all available reviews. Therefore I feel very let down that I ended up eagerly anticipating this piece of throwaway nonsense. The acting is fine, or even impressive in some cases, but that can't possibly compensate for a ridiculous plot and some terrible music... The new 'Full Monty'? I think not. "},{"Title":"Could've been a lot, lot better........","Date":"1 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I really wanted to like this film, the premise was pretty good, decent cast, and very early on it was earthy and believable. As it progressed it really started to become so painfully self-conscious and cliché ridden I breathed out heavily with disappointment. I even liked the early songs (they were at least kind of believable, 'All Over The World' was actually pretty good), but the rose tinted view of rock'n'roll maaan, the lazy stereotypes, left a bitter taste in my mouth. Then, about half way through, everyone became so earnest and noble and pretty much any hope of this film expressing any genuine emotion disintegrated (It became the visual equivalent of listening to a Bono speech). These are also the qualities which I've always found the least attractive in real music. It became an obvious ego-trip for certain parties (JImmy Nail?, you bet) and the fabulous talents of Stephen Rea and Bill Nighy were all but wasted. The comedy became pretty thin too, the writers (who have been brilliant in the past) just refused to stretch themselves, resorting to every cliché in the book... Worst of all tho'? THE song, 'Flame Still Burns'!! It's about the worst song I've ever heard (how I'm supposed to be pleased a group of 60's trailblazers turn out a hideous AOR power-ballad song like this I really don't know?)... It's even worse than 'Wind of Change' by Scorpions.... Horrible, middle of the road 'power ballad with meaning' rock, eight!!... I guess if you love music like that your gonna love this, so that's fair enough... Personally this dreadful song just made me wish these fictitious fruits had died in a plane crash in '73........ "},{"Title":"Could've been the British Spinal Tap, but they 'bollocksed it up'.","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Still Crazy is just unbelievably bad. Atrocious from start to...well, I didn't actually get to the finish, because I'd had enough of this thoroughly lame, predictable and heavily cliche-ridden mess after something like forty minutes. Every tired old rock band gag you can think of - all drummers are nuts, the foreign wife, the acid casualty, the spacecase from another dimension - are all present and correct, as are the obligatory gags about flatulence, poor personal hygiene, pot-smoking and saying Hello Belgium at a gig in Holland. See the kind of movie we're dealing with? Dire. A very poor attempt at creating an anglo Spinal Tap, there's not one moment here that can compete with Nigel Tufnel's Marshall amp that goes to eleven.To give the cast credit, they all try hard, and the film benefits from the presence of the musically talented Jimmy Nail, but the terribly weak script gets the better of them. It's also a disturbingly misogynistic picture, depicting all women as either hard-faced bitches or gushing, sex-mad groupie wannabes.Still Crazy? Still gathering dust on the shelf at the video store. "},{"Title":"Predictable, skip it","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The plot is very predictable, no surprises here. Reading a synopsis of the plot will provide all the entertainment that actually viewing the movie will. The actors are well cast, certainly looking the part. Unfortunately they sound the part too. For DVD viewers, the audio is stereo, no 5.1 is available. "},{"Title":"Spinal Nap","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Horrible film. This is a bore fest and rips off Spinal Tap. Well, it doesn't exactly, but it tries for that funny fictional rock band thing. This movie is supposed to be taken seriously, unlike Spinal Tap, and that's what makes it such a pretentious bore. For one thing, Tap's music is classic. It's bad, but classic. In other words it's supposed to be bad, and for bad, it's awesome. The music in this flick, that is, the original songs that we're supposed to believe were once classic tunes, are god-awful. Worse than On the Dark Side by Eddie and the Cruisers, if you can believe it. I think it's very difficult to make a film that's supposed to be taken seriously (even if it's a comedy) about a (fictional) famous band, or composer, if you can't write music to back up what the story is about. You can do this with a writer; that is, make a film centering a fictional famous author, because his work doesn't have to show; just make him a brooding, somber, strange and deeply troubled guy and you're in. But with a band, you must play their music to back up why we're supposed to believe they're geniuses. I think they based the main genius guy, who is lost for years and presumed dead, on either Brian Jones or Syd Barrett or Jim Morrison or all three. This guy was, or rather is, supposed to be the lost Mozart of rock, and the song that he wrote, that was supposed to be of Stairway to Heaven or Freebird legacy, sounds more like something the producer or writer or director or gaffer or even best boy of the film wrote in two minutes. Anyhow, it's a horrible, horrible film, one of those cult movies that, while being made, was considered a cult movie to be... or something. Avoid it even at no costs. "}]