[{"Title":"Fun and entertaining","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"74 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  After the opening scene of *Deep Blue Sea*, in which (predictably) a shark terrorizes a quartet of partying teenagers on a boat, I decided I was in for a crappy movie. A crappy movie that would contain basically every movie AND horror movie cliche I could think of.  I was right. And wrong.I will say that the premise for this movie is great super-intelligent sharks. Sharks are bad enough, but...smart sharks? Immediately you have terrifying possibilities running through your mind. The sad fact, though, is that this is one of those movies where the screenwriters (and I can't believe it took three people to come up with this) threw some dice and picked which character was going to die next. That's what the plot boils down to things go wrong; someone dies. More things go wrong; someone else dies. And so on. People whom you couldn't care less about die. People who you really don't want to see die die.The people are an interesting band of characters. The female scientist, pleasing to the eye and the ear (I'm a sucker for accents), is utterly consumed by her research. (And for all you testosterone-driven males, she does strip down to her underwear in one scene.) Samuel L. Jackson goes about saying his lines as president of a pharmaceutical company. I just love the way Michael Rapaport talks he's welcome in any movie. LL Cool J deftly provides the comic relief and was clearly the audience favorite. Sure, there are some other characters, but pretty much everyone's one-dimensional, as expected.I think I've bashed this movie enough. It's time to get to the crux of the argument this is an entertaining movie. As soon as the movie entered the lab facility, I became completely immersed in the film. As the movie progressed, I didn't think about how long it had gone on and mentally calculate how much was left. Once the trouble started, the movie grabbed me and never let go. I was not perhaps literally on the edge of my seat, but no outside thoughts penetrated my mind. It's not that the movie is scary or anything; it's that it's suspenseful. Predictably suspenseful, but suspenseful nonetheless. There is one scene in the film (I cannot conclusively tell whether it falls nearer or the beginning or the middle because, as I said, I lost track of time) during which I sensed the ENTIRE AUDIENCE jumping out of their seats. At the risk of getting off on a tangent, the sharks were believable. And the speed at which they moved unnerved me. They did succeed at their purpose to keep a continual shudder running through my body. Let's just say you couldn't get me within ten miles of that facility.  Oh, look, I did get off on a tangent, just great. At times I of course found myself wondering why some of these characters were so unbelievably stupid in their actions, but it's all part of the fun. And that's what I ended up deciding about this movie it was fun. Blood-soaked, cringe-inducing fun. "},{"Title":"The Sharks ate the plot","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"84 out of 109 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Deep Blue Sea is one of those films that you simply cannot take seriously or you will go out of your mind with annoyance. It seems like the film makers thought about having a plot, but then they found they could have way more fun playing with the CGI Sharks (which are pretty good actually) The conversation between the film makers probably went something like this.'Hey i have a great idea for a story, we can breed super sharks with oversize brain capacity in the quest to find a cure for Altziemers disease' 'That sounds good, then we can have the sharks get out of control and add some action sequences' 'Yeah good idea, but lets show the scientific side first while we build the characters' 'Yeah of course we have to build the characters and set the scene, wow what's that over there; come and take a look what the special effects team have done it's brilliant' 'Wow that's really cool, lets have lots of that.''But what about the story and character depth' 'We could always show the sexy female lead in her underwear, i reckon that and loads of sharks and death will distract the audience enough and they'll never notice'And so Deep Blue Sea was born, and guess what? It's actually a good laugh and has wall to wall action, sharks and blood; and oh yeah! The female lead gets down to her underwear too, SHOCKER!Please accept my apologies for the rather corny review, but i felt it was very fitting for this movie.6/10 By the way Yes i did enjoy it, just in case you were wondering. "},{"Title":"Not that Deep, Just fun","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"53 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue SeaWith Die Hard 2, Cliffhanger, the misunderstood Cutthroat Island, the underrated Long Kiss Goodnight and guilty pleasure (but pretty damn good) Adventures Of Ford Fairlane, Renny Harlin has proven himself time and again as one of the most visually competent action directors around. I've always stood behind his work, I sincerely love most of his movies. With Deep Blue Sea, Harlin is in the midst of trying to keep his career going due to the low box office take of his previous films. The result is a movie that's on autopilot. An attempt to reclaim the respect of the studios and the audience with a slam-bang summer film that gets the job done easily, you just won't respect it in the morning.Maybe the largest problem in Deep Blue is the casting. Saffron Burrows and Thomas Jane lead the cast that also includes Samuel L. Jackson, LL Cool J, and Michael Rapaport. Both Burrows and Jane give what can only be described as seriously lacking performances. As the members of a science and research team in a state-of-the-art ocean facility off the coast of Baja, Mexico, the crew is in the midst of a study on sharks. The sharks hold the key to a possible cure for Alzheimer's disease and other brain dysfunctions(explained more thoroughly in the trailer for the film than in the actual film). The scientists have enlarged the brain of the beasts, making them smarter and faster. When a corporate executive (Jackson) arrives for a tour of the facility, the sharks begin an uprising that threatens the crew's very existence. Out in the middle of nowhere, the team tries to survive both the sharks and the sinking structure. Saffron Burrows is just the wrong choice for the lead scientist role. Her British monotone ruined a bad film (Wing Commander) and brought down a good one (The Loss Of Sexual Innocence). I don't believe she has that much talent besides her beauty, and her lethargic presence here directly conflicts with the high-octane action that surrounds her. Thomas Jane on the other hand, was good in the role of Dirk Diggler's drug-dealing friend in Boogie Nights. He seemed more alive in 30 minutes of screen time in that film than all 95 minutes of Deep Blue Sea. I'm a bit surprised that nobody mentioned the lack of enthusiasm during filming. For the lead role, the film needed someone who can burst off the screen with fury and charm. Jane has neither. He leaves the film all wet.Saying that Deep Blue Sea needed better acting might be stretching it a bit. This is a action film with plenty of thrills and many explosions. You cannot expect Shakespeare when you buy a ticket to this. Still, the script credited to three writers is very weak(I assume large parts of the story were cut for time) and the score by Trevor Rabin is the blandest, most perfunctory music to hit the ears in a long time. Hopes were really high for this, but all the bad parts add up quickly.Harlin's specialty is the action sequence. He's one of the few directors left who knows how to squeeze the audience just right. Deep Blue is filled with wonderful suspense sequences and a genuine amount of anxiety. The computer-generated sharks move with alarming speed and dexterity. They keep the patrons on their toes. I cannot remember the last time I heard an audience scream with fear. Harlin milks every moment for the most thrills. I was very tense throughout the film. Rare for a guy as jaded as me.The comparison to Jaws is very unfortunate. Just because the film features sharks doesn't immediately suggest a Jaws ripoff. We have had about 10 high school films with interchangeable plots and identical climaxes, yet nobody bats an eye over that. Deep Blue Sea stands alone with it's rousing thrills and deeply undernourished script. Jaws it ain't.It's hot and the summer is about 3/4 of the way through. Escapism with Eyes Wide Shut or Blair Witch Project is impossible. Deep Blue Sea feeds the good old need of action, action, and more action. It's summer entertainment in the highest order, and damn it, the thing works. Hopefully Harlin can rebound in the future with better material. For now, this is the best source of thrills for the summer. ---------- 7  "},{"Title":"Under the right conditions, it's entertaining","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"56 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw DBS for $2.50 on the big screen (cheaper than renting it on video), and on that day I was desiring nothing more than a dumb action flick that would entertain me for about 100 minutes. That's what I got, so I was satisfied. Still, under different circumstances (higher admission price, wanting something more out of a movie on the day of seeing it, etc.) I probably wouldn't have liked it. The characters were really thin - you hardly learned a thing about them, and they were pretty much interchangable. The dialogue was weak and cliched. The sharks - supposedly intelligent - didn't get much of a chance to show their supposed intelligence. The sets were okay, but still had a look to them that suggested that extra money could have polished them up. The characters commit some really stupid actions along the way.Wait until you are in the right frame of mind, and it's free or at a low price. Chances are then you'll be acceptably entertained. "},{"Title":"really good shark movie","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"51 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" i'm no professional, but i thought deep blue sea was an excellent shark movie. the sharks were scary, surprising and fast. i thought the casting was excellent (carter was a cutie and the cook was funny) and i really liked the ending...no matter what anybody says. i thought the plot was good and simple enough that you didn't have to do any deep thinking really. and there really wasn't enough time during attacks for my stomach to untense. the girl scientist's accent got annoying at times, but she was a believable character. i wasn't crazy about samuel l jackson's character, but he made it work...and did i add that the shark attacks were scary and GOOD!! i'll admit it...i JUMPED!! "},{"Title":"Better than SOME People think","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"45 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is a lot better than people seem to think. Its a good shark movie, but completely different then the more sedate Jaws and some of the scenes are actually quite scary. When i first watched this i must have been 9 years old and i WAS scared. It has humour, shocks, action what more could you possibly ask for? Who cares about a complicated plot, this is a popcorn blockbuster which you will enjoy for 1 1/2 hours. The simple plot works (scientist finds cure for Alzeimers in sharks brains, unfortunately sharks brains are too small for the drug to be widely produced so the scientists create genetically modified sharks that are bigger so therefore have bigger brains. Unfortunately (again) the sharks get smarter and etc. Also this gets 5.5 out of 10 and Deathwatch gets 5.6 out of 10, no way is that very poor excuse for a horror film is better then this shark infested tale "},{"Title":"Just when you thought it was safe to go into the video store.","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"32 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" If 'Jaws' and 'Alien' had a baby, that baby would probably look a lot like Deep Blue Sea', a big, loud, dumb action movie that doesn't try to pretend to be anything else. It's short on logic, the dialog is dumb, most of the actors don't seem to be trying very hard, and the science is dubious at best, but despite all that, 'Deep Blue Sea' manages to entertain.The plot of the movie is simple a group of scientists at an undersea research facility are on the verge of discovering a cure for Alhzheimer's disease. How? By meddling about with the brains of live sharks (don't ask). Things are going swimmingly, until Mother Nature grows tired of having some of her creations tampered with. One typhoon and several gratuitous explosions later, the scientists find themselves cut off from the surface of the facility and at the mercy of a group of sharks that are smarter than the average fish. It seems that those meddling scientists made the sharks smart, and they're about to pay for their folly. With the base flooding and sharks roaming the corridors, the survivors find themselves in a race for survival.For the most part, 'Deep Blue Sea' works fairly well, and there are some good jolts and action sequences, but at the same there's nothing here that's particularly fresh. However, there is one death that is so unexpected and surprising, you might find yourself hitting the 'back' button on the DVD remote to make sure you weren't seeing things.'Deep Blue Sea' is not an actor's movie, but most of the cast acquits itself fairly well. Rapper LL Cool J does a good job with what could be a clichéd character (the religious man who struggles with his faith under dire circumstances), and injects the role with humanity and humor. He also has a very memorable encounter with a shark in a kitchen. Thomas Jane has the 'action hero' part, and he's solid, but unspectacular. Saffron Burrowes is okay as the lead scientist, and she's not above stripping down to her undies if the situation calls for it. But once again, no one will be watching 'Deep Blue Sea' for the acting. The sharks are the stars, and everyone involved with the movie knows that.'Deep Blue Sea' is not a classic movie, but it delivers in its own modest way. If you can't get enough movies about people and the sharks that eat them, you can do much worse than this. "},{"Title":"Good laughs make up for its lack of terror.","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"33 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Deep Blue Sea is really more of a satire than anything else, despite the frightening image on the DVD cover. As you view this film, you will notice the tendency of the better actors to become shark food before the lesser ones. This actually leads to some pretty good surprises along the way.The plot centers around a group of scientists trying to genetically engineer the brains of sharks to help find a cure for Alzheimer's Disease. All they end up doing is making a trio of hungry sharks smart enough to hunt in packs and wipe out most of the humans in the underwater facility. The film has plenty of stomach-churning gore, but the humor of the film makes it easier to take. The film was directed by Renny Harlin who usually knows how to pace his films, and his skill is on display here with this one.The acting is not very memorable since basically all those who can act are gone before the end of the first hour. Thomas Jane (Boogie Nights) and LL Cool J are pretty much the heroes, and they do as well as they can within the limitations of the script. The film could have used a better title, in my humble opinion. Deep Blue Sea sounds almost like some romance film you might find on Lifetime or some women's network.BIG SPOILER As far as the biggest highlight of the film is concerned..... well, let's just say I have nothing at all against Samuel L. Jackson. I could, however, count on one hand the number of times I've laughed harder at something in a movie than I did after his death scene. That was unexpected, and hilarious. Anyone who claims they saw that coming is full of it.Deep Blue Sea is a fun movie. It's well-paced, has some thrills, and may keep you guessing. It's certainly no classic, and you won't remember much the next day after seeing it, but you could do much worse for a night of movie-watching.6 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Tense and underrated film from an under-appreciated director.","Date":"17 August 2008","Score":"28 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The premise of many movies can usually be crudely approximated by saying that it is *insert movie title here* meets *another movie title*. Sometimes you can put in a via *yet another movie title* at the end for additional detail. If that's the case, then this movie is simply Jaws meets Aliens via Godzilla or Jurassic Park. It is a very simple premise. But this movie is all about the execution.And the execution is very good. Nicely done elaborate sets, tense pacing, and some truly heart-pounding moments as scientists who have become trapped in an underwater, and slowly sinking deeper, facility try to make it out alive. The science is perhaps a little less fascinating that the science (or, rather, science-fiction) of Jurassic Park, and the science aspect of the film is kept to a minimum as this film is all about suspense. And it knows it, and as a result, that is just what it serves.Directed by the quite underrated Renny Harlin who has never had too much success after the smash sequel to Die Hard and the reasons are all beyond me. He directs great action scenes that make use of a variety of techniques and not just the quick frenetic cutting that other action directors seem to love. He really captures the motion of the action that is happening, and he manages to do it in a nice graceful fashion, which is ironic in capturing utter chaos. But that is really no matter since it works wonderfully. A scene where a helicopter crashes resulting in a tremendous explosion is a terrific example of this and it only gets better from there. Despite some corny story elements (this is an action movie, remember) and some glaringly obvious CGI (I don't think they dared use real sharks for some scenes!) it is still entertaining since the clichés are not there to the point of insult. In an action movie, clichés are inevitable, since the focus is on action and not deep plot. Many films fail at this by providing an assault on the senses for action, lame attempts at drama (that can be side-stepped in an action film with some cliché), and unrealistically badass characters. Sure, an action hero has got to be badass to a point, but some are just plain old silly since it totally conflicts with the drama they a film often tries to inject into its characters. Harlin has a knack for realizing this and offering great action/suspense and an acceptable level of cliché that is just part of the genre. --- 8/10BsCDb classification 13+ --- violence/gore "},{"Title":"A CGI Masterpiece","Date":"19 April 2008","Score":"32 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is true but that doesn't mean it was a great movie. The effects were just simply great, especially for a shark movie. Definitely ahead of the Jaws series and almost everything else in terms of effects.The directing was not great but it was not bad. Harlin does enough to keep you entertained the whole movie but that is about it. Don't expect some Spielberg Jaws masterpiece. What pushed it to above average was the one kill scene that you will never see coming. His directing probably made it more funny than scary. That is not horrible though. I won't say who though. The acting was average. This is not a superb cast but that shouldn't be too shocking if you look at the storyline. Nothing else is really worth talking about in the technical aspects.Just watch it and you will see why it is just a CGI masterpiece. "}{"Title":"Definitely the best Shark movie since Jaws.","Date":"3 October 2012","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I've always enjoyed Deep Blue Sea since I was 9 years old. It's just so much to watch.Basically, in the middle of the ocean..hundreds of miles away from anything..you have a special scientist lab to experiment on sharks. You have people doing experiments on them to change the way their brain cells think. Trying to make sharks think differently and make them smarter etc. For example, the whole plan was to make the sharks smarter, meaning, they wouldn't mistake seals for humans and wouldn't come near humans ever again. But, unfortunately, instead, it was the opposite, the sharks got smarter on how to catch and kill the human. The whole plan backfired.Now, in the middle of the sea, in the middle of nowhere. These sharks break into the scientist lab and the whole lab is now flooded with water and they are all now racing to stay one step ahead of these 3 sharks.The acting (especially from LL Cool J) is really good. Not the best acting ever, but definitely real and incredibly down to earth.And I have to say this now, it had the most original ending i've possible ever seen. Finally, a film where all the women die and a film where a black man survives! That, to me, is just fantastic, cause you hardly ever see that. I give Deep Blue Sea 8/10. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good Movie","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I thought Deep Blue Sea was one of the best shark movies created. I was very fascinated by the scientific part of the movie. The basis wasn't just on terror and blood. I think there's a real personal side to it for the lead character. She had watched her father suffer for years, and that drive and desire to prevent the same thing from happening to so many others gave the movie the obsession that it had. I found it refreshing that this movie had a woman obsessed with helping others instead of some risqué character obsessed with sex or violence. However, the other characters were not introduced to well. You never really found out anything about them. There were some suggestive hints about Carter having a background, but it was as if the movie left you hanging, or you got to make up whatever happened yourself.There were some bad points as well. Firstly, the relationships between the characters weren't consistent. One minute, it would seem that certain characters were just acquaintances or co-workers, and the next, they seemed to be such close friends. Though, I suppose a tragedy like that would have that effect on people. The other fact that gets me every time I watch the movie is how many times Carter falls down! Yes, sometimes it's unavoidable, but then, others, you can tell he randomly jumps and slides away. Every time they try to do anything, Carter is falling down. Also, what gets to me each time I see the movie is when the stretcher hits the window. All the cast members stand there watching. I know that if I were the room and that first chunk of glass had flown from the window, I wouldn't wait and see what happens next--I would have been running for the door long before they did. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Shark romp","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Deep blue sea is without a doubt the best Shark film since Jaws. Since Jaws Shark films have been generally poor with the jaws sequels and lame shark attack movies proof of that. Deep blue sea does buck that trend but it itself is no classic, rather a mildly intelligent hunk of fun. The story whilst not completely cardboard is pretty simple, A group of researchers are testing on sharks in the hope of curing alzimers. They are doing their testing in a marine labratory and Samuel L Jacksons character has come to check up on their research. Disaster strikes and the sharks break into a flooded research centre and the group attempt to escape. The acting is average at times worse, but that is not what we've come to see the film for. It's the sharks and they are nasty and very cool looking. They have become super intelligent through testing and are maybe the deadliest we have ever seen on screen. The film has faults but it remains highly entertaining and is an effective thriller in its way. "},{"Title":"A survivalist's dream!","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A team of doctors, scientists and other professionals are sent to a remote research facility to study sharks in the hopes of finding a cure for Alzheimer's disease. But the Bio-engineered sharks soon use their newly acquired intelligence to try and outsmart their human counterparts. One by one the team, a cast that includes Michael Rapaport, LL Cool J, Samuel L Jackson, Saffron Burrows amongst others, begin to be eliminated one by one as a struggle for survival begins when the sharks sabotage the facility by causing it to deliberately flood so that they (the sharks) can escape into the open sea. I thoroughly enjoyed the suspense and thriller aspects of the film, it wasn't too gory (compared to some other films) but the script as well as certain situations were very annoying and not to mention predictable. "},{"Title":"Hidden Pleasure","Date":"16 September 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Im going to keep it short.This movie should be awful, but actually it is really entertaining, whenever it is on TV I watch it without hesitation. Not the best special affects or acting for that matter. LL Cool J's acting is like the movie, poor but entertaining.Overall the movie isn't the best, but it is definitely watchable and thoroughly entertaining, it keeps you wanting to watch more because its very action packed.If first time watchers are reading this, I would say definitely watch it. ) "},{"Title":"not bad","Date":"3 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Bought it and loved it! OK, we have Burrows trying to cure a disease and she makes her sharks killer!!! Then, they unpredictably escape and kill people!! So unpredictable, right?! Of course.And sacrifices her self to the shark!!! Boo-Hoo! And some blonde guy keeps acting heroic and a stupid blonde, named Janet, moans because some guy named Jim dies when his arm was bitten off! Overall, it is an super!!! action packed thriller!!! 10/10 stars!!! the cgi and mechanical sharks are better than the Jaws one!!! Yay! I think this is one of the best shark attack films ever made!!! You should rent this great film!!! I will never forget this movie!!! It's just so great!!!Of course, 10/10 stars!!! "},{"Title":"Super Intelligent Sharks + People Running for Their Lives + LL Cool J = Great Entertainment!!","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I'm sorry, but I loved this movie!!  In fact, I thought it was even better than Jaws!!  I know I'll get a lot of flack for saying that, but that's just my opinion.  Deep Blue Sea had to be one of the best films of 1999.  The situation the scientists and other people in the facility had to face was interesting, and since the movie was action packed, I was never bored. These sharks really were a threat.  For one thing (**slight spoiler**), they had enough intelligence to wipe out every human being in the facility and be set free, and secondly, their massive size and strength was enough to make sure their plans were carried out.  I have to admit, some of the special effects were bad, but the overall movie was great.  Even though the sharks made the movie exciting, and Samuel L. Jackson's performance was great, the best thing about this movie was the ever-so-fine LL Cool J (the fact that LL was in this movie is what got me interested in it in the first place). This is the movie that really catapulted him into films.  In fact, almost every movie critic gave him praise for this film, and he deserved it.  He stole every scene he was in.  This movie and the movie In Too Deep were his best films.  So, if you want to see a lot of action, gore, jump scenes, or if you want to just see LL Cool J in a good role, go out and see this film. Bye!! "},{"Title":"Renny's comeback... Good work","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie last summer and it was very enjoyable summer flick.. I went to see it mainly because of the director Renny Harlin which is one of my favorites. It was really good movie for a long time from Harlin ...well at some points actors didn't act very smoothly and the best actors of the movie were LL Cool J and Samuel L. Jackson... But the directing work was really great and I'm looking forward to see Renny's formula one movie... I recommend Deep Blue Sea to anyone who likes to see good action with nice special effects but remember to switch your brains off before you push the play button ;) "},{"Title":"I'm now a true Renny Harlin fan","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie put me directly in the Renny Harlin camp. Some might argue that is was too derivative of Jaws; but I would disagree. Renny used Jaws as an influence and created a very engaging fresh story... that stretched Jaws a little farther... in that the story provided a reason for the sharks to attack. And, believe it or not, I thought the sharks looked a lot more menacing than the one in Jaws. I am not sure why Renny gets such a bad rap on this site. Every movie I have seen of his delivers what it is suppose to deliver wall to wall action, and likable characters( though not too deep) that we can all root for. I look forward to his future films. I think he is the best of the popcorn directors, and hope other aspiring directors follow his lead. "},{"Title":"Exciting, but in a dumb way.","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A very short summary of Deep Blue Sea might go something like dumb plot, dumb dialogue, dumb characters, dumb situations, pretty good suspense. And that would more-or-less be that. If you like being jolted out of your seat, this movie contains five or six moments that genuinely deliver. That said, if you like movies with a certain level of intelligence and credibility, you might just as well watch an episode of Road Runner (which would be twice as believable and ten times shorter!) It's a fair comment to say that Deep Blue Sea is the very epitome of the no-brainer popcorn flick.A team of scientists working on a cure for Alzheimer's disease have tampered with the genetics of Mako sharks in an effort to speed up their research. Team leader Dr. Susan McCallister (Saffron Burrows) is horrified to learn that her project is about to be shut down so, in an effort to buy more time, she invites one of the main financial backers, Russell Franklin (Samuel L. Jackson), to her oceanic research facility Aquatica to see for himself how close she is to a breakthrough. It quickly becomes apparent that Dr. McCallister's meddling has had an unusual effect upon the three Mako sharks at the facility. She herself admits that as a side-effect, the sharks got smarter. Before long, Franklin, Dr. McCallister and the rest of the research team - chef Sherman Dudley (LL Cool J), Jim Whitlock (Stellan Skarsgaard), diver Carter Blake (Thomas Jane), Tom Scoggins (Michael Rappaport) and Janice Higgins (Jacqueline Mackenzie) - find themselves being hunted by the three hyper-intelligent sharks. And, following an accident which submerges almost the entire research centre, their chances of survival look slim to say the least.... as the sharks smash into the place and glide ominously through the waterlogged corridors in search of human prey.Deep Blue Sea is a very contrived film. The script team of Duncan Kennedy, Donna Powers and Wayne Powers have gone significantly out of their way to devise a sequence of events that manoeuvres the protagonists into danger. The problem is that the whole chain of incident that leads to the submergence of the research facility, and the extra threat posed by the sharks, is too artificially engineered and too low on credibility. No-one seriously buys the idea of accelerating a shark's brain power to cure Alzheimer's. No-one seriously buys the idea that the sharks would consequently develop a desire to kill victims in a pre-meditated manner. Yet the film asks us to take these plot developments oh-so-very seriously (or, at least, there's not enough evidence to suggest that a tongue-in-cheek approach is being employed). Performance-wise, the film asks little of its cast and that's exactly what they give it. There's a little macho posturing, and a few bravura speeches, and that is more-or-less it. The special effects vary in quality, with some good explosions and shark shots, while the actual shark attacks/killings look laughably fake. The one department where Deep Blue Sea IS effective is in its ability to generate sudden moments of shock. The death of one character after delivering a rousing heroic speech is particularly well-disguised (I'm not saying who, but I'll wager that it'll jolt you pretty good on your first viewing of the movie!) Throughout the film there are similar moments where suspense is nicely created and the pay-off - the scream-out-loud-moment - is well timed. Deep Blue Sea is good for a few scares, but fairly mediocre on other levels. "}{"Title":"My favourite Fin brings us a fin movie, with great results.","Date":"13 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Renny Harlin, no matter how many times I try to get him crowned as the king of fine, dumb fun it seems that there are far too few people in agreement with me. Well, get ready to disagree once again because here is yet another slice of brainless greatness from the man and it's one of my favourite movies from his fun oeuvre (second only to The Long Kiss Goodnight for sheer amusement).In a deep sea facility, some brainy folk are harvesting protein compounds from the brains of sharks to help find a cure for mentally degenerative diseases. Unfortunately, their work has made the sharks stronger and smarter and those bad boys want to get their revenge, or so it would seem.This movie is just great, great fun. The main plus point here is how the sharks end up in an unusual environment (ie, the flooded facility allows them to end up gliding through corridors, get into elevator shafts and even visit the kitchen. No killer shark movie can really be watched without sitting in the long, long shadow cast by Jaws and Harlin acknowledges this with a few nice touches (e.g. the licence plate taken from the jaws of one shark, the methods used in trying to kill the sharks) which, for me, is absolutely the way to do things as opposed to trying to ignore this obvious fact.The movie is really only let down in the acting stakes. Okay, the visual effects aren't always top notch but there are many moments that get by with sheer enthusiasm and additional practical effects so that is not a major issue. The acting, however, is and we have to ask Saffron Burrows and Thomas Jane to step forward and take the honours there. Playing the nominal leads, though this movie really belongs to the sharks, it's a shame that they have no real charisma or actual talent on display here. Burrows, especially, is dangerously vacuous. Samuel L. Jackson is fun in his role, Stellan Skarsgård also does okay, Michael Rapaport doesn't offend and the other ladies (Jacqueline McKenzie and Aida Turturro) don't really have enough screen time to cause major problems. LL Cool J isn't too bad but his character is far too obviously built up beyond what he should be, though there are times when he's fun to watch.So it doesn't have the best script in the world, suffers from some poor acting and has variable FX throughout but that doesn't matter because when all is said and done this is a big bundle of fun about killer sharks and does exactly what it sets out to do. It's a great creature feature and a fun big-budget B-movie for those who can switch their brains off and just enjoy.See this if you like Jaws, Jaws 2, Malibu Shark Attack. "},{"Title":"Good old fashioned watery thrills!","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is not as bad as some have made out. It does have some genuine shocks, it is fast moving and the premise isn't bad.The moral of the tale is very obvious. Do not mess with nature, nature will fight back. Three large smart mako sharks definitely do fight back. As Blake says, you've taken God's greatest killing machine and given it will and desire, you've knocked us to the bottom of the food chain! The scientist character who thinks narrowly, and focuses solely on her desire to wipe out Alzheimers' without ever considering the dangers of the side effects she is creating by enhancing the brain of the shark. Yes, it is an obvious message, but how often has science done something because it could, without ever considering whether it should! Objections have been raised because the movie raises the profile of the shark in a very bad way. The shark is an animal, and it is made quite clear that the shark's desire is freedom, and to achieve that freedom, the sharks have worked out a plan. Which is a direct by-product of Dr Susan's experiments, so I really don't understand that argument. In the character of Carter Blake, the shark wrangler, you are offered a much more sympathetic view of the shark and it's natural motivations than in any other shark movie I have seen so far.You can accept this movie purely on the thrills and spills level, or you can see something a bit more thoughtful in it, which ever way you look at it, it isn't a bad way to spend an evening. "},{"Title":"The Poseidon Adventure with sharks.","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A group of people studying sharks way out in the ocean get more than they expected- the sharks have turned evil, huge, and smart.This was 3 things A gory shark attack movie, a flashback to 70s disaster movies, and a fast action movie.Rated...As a Gory Shark movie= The kills were great. It was like the writer said Okay, lemme think of the kills before writing the movie, to make it original and he did a good job. There are two looks for the sharks When they're just swimming around they look great. But when someone's in they're mouth it turns to crappy CGI.A flashback to 70s disaster movies= The bunch of sub-plots are so-so, like LL Cool J's love of birds, Samuel L. JAckson's past experience with death, the scientists blaming each other. It's all great and what you don't expect WILL happen.An action movie= The action was great. LL Cool J's chase scene in the kitchen was great and the rest of the movie is too.But I only gave it a 6/10. Why? Well, the CGI threw me off, it got dull some of the times, and it seemed so bleak.But it's still worth a look and a worth entry in the killer shark genre. "},{"Title":"Quite enjoyable action.","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I first saw the film when it came out in theatres and as a teenager then, I really liked it. Even now after watching it again, I still think it's one of the best shark films I've seen. The basic plot may seem unrealistic and rather weird indeed, but the action sequences and the script are really original and intelligent. The ending, especially, is quite unpredictable and I appreciate it very much.Both Saffron Burrows and Thomas Jane look and act fine in this film. Burrows stripped down to her undies at one scene and I couldn't help appreciating her physique and also the screenwriter's excuse to provide us that. Jane is one of the low-key actors that I look for. This may not be his best work (in 'Dreamcatcher' he's quite good) but he did provide a strong male lead in the film. LL Cool J comes in a very entertaining role too.In short, the film is quite worth watching if the mood permits. Good water-action films are being scarce these days. "},{"Title":"The Finest Movie Experience","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In the last 100 years of cinematic history, there have been only a handful of movies that deserve to be called perfect. This film is one of them. From the startlingly original opening with a shark attacking teens, to the subtle conclusion with the shark getting blown up, I loved this film. Deep blue sea is a marvel of special effects, acting, and editing. While I was blown away by Thomas Jane's performance, I think the acting displayed by Samuel L. Jackson is on par with Heather Graham in Austin Powers 2 or David Bowie in Labyrinth. Samuel (l. Jackson) gives one of the most phenomenally riveting performances ever to grace the screen. When he gave his powerful final speech to his frightened companions I had chills. When Mr. Jackson was devoured by the well trained shark, I swear it was the finest scene ever created. Anyone who can argue with the suspense this film pours on its enthralled audience, is most likely blind or legally retarded.Deep Blue Sea (based on the 1997 graphic novel by Kuzo Teharri) pushes the boundaries of possibility, and gives the audience a visual hand job and doesn't stop until the final credits roll past the screen. There is nothing bad I can say about this artistic wonder, from LL Cool J's masterfully delivered line, You killed my bird, to the clever scene which finds the female lead almost naked, I was loving this film. I've read comments for this film that say the movie is, pointless, beyond stupid, and lacking any redeeming qualities. To the so-called movie fans who wrote those sacrilegious comments, I say, No way. If you don't love Deep Blue Sea, I can only assume you lack the intelligence, the soul, and the movie know-how to like anything at all. Some of you might question my opinion, but know this, I have seen over 20,000 films (many of them all the way through), and this film would rank somewhere in the top three of my favourite films, nay...the finest films ever made. So in conclusion, I give this movie five stars our of four because it is easily the best mix of action, drama, love, suspense, and comedy ever created and cut to perfection within its 90 minute running time. Each scene is crafted to perfection, the visual allegories layered in an amazing display of film making, complemented by the music which I would call the best music ever set to film. This movie makes The Godfather look like a snail and a crippled turtle having a footrace up a slope covered in fly paper. I nearly had a brain aneurysm when I heard that the film wasn't even nominated for best picture in 99. I can only assume that the reason was that it would make the American Beauty fans happy, 'cause god forbid we upset the teenagers. Well for anyone who hasn't seen Deep Blue, shame on you, and get your act together. For those of you who have seen this splendor, I know you will agree with me when I say that it was the cinematic equivalent of going back in time and destroying the original reels of Citizen Kane before its theatrical release. When I think it over though, even that falls short of this films momentous achievement that I feel was made for the few viewers who could understand and appreciate its shining glory. Warning- there were spoilers above. "},{"Title":"Bad movie with a great scene","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I watched this movie a couple of years ago, and then went out and bought it on DVD. Is it a good movie? No. It's not painful to watch and there are some good special effects, but overall I think it's a horrible movie. However, it contains one of the single funniest and best scenes from any movie, in my opinion.The scene where Samuel L. Jackson gives his rally the troops/we're gonna pull ourselves up by the bootstraps and make it out of here speech is fantastic. The slow zoom on Samuel's intense and inspiring face is wonderful, and then, BLAM-O! You never see it coming and it CRACKS ME UP EVERY TIME! I've watched the movie once, and this scene about 150 times. I recommend this movie to friends for this scene and this scene alone. "},{"Title":"Not a complete waste of time","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Knowing that Renny Harlin is the only noteworthy Finnish movie director in Hollywood is probably the only reason why I even bother to keep track on his stupid movies because even though in his own way he is an extremely talented in what he's doing (that is directing silly shoot-em-up's for a naive action-lusting audience) he certainly isn't the biggest genius among film-makers. Unfortunately his foolish, aimless and violent thrillers are far from being perfect.He has an ability to direct excellent, speedy action scenes with lots of destruction, blood, explosions, shooting, excitement and superb special effects but for some reason everything else doesn't seem to matter anymore. All of this seems so pointless when the movie has no meaning of any kind. Therefore his flicks are aimed for more simple people who want to shut off their brains and try to avoid all thinking while watching 'em. Harlin's movies are for innocent kiddies who are sick and tired of cartoons - for those little boys who sneak to watch these films at evenings after mommy and daddy are already at sleep.Well what is his best work? Sometimes even sadistic Cliffhanger (1993) was only watchable and the amazingly terrible Cutthroat island (1995) is obviously best to left unmentioned. His early projects Born American (1986) and Prison (1988) - ones he directed before he got some bigger name in Hollywood - were quite memorable and good but I guess in the end it's a tight battle between Deep Blue Sea (1999) and Die Hard 2 (1990). What I'm saying is, Deep Blue Sea isn't all that lousy.Samuel L. Jackson is probably the most well-known actor of the movie but it doesn't make the other ones look like less good. No troubles in acting department, that is. Movie is basically so full of worn-out clichés and stolen ideas from Jaws to Alien and dozens of others movies it's easy to find it irritating. Still, if it works it works. It's that simple. Deep Blue Sea has a nice, gripping script and once again Harlin gives the audience many thrilling effects, shocks and chases. It builds lots of excitement and keeps it up throughout the movie. Pretty good effort from Harlin but I guess in the end Die Hard's first sequel will remain as his greatest work. "},{"Title":"Renny Harlin must die","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had three screenwriters credited.  That was either one too many, or one too few.If you haven't seen this movie, you may ask yourself, Is this an honestly exciting action movie, with real Oh-Wow thrills (like The Matrix), or a big dumb stupid poorly conceived b-movie that's more fun to make fun of (like Anaconda).I hope you don't ask yourself this, because the trailers proved this to be the MOST stupid, idiotic movie of the summer, and if someone is reading this long after the movie has appeared on video, then please believe that you are not missing a thing.Renny Harlin does indeed specialize in the action sequence.  So does Jan de Bont.  So does Luis Llosa, who directed the very good Sniper, and followed it up with the painful The Specialist, which must have then caused some bemused studio exec to slip him the script for Anaconda, the Hollywood equivalent of sticking a Kick Me sign on his back.Harlin, Llosa, and de Bont made some good movies.  Then, oddly, they started making very bad ones, and more of them.  Deep Blue Sea, like 'Anaconda' and 'Speed 2,' is Renny Harlin's 'kick me' sign.  Renny Harlin is a good action-sequence director, thought the studio.  Let's give this to him.And the action sequences are very good.  A big computer-generated shark swims by very fast and eats people very fast, and then some very bad actors go back to reciting some very bad dialogue until the next person gets eaten.If you want to see people get eaten by sharks, go rent Jaws.  Or any of its 3 sequels, which are all better than this big stupid waste of money.Sharks don't swim backwards.  They can't.  Yes, that's right they can't, idiot, because it's PHYSICALLY IMPOSSIBLE.  Bigger brain matter or not, sharks have skin that is only grooved one way.  They're not BUILT to swim backwards.We increased the size of their brain matter, and as a side-effect, they got smarter.  Excuse me, as a SIDE EFFECT?!  No, genius, that's the main effect.  The side effect is creating the maple syrup that will supposedly cause dead brain matter to grow back in Alzheimer's patients.  Does anybody who would see this movie really give a damn?1 out of 10, only because the scale doesn't go lower. "},{"Title":"Great shark film!","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"25 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea is very good shark movie. The cast is different and the acting is good especially by Jackson.Thomas Jane and LL Cool J was good and the scenes between him and his bird were funny.Saffron Burrows is really a good actress and a very good looking woman!I was disappointed that the great talent of Ronny Cox didn't say not one word( The music by Trevor Rabin was great and the effects are awesome! I was surprised by who got killed and who lived. The making of Deep Blue Sea on the special edition was really good! If you like Jaws then see Deep Blue Sea because its just as good! "},{"Title":"Not exactly the most appropriate title for this one","Date":"16 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Jaws III references left and right, but the film is amusing in spite of (or because of?) them, as an underwater research facility experiments on genetically advanced, intelligent sharks. So genetically advanced and intelligent that they realise they are being experimented on, and don't like it, so they rise up, a la Orwell's Animal Farm.Full of clichés, which is part of the fun, this has some good surprises along the way, a couple of the characters meet their demise in inventive death scenes, one of which involves Samuel Jackson's character, in the film's biggest surprise.Might have developed a cult following, similar to what Sharknado did 15 years later, if the film had either better acting (to draw the audience in more) , or worse acting (to laugh at) , as the two leads (Thomas Jane and Saffron Burrows) are just dull, bland, boring; they're just taking up space, but nothing more. Third billed Samuel Jackson is mostly wasted in a secondary supporting role, and he is surprisingly killed off quite a while before the ending of the film.And for all of the comparisons to Jaws, the film is nothing at all like it. This is almost an action/ satire of shark attack flicks, with more hurricane force winds and exploding helicopters. "}{"Title":"The only decent shark film since the original Jaws.","Date":"30 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The problem with shark films is that, once you hear about it, people immediately think of Steven Spielberg's masterpiece Jaws. So how do you approach a shark film without repeating Jaws? The answer is Deep Blue Sea. Researchers and scientists harvest brain fluids from sharks for a cure for Alzheimer's disease, but unknown to the other scientists, Dr. Susan McAlester(Saffron Burrows) and Dr. Jim Whitlock(Stellan Skarsgard) violated the code of ethics and genetically engineered the sharks to increase their brain size, with the side effect of the sharks getting smarter and bigger. In a genre full of clichés, this film at least keeps you guessing here and there. What director Renny Harlin establishes is that anyone can die, the whole cast is expendable, and ultimately fodder. However, in doing so he at least allows you to get to know the characters before they're shark food, some more than others. One can understand why Dr. McAlester is so driven for a cure, but ultimately it's all her fault for the events that take place in the film. Thomas Jane is good in the role Carter Blake, who is a shark wrangler. He also somehow magically dodges every shark that comes towards him and rides on their fins like Aquaman. Almost unrealistic, but the movie is so fun you just kinda go along with it and Jane handles the actions scenes quite well. Plus he holds his breath under water like no human can which can be impressive, but again a bit of a stretch. LL Cool J and Michael Rapaport provide sharp wisecracks and provide the film's humor. Samuel L. Jackson also has a decent supporting role as Russell Frankin, the research team's financial backer.The shark deaths are brutal and unforgiving and may make some uneasy. The problem with this film is that, although the shark attacks are effective, it tries a lot to make you uncomfortable and it becomes too one-noted. Of course in a film like this it's expected. The whole time you have no idea who is going to die next, and those sharks are relentless and a lot more vicious. Director Renny Harlin effectively uses the timing, suspense and the element of surprise so kudos to him. The shark puppets look great, but the same cannot be said for the cgi shark effects, it's dated and doesn't hold up. Deep Blue Sea is pure popcorn entertainment. The film doesn't necessarily bring anything new to the table, but again it keeps you guessing and at times it keeps you on the edge of your seat. It's an effective shark film, and it tires to be a good film. That's something I can appreciate. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"A Cast to Die For","Date":"26 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Searching for a cure to Alzheimer's disease a group of scientists on an isolated research facility become the bait as a trio of intelligent sharks fight back.Screenwriter Duncan Kennedy acknowledged that whenever anyone mentions a shark movie, they naturally think of Steven Spielberg. The problem with approaching a shark movie is how do you do it without repeating Jaws? That is precisely the problem with shark movies. There have been dozens of them, but it all comes back to Jaws (even if Jaws was not the first). Luckily, they approached this the right way -- nodding to Spielberg and carrying on.Roger Ebert wrote, In a genre where a lot of movies are retreads of the predictable, 'Deep Blue Sea' keeps you guessing. From a horror-basher like Ebert, that is quite a compliment. But also, this one has the cast to make even a retread work. Thomas Jane pre-Punisher, Sam Jackson, Michael Rapaport? This is gold. "},{"Title":"This is one exciting movie","Date":"11 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Renny Harlin does it again--Another excellent film of his from the 1990's. This could be his best.It is not just the sharks that are the star of this fast-moving film, it is many other things--The excellent acting by the cast(with the exception of LLCoolJ who is likable but can't act), the CGI Sharks,the great musical score, and the amazing sets of this film make you really feel the claustrophobia, and the constant menace of the sharks and the water everywhere, adding to the fear of drowning as well'This is an exciting film with many surprises, and you will have a fun time watching it "},{"Title":"All right","Date":"12 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" You have a driven female scientist (Saffron Burrows) who is trying to find a cure for dementia of every kind since Alzheimer's killed her father. She goes way past accepted protocols. Of course this leads to the whole purpose of this movie, sharks killing people. Samuel L. Jackson plays the rich backer of the project and in his last speech before he is eaten he implies that he was a murderer and possibly a cannibal when trapped by an avalanche. LL Cool J is the cook and does a very nice job, his character even kills one of the altered sharks. When a chopper comes to rescue one of the scientists whose arm has been ripped off by one of the sharks it is pulled down and crashes into the structure. This causes all the ensuing chaos. The enhanced sharks are super smart and intelligently come after the survivors. It is a good thing they cannot survive out of the water and can not manipulate things!! As the remaining survivors struggle to get to the surface they must run the gauntlet of the two remaining super sharks. This leads to the death of Rapaport who is the tech weenie and has the structural plans in his head. One of the two remaining sharks gets electrocuted by Saffron, much to her dismay since she looses the only samples that are left. After a lot of terror and loss the few remaining survivors make it to the surface. With one remaining enhanced shark left the remaining survivors (there are three but LL is out of it) decide to kill it. They manage to do so and so after many deaths the story ends with those that have survived winning out. "},{"Title":"Absolute dreck","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" An intelligence-insulting crud heap of Emmerichian proportions. Genetically engineered sharks are apparently bred with the layout of the lab installation in their brains so they can bust down all the right doors and pick off their creators. Oddly, the sharks can break through steel, but have trouble with the glass in an oven door. Sometimes they bite right through their victims, sometimes the plot won't let them. In other words the film happily violates its own set-ups in order to stuff in another cheap action sequence. The dialogue is reminiscent of Ed Wood in its awfulness you've got to pity Samuel L. Jackson when he talks about murderous ice, and exposition is king, with maybe three lines having nothing to do with what's just happened, is happening or is just about to happen. The visual effects are completely unconvincing. The comic relief is a talking parrot. It's shite, is what I'm saying. "},{"Title":"Stupid, cheesy, illogical but god help me, it's a guilty pleasure.","Date":"8 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie when it came out in theatres when I was 13. I have to say at the time I thought it was the coolest movie ever. Had lots of action, some good humour, gory deaths and SHARKS! I've always wanted a more modern shark movie ever since I saw the first Jaws. Now that I'm 26, I have to say; this movie ain't it.The original Jaws and to an extent, Jaws 2 have really been the only solid shark movies to ever come out. Deep Blue Sea tries to put a unique spin on the idea of sharks and the concept is interesting enough. We have an aquatic research station in the middle of the ocean where they are holding three genetically altered Mako sharks. This movie puts its characters into an interesting position; their aquatic base is critically damaged and sinking and so they need to get to the surface. This addresses the common issue with shark films; you want to live? stay out of the water. These people had no choice. But this is also where the movie fails on the level of logic. The sharks are able to navigate through the installation as long as an area is half-flooded and they're able to sneak into rooms and wait for people. I won't bother with the rhetorical questions about how they're able to do this. Obviously this is just a dumb popcorn movie. But stuff like that always annoyed me. There's plenty opportunities where these characters HAVE to get into the water so why add scenes where the sharks have to seek them out in areas where the people are still partially dry?The movie doesn't take itself too seriously, the CGI is rather poor even by '99 standards. But overall the performances are pretty good by the cast who at the time were generally unknowns. So if you decide to watch it, know what you're getting into and just shut your brain off and enjoy. "},{"Title":"For the shark people","Date":"10 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" For people that love shark movies, this is in the top 5 best shark movies out there. Now, that does not make this movie great. For someone that is just looking for a random movie on netflix and thinks this movie looks cool, they think nothing much of it after watching it. No it is not great compared to other movies, but when you compare it to other shark movies, it is very good for its type. My point is you will probably enjoy it more if you enjoy shark movies. For me it is my favorite movie of all time. Now for the pros and cons.Pros Very good looking sharks, the models of the sharks look very well done, and the CGI isn't bad. The story was not hard to follow. The setting was also very well done, and looks nice. The story was believable (to me)Cons The movie goes into little depth when getting to know the characters, you learn almost nothing about them. When a person is attacked by a shark, the CGI goes from good to terrible. There are some moments when you could easily get out of trouble within 5 seconds, but the characters choose a harder way out. (Ex, when the marine biologist falls in the water in the elevator shaft, and the ladder is right beside her, she instead tries to grab for Carters hand.) Just because the con list is longer than the pro's does not make this a bad movie.As said earlier, this is a better movie for shark lovers, but people looking for a good movie will be entertained too. "},{"Title":"I like it!","Date":"19 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" So, with other reviews I've read, it is a 'laughable' take the pee kind of film, but I like it! I like it because I can laugh at it! The fact that Samuel LJ, one of the greatest actors gets taken out quite early in the film, which is funny and unexpected! But what I love is LL Cool Js scene, the 'black guy' surviving kind of thing! ''you ate my bird'' such a cool character! and me and my sister always laugh at the woman at the end!!! when she jumps in the water and says ''bait'' then goes and gets herself killed! silly woman! but bloody hilarious! LOVE THAT A BLACK GUY SURVIES! FIT ONE AT THAT! ) Im writing this review in 2012 after seeing it for the first time around 12 years ago. I was a child when I first watched it, so yea it did scare me and made me jump, but watching it now as an adult I still enjoy it, but find it funny! if it comes on the telly ill watch it, but I do not own it on DVD "},{"Title":"In a billion dollar facility staffed by scientists the smartest things around are fish...","Date":"28 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" How could boosting the size and aggressiveness of massive genetically engineered sharks ever backfire? That's the type of deep philosophical question posed by the thinking man's Deep Blue Sea.It also has a parrot that constantly utters PG swear-squarks.Let's not mess around, of course the huge scientifically-assisted sharks go rogue and start tearing up the remote offshore research facility named Aquatica. It's more a matter of who they kill, and that really plays to Deep Blue Sea's (limited) strength, the cast.Aside from a large woman manning the radios whose role is basically to keep telling the staff (and us) that a big storm is coming, everyone else in the cast is in a similar boat (so to speak). Aside from Samuel L Jackson &#x96; and let's face it he was in every second movie made in the 90s anyway &#x96; everyone else is familiar yet largely unknown.&#x95; Stellen Skarsgaard &#x96; The project Mastermind. &#x95; Saffron Burrows &#x96; A scientist. &#x95; Michael Rapaport &#x96; A junior scientist. &#x95; Thomas Jane &#x96; Dogsbody and diving expert. &#x95; LL Cool J &#x96; The cook. &#x95; Jacqueline McKenzie &#x96; Junior scientist, banging The Mastermind.If you had a look at a photo of the main cast you'd say Gee I know that guy/gal from somewhere at least 5 times. So when the shark hits the fan you're never sure who'll go first and how, which is really the only tension or uncertainty in these films anyway.The giant super-sharks are apparently 45 feet long but their size seems to vary to suit the situation, meaning at one point they can be attacking a stove door without success, the next they can be destroying a major door between passages with no trouble.Deep Blue Sea has one cool CGI assisted bit, it provides a momentary shock thanks to it being so unexpected, then it is over and we must put up with another 40 minutes of narrow escapes, holding one's breath underwater and moving through passages to escape from animals that are generally seen next to small piles of chips. Only these ones are the size of a caravan.Near the conclusion of the film we are asked to believe that everything occurring to that point was deliberately set in motion by three large fish. This includes several acts with unexpected consequences, occurring in a facility that the sharks couldn't possibly have seen nor expected to understand. In fact the series of events was so coincidental and unlikely that I can't imagine the screenwriter coming up with it in less than a few months.This means only one thing. Either the whole thing is a crock of sh*t OR the sharks had help on the inside&#x85; Now I've wracked my brain as to who might have betrayed human secrets to the underwater menace about the facilities' weaknesses and structural deficiencies with no luck, and it couldn't possibly have been a crock of Hollywood sh*t lazily pitched and fed to the mindless masses that attend these films each year &#x96; myself included &#x96; could it?Should it be a concern that in a film set in a scientific facility with numerous scientists and scads of high tech lab equipment that the three smartest things in the film are fish? I vote yes.Final Rating &#x96; 5.5 / 10. It's OK for what it is, but like fish themselves you'll forget it all 5 seconds after it passes. "},{"Title":"Oh boy...","Date":"2 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" To begin, I must state this flick is totally blockbuster, showing no believable special effect or innovation-- maybe some originality, since the reason they're dealing with sharks is quite new. In most shark films, young people are on vacation and decide going to the beach, and then there are shark attacks. But in here, a(n) (unethical) marine Biologist is looking for the cure for Alzheimer, so she remodels shark's brains or something like that. Unexpectedly, these mega sharks turn into intelligent animals and begin killing/eating everyone around. The rest of the film is pure action, explosion and never ending races for their lives that don't end much happily. Explosions, special effects, fake sharks and some blood are all it's gonna provide you. If you don't like this kind of film (like me), see Jaws, The Reef or Open Water instead. "}{"Title":"Popcorn","Date":"17 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I give it a 6 out of 10. It isn't terrible but it definitely has issues. Now I know a monster movie is meant to be around the monster. But many do have a cast you care about. A story a plot that matters. This movie is like a slasher movie. You don't really care about the people.This means that if they die well there you go.. they died. The plot isn't worked out well enough to keep stuck in your head. So it is about scientists fiddling with nature and things go bad. Over popcorn I am not going to complain about that. But that it definitely isn't a higher level movie is obvious.So what is good is the monster, nice sharks, nice big nasty nasty sharks. Love that! The acting is acceptable on a popcorn level again no Oscars. And LL Cool J in a movie.. yeah oh well! He isn't the worst I guess.You know that is the movie to me it isn't bad it neither is good it is great for a popcorn moment. I enjoyed this movie but I shall not put it amongst the great. Neither should it have to so if you are up for some popcorn, yeah again popcorn this is fine. I like it to Deep Rising. Check that one out! "},{"Title":"Really good if you ignore the connections","Date":"16 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Working on a cure for Alzheimer's, the crew of an underwater exploration facility learns the genetically-enhanced sharks used in the experiments are hunting them down one at a time after escaping capture.A pretty enjoyable piece, not without its flaws but there's certainly a fun time to be had. The fact that this is probably as best as the killer-shark-on-the-rampage scenario has been developed is the film's best asset, making full use of the facility and its surroundings to concoct a series of chilling, suspense-filled chase scenes that are just plain fun and are perhaps some of the best uses of this feeling, making these parts the film's true highlights, coupled with a series of rather fun and impressive action scenes that are just an absolute blast. The attack on the facility itself, from the attack at the helicopter panel to the destruction of the panel and eventual escape, to the action at the end inside the compound are a blast, punctuated with some fantastic gore in a series of brutal kills that are nearly impossible to ignore and just tend to come off as impressive no matter how stupid and seemingly unrealistic they would be, itself the film's biggest blunder. There's almost nothing here to suggest this is in anyway rational, from the methods of experimentation, the processes of conducting the research as well as just about every piece about the operation within, which are far from realistic and just tend to become aggravating after awhile due to the sheer logistical difficulties in examining how it's gone. Even the sharks look bad, the apparent CGI being all the more obvious in scenes where the behavior is so uncharacteristic that it becomes striking after a while. Overall, this is a fun film if you can ignore the rationale of it all.Rated R Graphic Violence and Graphic Language "},{"Title":"Enjoyably Cheesy","Date":"21 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Deep Blue Sea is a hard movie to review. On one hand, it's fun, its intense, and some of the acting is good. However, on the other hand, its special effects are laughable, especially the CGI, some of the characters are really unlikeable, and the rest of the acting ranges from just okay to bad.About the plot, there is actually a pretty good setup. A group of scientists are working to find a cure for Alzheimer's disease by harvesting the tissue of three genetically enhanced Mako sharks. Things quickly spin out of control and the group of scientists have to get out of their underwater prison without getting eaten. Without giving too much away the plot is actually decent for a shark movie. The character's cause is just, though I would wonder why they needed three genetically enhanced sharks when one would have done just fine. Steven Spielberg's classic film Jaws proved that only having one shark is good enough, so why they had three I do not know.Anyway, the story then turns into your traditional monster on the loose flick with everyone trying to get to safety while avoiding the sharks. Some succeed, most...don't. The moments when a character dies are absolutely hilarious because it is when the CGI kicks in and both the sharks and the people just look awful. You feel bad for the characters but it doesn't make the moment less funny than it is.As far as the acting goes, again it ranges. Some of the actors, like Samuel L. Jackson, LL Cool J, and Thomas Jane do the best acting in the film. Saffron Burrows and all the other characters are just okay, either they didn't have enough screen time or just paled in comparison to the three actors mentioned above.All in all Deep Blue Sea is an enjoyable movie. The occasional stupid moment don't detract from the intensity, humor, unintentional humor, and scariness the film has. For what its worth, it's not bad, but if you are really in a mood for a shark film, go watch Jaws. But if you already saw Jaws, give this a try. Just be prepared for some unintentional hilarious moments and awful CGI. "},{"Title":"Playground for sharks","Date":"20 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Some scientists decide to train sharks to do stuff, and build a playground for them off shore somewhere. It's a place where nothing can go wrong, yet something does, as usual. One guy in the group rides sharks like a cowboy and yells a lot while he does so. There's a naughty mole scientist who genetically drugs the sharkies, turning them into attack-machines. Sharks turned into killers? What will they think of next? Anyway, the smart sharks wreck a helicopter and it blows up half of the place; what's left of it begins to slowly sink. Now it's Poseidon Adventure meets Jaws as a group of scared folks try to escape the shark reserve, while the hungry sharks try to turn them into chowder.It's pretty routine. Characters get killed, one by one, as they work their way past obstacles. Usually just as they say or do something important. One guy is telling everybody to calm down and shut up; on cue, a shark comes along and shuts him up (permanently). Most of the film is like that, but there are enough action scenes and innovative shark attacks to keep things interesting.The female lead facing off with the shark in that small room is the coolest moment; the psycho cowboy vs. the psycho shark makes for a fitting finale. And things are wrapped up in noisy fashion as you hope for with this kind of movie.One of the better shark flicks. "},{"Title":"not as bad as it sounds","Date":"20 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" i liked this movie. it wasn't perfect but it was entertaining and the story was solid. i'm a big fan of good horror movies. this one isn't one (i did a horror movie search and found this movie) but its a solid action movie. it's not gross. it's not traumatizing like other movies(the last house on the left or haunted hill are the two worst movies I've ever seen, followed by the matrix of course and yet the audience loved these movies). if you are looking for an entertaining movie with good action (horror for the soft-hearted people) then watch it. don't expect it to be better than Jaws just because it has sharks in it. it's not. but it's really entertaining, sometimes witty, sometimes you get a fright. it's not as bad as it sounds. "},{"Title":"Great fishy fun (The Jaws of its decade)","Date":"27 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" With Deep Blue Sea, director Renny Harlin has made arguably one of the best monster movies of the decade. Although it owes much to Alien and Jaws, the film stands out on its own and delivers.Dr. Susan McCallister and her colleagues believe they have found a cure for Alzheimer's, but they have to prove it to their sponsor, the billionaire Russell Franklin. Submerged in a coastal lagoon is a elaborate research facility. Contained within its titanium walls are three genetically engineered mako sharks. A protein in the shark's brain, may have the potential to repair deficient brain cells. On the night of the experiment, things go miraculously at first when the team pulls of the test. Moments later, everything goes south. One of the scientists looses a limb, and the rescue helicopter that is called for gets dragged by wench cable from something big underwater. Crashing into the control tower, a giant ball of fire takes out all the computers and floods half the facility, giving the sharks a way inside. Following shark keeper Carter Blake, the team of scientists must find a way to the surface before they become lunch or the facility caves in from the weight of a million tones of ocean.Most monster movies are duds. The few that arn't are entertaining, but not always scary. Deep Blue Sea is scary, very much so. This is in part because the story is never too predicable and keeps its cheap shocks to a minimum. The forty foot fish are created by CGI and and full sized animatronics. Both work so well that at times you can hardly tell the difference. Although there is enough blood spilled in Deep Blue Sea to fill about a hundred bathtubs, The movie never really cries out for a heavily restricted rating. In fact sometimes it feels like Jaws was more violent.Some may look at Deep Blue Sea and interpret it as a warning against human overconfidence in biological experimentation. Today we are on the verge of being able to clone Mammoth DNA, but is it really our place to mess with nature? Of course this should probably be the last thing you want to keep in mind when watching Deep Blue Sea. It really is not a mind enriching film, it is pure fishy fun definitely worth checking out. "},{"Title":"Solid popcorn fun.","Date":"24 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Ah, I remember watching this on the theaters and having a good time. I mean, it was 100% popcorn fun. Do not look for an interesting plot, character driven subplots, or something serious.Just watch it for it's cool f/x, non-stop action, decent black humor, and some badass dialogs. Samuel L. Jackson and Stellan Skarsgard are the best actors in this film.The ending was pretty intense. Giant sharks have never been that spectacular when attacking.The CGI were pretty good but let's be realistic, when it comes about killer sharks, Jaws is the king.Still, a decent popcorn film. "},{"Title":"Frankly what can you expect?","Date":"18 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Deep Blue Sea is entertaining for what it is, a tongue in cheek horror film. Although Lake Placid,(the other big budgeted creature feature from the same time) had a hilarious black humor/satire feel to it, Deep Blue Sea's biggest fault is the amount of seriousness with which it takes itself. How can you truly believe that scientists have found the cure for Alzheimers stored in protein in shark's brains? Well that's what this movie tries to convince the audience.Unbelievable and hokey plot aside, Deep Blue Sea knows that it's not THAT smart so it doesn't try to push that idea too much. Instead, after the sharks outsmart the scientists and begin to flood Aquatica, the floating steel structure where the labs are in the middle of the ocean, we get about an hour and twenty minutes of brutal shark attacks and brain dead survivors trying to make it to the surface before the building sinks and the sharks eat everybody for dinner.It's so preposterous that it's wholly enjoyable. The animatronic/CGI sharks look rather obviously and dramatically fake in some scenes but for the most part they're hidden under water and it works well. When they kill people it's truly surprising and scary, most notably the scene in the elevator shaft when... well I won't ruin it for you, but there's plenty of blood and scares to racket up the tension until the big finale at the surface, which is the best part of the film.Renny Harlin has made a stupid but enjoyable underwater thriller that is miles above such crap like Anaconda and the countless direct to video (or Sci Fi channel) underwater predator thrillers. It's no Jaws but it's not half bad for killing an hour and a half. "},{"Title":"An Action Movie...with Action....And Suspense.....and Sharks....Nuff Said","Date":"16 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Let me start off by saying that I was born in 1991, I'm an almost expert in everything action and the like, and I have NEVER EVER EVER seen Jaws or it's offspring. But, I HAVE seen the title in question. When I was 9 years old, we had the best cable provider ever. A cable provider that came with a channel called HBO Zone. It was all the good, R-Rated movies that your parents forbid you to watch. I was awestruck. All those movies. At my disposal. Anyway, I digress. A film came along called Deep Blue Sea. A shark movie. I was nothing more than excited to see a movie that had sharks, babes, and...Thomas Jane! I'll tell it to you like it is. The film was amazingly cliché-ridden and poorly written. It's as if the writers of the film were sitting at home watching Jaws drunk off there asses taking another toke of the pipe when they thought of the cure for Alzhiemer's and decided to put it into a script. Only instead of miraculously curing Alzehiemers, they cured abso-friggen-loutly nothing. I think the only amazingly amazing thing in this movie was when Samuel L. Jackson gets ripped apart by a shark during one of his drawn out, uninspiring, and poorly acted speeches. I'd jump into the Pacific Ocean and get my ass eaten just to shake hands with a shark for that scene.Of course, the movie had it's good parts. Like when Saffron Burrows took off her wet suit. Of course, there was a bra-and-panty issue but it was still Jack Hoff Material. Michael Rapaport as a scientist and technological expert was very uncomfortable, but watching him cower like Rain Man after watching Jackson get pwned was a giggle-moment for me. Stellan Sarsgard was the only amazing actor in this film, and he got shot through plate glass AFTER getting his arm bitten off. Did someone shout Unwanted Overkill? I think so. And the woman from The Sopranos getting blown up was the second most funniest thing I've ever seen in a shark movie. Thomas Jane wasn't that bad. And when he wasn't slipping, falling, and jumping into things, he was delivering a plethora of action hero lines in that deep Southern accent that we all love. But the worst part ever? Having LLCOOLJ in the movie and then playing two of his songs at the end that had a backdrop similar to the movie. Kinda like the theme songs to cheap, Direct-to-Store Disney videos that your kids beg you for but never watch. It was a bad addition and it made me want to kick LLCoolJ for actually agreeing to write it. BAD LLCJ! BAD! All in all, the movie wasn't bad, not great, not good, not even decent, but not bad. I give the movie a big, wet 6 for poor direction, sloppy writing, but some great themes and action moments that left me going Did you Blippin see that blip!? If you haven't seen it, good. If you have, join the Circle of Shame.From the Reviewer's Square JP "},{"Title":"Nice one.","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I've seen this multiple times. As almost all Renny Harlin's movies, this is just another misjudged but good film. Several scientists are finding the cure for Alzheimer's disease, but eventually they get trapped in an underwater station - with sharks. Extra intelligent sharks.One by one they get into the sharks' teeth in the desperate try to get to the surface. This is, as the matter of fact - not a pure thriller. As in many movies like this, including for example the creepy Event Horizon, there is one person to always make you laugh. This time it's the priest, acted by LL Cool J. His quotes should be as famous as who's your daddy and I see dead people. One of the best was when he was throwing a lighter in a room full of oven gas and one of the sharks He rises the lighter and says calmly You ate my bird. If you like thrillers, you better watch this. "}{"Title":"Don't you just hate it when they violate the protium complex?","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Or whatever Suzanne McAlister called it. Another typical Hollywood version of playing in God's domain. Another thing is-I can't help but wonder what some critic's would define as a non-stereotyped or non-cliched character in action thriller movies. Critics of action movies(some) have almost become a stereotype unto themselves. The obligatory critic of a thriller is the one always there to say the characters were cliches.Not that there isn't some truth to it, but I think there's a tendency to overlook an assumed fact.The fact that intense action & deep unique characters both require creative energy to develop.That means time & money dedicated to each. So I hesitate to be critical of a movie strong in one but weak in the other. I think given the same budget, an action thriller won't have as profound characters. Not that it hasn't been done. The Fugitive, Airforce One, the Tom Clancy movies are all good examples of movies that excelled at both.The makers of this movie had a few things to juggle. Namely what to do about Dr Suzanne McAllister. Like was the audience going to hate her or be understanding  or somewhere in between? Unlike the narcicistic Dr. in Piranha  McAlliater had a defendable cause. Namely the hoping to find the cure for degennerative brain disease, which kills probably hundreds of times more people than her Mako Mutants could ever dream of doing. So for arguments sake, if her research were to lead to such a cure, it would be hard to not put that in perspective in any effort to condemn her.It's easy to believe that's she was trying to get at in her ..people we'll save. damage control responce to the confrontationOne of the things that interested me in this movie was the species of shark being portrayed. Namely the mako. Bear in mind, mako sharks in real life only get up to about 12' & about 1500#, not the 45' & 8000# achieved by the mutants in this movie.I suppose that could be a spoiler. Ironically-& maybe not so coincidentally-around the same time this movie was presumably being made, TDC's Shark Week had a documentory on mako sharks called Swift Smart & Deadly. In it marine biologists were exploring the theory that makos were smart by shark standards- smart sharks. Deep Blue Sea was about smart sharks & guess what species they were designed to look like. Oddly the tiger shark only had the markings of a tiger shark.It was given a mako sharks. body.Namely the conical snout, Long slender blade-like teeth & symetrical crescent tail fins. The tiger has a more typical shark profile of a somewhat wedge shaped snout & larger upper lobe on its tail fins. The real sharks the actors swam with in the short about the making of DBS look more like tiger's in body, though aren't as big & don't have the markings. Oddly, we were asked to believe that the sharks the actors swam with were blended with the mechanical & CG sharks in DBS. Though there did appear to be actual MAKO shark footage, the actors were NOT swimming with mako sharks. None of the sharks in the movie looked like the sharks the actors were swimming with. I question if the actors could have been talked into swimming with mako sharks. If They thought these sharks were scary to swim with, mako sharks are a lot fiercer looking & more unpredictable. It appeared that the shark exhibition they were with was trying to enhance the actors fear of sharks. The opposite of what most such exhibitions do. Again, it only appeared that way, & the editing of the trailor could have just given that impression "},{"Title":"Jaws vs Deep Blue Sea","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have read all of the other comments about Jaws vs Deep Blue Sea and no one has mentioned the biggest connection of all.  THE LICENSE PLATE THEY TAKE FROM THE SHARK IN DEEP BLUE SEA IS THE SAME ONE THEY CUT OUT OF THE SHARK ON THE DOCK IN JAWS. "},{"Title":"Jawsncrantz and Alienstern are dead","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Put Jaws and Alien into the matter transporter in The Fly, the result would be Deep blue sea. Scenes and plot are lifted entirely from each. In a way, it's amazing they could do it. How did they get the sharks into a haunted house setting? Mutate sharks with mudskippers? Nope, they brought the haunted house under water. The mechanical sharks are excellent but the computer generated versions are too quick and video-game like to be entirely convincing. This is just as well, since I'd rather not see realistic dismemberments. As such, the suspense it generates leads to nervous laughs rather than rapt silence and jump-out-of-your-seat fright.  Overall not as bad as some say, unless you expect something ground breaking. As a clone, it's a total success and should be an example in the dictionary under the word derivative. As entertainment, Bugs Bunny's Rabbitson Crusoe cartoon blows it out of the water for laughs and scares. "},{"Title":"Not a great movie but....","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea was not a great movie, but it definitely kept me on the edge of my seat all the way until the end. Thomas Jane's role was by far the best character/acted, the rest were questionable. I do have to admit that this was one of the first times I didn't like Samuel L. Jackson in a movie. His acting was bad and was not a good choice for the part. Overall, I enjoyed the movie due to its entertainment factor...it was full of suspense and some parts even shook me up. I gave it 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Quite the bloody film we have here","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  ***Starring Thomas Jane, Saffron Burrows, LL Cool J, and Samuel L. Jackson. A sea institution is testing a pill that can be the solution to Alzheimer's Disease.  Guess who they're testing it on.  Yep, sharks.  The sharks break loose when a storm occurs that practically sinks the place.  The remaining people inside must find a way to get out of the place before becoming a mere snack for the sharks.  This film is horribly bloody.  People get violently dismembered, beheaded, halved, and many other stuff.  The film is still a fast-paced thriller that kept me watching it.  I recommend this movie to those that can tolerate gore. "},{"Title":"It's deeper than you'd think","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Guys, it's not another one of those natural disaster flicks that wouldn't have actually have been that bad if the characters in them weren't all otherwise smart scientists who pick the worst moment in the universe to ignore evidence of impending disaster because there happens to be a historical exhibit downtown and they don't want to make waves! Well, it kind of is. But there is a heart to the movie. Meaning, the lead character does actually have a motive for being ignorant. The lead doctor had experienced the terrible side effects of alzheimer's first hand (her father) and therefore had reason to do....what she did (I don't wanna say anything to get myself blacklisted). And it actually is quite frightening at times--especially if you try to recreate the movie theatre effect at home by turning down the lights so low that you're running up your electric bill for no light and put on the movie with surround sound and convince all of your friends who are afraid of sharks to watch it because you told them it was really a musical!!!        However, the one thing that could ruin the movie and the message is getting too caught up on the unlikeliness of the situation or the at times, really fake appearances of the sharks!!!! DON'T FALL INTO THAT TRAP, MY FRIENDS. This movie took a huge risk by not only having a point (these days.....) but also showing the whole shark! Remember, Jaws.....parts of shark. So this is different. So take a deep breath and dive into the deep blue sea---but don't really unless you know what you're doing because you'll miss the movie if you're off diving somewhere where there are crazy sharks that are obviously more intelligent than you lurking. "},{"Title":"Pretty deep","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  *Small Spoiler*I don't know about this movie. The story line is a little stuffed, and the girl is really annoying for not letting the shark get shot (sorry if that spoiled anything), but the special effects are good. I guess when they're eaten it looks completely fake, but it wouldn't be too cool seeing them actually get eaten up. It's kind of fun, a little scary but it's not too bad. This is a good one for older people and people who aren't afraid of sharks. "},{"Title":"Wild sharks and entertainment!","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A quick comment to say that 'Deep Blue Sea' is actually pretty cheesy, yet amongst all this cheese is some entertainment. It's not as predictable as I thought it would be and Samuel L. Jackson, Thomas Jane, Stellan Skarsgard, Michael Rappaport, LL Cool J and Saffron Burrows are quite good in it. Funny it parts even under it's attempted serious premise, with 'Jaws'- style homages and very amusing characters. Not quite as cool as 'Deep Rising'- the other B-style cheese/horror movie in water, but Renny Harlin makes 'Deep Blue Sea' a fast-paced chewing gum horror that audiences/viewers shouldn't take too seriously. Not scary, but entertaining enough. Great use of an Albert Einstein quote from LL  Cool J's cook too! *** out of *****! "},{"Title":"Hey! It isn´t a bad film (7.3 rating)","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I think it is one of the decent FX movies of last years. Yeah, the story is not original (remember the awesome Jaws?), the actors are B-movie type (except Samuel L. Jackson and... the funny LL Cool J), the special effects... But I liked it.----SPOILERS-----It has very exciting moments and is satisfying The surprising death of Jackson (after the gossip), the not death of Cool J, the funny killing of the last shark...  -----END SPOILERS--------I don´t understand how many people rate it with 1, 2 or 3 because I think this movie is a real homage to Jaws (8/10).            7.3 For DEEp BLue SEa (It is Cool, Cool) "},{"Title":"Not the worst movie ever.","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, when I saw the advertisements for this movie I knew it wasn't gonna be anything really good.  Everyone who knew what this movie was about before-hand probably suspected something really cheesy, am I right?While, the movie was pretty damn cheesy, it was still enjoyable.  It has some of the funniest death scenes ever filmed (Samuel L. Jackson??? HAHAHA, fat lady blown away by exploding helicopter??) and LL Cool J was pretty funny (his relativity theory).Alright, it was no Schindlers List Or Godfather by a long-shot, but it was definitely not the worst movie ever (that goes to Battlefield Earth or House on Haunted Hill).  It accomplished its purposes; scared its viewers, brought up ethics on scientific research etc.  It's a crappy movie, but still fun to watch.  6/10 "}{"Title":"Action and fun on parade!","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  For everyone who likes to see a well crafted horror/ adventure movie The Best Renny Harlin proved once more his vein for directing action sequences, directing a memorable movie for its action proves. The most fantastic instrumental score composed by the grand Trevor Rabin; and the talented cast. The Worst LL Cool J's character as a bit overdone role, they abused the comedy factor with  him. The cinematography was also awful  based on green tones which looked very bad.Susan McAlester a ruthless scientist that is very pledged in discovering the cure to Alzheimer disease, which vitimated her father. The experiences to the cure are developed in a floating base, because it his believed that the answer is on the sharks brain so the scientists vaguely augmented to get more proteins, but by doing this the sharks got bigger, smarter, faster and meaner. Among the scientists team are Janice, marine biologist; Tom Scoggins, computer expert; Carter Blake, Shark wrangler, Jim, Susan's right arm (until the main experienceeh, eh, eh) and Russell Franklin experiencefinancer.Calling Renny Harlin to direct this movie was probably a nice touch as the producers seemed to be anticipating the final result of the film silly action, horror and adventure film, Jan De Bont would have been better though. But the better thing although was Trevor Rabin's score that very swiftly provides de action support to the sequences, helps very successfully building the tension. Pay close attention to this score its absolutely fantastic. The cinematography, although might have been the worst thing, it had the colors based on green which didn't help at all. The special effects may impress for the first time you see the movie, but afterwards you start noticing some inconsistencies. The sound isn't quite promising, nor brakes a new ground in sound industry (if you want a life time changing sound in a movie, see the Haunting) The movie was going very well but was a little spoiled by the ending a little mission impossible like I would say., but anyway it doesn't It  is still very very worth watching for the cast, music, directing, tension, action and horror scenes, jump scenes, pay close attention on the two main cast actors, Thomas Jane, (Carter Blake) and Saffron Burrows (Susan McAlester).8/10  "},{"Title":"Great fun","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie.There is nothing really special about the special effects, the story or the acting, but it's the thrill that kept me watching.Pros Adrenaline rush, great music and soundCons Acting of some of the characters, some bad visual effects, storyline, script,Overall I give this movie61/100 "},{"Title":"Succeeds despite itself","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I guess I find this movie strangely compelling despite itself. It's got the most cliched plot imaginable (scientists tampering with nature = bad who'd have thunk it?), cardboard characters, plot holes galore (so did the sharks plan the whole thing? If so, how'd they know the helicopter winch would jam?), scientific inaccuracies galore (sharks aren't build to swim backwards, no matter how smart they are), and cheesy f/x that make the Doom computer game graphics look realistic by comparison.Still, Reny Harlin has a weird sense of humor, and the characters are so exaggerated that it's hilarious. You can play Spot the Jaws references, or snicker at how Harlin undercuts Jackson's dramatic speech by having him eaten. In fact, this is just as much a meta-reference movie as Scream. The parrot gets eaten, in a tradition of horror movies where the pet always lives until the end even though its owners do stupid things to rescue it (see Alien for the best example). As Preacher says, The brother always gets it in this kind of situation. and Harlin undercuts that too by having Preacher live despite being dragged around by the shark for an absurdly long time.The water and underwater sequences aren't bad (as long as you ignore the CGI shark sequences, and the characters are just stupid enough to be believable as human beings (albeit really _stupid_ human beings).Overall, if you view DBS as a Scream-type parody, you should enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Good special effects","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Not a terrible movie, Deep Blue Sea is a decent flick for monster movie lovers.  Special effects are pretty good.  The sharks look a little more realistic than Jaws.  The unusual thing about this one was that the storyline was excellent.  That's atypical in this genre.  This was good enough to sit all the way through and had some relatively tense moments.  It's worth the rent. "},{"Title":"Chomping good fun!!","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film is a tremendously entertaining ride. It works because it doesn't take itself seriously, and because the logic of the basic scenario, if you accept it, is consistent.This movie manages to successfully embrace and reject all the typical action-flick cliches. People who you think will not get hurt do, and vice versa. There is one incredible moment early on in particular that is a complete and utter surprise - if you've seen this film, you'll know what I'm talking about. These kinds of twists and turn help keep the film going at a lightening pace.Highly recommended, but be forewarned - this film has some of the most grotesque, bloody, and violent sequences I have ever seen - it is DEFINATELY not for the squeamish!!10/10!! "},{"Title":"I thought it ROCKED! SUE ME!","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What more could I want? Big CGI beasts, fast-paced action, harrowing suspense, a few scenes that made you jump and just a trickle of gore make this one of my all-time favorite what insecure people call guilty pleasures! The previews got me really worked up and I had me a blast in the theater! I bought the DVD the first week it came out and got my brother (a serious non-believer) to dig it too! Great fun, no shame in it either! "},{"Title":"A Pretty Good Recipe for Wet Thrills","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Take a cup of Jaws, two tablespoons of Titanic, season it with The Poseidon Adventure and mix well.  Voila!  You have a pretty good wet action yarn Deep Blue Sea.  Like most of today's action thrillers, not everything makes sense here.  For example, three guys could not possibly close and lock a door against waist-high rushing water.  But never mind.  The movie is fun.  The sharks are smarter and meaner than those in Jaws, the biting scenes are more grisly, and the special effects are well-done.  The dilemma that faces the would-be survivors once they finally make it into the elevator shaft is gripping indeed. And speaking of wet thrills, you'll even get to see the gorgeous Saffron Burrows strip down to her underwear for a totally non-sexual reason. Though I've never been a fan of rap music, I'm constantly amazed at how many rap stars have become respectable actors (ie Will Smith, Ice T, Ice Cube, Queen Latifah, etc.).  This flick gives us LL Cool J, who turns in a good performance as the resident cook and preacher.  Not Oscar material, mind you, but solid enough to be convincing.If you like lots of action, it would hard not to enjoy watching Deep Blue Sea.  Then, just forget about it.  There's no message here, just fun!  "},{"Title":"Entertainment","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea is real entertainment.  Now...let's start with the action.  I found myself jumping out of my seat plenty of times through this one.  Predictable?  I think not.  This film blazed from start to finish with fun action sequences.  The acting is somewhat questionable, but I think it didn't take away from the movie's entertainment value.  The sharks show some effect problems, and they look a little goofy in the way they move, but I can live with that.  One very special addition to the film is LL Cool J.  He cooked up something great during his screen time, and his showdown with the shark in the kitchen was the best part of the movie.  He is really something great.  The end sequence brought flashbacks of Jaws of course, and I found myself comparing the two at some parts.  The big explosions throughout the movie were enjoyable and made me wish for the days of another Die Hard movie.  This movie itself is great to watch to pass the time and will leave you wanting more. "},{"Title":"Impressive","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I´ve been waiting for a new movie about sharks (Jaws) and i found it, the special effects, the music and the performances are incredible, i already bought the DVD and i´ve seen it 7 times and the more you see it the more you like it, and the character of Thomas Jane (Carter) is awesome how he handle in the water with the mako sharks, if you like a suspense,horror,action movie then you must buy this title i assure you will love it one of the best movies i ever seen thank you for reading this and  so long.  "},{"Title":"It's definitely not Jaws...","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Nobody can say that this movie didn't scare them.  This movie gives more than enough blood and gore and scares, and who cares about the boring cast?  Deep Blue Sea gives the audience enough to look at with LL Cool J, Samuel Jackson, and Thomas Jane...what more does there need to be?The story takes place on a deserted shark facility in Mexico, and the sharks are obviously computer animated.  Nonetheless, it is absolutely frightening when you realize that since the facility has flooded--this was obvious from previews and promotions--(also, the scene where the flooding begins is so action packed I forgot to breath) those extremely fast sharks are going to be lurking around...somewhere...and I guarantee you will not know where.Overall, this film is not a Jaws wannabe.  It's more original than that.  It has its own story and plot, and there is obviously more excitement since there is a trio of sharks rather than one like in Jaws.  What this movie set out to do, it did.  It scared the living day lights out of me...every shock scene made me jump.  I couldn't predict any of the startle shots before they happened.  However, you won't leave this movie feeling like you just watched anything as great as Jaws or anything as original as Scream.  Most people would probably feel that its cliche, but I know for a fact they'll leave it a little edgier than they had been before they watched it.Furthermore, do not watch this movie in the dark.  I learned this personally when I first watched it on video.  Watch it during the day with a few other people and you'll be alright.  I also want to note that this movie breaks the conventional female heroine standards with its turn of events in the end.  I did NOT know that THAT was coming.. But you'll just have to see this one for yourself.I give Deep Blue Sea a 9/10.  I'm a big fan of Samuel Jackson movies.  His appearance, and disappearance, totally light up this film.  If you like these action/science-fiction/horror movies I would recommend other films like *Virus, *Leviathan, or even *Leprechaun In Space!!!   "}{"Title":"This is 100% entertainment","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Hold on to your hat! The tempo in this movie is very fast! This is what I call entertainment! It´s extremely exciting och quite nasty too! The sharks are very cool and nicely made. The actors are OK, but who cares when you have 100% pure entertainment, a kick-ass tempo, cool cinematography and brilliant music!I think it´s better than Jaws, believe it or not. I have plans to see it at least one more time at cinema.I only say I love this movie! See it!  "},{"Title":"Provocative? No. Fun? Kinda","Date":"23 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Wow, it's been a long time since I actually was made to laugh out loud at how bad a movie is.The special effects are about the only redeeming facet of this movie.The dialogue was unbelievably low, the acting, albeit with a few exceptions, was just not reflective of the predicament in which these people found themselves (Alien series was much more successful in creating a sinking, grave feeling of impendingdoom)...In terms of credibility, it was just hard to believe. Would scientists working in such a situation perform the cranial fluid extraction in the way they did? It seems they were just begging for problems.And, hey, if the shark needed bait, fine, cut your hand (that's THE WORST fake blood I have ever seen!), but why not just dangle your hand in the water? Did she have to dive in, and did she honestly expect to be able to outswim the shark? Ridiculous. I could go on, but I've got a 1000 word limit!I went to see this film because I was interested in the intriguing on-going discussion of intelligence (artificial intelligence, animal intelligence, etc). I hoped to be engrossed in some serious ideas, and walk out of the theatre with some deep issues to ponder, somewhat like aExtreme Measures or Crimson Tide...On the other hand, hey, if you're looking for a fun flick with some nifty effects, some gore, and some spills and thrills, to go see with the significant other or the gang, see it. On that score, this is somewhat like the movie Anaconda (although Anaconda definitely had more fun stuff).When it comes to Deep Blue Sea, I guess I'll have to read thebook. "},{"Title":"Exactly what I've expected","Date":"23 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Telling the true, me and my friend went to see Deep Blue Sea because there was nothing else to see- we had already seen The Sixth Sense (great) and American Pie (horrible), both of them in two cinemas; and the cineplex was also showing The 13th Warrior and Blue Streak - we wouldn't see any of those two, not even if someone paid us for it. So that we decided to watch Deep Blue Sea. Well... It was exactly what I was expecting a commercial film, with bad acting and unbelievable. However, we and the audience we were with had good fun.Maybe the biggest problem with Deep Blue Sea is the acting. The actors may be not bad, but they are not the right people to the parts. Instead of Saffron Burrows, they should have put Sandra Bullock, Denise Richards or Mira Sorvino. They are used to this kind of part. The rest of the cast is also inappropriate and they should have also been replaced.It may be hard to forget the defects of this film while you're watching it, but there are some 'qualities'. There are some really scary moments and the sharks are really frightening. So, if you have nothing else to do, go see it. But don't expect much... "},{"Title":"Ha.....you thought it was safe to go back into the water!","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Wow! That's all I had to say when I left the cinema. I saw it on the opening day in the first showing and I was one of the luckiest people in the UK......to see this great movie before most others.To start with...Jaws it is not and never will be. Jaws was a classic because you didn't see the shark and it was more suspenseful. That was the scary part. The scary part about this was you actually saw the sharks! And a lot too. The Gen. 2 shark was absolutely amazing......a credit to its builders.Now the plot has come under criticism. The actors have come under criticism. Well what do expect with a movie thats main stars are the sharks? The plot wasn't that bad. If you criticise then you have to criticise Jurassic Park too for being so ridiculous. The actors can come under stick (except LL Cool J who steals the show). Saffron Burrows, while good to rest the eyes after a bloody death scene, isn't as bad as everyone makes out. Its just her British accent that spoils it. Thomas Jane was alright and definitely one to watch for in the future. Some have likened him to a poor man's Harrison Ford. Well if this does to Jane, what Star Wars did to Ford then we are looking at a good star. Samuel L Jackson does his part well. And the rest are just shark fodder so no one really cares what they act like.After a good opening scene (a real twist to the tale) it goes downhill for a bit but kick starts into life as soon as the storm hits (yet again similar to JP so if you criticise this then you criticise that too).Now I've read some of the other comments by people. Don't believe what you hear from others. I mean the facility is called Aquatica, not Argonautica as someone mentioned. They criticise the fact that the sharks can smash through steel doors yet not get through the wire fence surrounding the facility. If you were actually watching the film you'd know why.POSSIBLE SPOILERBecause the sharks want the humans to flood the facility so that the fence is below sea level and escape. Otherwise if they tried to get out then the fence would act as a net and hook them up. Thats why they don't just break through at the start.OK YOU CAN READ AGAIN......Stand by for shocks galore as the sharks pop up and out here there and everywhere. They attack with such ferocity and speed that you will never go into the sea for a while after this.This is the first and only movie I have seen twice at the cinema. And I've seen a lot of good films. I just can't wait for it to arrive on video.If there was one disappointment to the film (and I may be being a little critical and morbid) then it is the body count. I was expecting one or two more. But the sharks can't eat too many people and get so full they can't kill the rest now can they. And of course we have the obligatory bra and panties scene which is classic viewing in itself!Go and see this before its too late. Ignore the critics. Follow carefully and you'll get the big picture. I only hope that there were actually 4 sharks and not 3 and that the fourth escaped and bred..........................it could happen....it is Hollywood. I mean they resurrected Siguorney Weaver in Alien Resurrection. They created another dinosaur complex in the Lost World. Why not have another one? This time the sharks do get out into the sea! If wishes could come true. "},{"Title":"A shark is not a fish but a mammal......","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was able to watch this movie in August in Pazifica in San Francisco 3 months earlier than I normally would have seen it in Switzerland. After I had read some bad reviews of Deep Blue Sea, I was a little suspicious. But because I didn't know what to do, I decided nevertheless to watch it. On the whole I found DBS was worth the money but there are 2 things which are very bad. First, the underwater-animation of the sharks. It looks like a real-time animation of a bad computergame and is much worse than for example in Episode One. Second, the background of the scientific work was probably the most illogical thing I've ever seen. The scientists want to make neurological experiments to find a treatment for Alzheimer's. A serious scientist would take monkeys, which have, as the sole mammals, a great-brain-part or it would be at least reasonable to take other mammals. But the scientists in DBS take great and dangerous sharks which brains have practically no similarity to human brains. Wouldn't it be more logical if the army bred the sharks to use as organic weapons? I appreciate it when the background of a film is logical, otherwise I can't take it seriously.Evaluation 7/10 "},{"Title":"Breath-taking!","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Simply wonderful! I know some people bashed this movie, but most of them did it even before it was out. I know... SUPER-SHARKS does sounds like a stupid concept, but the movie works for me! The script is quite clever and everything makes sense.The shark are really scary and e-v-i-l. The movie is full of surprises and scary bits that caused the entire audience SCREAM at one point. Once the action starts it doesn't stop. One great scene after the other with a really cool climax.I also loved everything about this movie and I had a great time.  "},{"Title":"Two thumbs up","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I useed to be a fan of the movie Jaws, but after viewing Deep Blue Sea, I think the shark in Jaws is now like a cat. The special effects in the movie are very persuasive. And I would not like to be in the water with that kind of sharks. I saw the movie a couple of times now and I will see it again in the future.For those who are not sure, turn off the light when viewing Deep Blue Sea. "},{"Title":"This movie rules!","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  As soon as i saw the commercials for this film on television, i knew that i had to see it, i had very high hopes of this film because the commercials were good and i like action movies. One of the bad things about Deep Blue Sea is the cast, now i know that the director went for the lesser known stars instead of household names but the fact is that he chose the wrong cast....Saffron Burrows is very good in her role as the lead scientist but is a bit quiet and lacks the skill of making the audience actually concentrate and listen to what she is saying. Other then the mis-matched cast the movie is very good and keeps u guessing about who's going to get it next. I highly recommend going to see this movie as it will take you on an underwater roller coaster of thrills, chills and spills. "},{"Title":"A great popcorn movie!!!","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Ok , I know the movie might lack a bit in acting I.E Safron Burrows and plot, but it really is a good movie! I heaven't seen a good action movie in a long time and this one takes 1st place. I depends mostly on the action, but that action is INCREADIBLE! It doesent follow the usual pattern as do other horror movies such as I Still Know What You Did Last summer!. When I wathced the movie, I thought to myself that it'll follow the usual pattern of deaths, but after the first one I don't know what to expect! It was great! I was smiling throughout the movie with exitement to see who'll die next! The sharks were really scary too! They moved like torpedos and attacked in one swift movement, shredding their victim/lunch in the most horrible fashion, which I enjoyed imensely! I was pleased that they didn't use the cliched White shark in this movie. They've gotten a bad reputation all ready from Jaws. Instead they picked the really ugly teethed Mako shark! That was a good move to veer away from cliches. It was a great movie for reviving that fear of the sea! I also enjoyed the fact that my buddy was a set decorator in the movie as well! Lucky guy.  "},{"Title":"A quintessential so-bad-it's-actually-good movie","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is bad.  But it knows it's bad and doesn't try to be anything other than a cheesy, special-effects laden summer vechicle.  It has a refreshing lack of pretension--it's not trying to be the scariest movie ever.  I, proudly or not, was entertained, and that's what movies are supposed to do.  The writers/director did a good job in keeping you guessing as to who is going to get eaten next.  You can laugh at this movie, not with it, and it won't mind.  Furthermore, one of the death scenes is just pure brilliance (you'll know what I'm talking about when you see it). It has the requisite half-naked girl (Saffron Burrows) and the requisite half-naked boy (Thomas Jane).  The dialogue is, well, nothing important. But, who cares?! As long as you don't expect complex characters or an important storyline, and as long as you're just looking for 2 hours of entertainment, then this movie is for you.  Oh, and a word of advice, I recommend periodically saying land shark to whomever you're with. It makes the movie that much more special. "}{"Title":"Good movie, but it's no Jaws!","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea was a good, enjoyable movie which I liked very much. It's not as good as Jaws, but it's much better than Jaws 3 and plenty of other movies out there today! The three Mako Sharks are excellently put together, even though at times they seem fake. The storyline was good, but the body count was too high. Still, the movie is very good with an enjoyable storyline and even better action. By the way, LL Cool J is the best character in this movie! "},{"Title":"It isn't nice to fool with Mother Nature","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was great.  It broke every rule that you have come to expect from a horror type movie.  You can kind of predict the actors that are going to live but it takes enough turns and twists to make you rethink your guesses.  I have read the previous comments and would love to know where the Alien rip off idea came from.  There were not very many well known actors in this movie, but if you look up the credits for the cast you will see that they are not exactly no names either.  I like the idea that they used a mix of well known actors with fresh new faces as well. This keeps you guessing because no one is going to stereotype the actors from roles they have seen them in previously. It is unlike any movie that I have seen.  Yes Jaws (the original) will always be The Shark Movie but Deep Blue Sea is on a totally different level.  Jaws was a natural occurrence, Deep Blue is a genetic experiment gone wrong.  "},{"Title":"So far, the best damn popcorn movie of the summer, bar none!","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Sure, it's a formula picture.  Sure, the raw plot outlines are utterly familiar and predictable.  Sure, the scripted dialog is creaky and the characters are wooden.  Like I said, it's a formula picture.  The question with movies like this is not whether it's original.  The question is simply this  does it scare the bejesus out of the audience, or not?  Further, does it incite gleeful riot in the theatre by dangling its players before the fearsome beasts like live bait?  Does it surprise us at all? Do we jump out of our seats, really jump, at least once?To these questions, be assured that every answer is yes.A movie like this is all about sensation, just like a rollercoaster, and it must be rated on pure visceral power. Unlike the current release, The Haunting, which put me to sleep, Deep Blue Sea had me in its teeth from the first scene. And I do not feel guilty.  And niether will director Rennie Harlin when the box office flood of cash comes rolling in.It must also have, if not plausible pathos, some comic relief. And at least one or two winning performances that make us care enough to set us up for the kill.  Deep Blue Sea has, as it's two most memorable characters, Samuel L. Jackson and L.L. Cool J., who light this happy retread with humanity.  Jackson and Harlin must still be cackling after perpetrating the best screen joke of the Ninties, bar none.  You'll know it when you  see it, folks, and it's worth the price of admission.So, movie fans, take that nerdy friend of yours, the one who swears that The Blair Witch Project is Scary as Hell, to this gothic house of horror on the high seas.  Do not expect to see anything you have not seen before, as in the original Jaws.  But do expect to see it done, if with less realism and flair, with a much more powerful bite.PKL  "},{"Title":"Exciting!","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea won't top Jaws as the number one shark film, but it does provide some good thrills.  Sharks that have been altered start making meals out of their human doctors.  They swim fast, they chomp fast and they are mean.  The cast is good, and they are slowly whittled down as the sharks navigate their way through a sinking underwater lab.  There are tense moments and Renny Harlin pulls them off nicely.  Deep Blue Sea is a good movie to watch as a release from work or whatever other activity may bring you stress.  Good action escapism. "},{"Title":"Chomp-chomp!","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I heard some bad reviews for this movie but I decided to check it out anyways,nice I like the work of the directorRenny Harlin ( Die Hard2, and Cliffhanger were really cool). And I actually liked the movie.It rips a lot of ideas from The Abyss,Jurassic Park and of course Jaws.But adds some cool cool stuff like great fx ( The CGI and mechanical sharks looked quite good), some really nasty shark attacks ,nice action scenes and some great stuff blowin' up!The characters are kinda dumb  ( except for LL Cool J...he pretty much steals the show )and the dialogue moronic at times.But the nice surprises the movie throws at you are fun and keep things moving.Check it out for some wet fun! "},{"Title":"Great, innovative idea that goes horribly wrong","Date":"4 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" First of all, I think the movie is a brilliant answer to the question What can be done in shark-movies department other than Jaws?. The concept of this film is really innovative and works perfectly in delivering a good amount of scare and action. The pace of the film is great, creating a lot of suspense and unexpected twists. The characters work well in the plot, they have interesting personalities (it's still a movie about sharks eating people, so don't expect them to be too deep and complicated). The cast was also very good and all the actors did great in their roles. Only the comic relief guy didn't quite work for me, I think he was a bit too much on Jar-Jar-Binkish side and didn't really fit in the general atmosphere of the film. I also liked the CGI and I think it was done really well, without overusing it. The moves of CGI sharks sometimes are a bit unrealistic, but the overall impression is quite good. The sharks are incredibly fast, agile and scary. However, there is one major drawback to the film. As I watched it, towards the end of the movie I've got really confused, as the characters suddenly started behaving like they either went crazy or got amnesia. When I checked the IMDb afterwards, it turned out the ending was completely changed in post-production. However they had no way of re-shooting these scenes, so they cut and edited the material they had to fit the new story. Still, it couldn't change the fact that actors were playing a different script. I'm not saying that one ending was better than the other, but in my opinion they should have just stick to the original idea since it was too late to change it. The way it was done, the ending left something of a really bad aftertaste (of a movie that was pretty nice apart from these last scenes). Another thing I didn't like was the amount of suspension of disbelief required to watch this movie. It's true that for films such as Jurassic Park or Resident Evil, the continuity, the logic and the laws of physics often have to sit in the corner and just shut up (often taking biology & genetics with them too). However, in this movie the amount of it leaves you often confused about how some things happened and disturbs the plot.Overall, I think it was worth seeing and really entertaining, and I would give it 7/10 if it wasn't for that horrible, patched-up ending. As it is, I give it 4/10. "},{"Title":"Camp action but too stupid","Date":"29 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Dr. Susan McAlester (Saffron Burrows) leads a team of scientists in Aquatica, an offshore research lab, to cure brain diseases like Alzheimer's. After a terrifying escaped test shark, investor Russell Franklin (Samuel L. Jackson) goes out to investigate. The scientists are expanding the brains of sharks, but the Harvard Genetics Compact doesn't allow the sharks to be genetically modified. At least, they are not supposed to.None of it makes that much sense. Why built a facility offshore? Why not just built big tanks like an aquarium? If all they're doing is raise sharks, there has got to be an easier way. It's begging for trouble when the next big storm to hit. The whole thing doesn't past the smell taste. If you can get past the stink, there are some fun action and some water games. But I would mostly recommend against watching this. "},{"Title":"Jaws for the new generation?","Date":"2 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Jaws for the new generation. Jurassic Park meets Jaws. Whatever. Deep Blue Sea can never measure up to the only shark film. Renny Harlin is not known for his subtlety; hence DBS is an action flick, not a chiller.As tense as Jaws was, how many times did the audience actually lay eyes on the shark. Harlin gives his fishies top billing. The film is brimming over (sorry) with toothy action.The human cast (including Jacqueline McKenzie and Samuel L. Jackson) look like they had stacks of fun. The f/x crew had even more!Friday, October 22, 1999 - Village Century City "},{"Title":"JAWS on steroids.","Date":"14 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" My Take Slick, silly yet exciting summertime thriller. DEEP BLUE SEA is an all-in-one summer popcorn movie package. It's action-packed, thrilling, often scary, and at times funny. Although marred by occasionally overused clichés and occasionally dumb situations, DEEP BLUE SEA is a lot of fun, a package of thrills, action and comedy, all wrapped up with a package of some really smart sharks.Although we have a nice stellar cast of Thomas Jane, Saffron Burrows, LL Cool J, Samuel L. Jackson and a few others, the real stars are the sharks. The CGI effects are decent, not up to the standards of effects like those in the latest STAR WARS or JURASSIC PARK movies, but comparisons aren't needed. The sharks here, when they appear, the thrills don't come far behind. Action scenes with the sharks (and most action scenes are with them) are exciting and action-packed, and the scenes combining special effects with real humans are darn convincing.The plot concerns the finding of a fiber inside the brain of sharks that could cure the Alzheimer's disease. A laboratory set in the middle of the ocean (to set things up of course), with sharks (Mako sharks to be precise) captured and run through a series of tests. It's an accomplishment, with a drawback. By increasing the brain's size, the sharks got smarter.There's nothing really brilliant about the film, but it's a lot of summer movie goodness. The film has a lot of fun with and at itself. The screenplay, while offering a series of real thrilling action scenes and suspenseful ones, also offers some bits of comedy, usually from the character of the cook named Preacher Dudley (LL Cool J). The rest of the characters aren't very valuable, they're just characters in a summer movie throwaway. But I didn't mind. Ask yourself, what do you really expect from a movie that only demands your bag of popcorn and your summer movie cynicism.I've taken the liberty to defend a lot of summer movies, and DEEP BLUE SEA is no exception. For what it its, the film is great material, directed with some skill by action director Renny Harlin (DIE HARD 2). Recommended for some good popcorn-chomping fun, and don't forget to leave your brain on the door, let it warm for a while, this is just for fun.Rating ***1/2 out of 5. "},{"Title":"This movie was not the most incredible..","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This wasn't the most incredible shark flick I've ever seen, but it was really pretty good. Although it was completely obvious that the sharks weren't real, especially when they (it actually) ate Franklin, it was much less....cheesy than JAWS and I don't think it was anything like JAWS, aside from it being about sharks.The plot line was excellent, but the acting could have been better. I loved LL Cool J in this movie though, he's one of my favorites. Other than a few parts that I personally thought were bull, it was a very well done film.Jane was good in this film, although I concur with some that he was not as alive in this movie as he could have been. Although, even for a movie some things were just, impossible. For example, you notice that the walkways don't all have fences. YOU HAVE GOT TO BE KIDDING ME! The only thing these humongous sharks will eat is other sharks and you could just slip right into the pools?! Yeah, that's realistic folks. And another thing, the people would no have been able to out swim those sharks! Although they did die eventually, they out swam them to begin with! And as I say this, I realize it's because it's a movie but all the same, it's physically impossible unless you are Clark Kent. "}{"Title":"A combination of Jaws and Titanic with too many Christian influences. YUK!!!","Date":"23 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Ladies and gentlemen, we have a winner Deep Blue Sea wins the Oscars ... for the best rip off and the biggest crap. Let me explain myself the best way to describe this movie is a combination of Jaws and Titanic with too many Christian influences. It's already bad enough that the director can't come up with an original movie, but why does he have to be so moralizing in it as well?The story is about scientists who may have found a cure for Alzheimer decease in the brain of sharks. But the scientists needed more brain tissue so they genetically manipulated the sharks so their brains would grow a lot larger. But the sharks use their extra brain capacity in their own advantage, becoming fearsome hunters who have developed the taste for human flesh...I guess you already know where the link between Deep Blue Sea and Jaws can be found. The sharks are at least as big as Jaws. They attack humans and can't be stopped by any means, not even steel doors or fences... But where do I get the link with Titanic? Well, for instance the flooded corridors and the water that flows in with incredible power really looked like Titanic's scenes to me. The same for the structure that eventually will go down into the deep (OK, it isn't a boat but it sure comes close).But the biggest problem with this movie is that it's so moralizing. For instance One of the man on the project has spent two years in jail. The leader of the project doesn't trust him, but uses him as a shark wrangler (no harm done when he gets eaten alive, right?). But of course when the trouble starts he appears to be a very nice man who will do everything to help the others. The same for the cook. You just know from the beginning that he'll survive this. He's a black preacher, he once lost faith in God but is now very religious again. All I missed was a hymn like I once was lost, but now am found or something like that in the background. All the movie tries to say with this is that you should never judge a person on his past and that as long as you believe in God the devil (here in the person of sharks) can't harm you. What a bunch of ...(VERY LARGE BEEP)... crap!!!! In the end I was hoping that the sharks would win and eat them all alive. That would have been great, but probably not what the director had in mind. I give it a 4/10. "},{"Title":"best shark movie ever?","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" You may think it hard to compete with such movies as jaws when attempting to create an effective shark movie, but in deep blue sea the combination of special effects, plot and characters make this a movie to be reckoned with. The movie starts with Tom Jane coming to a shark research facility, to view the sharks they have. But these are no ordinary sharks. No these sharks are smart, not to mention huge. Scientists have used a chemical process to enlarge the sharks brain. Now why the he*l would they do that? you might ask. It turns out that the sharks' brain contains a revolutionary cure, and the larger the brain the more cure they can get. Predictably, but not in a boring manner, things go horrible wrong. The survivors including Tom Jane, Samuel L Jackson and LL Cool J, must escape the sinking ocean complex before they drown or ... well you know. Plot twists, with unexpected character deaths, chilling realness and characters you really feel for, make this an excellent action thriller. "},{"Title":"A mildly amusing diversion...","Date":"28 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Saw this on TNT an hour ago. Thank God for editing, since I'm not real tolerant of excessive gore. Some of the blood effects made me think 1975. Poor taste on their part to kill off the one chick in the movie who was actually hot. And no, I'm not talking about Aida Turturro. Blech. I'm cynical and somewhat antisocial, but at least I have good taste in women. For all its flaws (and there's a pretty good amount), Deep Blue Sea is somewhat entertaining, if you have nothing to do. It made me jump a few times, and LL Cool J's character was kind of funny. Liked the crack he made about Brothers never get out of these situations! and the irony in the end because of that remark. There's an interesting bit at the end battle with the final shark-see if you can pick it out.  "},{"Title":"Waste of time and money","Date":"31 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I must admit that when I saw the trailer and also was aware that Samuel Jackson was starring in this movie then I was sure that this film was a cinema visit worth. But I was WRONG all the way. This was not supposed to be a SIFI movie but a shark movie .What a failure. JAWS 1 and 2, Shark Attack - this is shark movies. First of all why can't the script writers and the directors do some home work before they let the dollars roll. I'm not a shark expert but some of this stuff is common knowledge 1. A shark can only swim ahead 2. A shark will sink if it stop swimming ( they don't have air inside but a liver with oil ) More details3. The shark can break a metal door but not the glass door to a kitchen oven. 4. The shark is rather big , but can swim in one meters water without you can see the fin nor tail 5. The shark changes size , it goes up and down 6. The whole complex explode when the chopper crash 7. The whole installation collapse when it is filed with water, impossible, now the pressure is equaled to the present water pressure ( ex. submariner knows ) 8. The rapid movement of those sharks is impossible due to the water, they are not swimming in air ! 9. One shark was killed by electrical power ( copy from Jaws - bad ) but here it was not a main supply to an Island with high voltage, but rather a local supply of max 440 VAC , a breaker would have shut this short circuit down long before. 10. The lady step on her WET wetsuit,not to get killed, water still conduct !and much more.This could have been a good shark film, the plot was good, but the writer and the director couldn't handle it. "},{"Title":"So wonderfully bad","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have given this film the rather low rating of one.  Which of course means that it is truly an awful film.  Having said that though, I will say that I whole heartedly recommend it.  It is in no way mediocre.  It is spectacular in its descent into awfulness.  It can never tell if it wants to be camp or a serious thriller.  As such it gives us scenes in where the story is taken far to seriously, and other scenes that have taken a clue from such recent fair as Scream.  I don't know what the hell the makers of this film were thinking but they managed to produce a horrible film that is absolutely fun to watch.  So pop up some popcorn, sit back with some witty friends and then pop in this movie.  It will provide a good bit of amusement. "},{"Title":"DBS vs JAWS","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A critic proclaims this movie better than JAWSI proclaim it WORSE than JAWSTHE REVENGE ...... "},{"Title":"awful guff","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Please give me strength....this film is so bad it really isn't worth a review. However comments suggesting that this diabolic excuse for a film is even comparable to the great Jaws need to corrected. This film is not on a par with Jaws the Revenge, let alone the original.  God that things got bad breath!!! There I've got that off my chest....right what, if anything, is good about the film???I could only find three things make this film tolerable to any extent -I have plenty of time for LL Cool J, and he doesn't disappoint even with the worse line of the film Take me back to the Ghetto. Samuel L Jackson also rocked although god only knows what he was doing appearing in this film in the first place. Ronny Cox also has a small peripheral role.....should of been the lead role I reckon.Ok I'm not gonna start slagging the film off again, I can't be bothered...I wouldn't know where to begin..... all I say is if you get the most bored you've ever been in your life, don't for one second considered renting this movie. It won't help...it might cheer you up, but for all the wrong reasons. To further compound my misery I was promised some pointless nudity in the film, which might have added something positive but alas there was none.Don't watch it.....ever!!! You've been warned! "},{"Title":"Could the Sharks be any worse?","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" To me Deep Blue Sea was more a comedy than that of a thriller, I laughed just as hard as when watching a comedy, because it's very simple in this movie the sharks at times looked fake, and when I mean fake I'm saying the robotic sharks from JAWS looked better by a long shot, the sharks even sounded fake and the reason I say this is because that sharks do not and can not produce sounds yet you the sharks snarling and growling, then sharks can not swim backwards, they can't do it because their bodies were not meant to move like that. Seriously this movie was so poorly made it made me laugh at how much the special effects crew or who ever else was responsible for the designs and animations of the sharks knew about shark biology because I'm seventeen and I'm smarter than adults, now that's funny, but if thought that this movie was better than JAWS, well it's time for you to reconsider why you like terrible movies in the first place. "},{"Title":"How bad can a movie get?","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"    ***SLIGHT SPOILERS*** I can't remember a single scene in the entire movie that were even slightly believable. Smart sharks? OK. But how were they able to change their size(to get through the doors) and break those doors which can take tons of weight? How could they throw the stretcher, with the armless still breathing and fully awake professor 20m below the surface, about 10 meters trough water to break a underwater window. And why didn't the water flow faster through the completely broken 2x10 meter window? The room would have been filled in less than a second. I complete my frustrations by commenting the stupidity of the last surviving woman who were smart enough to kill one shark by electricution but had to sacrifice herself to lure the supersmart shark back to be shot by an well aimed shot. The shooter? A cook who had just survived a 20 second ride in the jaws of a shark resulting in the only visible injury of a small fleshwound. The chef who earlier had killed one shark by igniting some gas from an oven in the underwater kitchen. Coursing an enormous explosion which he himself of course survived. Finally, the other survivor had a last rendezvous with death by surviving another explosion caused by selfmade dynamite(gunpowder from signalflares). The shark was of course killed by this which could have sunk a russian submarine. The humanoid swam to shore almost unharmed. Some research and simple logic could have been useful in this movie to get it to some degree plausible. Last question How can Samuel L. Jackson appear in such a bad movie? If you want to see a festival of impossibilities, see this movie! "},{"Title":"Alien, but a bit fishy","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" As concepts go, Deep Blue Sea's might be described as your basic no-brainer. It's kinda Jaws meets Alien meets 28 Days Later drawls Finland's answer to Michael Bay, Renny The Marlin Harlin; Kinda, Samuel L meets uber-babe meets blond surfer dude meets wacky ship's cook with these cool one liners he adds redundantly as the next Woody Allen Project is quietly shelved and the studio's finance director reaches for his corporate cheque book. Who said modern cinema was formulaic? On the bright side, such sparse imaginative furnishing does leave room for putting ones feet up, getting in some popcorn-related girth enlargement, and deriving passing amusement from betting on who is gonna get scragged next.And, believe it or not, working out who is live bait is no mean task, mainly due to a moment of inspired plotting early on, where a prominent member of the cast is sent for a figurative and literal early bath. Streuth, is no one sacred.The plot? Ho, hum. Well, let's call it a premise rather than a plot. Marine-based scientists developing a cure for Alzheimer's genetically engineer huge, hyper-intelligent, hyper-aggressive mako sharks for ooh, something or other. Hey, what could happen next?! Can someone smell fish? Actually Deep Blue Sea is not that bad for a brainless action movie. Harlin the Marlin at least copies effectively; so while the audience may be forcibly reminded of Alien, it could be a lot worse - it could be being reminded Alien Resurrection. Harlin also keeps us on tenterhooks with some well-paced action interspersed with a totally gratuitous &#150; yet very welcome &#150; shot of Saffron Burrows stripping down to her grundies. Once the fan has proverbially been hit, the audience finds out lots of lovely things about various cast members, which keep us at least half on the side of the tooth team; all things considered, just as well. Chomp, chomp.So it depends what you want. Big it may be, but Deep Blue Sea is certainly not clever. Jaws was based on Enemy of the People; Deep Blue Sea&#133;well, isn't. On the positive side, the sharks are lovely (no floating rubber in this film); the action is well paced and there is a certain, knowing, disaster movie tongue in cheek. Is this enough to salvage the wreck? Just about. "}{"Title":"You killed my bird......","Date":"17 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Believing she almost has the cure for Alzheimer's disease, Dr. Susan McCallister invites Russell Franklin with the hope that he would invest in her and the research. The research is taking placed on an isolated facility in the middle of the ocean with the test subjects being Mako sharks. What's supposed to be a visit for Russell Franklin turns into something more, when the sharks flood the facility and hunt down the team, and thanks to the team, the sharks are now smarter than ever.....Seeing this for the first time in sixteen years makes you realise that if it wasn't for L.L Cool J's screamingly over the top performance as the religious cook, and the most amazing death scene ever in a film, this film is a pretty turgid affair, and just proves what a hack Harlin became after Stallone climbed a mountain.The director still makes just about watchable films, but when you compare his work now,to that of Die Hard 2, Cliffhanger, and even The Long Kiss Goodnight, he has fallen a great height from his hey day.And while this has a wonderful, high, over the top concept, it's really unbelievable at just how dull the film can be at times.And this is due to the way the characters just seem so one dimensional, and are just a stereotype of what they do for a living.L.L aside, we have shouty Jackson, because this is what he was famous for at that time in his career, thanks to a certain bible verse, Skarsgaard plays the couldn't give an eff scientist. And why couldn't he? Why, he's the most brilliant scientist in the world, so fair dues.Jane plays the brooding hero, and Burrows? Well she's the English character in the film, so she ends up as the villain of the whole piece, and is as dull as ditchwater compared to the rest of the cast.So who comes out unscathed by the film? Good old Ronny Cox, because he knows when to keep his mouth shut.So as soon as we reach the complex, which has more windows than a PC, it's a case of who will get killed next, and how.It's devoid of any tension, the effects are extremely bad in certain parts, and it all ends as you'd expect, suddenly and boring.If you haven't seen this, ignore the reviews saying its much better than Jaws, that's delusional. It's not the worst film in the world, but take away all the substance, and you are left with just empty style..... "},{"Title":"Nice Cheesy Film!","Date":"13 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Spoiler Alert!!! OK for the most part of the film I think the story was kind of stupid in a way. I didn't like the scientific idea of having sharks tested for the stuff that's suppose to cure Alzhemiers. Like seriously why would they test sharks if sharks aren't close to the human species? Wouldn't it make more sense to test it on apes since they are our closest relative to the animal species? Another question is why would Saffron Burrows's character jumping in the water instead of dipping her hand in the water to bring the shark towards them at the end? Anyway I liked the idea of having the scientists trapped in a building that's sinking and the fact that they got sharks hunting them down. I mean there is nothing scarier than having something hunting you down so it could eat you. Overall the science behind it is kind of stupid but it really is a great action packed thriller. It's a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Passable Shark Movie","Date":"3 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Dr. Susan McCallister (Saffron Burrows) and a colleague are two scientists who are working on a potential cure for Alzheimer's Disease and have invited a multi-millionaire by the name of Russell Franklin (Samuel L. Jackson) to their ocean laboratory to witness the progress their entire team has accomplished. Essentially, what they have done is to inject certain chemicals into the brains of three large mako sharks and then to extract the substance produced during the biological reaction. In the process however the three sharks have grown incredibly intelligent&#x97;yet they still possess their killer instinct. Now rather than reveal any more of this film and risk spoiling it for those who haven't seen it I will just say that this was a passable shark movie for the most part. Quite frankly, the plot was rather standard and as a result some of the scenes seemed to lack suspense. Likewise, I also didn't particularly care for the death of one of the key characters at the end. Be that as it may while it wasn't necessarily a bad movie overall I thought it could have used a bit more excitement and as a result I rate it as slightly below average. "},{"Title":"Misterjaws","Date":"11 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Long ago when I first saw this, I kept waiting for the shark to be wearing a top hat like the old cartoon shark because, frankly, the CGI was so bad, it felt animated and less of a threat. My opinion hasn't changed and this, even for 1999, was so incredibly cliché-driven, it's kinda hard to watch, even though I love When Animals Attack films. But, stipulation I generally like when non-genetically engineered animals attacking, with the exception of JURASSIC PARK, of course. But, I will give this movie two kudos It contained one of the most shocking - as in surprising - death scenes that was both original and also a bit horrifyingly hilarious and LL Cool J was kinda cute during this. Cheers! "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Nonsense","Date":"29 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Thomas Jane, Saffron Burrows and Samuel L Jackson head the cast with solid support from LL Cool J, Michael Rappaport and Stellan Skårsgard in this enjoyable shark movie.Plot In A Paragraph Medical biologist Susan McAlester (Saffron Burrows) is searching for a cure for Alzheimer's disease. She is secretly genetically enlarging shark brains, so that disease-battling enzymes can be harvested. However, the shark become faster, stronger and smarter and decide they would rather be in the deep blue sea.It obviously borrows heavily from Jaws sharks are killed in the same way as the Sharks in Jaws and Jaws 2, blown up and electrocuted respectively. In fact, at times it outright steals from it, as the license plate pulled from a shark's teeth is the exact same plate as the one found in the tiger shark by Hooper (Richard Dreyfuss) in JawsThomas Jane proves himself to be a capable leading man, Saffron Burrows is OK, but she will never be a fine dramatic actress, Samuel L Jackson is great doing his usual Samuel L Jackson routine, Michael Rappaport and Stellan Skårsgard offer solid support whilst LL Cool J steals the show from the humans and the Sharks as Preacher. I don't know if it's down to editing, but an uncredited Ronny Cox doesn't get any lines at all in the one scene he appears in. If you have Ronny Cox in a movie, you give the man dialogue. "},{"Title":"Forgettable, if decent, action thriller that almost made waves","Date":"18 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A 5/10 review isn't necessarily damning in the case of Deep Blue Sea. It is an average, mildly enjoyable movie with some impressive elements to it. However, with so many shark movies out there, there needs to be something that sets a flick apart from the rest. For as many good points that Deep Blue Sea achieves, its mediocrities end up sinking a lot of good will. First, the good Director Renny Harlin knew enough that audiences going into a shark movie wanted several things 1) good-looking sharks 2) creative shark attacks 3) good-looking actorsIn descending importance. Luckily, the first point was hit spot on with some very good-looking animatronic sharks (when they are used). These giant metal monsters looked very nice (especially when one is used to an ocean of Italian rubber-shark ripoffs) and you as a viewer could easily get lost in the world of the movie - in the sense that yes, these must be real sharks.The second point was helped out by the film's setting, the abandoned sea lab Aquatica. It has a great cold industrial look to it. By flooding and destroying the area thanks to plot contrivances, Harlin had sharks in creative locales swimming around in corridors, hiding in bedrooms, and attacking in elevator shafts. These are new and fun ways to spice up the fact that as a movie-going threat, sharks often do little else other than pop up to chomp on someone in a jump-scare Gotcha! moment. The setting does help though, like a shark forcing the station's cook into an oven and inadvertently turning it on with the cook inside, or an entertaining helicopter kill (clever sharks!).Finally, the cast put in a somewhat serviceable (for this genre) movie. Samuel Jackson stole the show, acting as we are accustomed to see him act; though the moments where he was not yelling are compelling as well. Saffron Burrows did well as the attractive woman with a British accent (always a plus), and Thomas Jane sort of did the tough action guy who don't play by the rules thing. The rest of the crew (with a notable exception) was just sort of there, but at least we had attractive and likable leads.Despite the money and care that went into the film though, its negative points started to sink its more laudable aspects1) CGI sharks with bad CGI people 2) Good characters killed off; bad characters surviving 3) Stupid plot decisions that bring down the movieIn the special features of the DVD, Harlin went on at length about how needed something more than mechanical sharks to do all the scenes he had in mind. He turned to digital sharks here, and boasted that the audience would never be able to tell the difference.Well, this is hazarding a guess, but if you notice a character suddenly replaced with a stiff, lifeless, textureless, plastic-looking computerized Barbie doll, bank your money on the shark being CG as well. Also, if you notice that the sharks are suddenly 100x more agile they were in other scenes, those probably are also not really there. I can understand the desire to one-up other shark movies (because of the sort of limited nature of filming practical-effects sharks I mentioned above). However, the solution Harlin opted for doesn't exactly thrill. Awful looking digital chunks of your favorite nondescript actors filled the screen with strangely-smooth and plastic-looking sharks. It's groan-inducing each time I saw it happen. Contrasting that to the underwater scenes filmed with the animatronic models, and we realize that nothing can substitute for a cleverly-staged model. Most people already know one of the big twists in Deep Blue Sea, but suffice to say, the more likable characters do not all survive. In their place we have LL Cool J,. Some reviews pegged him as the audience favorite, and I don't know why. He didn't act very well, his script is pretty lousy outside of one throwaway joke about an omelet, and the movie spent far too much time on him. While exciting things were happening elsewhere, we had to listen to the comedy stylings of LL Cool J and his foul-mouthed parrot. As for the plot, I didn't talk about it much because I don't really care about plots in a movie with sharks. All these movies need is a premise that is not so outside of reality that it works. And big brain sharks hunt humans was inoffensive enough to work. However, certain decisions made by the characters added up. For example, characters watching a window crack for nearly 40 seconds before they decide that being in front of a breaking-glass-window under the sea is a bad idea. One character pointlessly baiting the shark in a way that is needlessly life-endangering. Situations seemed to be set up in order to kill off characters (usually when we haven't seen a shark attack in a while). Such situational character stupidity was a lame way of killing people off, especially when the treat we got was bad CGI. Even Italian shark knockoffs have the decency to give us gore effects.After all of this negativity, was Deep Blue Sea a bad film? Not necessarily. The action scenes with the sharks had some creativity and were handled competently by Harlin. There were explosions and gushes of water (and shark deaths) to keep the audience's attention. The movie provided some of the bare-bones minimums a shark movie needs, and by having multiple mechanical sharks, it went a few steps beyond most shark movies.However, it was definitely a film I have no desire to see again. The final gut reaction I felt was well, it was OK. The movie certainly did not offend me, and I enjoyed several scenes and situations within.But was that really the reaction I should have to a movie about super killer sharks? "},{"Title":"Nothing that original... and yet so much fun","Date":"18 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Deep Blue Sea is a classic. No, not in the 'Godfather' or 'Empire Strikes Back' sense, but it's a classic in its own way. It's one of those movies that just invites you to suspend all your disbelief and go with it on a silly, shark-infested ride.It's about a trio of genetically-modified sharks who escape their aquatic compound and start hunting down all the scientists (and generally anyone without fins and large teeth) who have been experimenting on them.So, expect plenty of swimming and screaming before body parts start drifting away in the blood-soaked water. It's right up there with other monster-munching movies like 'Deep Rising' and, more recently, 'Grabbers' - just a daft, silly, gory film where helpless humans end up being stalked by something much larger (and hungrier).Don't take it seriously - it's not made for serious thought (and I think Samuel L Jackson knew this when he signed on). "},{"Title":"Very good movie","Date":"1 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Hi all. I think Deep Blue Sea is a very very good movie. To begin this movie don't lake pace. We can't be boring with watching Deep.From the first to the last minutes, there is something that happen on the screen. Renny Harlin, what we can say about him today, knowed how to make good movie. The actors are not bad (except Michael Rapaport, i don't like his role). I think that the big problem is the FX. They can be very good (the shark who is trapped and where the scientists take cerebral spinal fluid) and very very bad (the scene where the bigs sharks eats the little). For me they are the biggest fault in this movie. And Renny who said that we can't make out the cgi and the animated sharks......... But the Fx are not ridiculous, they are not awesome that's all. If you want to watch a very good movie, if you love sharks movie, for me Deep is the second best shark movie, behind Jaws. "},{"Title":"Deep Blue Sea","Date":"13 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Title Deep Blue SeaCondensed Storyline A group of scientists are trying to cure brain cancer by experimenting on the brains of sharks, but one of the scientists genetically altered the brain of the sharks. So now the group are being chased through their sea lab by the genetically altered sharks. Notable Acting With these movies, you can generally guess which characters are going to die and which are going to survive. The end result of this movie might surprise you as the people you don't expect to die, will die. Thomas Jane plays our protagonist called Cater, who is the standard BA character of the movie who we know will not be dying. So there is no need to worry about him. His role is good and fun to watch as we learn more about this character through his interactions to others. Saffron Burrowss is our secondary protagonist who ends up paying for her wrongs at the end of the movie, I can understand this character because she did what she thought was necessary to save the lives of millions. Samuel L. Jackson is Samuel L. Jackson, he is one of those actors like Nick Cage who can say they're a character but you don't see them as that character, you only see them as that actor. LL Cool J is also in this movie as the black Christian cook who's dialog is almost as stereotypical as possible, but at least I can see him as an actual character and not just an actor. The others are just secondary characters who have little dialog in most scenes, so logic of horror movies would dictate that they are going to die, so there is not point getting attached to the character. Noticeable Camera work There is very little to no creative camera angle, it is just the standard close up, mid shots, panning shot, zoom in shots and all that. But they partially make it up by framing things nicely, an example would be just before they feed the tiger shark to the Mako sharks when Preacher is looking out of his window and the camera zooms in and goes through the window and shows us Carter swimming through the water. They used a bit of CGI for it, but it is still a nice little piece there. Another would be a dolly worms eyes shot were the camera is riding through the corridor and tilts up to the crew, that was nicely done and quite creative as well. Graphics That CGI sharks in this movie are some of the best CGI sharks you'll ever see on the big screen. This is sad because the sharks in this movie resemble that of B-List horror movie sharks. Apparently it is so hard for a movie with a budget of $60,000,000 to create good CGI sharks, chances are they spent most of that money and the sets and actors. Because TV documentaries such as 'Walking with Dinosaurs' can make realistic looking dinosaurs with a budget of only £6,000,000. Not to mention 'Walking with Dinosaurs Sea Monster Special' which mixes CGI dinosaurs with live action filming, with a suspected lower budget, the lower budget makes them still realistic, but to a lesser extent. But my point is that big budget movie should focus as much money on the monster of the movie as they do with the actors. Incorrect Science Teddy bears are made of wool and cotton, so the one shown in the beginning scene shouldn't have sank that quickly, if at all. The shark shown to be a tiger shark in the beginning of the movie look nothing like a tiger shark, it has similar markings to one, but the head is incorrectly made as tiger sharks have blunt noses and odd shaped teeth. The one in this movie has a pointed nose and sharp teeth. Carter Blake rubs the body of a shark back and forth with his bare hand, anyone who has touched shark skin would know that shark skin isn't smooth, if it look at shark skin through an electron microscope, you would see that it is comprised of tiny jagged scales. These allow the shark be hydrodynamic and swim through the water with ease. At the pace that Carter was rubbing, his hands would be bleeding. Susan kills one of the sharks by electrocuting it in the water, she then looks to her research data floating in the water, is looks burnt from the electricity from the water. This is incorrect as the electric charge wouldn't fry the paper or the floppy disk. Overall Feel Production value of an A-list movie with the CGI of a B-list movie makes this film a low level A- list movie. I also need to say that I love this movie, it is also one of my favourite monster/creature feature movies, this may not seem apparent from the amount of criticism I give the movie. But regardless of its many flaws I love this movie to death, along with its plot and characters, no matter how far fetched the plot may be. You can tell this movie is old though, mainly because they are still using floppy disks in their computers. The 2 minute trailer for this movie gives you a run down of the movie and ultimately sold the movie to me and is still one of the best shark movies to this day (In my opinion, before the Jaws fans attack me) "},{"Title":"Good elements that never come together properly","Date":"21 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In spite of a great premise, capable cast, realistic sets, and passable special effects, this movie never really worked. The script is the main culprit, which forces a bunch of intelligent scientists to act like dumb teenagers at summer camp. The result is nothing more than a slasher movie with sharks instead of serial killers. There are also an improbable piling of coincidences that become increasingly illogical. It actually reminded me of Leviathan, another underwater horror film which had a similar combination of assets and problems. The resulting film will be passable for horror and science fiction fans, but do nothing for anyone else. "}{"Title":"Socially-Important Movie with Uninspired screen writing.","Date":"15 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Good acting performances by Samuel L. Jackson and Thomas Jane. Everybody else was uninspiring, to say the least. Michael Rappaport was totally unconvincing in his role as...We will never know his role because he was never properly described or introduced in the movie. He was just the guy in the chair. I liked him in Metro, but in this movie, he falls far short, partly because of the weak lines he is given. L. L. Cool Jay come off as the thug/rapper that he is. Contrast his acting performance with that of Samuel L. Jackson. The three women in the film are entirely non-notable. (I watched the movie just last night and I forget almost everything the women did).Fairly good story line, though, which gives society a stern and stark warning about the dangers of genetic manipulation, corporate greed and personal ambition run amok Very pertenant contemporary social themes, considering the current, world-wide fight against genetically-modified food and tyrannical corporation Monsanto.I gave it a 7, which, to me, means Not bad, has some value. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as you'probably  heard","Date":"19 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In this science fiction horror with a plot so stupid it'd make Michael Bay green with envy, a group of scientists have decided to go far out to sea and build an easily flooded research base to do research on Alzheimer's using sharks. Inevitably, it all goes wrong and they have to escape the base while super smart CGI sharks (Which look good so it actually improves on Jaws in one way) chomp their way through a one dimensional B movie cast who have less facial range than the sharks themselves. Scientists and anyone else who cares about logic, stay away. Otherwise, you're in for a fun ride. In terms of subtlety, this is about as subtle as a tidal wave and it's more faster and more furious than a log flume at a theme park, but it also falls on repeat viewings. It's not as bad as some say it is (A terrible but enjoyable film-wrong). The film actually has some powerful shock moments and it's actually fairly suspenseful, while the visuals are pretty good. It knows what it is and what it wants to be It's a B movie and it wants to be fun. That it is, but it can take itself too seriously at times.The cast threaten to sink the film to irretrievable depths. Saffron Burrows reinforces my theory that models make bad actresses, while Thomas Jane is gruff and dull throughout. LL Cool J is by far the best and brings lightness and the slightest bit of heart into a relatively mechanical movie, while Samuel L Jackson, despite his early exit is naturally excellent. The script lacks any sort of depth or flair, and it's overly serious and full of stupid decisions. As these characters get dumber and dumber, it gets harder to care. As for the plot, let's just not even go there. Deep Blue Sea, overall, deserves to be remembered for more than just one death scene. It's the third best shark movie of all time, and beats the many other dreadful shark films I've seen. A bonkers, unrestrained and OTT blockbuster thrill ride which doesn't come up for air (Or pause and think about how silly it is) and makes a good, fun Friday night viewing.6/10 "},{"Title":"Not amused!","Date":"17 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" After I saw Jaws, I thought that no one would try to copy that film. I was wrong. This is just a bad copy.Yes they try to be entertaining and fun, and they try to make good film. I have to admit somewhere they are good, like visual effects are not bad, but acting is overacting, and plot is thin.I came to the age when I yawn watching films like these. Yes it might of been better before when I was younger, but times like those are long gone, I became just the old f...So please my cable operator save me from films like these.I will sleep.Sleep. "},{"Title":"Entertaining and fairly exciting, but not believable at all","Date":"29 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie for the first time at home after finding it in a $5 DVD sale bin at Wal-Mart. It was entertaining and the suspense of the cat-and-mouse chase concept was pretty exciting, but the whole premise was so unbelievable that it really seemed pretty silly, all in all.The basic idea of the story actually seemed a good idea but, somehow, the idea just didn't translate well in the end. Although a lot of money probably went in to the CGI sharks, there was something about them that just screamed FAKE SHARKS to me, thus removing any tinge of fear that should otherwise have gripped my attention.The casting was good, featuring a variety of actors who have done well in other films, so the 6/10 rating by me is not a result of their individual efforts. Every single disaster with a tight deadline movie I have every seen has the same type of dialogue in general, only varied by technical language that fits each movie's specific disaster topic. There is always the anti-hero with a jaded past, a well-meaning expert who is compelled to risk all regardless, a handful of technical characters who are there to fill in the running time with jargon very specific to the premise of the disaster, and, as always, a character whose sole purpose is to provide comic relief. Usually, there is a rather trashy sexpot female to fulfill the requisite sex scene, as well. And, not to be dismissed, the body count must start rather early and not let up until a few minutes before the end of the story.The sets were austerely appropriate and believable. The costumes fit the story line. Even the touch of sex which seems standard for any disaster story (why is that, anyway?) with some near-nudity involving the female lead can be overlooked. Perhaps, if I had seen this for the first time close up in a movie theatre or at home on a big-screen TV, this production might have generated a little fear...but, on a little 19-inch flat screen, there just was nothing much to excite.Even given this rather lackluster review, the end product was almost fun with an unintentional campy tone to it, despite the generally serious topic of the species of humans and their place in the global food chain. I actually feel no regret that I shelled out $5, but feel a little disappointed it somehow feels like a movie based on a comic book. Watch this, without pre-thinking or expecting a lot, and it can be a fun way to while away a couple of hours. "},{"Title":"A mixture of all four Jaws films","Date":"27 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This film can be cliché at times and borrows a lot from the Jaws films films including music, shots, and the shark's deaths. While not everything in the film is original, it is still an entertaining shark attack movie with some tense moments that is very enjoyable.The film borrows a lot from the Jaws movies, including music that sounds a little like the music in Jaws, the slow, underwater shark vision, and even the deaths of the sharks go with the three deaths in the the first three Jaws films, exploded, electrocuted, and exploded again with its body parts going everywhere. The fact that the sharks are hunting the humans through the underwater base can also go with Jaws The Revenge and how the shark was hunting the Brody family. Even at the end, a scene similar to the first Jaws film where the shark is about to be shot and blown up is shown. But, whatever, I still enjoyed this movie.Something I like is that even though the sharks were shown too early in the film so you did not have a sense of mystery to the creatures, the film was still tense with having the sharks pop up suddenly. Even though I knew ahead of time about some of the jump scares and was prepared for them, they still got me. Yes, it is not a perfect film and that is not too much to expect from a horror movie like this that deals with three genius level sharks hunting eight people and a parrot through an underwater base, but it plays to its strengths, has some good performances, and the tension is enough to chill your spine. All in all, this movie is not the greatest film ever made but when it comes down to it, it is very enjoyable and a good action/adventure/horror film to watch. "},{"Title":"Cool Fool","Date":"17 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I actually love this turkey with all the trimmings ... however, some of the acting sucks pimentos! Lets get too it. The camera shots were superb, which means that the camera men were top choice! Most of the special effects were totally righteous, with a few exceptions, such as the shark coming out of a hole sideways, and backing up through the same hole sideways with someone in its mouth. That part stank to high heavens! Plus, the out- takes should have never become out-takes ... they are too important to the movie! Well, except LL Cool J's religious ramblings! Casting was so-so, and could have been a lot better, and so could the directing of the film.Samuel L. Jackson is Samuel L. Jackson ... as always! And that is not always a good thing! LL Cool J was totally cool, except for the times he wasn't ... a cooking Preacher? I think not! Religious leaders are seldom good for anything other than preaching! Thomas Jane was an excellent choice for the part he played, he makes the movie. Actually, the only person that was out of place in the film was Saffron Burrows ... I think her looks played too much of a role in getting this part in the film. She wasn't convincing in the part. Jacqueline McKenzie was practically perfect in every way, as was Stellan Skarsgård. Michael Rapaport may have played his part too well, as he became annoying as all hell.As for the sharks ... thank God they're not real ... because, considering some of the insane things they were made to do in this movie, they're next accomplishment has to be walking out of the sea and attacking us in our beds! Be serious people ... I don't care how smart a shark is, there is no way they would know that glass is breakable, and, an aluminum gurney is not going to break through a glass window made of extremely thick glass for underwater use! However, if not, then the movie would have ended right there.The bottom line ... I enjoy watching this movie all the time ... I an't count how many times I've watched it, and been so annoyed by a cooking preacher that should have died in his own oven ... just kidding! "},{"Title":"Solid entertainment.","Date":"17 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Shark movies may be a dime a dozen, but that doesn't mean that some of them don't provide some very agreeable diversion. Deep Blue Sea may follow a formula, to be sure, but it manages to be tense and exciting at many times.Much credit should go to director Renny Harlin, an under-rated expert at this sort of big scale action for many years. Here Harlin keeps the movie moving forward more than adequately, and manages to get us on the edges of our seats.The premise, admittedly, seems rather far fetched, as scientists working on a floating aquatic base are desperate to find the cure for Alzheimers', and experiment by utilizing a trio of sharks and their brain pans. Naturally, things start to go very wrong, as the sharks turn out to be much smarter than anybody anticipated. Also quite naturally, the crew has to deal with the fact that their base is slowly destructing, the result of the sharks' neat handiwork.Most of the cast plays this admirably straight, except for LL Cool J as the religious cook with the annoying pet parrot. The movie is already silly enough to not need this sort of thing. Thomas Jane is an effectively low key hero, while the rest of the cast - Saffon Burrows, Jacqueline McKenzie, Michael Rapaport, Stellan Skarsgard, and the almighty Samuel L. Jackson - all create some memorable characters. Jackson figures in the movies' gut-busting highlight sequence; you'll know it when you see it.The production design (by Joseph Bennett and William Sandell) is particularly impressive in terms of the technical side of the film. The movie alternates between use of real sharks and CGI sharks; the effects range from passable to just plain hilarious. Some of the deaths are clearly meant to be shocking, and they would be more so if the effects were better.The movie starts off with a bang - in a familiar enough manner, it involves two horny couples relaxing on a boat in the open ocean - and maintains a good level of intensity for as long as it lasts. The laughs to be had from watching it just make it that much more enjoyable.Ronny Cox appears uncredited; look also for Harlin in a brief bit.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Who ordered the fish?","Date":"26 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It seems like the search for a cure for Alzheimer's is proving to be a little bit risky. Last week I saw it result in apes beginning their conquest of the planet, this week I see it turning sharks into super-intelligent predators of puny men (and parrots).Deep Blue Sea starts off really slowly, with some desperately poor dialogue before finally slipping into fifth gear and finding itself unable to disengage. Saffron Burrows plays a scientist who persuades her boss (Samuel L. Jackson, wearing glasses to show he's brainy and non-violent) to give her 48 hours to perfect a new drug that will put an end to all those TV disease-of-the-week movies about dotty old people. Together, they travel to a floating lab &#x96; which looks like something out of Waterworld &#x96; to complete experiments on some giant sharks. The trouble is, a side-effect of the drug is to make them super-intelligent (not unlike our friend Caesar) and hungry, so when the lab starts sinking following a catastrophic accident all manner of nastiness ensues.So &#x96; don't mess with nature seems to be the message here. It's a shame it has to be such a noisy message, but other than that I found this film to be quite entertaining. People become shark food at regular intervals, but it's not always the one's you expect. The sharks look pretty realistic (maybe some of them were real), and the labyrinthine metallic corridors capture a nicely claustrophobic atmosphere without becoming too oppressive. The similarities of the concept with that of Rise of the Planet of the Apes does raise the suspicion that the writers of that movie perhaps had a sneaky peek at this one before sitting in front of their PC.The acting's a little so-so though, it has to be said. Jackson's OK, as you'd expect, but nearly everyone else delivers b-monster movie performances that grate a little. Best moment lost chef LL Cool J, up to his chest in cold sea water, picks up a copy of Playboy that's floating past. Looking at the centrefold he says to himself with renewed conviction 'I've got to get out of here.' "},{"Title":"If the formula works...","Date":"19 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Deep Blue Sea is a film about a floating research facility in which super-intelligent sharks are being bred (the ultimate bad idea, right up there with keeping your cyanide capsules in a Tic-tac box, and cooking with gunpowder) and, guess what, things go horribly wrong, and a small group of mismatched individuals are stuck with trying to survive in the flooded facility while being hunted by the smart fish.Drawing heavily on assorted movies - Jaws for the sharks, Alien for the claustrophobia, Die Hard for the pursuit in a confined area, loads of others for last man standing - there is not an ounce of originality in this.Which doesn't matter in the slightest. Those elements have all worked before, and they work now. This is a fast-moving, exciting, suspenseful, spectacular, gory, daft, but entertaining popcorn movie. "},{"Title":"Great idea, indefensibly shameful delivery","Date":"1 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" What is very sad about this film is that it didn't have the technology behind it to truly work. Made today, it would have more than had the FX. However, embarrassingly dodgy shark nonsense aside, the film was only a shadow of what it could have been. The Director ought to have thrown the script back. WTF. You have Mr Jackson, the immensely talented stage and screen actress Saffron Burrows, a hunk who can act to a reasonable level and a ghetto boy who has great appeal. When such vast amounts of money are assigned to a movie why not get a few experts to assess the balance of the plot, the writing, the limits of the technology in delivering key moments, and the overall feel and comfort of the proposition, themes and outcomes as dealt with in the script before shooting? Saffron was for the most part wasted, and needed to eat a good meal or two as she was painfully thin. The major sci-fi and moral compass themes of the movie were so clumsily handled that it was an embarrassment. The effects were cringe-worthy and embarrassing at the time, and surely all involved were less than blind to that fact. Sometimes less is so much more, and suggestion is always preferable to scoff-inducing crap!! A pig's ear of a film that should have launched the Saffron into the stratosphere and made her the A-Lister she deserved and deserves to be. However, it remains a camp semi-classic that is a regular feature of poorly audienced cable and satellite channels. geek boys and insomniacs the world over continue to give it a good ol' chance to be more than it ever was. A decent remake may not be out of the question, given the way Hollywood is misbehaving!! "}{"Title":"I don't know why","Date":"24 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I cant explain it. There is no reason for it.But for some reason this is one of those movies I can watch, ad infinitum. I have literally put it on repeat and watched it over and over all night before. If I happen to stumble across it playing on TV I have to stop and watch it, at least until commercial. Its not an overly great script, not the best acting(save for PUNISHER and MATAF***N SAMJACKSON), and the cgi is noticeable(always is). But for some sickening reason I will never understand, I enjoy this film.Its just so cheesy and bad, its fun. I give it an 8 for its rewatchability(imo), and for giving Jackson his best death ever in a movie. "},{"Title":"Samuel L. Jackson rules, that's about it","Date":"26 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" There's one scene in this movie I really like, and that's the one where Samuel L. Jackson gives his obligatory inspirational speech. It's not only the speech itself that's so great, it's mostly the completely unexpected climax to the scene. I sure wasn't expecting that to happen, quite brilliantly directed. The awesomeness pretty much ends there though, because the rest of the movie is just faceless people running around and occasionally being eaten by unconvincing CGI sharks. Also once in a while rapper LL Cool J drops by to deliver some misguided attempts at comic relief. The movie is never really that suspenseful or interesting in any way, because this thing has been done so many times before. I figured the makers would have come up with some variations on the formula, but Renny Harlin's approach is actually disappointly straight-forward. Of course it's done with a bigger budget than usual and with somewhat better actors, but that can't cover up how tired this stock plot really is. Sorry to say a polished-up crappy Jaws rip-off is still a crappy Jaws rip-off, no cigar. "},{"Title":"An attention keeper!","Date":"10 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie makes for a good movie night movie. The though of scientifically, enhanced sharks hunting human prey is a possibility. Making this movie plausible on some plane of reality. To be out in the ocean with 3 very large, very determined predators, can send even the bravest scrambling. Watching the cast come up with ways to keep their discovery and keep their lives helped the plot be believable as well. That is why I can not go past knee deep water! Deep Blue Sea, kept me gripping my pillow but eyes on the screen for the whole show. I would recommend this movie to anyone above the age of 12 and can not wait to see it again. "},{"Title":"VelociJaws is memorable - but it ain't no Jaws (nor JP)","Date":"17 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Jurassic Park meets Poseidon Adventure meets Jaws, etc. It opens with a Jaws-like attack on some clueless teens floating in the ocean. They are saved at the last by one of the ultimate heroic survivors of the film. From there on it's more like the JP velociraptors morphed into mako and Shelley Winters is afraid to duck under in order to go . . up.The sharks are impressive, even if one sees CG. The 'bad' girl/love interest gets hers as she heroically sacrifices herself to these gigantic mako sharks capable of attacking from fifteen feet away in the blink of an eye.One of the memorable, if somewhat ludicrous popcorn scenes, has Jackson giving a confession/pep-talk as one of these enormous sharks breaches behind him from a pool in which it barely fits and reaches out about six or seven feet to grab Jackson by the torso. It's reminiscent of Jaws, again, but only if 'Bruce' had really been working out. One wonders if they had toyed with the idea of releasing a 3D in the theaters for a few dollars more? The raptors in JP of course were memorable, and have become a part of pop culture around the world. But something about an over-sized mako that can attack from some distance like it had a rocket pack on its back, and that is smart enough to conceive a plan of attack and actually carry it out, is also memorable.One of the jokes of the film is by LL who remarks that at some point the 'brother' is the one who gets eaten, who doesn't make it out. And at the end, it looked as if that would happen. It's no surprise when the screaming, bitter chick gets eaten. Sam Jackson - you knew he was bait.So I guess the twist is that the love interest girl DOES get eaten, and the black guy only gets partially chomped, but not enough to stop him blowing up the last of the mighty makos.Certainly there's some suspense. It's difficult to know how the 'mad scientist' thing plays out. It was always so much more central to the plot in Frankenstein. This movie is really just about these crazy, wild monster sharks, with super brains and super speed, breaking loose and going on the man-hunt, ultimately it appears in order to get the people to inadvertently destroy the complex and make it easy to break out of the shark pens into the 'deep blue sea', the source for the title, I suppose. They want out. The last one almost gets out. And where would fishermen be, then, with these supersharks breeding everywhere? "},{"Title":"Yeah right","Date":"10 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" While the movie has good special effects and good character portrayal, and some scary moments like veloceraptor going after humans in Jurassic park, the whole premise the heroes gets themselves into this mess is laughable.The whole rig that's at least 3000 tons of steel sinks just because a puny helicopter crashes into it. Yeah right !!! First scene where a catamaran gets torn apart by a shark - Yeah, right !!!I know something about modern catamarans. It takes lot more than some strong teeth to tear it apart, and people won't get shaken off its deck in a single jolt from a shark. Now I don't know how strong an underwater rig that's made out of steel or whatever its made out of, but noway, it's going to get sunk by a helicopter crash. And what's that sea plane doing in a middle of a storm unscathed ? That would have been shattered to splinters after the first wave hits it.So from the get go, I couldn't get into this movie because it was plane silly how things happened.In the end, a bare cable conducts electricity in the water - YEAH RIGHT !!!! Where do they get these writers from ? "},{"Title":"Has it's faults","Date":"21 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Deep Blue Sea (1999, Dir. Renny Harlin) Believing she almost has the cure for Alzheimer's disease, Dr. Susan McCallister (Burrows) invites Russell Franklin (Jackson) with the hope that he would invest her and the research. The research is taking placed on an isolated facility in the middle of the ocean with the test subjects being Mako sharks. What was supposed to be a visit for Russell Franklin turns into something more, when the sharks flood the facility and hunt down the team, and thanks to the team, the sharks are now more smarter than ever.It had a great concept and starts off great, but unfortunately turns into your typical shark film with predictable deaths and terrible CGI. Even with these faults, the film is still very enjoyable, which is helped by a decent cast.We're this close to the reactivation of a human brain cell. &#150; Dr. Susan McCallister (Saffron Burrows) "},{"Title":"An updated version of Jaws with a little more bite","Date":"16 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" So many movies involving threatening sea creatures have never came so close after Steven Spielberg brought back horror and adventure to the seas in Jaws, but veteran action director Renny Harlin knows exactly what to do.Deep Blue Sea involves a group of scientists with Saffron Burrows as a head researcher seeing if placing a chemical in the sharks brains could not only enhance them, but at the same time use that piece to find a cure for Alzheimer's. The experimental sharks are lean, mean and fast eating machines where not even the cages in the lab can keep them for long. When the sharks are release, it's a deadly game of cat and mouse for Saffron and her team where they're being chased every second as if the animals know where they are going.The film's cast besides Saffron Burrows involve Thomas Jane as the game hunter, Michael Rappaport as a hot shot scientist, Samuel L. Jackson as a head consultant and LL Cool J as the cook. But the real stars are the animated sharks that take a bit out of the humans making us want to cheer for them. "},{"Title":"Gigantic Makos have nothing over the Punisher!!!","Date":"27 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I am huge shark enthusiast, so low and behold, I had a ton of fun watching DEEP BLUE SEA.The story is about a top-secret scientific lab in the middle of the ocean that harbors and experiments on a group of Mako sharks to hopefully find a cure for Parkinson's disease. A group of scientists including Michael Rapaport and Stellan Skarsgard are present, while chef LL Cool J and shark wrangler Thomas Jane do the dirty work. Sam Jackson shows up, whose an inspirational speaker of sorts, and soon enough after that, a surprise birthday party and colossal hurricane bares down on the group. This is when the sharks escape their pens and systematically hunt down their human counterparts.There is some decent gore in DEEP BLUE SEA, ex; Jackson getting munched on by the largest of the sharks, Skarsgard having his arm bit off like a piece of limp spaghetti, and the sexy Saffron Burrows ritualistically serving herself up as future Mako feces.The action scenes are pretty good too, including a helicopter crash and plenty of shark related chases. But the buff and brawn Jane steals the show as quite possibly the only man in human existence to consistently out maneuver the fastest of all sharks in their own domain!!! The film is just plain fun and offers a think-free movie experience that never really takes itself too serious. Big teeth, good portions of blood and flesh, and a hilarious end credit song by LL Cool J entitled Deepest Bluest. "},{"Title":"Hold your breath action","Date":"6 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" When Friday night rolls around with nothing to do, it is a perfect opportunity to rent an old film. When I picked Deep Blue Sea as that old film to rent, I was not expecting much. It was one of those films I thought was so cool when I was nine, and now being seventeen and a movie commenter, my opinion has not changed. This film has all of the (borrowed) elements expected from a film like this. Yes they are borrowed, but the film does a good job hiding it by having everything else that takes your mind off of the borrowed elements, modern-day effects.The effects are good, and when they are compared to past films of this genre, they are state of the art. Jaws had a mechanical shark, Jaws 2 had mechanical sharks, Jaws 3 had 80's CG sharks and Jaws The Revenge had glued together paper sharks. So when watching the film and sharks become bigger and smaller in different shots and rooms explode and appear brand new in different shots, just brush it off and continue watching the gore and good directing.Renny Harlin (Die Hard 2, Cliffhanger) has outdone himself with this film project. Not to say his other films are junk, they are just mediocre (except for Die Hard 2). He gives the audience a taste of what it would be like to watch a man's arm get bit off or the nerves of a dead man foot still moving after being torn in half by a shark. Saying that is not a spoiler, it should be obvious that people will die in a movie about sharks. Harlin does this with, as I mentioned before, with CG graphics and it is done splendidly. Harlin gives suspense and thrills when he plunges scientists so far underwater that they have to swim 60 feet to reach the surface. It's all good when it comes to direction, especially when he gives the audience a plot that will make people to actually think.Dr. Suzan McCallister (Saffron Burrows) needs a cure for Alzheimer's disease. So she increases the brains of three Mako sharks believing that a protein found in their brain fluid will cure the disease. When the sharks develop the side affect of becoming smarter, they unleash their fury on their creators by flooding the underwater lab, Aquatica, and plunging Samuel L. Jackson, Thomas Jane, LL Cool J and more to the bottom of the sea and food chain as it becomes a race against time to make it to the surface. With rushing water, people being maimed (Literally), and human intelligent sharks swimming and chasing after the characters every second, the film becomes even more and more suspenseful to the point of grabbing on to your seat.The problem with Deep Blue Sea is the fact that it takes so long to get into the point. There is so much gab in the first forty minutes that leads the audience right to the point, but then goes back to square one. This must have been Renny Harlin's way of making the movie longer than 90 minutes because these scenes cause the film to black out at 100 minutes.Overall, because I still have that inner child in me that won't get out, Deep Blue Sea floats to the surface and doesn't sink to the bottom. The film with thrill you, it will scare you and it will give you that hold your breath action making you want to fight for air. It is a good film, see it, it is very worthwhile. "},{"Title":"Deep Blue Sea goes right up with the Jaws films&#133;well, the later ones, anyway.","Date":"29 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" With a plot that is similar, boarding on rip-off, to The Poseidon Adventure, mixed with the typecast characters and CGI that would make the original Nintendo NES designers proud of themselves, you get what is certainly a popcorn film with that makings of a to-be famous B-movie.The film begins, like any good horror film, on a group of partying soon-to-be teenage victims on a boat, drinking and making out. The second you see them, the second the audience can't wait for them to be brutally ripped apart. And sure enough, after a couple of creepy underwater P.O.V. shots, and a did you hear something? from one of the teens, the menacing sharks rip apart the boat. But as soon as they're about to be viciously eaten, a tough Willis-like scientist hero saves them by mere inches by capturing the sharks.Meanwhile, back in the city, a scientist who we learn is the head honcho of the sea labs working on the creatures, has to explain herself to the leaders of the company why her test shark got out of the facility. Apparently, the test sharks are being genetically enhanced to create an antidote to Alzheimer's disease (yeah, I don't get it, either).Back at her sea lab, where she brings along another expert from the company, we learn about the lab, which is conveniently located in the middle of the Pacific Ocean, and meet the Thomas Jane character from earlier who has the tough emotionless I-don't-answer-to-no-one attitude. Eventually, while extracting brain tissue from a shark later in the film, an accident occurs with one of the scientists and that, mixed along with a devastating rain storm and vicious creatures, sets the lab into a state of complete wreckage, and the characters have to fight their way to the surface.First of all, if the film was trying to be subliminal about it's being inspired by Jaws, it didn't do a good job. One of the sharks is wrangled into the lab with, being conventionally pointed out by a character, a license plate stuck in its mouth. When they pull it out, it is not only a license plate, but the exact same one pulled out of the stomach of a tiger shark in Jaws. Oooh&#133;subtle! Not only that, but every shark that is killed in the film is done as an homage to the first three Jaws films, which I won't spoil for the sake of the people who haven't seen the films.While campy to the rim and packed full of clichés and tackiness, it seems to have a soft sense of knowing it. In other words, it knows it isn't going to be an amazing film, and merely for temporary entertainment. It doesn't, however, stop it from taking itself way more seriously than it needs to be. "}{"Title":"Deep Blue Sea","Date":"14 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" i saw Deep Blue Sea when i was around eight or ten years old. my mom rented it from the local library, but she didn't want me to watch it. Why she got it in the first place is beyond me, i guess because she was expecting JAWS, but as soon as she found out it was rated R, well you know. she left with my sister that night to go to some high school convention or something and my dad and i decided to watch it. it was incredible. he also liked the special effects, and i liked those action scenes. but one thing i can't get over. RENNY HARLIN, U MADE SOME AWESOME MOVIES IN THE PAST, AND NOW YOU MAKE ONE THAT KILLS OFF SAMUEL L. JACKSON?!?!?! i gotta say, that part stunned me so bad. he was the lead role, and he got his ass bitten off! well, u gotta enjoy a good twist. anyway, the characters in this movie were likable and realistic (LL Cool J was the comic relief) and Thomas Jane was the tough bastard out of the whole group. in a sea of Jaws imitators, this one stands out, and it's still cool to watch. if you could get your paws on it, check it out. if you like shark movies with lots of violence and humor, you will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Excellent Science fiction","Date":"18 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The movie is based on the research going on against the disease Alzheimer's disease.It seems that what ever shown in the movie may happen that when protein levels of the sharks are increased, they will become smarter and intelligent.Everyone has played its role except few scenes like why always the hero get himself saved from the jaws of the sharks.This is something which filmmakers has to avoid if they really want to give a real and life like scenes. Overall the movie is not bad idea.It is worth watching if one is interested in watching horror movies.... For shark plus science fiction lovers i will recommend this movie.. "},{"Title":"Dumb but fun","Date":"4 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Director Renny Harlin delivers an action packed, pleasantly gory shark fest here albeit one that requires the viewer to seriously suspend one's disbelief.Headed by a very good cast, including the always superb Samuel L. Jackson, Thomas Jane, LL Cool J and even (in a very brief non speaking cameo!) Ronny Cox; the film embraces a number of high octane genres including the disaster movie, the chase movie and of course, the big shark movie and rolls them all together to make this a highly entertaining watch.Special mention must go to the mechanical sharks used in this which are absolutely superb creations. Sadly the same cannot be solidly said of their CGI counterparts that look less convincing on screen.Overall, for fellow fans of shark flicks, this is an essential watch.One final note Full marks to the makers of this for the hilariously exploitative scene (and the inane reason for it) of Saffron Burrows getting down to her underwear. Actually, for me it was the best scene in the movie! "},{"Title":"Just like JAWS, only with more attack power!","Date":"23 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" For all you shark movie fans, this movie is for you. Instead of dealing with great whites, mako sharks are the ones to deal with. Mako sharks are faster than great whites, and just as deadly. When Dr. Susan McCallister(Saffron Burrows) works with the makos, she gets more than she bargained for. Her studies are to find treatment for Alzheimer's Disease(Discovered by Alois Alzheimer, as a form of dementia, a brain deteriorating disease), by studying with Mako sharks. Her works not only made the sharks smarter, they also got deadlier by the second. Everyone in the station are to fend for their lives, including a chef known as Preacher(LL Cool J). This chef knows the Bible, and doesn't hold back on anything. He's does however gets his revenge on the shark that ate his parrot. I liked the scene where Dr. McCallister took off her wetsuit, stands on it, and gave the shark a shock of its life. With the other survivors remaining, they had to put their trust into the Preacher. The cast chosen for this movie are great. Even though, Samuel L. Jackson had a short role in the movie, the rest of his words are long-lasting. If you like JAWS, you'll love Deep Blue Sea. 4 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Good ,but not great.","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I think this film is enjoyable,cause the story have some interesting elements,the film have good,nice music,some good action scene.Tom Jane is much better than in The Punisher .And LL Cool J ,and Saffron Burrows too plays good .I have to tell you for me this was the best shark thriller film ,not the Jaws series.The little bit Christian story ,and the emotionally ending,the creators want to tell you something very important about human behavior,and some other important things in life,and they doing this like in classic films.This film is one of the best Renny Harlin films made in USA,and ever.(For exampleThe Driven was terrible for me.)This film will take your attention. "},{"Title":"Best Shark Movie since Jaws","Date":"16 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Deep Blue Sea defiantly stands out when it comes to shark movies. Even through in some parts of the film we can tell the robotic sharks from the CG sharks, the effects are quite good. The story never goes flat and there are all sorts of unexpected twists and turns. The cast clearly understood who their characters were as they acted incredibly well. The sharks followed how Makos act in the wild and don't go around like mindless killing machines. The story is based on fact as sharks do contain things in their blood and body cells that can help combat cancer. But I must admit, when the large female attacked Russell Franklin, I wasn't impressed as the large female shark didn't show much aggression as I would of wanted to see. But Carter was excellent in the shark scenes as it showed how man and shark confront each other. Indeed this movie stands out and I compare it to Jaws as the other shark movies aren't that good. Absolutely this movie is the best since Jaws came out. "},{"Title":"Fun Caper, won't put you off swimming","Date":"28 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" OK the acting, Tom Jane and LL Cool J in particular is pretty wooden, the scientific basis as loose as Paris Hilton's morals and the story doesn't exactly grip you. But that's not the point with a movie that is basically about Genetically Modified Sharks. Researchers (led by Saffron Burrows and the awesome Stellan Skarsgard) on a base off the coast of Mexico have found a way to cure Alzheimer's through shark brains. Slight side effect, it means you get clever sharks that have worked out how to escape their cages.What follows is basically your standard horror/action piece where there are some gory deaths and acts of brazen stupidness and of course obligatory stripping on the part of Burrows. But there are also moments that will make you jump out of your seat and the list of who lives and dies isn't as clear cut as you might expect. Despite the word deep in the title don't expect anything deeper than the set. But it's still a good fun movie. "},{"Title":"Stellan Saffron Sam & Renny","Date":"15 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" 'Stellan here.' 'Stellan? It's Saffron Burrows.' 'Oh hi! How did you get my number?' 'Renny. How are you?' 'Fine. Did you sign up for Son of Jaws?' 'Uh, actually no on several counts.' 'Oh?' 'It's no longer Son of Jaws. It's Big Blue Sea now.' 'Besson won't allow that either.' 'So what do you think? Have you read it?' 'Unfortunately - you?' 'Yes - and this isn't why I left modeling.' 'Or I the theatre in Sweden.' 'Hello? Anyone there?' 'Yes - who is this?' 'Sam Jackson. Who am I talking to?'And here our friends continue to discuss their options, confronted as they are with a screenplay by writers from Cagney and Lacey. Ugh. We continue.'Saffron and Stellan, Sam. How are you?' 'Ha! I'm not sure! Have you guys read this?' 'That's what we're talking about.' 'So what do you think?' 'The Long Bite Goodnight!' 'Haha!' 'Haha!' 'They're paying well. I need the work.' 'I need the work too, Stellan, but this?' 'We can have a good time.' 'If you say so, Sam!' 'Just stuff it and go to work. Agreed?' 'OK - but ouch this one is absolutely awful!' 'Yes Saffron it is - but it pays the bills.' 'Too true, Sam. OK, I'm in. You guys?' 'OK. Three months from it'll be all over.' 'That's the spirit! Stellan?' 'As I say, I need the work. I'd rather not but...'Greetings to the 'Los Lamos' programmers. "},{"Title":"Deep Blue Sea","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Deep Blue Sea is very interesting and funny movie. On the other hand, I think that it deal with serious problem. It is a worthy and nice underwater film to see.This is an ocean action movie. It is an entertaining movie with good special effects and much better acting and characters than you'd expect from a film that's about sharks eating people. The visuals and sounds are good. The sharks look really real. It has powerful. Also, this story has sense of humor at all.So, Deep Blue Sea was the best shark movie I've seen. Please try to see it! "},{"Title":"Before there were Snakes on a Plane. There were Sharks in the Water.","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Before there were Snakes on a Plane. There were smart sharks in the water.Both movies were built with a killer animal theme, unlikely plot and for audiences who were looking for thrills and a good time. Plus they both got Samuel L. Muther***King Jackson. Enough said...Oh Wait. Can anyone say I'm tired of these Muther****ing sharks in this muther****ing water!? If you liked Snakes on a Plane you should like the Deep Blue Sea. If you haven't seen Snakes I can sum up the this movies plot with simply, A shark ate me, it mother****ing ate me.6 of 10 - Watch it for a simple yet thrilling good time and that's what you'll have. "}{"Title":"Why do they mix good and bad sfx ?","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Bad lumps of CGI sharks not a movie make, or do they? There are some scenes which feature non computer rendered sharks which look fairly real but I don't know why they need to use so many dumb looking lumps of cgi which completely remove any fear factor resulting from the more convincing looking scenes? As a result you simply cant take the sharks or this movie seriously and it sometimes is worse than B-movie crap. But there are some really good moments which are very original and nice but a few good moments themselves do not constitute a good movie itself. There's nothing much to say about that dialog or story. The screenplay and cinematography are OK. You'll probably get annoyed watching this in the cinema but if you force that on yourself, it has a better effect than watching it on the small screen. "},{"Title":"Tacky. But Entertaining","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Your typical Shark horror movie. It follows a group of scientists in an underwater laboratory researching the cure for Alzheimer's. Unknown to the rest of the team, Dr. Susan McCallister, has enlarged the sharks brains to extract a higher quality dosage. But with doing so, allows the sharks to learn more and become smarter. Flooding the laboratory and killing off the team one by one, the sharks use the remaining survivors as pawns to flood even more levels in an attempt to escape. The sharks ultimate plan? To be free in the deep blue sea.Deep Blue Sea is just like every other animal horror movie. But it is entertaining. The effects are good, not extremely great, but good for the time they were made in. Acting wise, pretty bad. But there are a few Boo - Ahh moments in the movie. Overall .. not that bad. Worth a look. "},{"Title":"Deep Blue SeaThe Docs Review","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Deep Blue Sea is a film that you watch simply because the cheesiness is entertaining.The storyline is at least creative and better than Jaws but overall it's still not that fun.The kills which is of course the highlight of the film are very innovative but too spaced out at the beginning and too close together near the end.Also not enough people die so the film really begins to get boring.The characters are perfectly created you have the tough guy you root for,the funny guy you hope doesn't die,the girl who won't stop whining,the smart doctor,and of course the shark that is too smart for it's own good.Jaws has a more unbelievable story where as Deep Blue Sea's story is different and to an extent original.A group of scientists enhance sharks brain cells in order to use them as a cure for Alzheimer's, you have to admit it is a neat idea and it works very well.It's a cheesy film but not cheesy enough to get a better rating.If you like Deep Rising,Jaws,or Anaconda than Deep Blue Sea will be fun,but for most Deep Blue Sea is something you watch on a boring Sunday night when you can't fall asleep. "},{"Title":"..sure scared the heck out of me..","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" ...because I KNOW sharks are eating-machines. Boo! Boo! Boo! to all those who say this was a tacky movie. What do they know ? Some folk don't realize that sharks regularly make a dinner of one another, I guess. They'll attack anything ! witness the same license-plate from Jaws. You can't always depend on a certain director, actor/actress to give a first-rate performance. As for people criticizing Sam Jackson for being in this film, maybe he was looking for something easy to do to make a week's rent, huh? Every role can't be Shakespeare ! One commentator defies ANYONE who knew that he was going to get attacked by the shark during his rally-the-troops speech - guess what, I kept telling him to move away from that big tank behind him, because the sharks knew it was there and how to get in it. I'd have been as far away as I could get from ANY water. I admit that scene with the shark pitching the guy in the stretcher against the window and breaking it was a bit far-fetched....the tank wasn't big enough to get-up that much speed, but it sure scared me ! Please wise-up the commentator who said those big sharks swam through those tiny doors they punched them in. Didn't you see the shark swim into the under-sea wreckage? I guess no one noticed the 'copter got its hook caught on the deck and banged into the watch-tower. What is totally unbelievable to me is the 'copter was out in that kind of weather, anywho, but the explosion was colorful. Believe it or not, sharks don't need deep water to swim in - most attacks occur very close to shore. I have real-life pictures of them body-surfing right along with humans. Santa Monica Bay gets its share of attacks, because folk are crazy enough to swim among sea-lions - one lady poo-poo-ed it and lost her life. I also have a real-life picture of some dumb fool on a ladder dropped from a 'copter, with a shark almost as big as these guys, jumping completely out of San Francisco Bay - right under The Bridge - to snatch him - close call! LL Cool J was great in the movie -it needed his comedy and skepticism to offer relief between the belly-crunchers. Jaws was an entirely different type of film - we knew there was a big fish out there, but Deep Blue Sea ANNOUNCED on its cover there would be eat-em-ups. Join all the other whiners how dumb this movie was, if you want to, but I love it - plan to watch it again next week - I'm already scared. You guys go in the ocean whenever you want - I'll stay on shore. That's as close as I plan to get to The Deep Blue Sea. "},{"Title":"Big dumb shark fun - minor spoilers","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Medical biologist Susan McAlester is trying to cure Alzheimers by extracting enzymes from the brains of sharks.  However when sponsor Russell Franklin threatens to withdraw his funding she invites him to come to the underwater facility to inspect their work.  Once there they notice that the sharks are beginning to show signs of rapid advancement and intelligence.  When the sharks attack a helicopter and begin to attack the facility, partially flooding it, McAlester reveals that she has been increasing the shark's brain size in order to remove more of the chemicals.  However with the facility slowly sinking and the sharks looking for both food and freedom, time is running out for those in the complex.Jaws on speed, that's what it is, and while it is nowhere near Jaws in terms of class, it still has much to be enjoyed.  The story is really daft - it simply doesn't matter.  All that matters is that very little time is wasted before the sharks turn on their captors and the action starts.  Once it starts there is plenty of action but, what makes it even better, is that the film has no respect for it's cast and plays it totally tongue in cheek.  The film knows it's silly and thus just goes for big dumb thrills without apology - for example, after the first attack things look dire for the survivors, billionaire Franklin gives one of those disaster movie speeches that the hero also gives about 'survival and sticking together', only for him to be suddenly and unceremoniously snatched and killed!  There are a few scenes where the film tries to build up tension slowly and have shadows move underwater etc, but these don't work as well as the scenes where attacks happen suddenly - the strength of this film is that the sharks really move as fast as they say they do!Yes it has it's problems - like the sharks seem to move slowly when the plot requires them too, or they aren't always very smart.  And yes the plot is stupid and the characters are mostly cardboard, stereotyped cut outs - confident businessman, check!  Scientist messing in areas she shouldn't, check!  Rugged hero type, check!  Black character, check!  Cowardly character, check!  However it still manages to be fun.Thomas Jane is good a the rugged sort - I'm not convinced he can do anything else (I may be wrong!), but he sticks me as a typical B-movie (which this is!) leading man.  Saffron Burrows cannot act!  Here she is soooo wooden that you almost feel that if she did fall if the water, not only would she float but the sharks would be spitting out splinters.  Jackson is good - he's in a dumb movie and he knows it!  Stellan Skarsgård adds class, while Rapaport is a familiar face lumbered with a cowardly character (but the coolest death! check out the trailer).  The best role is from LL Cool J, his character is daft and he knows it.  He is by himself for most of the film and he allows himself to be made fun of.  He's not a great actor but he's great in movies where he doesn't have to give a totally 'straight' performance (see also Halloween H2O).Overall this is not a great film, but it's a fun action movie with great effects.  My favourite bit is when one of the characters says we've got significant brain activity here and the whole audience says oh no there isn't!.  Big, dumb fun! "},{"Title":"Silly, enjoyable and fun Saturday night entertainment!","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  DEEP BLUE SEA (1999) Rating 7/10Deep Blue Sea is great fun to watch. With your viewing buddy you can always look at the screen and have your eyes widened or your mouth grinning. It's a neat sense of enjoyment you can only get from a shark movie. I can guarantee you'll enjoy it even if you are a stern critic. But alas, Deep Blue Sea has its flaws. While the science-fiction story of a cure for Alzheimer's disease tries to cover up some of the flaws, you can still notice them. Sharks sense blood by its smell, not by its appearance. This is not the case in the thrilling opening scene, where some guy drops a bottle of red wine in the water on accident and a shark comes. Also, the-12-sharks-escaping-and-terrorising-people story is all entertaining, but how could the sharks fit through the corridors when they're meant to be super big? There's some more flaws, but I wouldn't want to keep you from seeing this movie because it's good fun and keeps you intrigued and entertained. There's something for everyone in Deep Blue Sea, whether you want fast CGI shocks, shocking horror, Saffron Burrows half naked, sharks eating people or just plain fun, its what you get.  "},{"Title":"Great popcorn movie...","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  As a second version of Jaws, this is really a great shot, and an even more scientifically correct one here, opposite to Jaws, sharks are mean because they received some genetical alteration that enlarged their brains, not because they enjoy eating surfer´s legs and naked late night swimmers. And the rest is history, I mean, the rest is a lot of action, and almost no history at all(is that a prob with any of you?). The screenplay is surprisingly well-done for a recycled movie, and the audience is surprised all the time characters that you would expect to become shark's food in the beginning of the movie will survive till the very end, and others will die before you can spell movie star. LL Cool J is an audience favourite as the ex-preacher turned cook who gives the sharks a hard time, Sam Jackson and Michael Rapaport do the usual job of earning their salaries, Tom Jane, as the macho shark tamer(would anyone believe that he doesn't kill not even one single shark in the whole movie?)is not compromising and Saffron Burrows is worth her reputation as the cutie with incredibly large cheekbones and delicious english accent.  "},{"Title":"Attack of the silicon sharks!","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Jaws was a great movie great characters (and character development), simple but great plot, and do I dare say, great special effects. When Deep Blue Sea came out, I knew it was pretty clear this was NO Jaws, but for God's sake!!! For a movie that came out 24 years after Jaws, you'd think it would at least defeat Jaws in the special effects category, but no. I definitly enjoyed good-old Bruce (the shark in Jaws) over some third-rate CGI that belonged on the Playstation rather than the silver screen. I believe that if I had a time-machine and brought Steven Spielberg to 1999 from when he was directing Jaws, he would be laughing out loud at this movie. Ok I'm getting off topic now, but there are some PRO's about this movie. It can be some-what entertaining, it is funny, and if all else fails, and you're having a bad day, this is a good stress reliever if you want to take your aggresion out on the VHS tape (the DVD would make a nice coaster). Even the potential-best scene in the movie, Samuel L. Jackson's death, is plagued with laughably pathetic special effects. Well, you've been warned. Watch Jaws, or Discovery Channel instead. "},{"Title":"Far fetched but great fun","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of those films where you have to switch off a bit, but is great fun for what it is.  Some of the effects are amazing, and gory.  Would recommend you go and rent it out now, you will enjoy it!SPOILER ALERTThe best bit has to be when the great Samuel L Jackson meets his demise, who saw that coming then??!?! "},{"Title":"Shark shocker lacks raw power of Jaws - partial spoiler","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Briefly, the sharks concerned due to unlikely causes have been souped up to be more intelligent than your average shark, sort of bionic sharks. You can just see the meeting on this - It'll be like jaws but with meaner sharks, they'll be picked off like Alien - but the characterisation and shrewd social comment that added so much to Jaws just wasn't there. Bionic sharks munching research wallies doesn't I'm afraid in the end make a classic film, though it passed the time. It's a sort of rainy afternoon type film - as long as you don't expect any more from it than that, go ahead and watch. As to how many of them survive, which ones, and if they do, how, well you'll just have to wait and see. "}{"Title":"Bitterly disappointing.","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A film with a premise like Deep Blue Sea had has a tremendous amount of potential. There is so much that you can do with super-intelligent sharks, but this just comes off as a pretentious mess that ignores its possibilities. Obviously, the biggest challenge for a film like this is to come up with a satisfactory explanation for why some scientists with an assumingly high degree of intelligence would take it upon themselves to choose sharks as the animals whose brains they would like to stimulate and augment. Sure, it's pretty clever that someone has figured that there is a way to use the brain tissue of sharks in order to cure Alzheimer's disease, but there's not a lot of mystery about the choice to use sharks, at least from the point of view of the writer's desk. So they increase the size of the sharks' brains five fold, and a similar increase of intelligence follows. There are, however, several instances of an increase of knowledge that seem to come as an automatic result of increased intelligence (the scene where the shark sets the oven to 500 degrees after LL Cool J flees into it comes to mind), which really makes no sense. And this is not even to mention the laughable increase in physical abilities, such as the suddenly obtained ability to swim backwards.The first thing that really becomes noticeable is the horrendous special effects throughout. It's bad enough that a shark at one point holds a man in a stretcher in its teeth and literally throws him at an underwater plate glass window - which would be physically impossible if only because of the viscosity of the seawater &#150; now we have to watch a movie with sharks that perform impossible acts and looks like cartoons. Some huge corporation has funded this research on a self-contained research vessel at sea, and when dealing with super intelligent sharks, it's obvious that something is going to go wrong. And sure enough, lots of stuff goes wrong, but unfortunately, nothing goes wrong that you wouldn't really expect to see go wrong in a movie like this. (spoilers) In the film's defense, there are at least one or two moments of genuine excitement, such as Samuel L. Jackson's untimely and shocking demise. What a great scene that was. On the other hand, this is comparable to the fireplace scene in The Haunting, the hugely disappointing 1999 semi-horror film. It was a great scene that just about lifts you off your seat, but the film as a whole is a big disappointment. LL Cool J plays the part of the religious cook on the vessel, providing us with the comic relief and the recipe for the perfect omelet, spoken as his last words, his legacy, if you will (`Many people add milk to their eggs to increase density, this is a mistake!'). Thanks for the wisdom there, LL. On the other hand, without the boneheaded dialogue, the weak story, the scripted and ineffectual action sequences, and the terrible special effects, this wouldn't be a summer blockbuster at all, but a memorable film, like Jaws. Deep Blue Sea has a lot in common with its backwoods, lake-set counterpart, Lake Placid, mostly in that they both retained a similar degree of let-down. However, there is a time for films like these. It's those times when you want to watch something light, but don't want to be bored by a romantic comedy. If you want to see a fairly fast paced thriller without having to think, Deep Blue Sea may very well be a good choice for you. But when you see the ludicrous ending, remember that you brought this upon yourself.  "},{"Title":"Pure Entertainment","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This had to be one of the worst movies to be put on the screen but you cannot tear me away from the television when it is on.  It has to be one of the most entertaining movies I have seen in a long time.  It was completely unbelievable and made no sense but that doesn't matter.  SPOILER AHEAD!!!!! For example--these sharks had absolutely no trouble ripping Michael Rappaport and the woman scientist apart with one bite but somehow LL Cool J was able to survive in it's mouth for a good 10 seconds and even fight his way out of it.  But once again I didn't let this bother me.  For anyone who hasn't seen this film, set aside two hours and any sense of reality and prepare to be thoroughly entertained. "},{"Title":"Another attrition movie","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If there's one hallmark of a bad horror/suspense movie, it's that the characters are so devoid of depth and uninteresting that it's blatantly obvious that their merely present to facilitate the inevitable bloody death scenes.  Deep Blue Sea strings together a series of gory death-by-shark scenes with mindless babble and some supposed message about respecting nature.  This movie is Friday the 13th with sharks.  Empty, boring characters picked off one by one in a manner more gruesome than the last.So, hey, what's the problem, right?  This isn't The Godfather, after all, right?  True, we're not watching this movie in the hopes that it'll enthrall us the ways real cinema will; nevertheless, a problem exists.********SPOILER WARNING**************Here's the problem the shark scenes are aren't all that impressive.  In fact, they're pretty weak.  The puppet sharks look like they should be nailed over the fireplace of some New England fisherman, and the CGI sharks look like just that computer images (they resemble the sharks from those chewing gum commercials from a few years ago).  Sadly, the best scene in the movie, where Sam Jackson meets his demise, also features the WORST special effects.  Watch the floor as the shark grasps the stick figure that's supposed to be Jackson and slams him down.  It turns from white to red just as if someone had used the Fill feature of their favorite Paint computer program.  This scene is only slightly worse than Michael Rappaport's swan song, which loses all shock value by the fact that the scene would look more at home on a Sony Playstation rather than the movie screen.**********SPOILERS END*****************Comparing this piece of garbage to the magnificent Jaws is wrong on so many levels, but it has to be done for obvious reasons.  Jaws compensated for the relatively primitive special effects of the day (not to mention a malfunctioning artificial shark) with masterful suspense, played out by wonderful, dynamic, and (most importantly) believable characters.  One the other hand, Deep Blue Sea should be the exact opposite it should compensate for its total lack of characters and story with amazing special effects.  It fails miserably. "},{"Title":"DEEP BLUE SEA is just what a summer movie should be. JAWS meets THE POSEIDON ADVENTURE.","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It has some thrills, some surprises, some chills, some laughs, some awful dialogue, some special effects and some effects that aren't all that special. Deep Blue Sea takes place in the deep blue Pacific off the coast of Baja California. We're trapped there, after a storm and some nasty explosions, on Aquatica, a lab station facility described by one character as Alcatraz floats. A team of DNA-altering scientists, experimenting on shark brains, is seeking a cure for Alzheimer's. Didn't their mothers ever tell them Don't mess with Mother Nature? You can bet that the big-brained, mutant makos, which could now qualify for Mensa, will ultimately make fish food out of these pretentious men and women of science and pharmaceuticals. Speaking of food, Saffron Burrows, as the head scientist, is looking seriously slender. Get this woman a square meal. Thomas Jane is functional as the stalwart hero who manages some super-human feats above and below sea level. He leads, as the team struggles to escape from the watery grave that Aquatica has become. LL Cool J generates laughs as the facility cook who somehow ends up in his own oven. Samuel L. Jackson gets the Exit of the Year Award, as he heads off to sleep with the fishes. Wow! Renny Harlin directs the underwater traffic with aplomb, obviously an old hand at swimming with sharks. If you remember watching Puff the Magic Dragon, and I know you do, you will remember what it feels like to watch live action and cartoon together in the same movie.  The sharks in Deep Blue Sea were just that&#133;CARTOONS!  UGH! "},{"Title":"Ugh!  *contains mild spoilers*","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The best thing I can say about this wretched piece of junk is that it is not the worst shark movie ever made.  The one tiny jump that I had in the film was when a certain character was standing by the pool, yelling about how we all need to work together, when WHAM! the shark sort of, well, flew up out of the water and nabbed him.  Wait.  That was dumb, too.  Sometimes, you go see a movie knowing it is going to be bad, and that's part of the clandestine thrill.  I saw Deep Blue Sea expecting some sort of adventure. What I got was wooden acting, terrible science, a gratuitous shot of a PhD scientist in her underwear, and characters who deserved to be shark-chow because they were too stupid to live. "},{"Title":"Good movie for drinking beer and making fun of...","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you want to have a few friends over, drink some beer or smoke some funny cigarettes and laugh at a truly corny movie, this is the one for you!  I mean, come on, no one went to this movie actually expecting a GOOD MOVIE, did they???I rented it and had several friends over as mentioned.  It was a great party movie - characters that just make you yell DIE, you ?!*$#%!!!, scenes where you cheer for the sharks, really horrible scientific jargon, blonde bimbos...  It was particularly fun making bets on which characters would die and in what order (I thought it was pretty easy to guess).Obviously don't rent this movie to impress your date. Don't rent this movie to engage in deep thought. I also don't think this movie would be worth watching alone, with no one to throw popcorn at or boo with.But if you're silly and don't mind cheese, get a gang together and go wild.  You might lose the respect of one or two of your friends, but only the more snobby ones who you don't need.Oh, and one more thing - Please don't tell me it's a guy movie.  I'm a thirty-two year old woman.   "},{"Title":"A GREAT MOVIE THAT'S LOTS OF FUN!!","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the best movies I have ever seen! It has a great plot, great actors, and I love their accents. It is a great movie to watch when u want to get really scared. And it is also one of the few movies where the main character does not live. Anyone should watch this movie. If u like adventure, thriller, or horror films, then this is the movie for u! Its great to watch when ur home alone, and the lights are off, or  just to watch for a great scare. There are some nasty parts, which i mean arms getting bitten off, surprise attacks out of  nowhere that can make ur heart skip a beat or make u jump out of your chair. see this movie soon! u will love it! i give it ********** stars!!  "},{"Title":"Offensive","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  You will be offended, I was! I'm taking the movie producer, writer and director to court for this act against humanity.This movie is horrendous, it's so bad that you'll throw a brick through your TV. Why is it bad? Because it has DUMB characters, DUMB plot, DUMB dialogue, DUMB special effects - It's all DUMB!!!! I hate this movie so much. The movie steals plenty of Jaws material, I'm sure Speilberg was repulsed by this garbage.I should've known that Akiva Goldsman was attached, it beggers belief that this trashy writer/producer is in Hollywood.I feel sorry for Saffron Burrows, obviously wanted her big break, but she was used for her good looks and nice figure. I'm disappointed that Sam L Jackson was in this movie, he was a total waste.I don't want to write anymore about this movie, it's a disgrace, you've been warned. "},{"Title":"Stupid, but entertaining","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A stupid movie,  bad acting, bad plot.  Yet I couldn't help but wanting to see it again.  One reason I give it a bad grade is because, shark attack movie, please, its been done.  Whats with the plot, the shark got smarter, I do not think so.  I was also surprised that Samuel Jackson was in it even though not for a long time.  Even though the shark attack movies have been done, they still could have done a better job with the plot.  Still, with it sexy stars and shark killing people scenes makes this a fun to see movie. This guilty pleasure gets a B-. "},{"Title":"Flawed Movie Proves That Intelligence Isn't Everything","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Lacklustre performances, second-rate special effects and predictable blood-letting spoils a movie whose plot had some potential.Saffron Burrows stars as Dr. Susan McAlester, a research scientist searching for a cure for Alzheimer's Disease through research on shark brains. Needing increasing amounts of brain tissue, McAlester's team decides to break the rules governing their scientific research by genetically altering the sharks to increase their brain size, which then results in an unfortunate increase in the sharks' intelligence.I have to admit that, given what the scientists needed (more shark brain tissue), I never really understood why they would choose to do it by using genetic modification on the sharks they had (which sounds to my admittedly unscientific mind to be a rather complicated and somewhat long-term business) rather than simply going out and getting more sharks. I concede that shark-hunting must be a dangerous business, but it sounds to me as if it would be simpler and quicker, and Carter Blake (played by Thomas Jane) seems to be pretty good at it. I'm also not sure that simply increasing the size of the sharks' brains would lead to them becoming more intelligent? But, setting what I consider those obvious plot oversights aside, I just didn't think the movie was that good. A helicopter crash sets off an interminable series of explosions and other disasters that seem to go on and on before any of the story picks up again. I mean, we get the point. The helicopter crashed, and badly damaged Aquatica - the ocean-based laboratory. But you'd think the world was coming to an end the way this series of disasters went on and on.Once that has passed, there's some decent enough action as the sharks hunt their captors, but the acting is quite flawed. Obviously artificial screams of terror are followed within seconds by completely normal interaction between the characters as though they didn't just see their friend get torn in pieces by this shark. These folks have a fast recovery time from trauma! I was also intrigued by the fact that the genetic modifications that changed the sharks' brain size also results in sharks that look suspiciously like little orcas! I've seen pictures of sharks and orcas. They have different markings; different colours! You wouldn't know that from this movie. The scenes involving shark attacks also looked quite phony to me.I was going to give this a 2 or 3, until the very end, when the ironic twist of the movie became apparent to me, and since I didn't see it coming I have to raise this to a 4.**SPOILER AHEAD**I found it an interesting example of poetic justice that in the end, the only survivors of this disaster were the two characters (Preacher the cook, played by LL Cool J, and the shark hunter Carter Blake) who had no real education! All the educated ones (the scientists and even the sharks) bit the dust! You have to love that one! "}{"Title":"deep blue something...","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  ok fair enuff they were genetically modified.. but like no.. sharks dont swim backwards.. if they did they would drown! The acting was terrible.. cept for LL Cool J and his bird D It was more of a comedy than anything else to be perfectly honest.. Looking at the effects in the media lab in college was when I noticed just HOW bad everything really looked! The sharks fin disappears in the scene when Jackson is eaten, it resembled more of a great white than a mako.. the tiger shark looked like a bl**dy bumble bee with all them stripes!!!The tie-ins with the Jaws series for a start were a little ott. The number plate found in the tiger's stomach was identical to the one in Jaws. (the first one), the first shark was blown up, the second electricuted, the third blown up, and the forth blown up.. same way the sharks in the jaws movies were killed.  Was this the director making cheap digs at the jaws series or was he a fan?If you don't know anything about sharks then yes this is a good saturday night thriller.. if you do know about sharks.. dont put urself through the torture of having to watch this. "},{"Title":"Frankenstein's Fish","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Jaws was they definitive shark movie... and so, apart from the inevitable and execrable sequels, it has taken 15 years to return to the theme.Both movies attempt to rise above the stock schlock horror flicks by employing strong cast line-ups and borrowing plot ideas from classic stories.  Jaws from Ibsen's Enemy of the People and DBS from Mary Shelley's Frankenstein.  So enduring are the ideas of Mad Scientist (Dr. Susan McAlester/Dr Victor Frankenstein) tampering with nature and lone man trying to tell the hidden secret of his seaside resort(Dr. Thomas Stockmann/Chief Martin Brody) that the stories work extremely well in this setting and continue to offer a powerful message.Unlike Jaws, with it's long hunting scene, DBS doesn't allow the characters to develop.  So the undoubted talents of Stellan Skarsgård, Samuel L. Jackson and to a lesser extent Saffron Burrows and LL CoolJ are largely hidden by the action.  One feels this is the fault of Harlin and his background in action flicks such as Cliff Hangar.<SPOILER> The story provides plenty of scares and is an enjoyable yarn.  The sets and static CGI is superb and the explosion is one of the best I've seen. However the CGI of the sharks is unconvincing and not up to the standards of Jurassic Park II but then I've never seen real sharks so what do I know? In contrast the animatronic sharks are a marvel in themselves.  4000 kilo monsters powered by 1000 bhp pneumatic motors, it is a wonder some of the actors were not eaten alive.... highly recommended is the scene where Jacqi McKenzie becomes a tasty appetizer for one of the brutes. </SPOILER>So in conclusion a bit too long on action and short on plot and character development.  "},{"Title":"Surprising film with some excellent twists, although spoiled by an over the top ending","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Good entertainment, although events during the film make you think that this won't be a typical hollywood script, the groan inducing ending will make you cringe and invalidates the enjoyment and suspense built up during the rest of the film. Surprisingly enjoyable apart from the exceedingly corny and overstretched ending. "},{"Title":"Deep Blue Sea is","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Very large and smart sharks. A lot of flooding, hatch openings and closings. People getting bitten in half. Saffron Burrows stripping to her undies to so she can off a shark. Interesting that she was all oiled up during this scene to accentuate her breasts. That's the whole movie. 5/10 "},{"Title":"scary bit o actiony fun, some fodder for ethical debates.","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Here and there I will take in a scarier-than-my-usual movie if some friend insists on it, or something in the advertising manages to catch my attention. That's what did it this time I read an interview with Saffron Burrows and she expressed that there is some confusion in the ethics and reaction to her character. Everyone seems to hate her character, and she didn't think the character was that bad.  I must say I agree with her.But first The film en whole is a very basic bit of `ooo where is the thing that's about to EAT me' fun. Human error drops human to the bottom of the food chain. It does better than average at suspenseful scaryness because not only are you continually surprised at how clever these sharks have become, but also the crew is in a large mostly-underwater facility with them. They're being attacked in their very living quarters! Watching this film in my bedroom, even in the middle of a desert (Texas), this point was still disconcerting.The ethical debating fodder orbits around the fact of how much dislike the other characters, apparently as well as much of the audience, throw upon the character of Dr. McAlester. The main problem I had with this is the fact that the main common-sense-error her character made, she appears to have made in conjunction with another character. But nobody throws any blame or dislike upon him for it at all. Very strange. There is also the fact that the error was made in good intention ...they were, quite frankly, *blinded* by their good intensions. But the root of people's reaction seems to be bedded in cold fear of ALL general genetic research.  So sitting within this shark-attack basic action flick, here we stumble upon good subjects to get caught in late night debates about. But of course, that's not for everyone. It's a film you can watch just to watch people get munched, or a film you can watch to  just to argue with your friends about. "},{"Title":"Good Sat. afternoon matinee","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  First of all, I liked this movie.  A movie with this storyline made 40 or 50 years ago would look awful, but because of the vast improvement in special effects it looks much more reasonable.   Nothing is perfect but let's realize that this is a movie not the 6PM news.  There were enough scenes to make me and my wife sit up in awe and for once the actors did not have to be in the over $10 million range (maybe not Samuel L. Jackson) and not everyone had to look like they just came out of a box like in the soap operas.  The bottom line here is that I was entertained and that is why I watch movies.      "},{"Title":"The Long, Wet Kiss Goodbye...","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  (Contains potential Spoilers)Renny Harlin, he who had the audacity and outrageous creative impulse to cast one-time amour and missus in the over-the-top gem THE LONG KISS GOODNIGHT, only to see that film consigned to Guilty Pleasure Movie Hell for his pains, is back with a vengeance.His mission to prove that he can still make a decent action film that will pack 'em in. Not that he hasn't been able to do that before, but in La-La Land you're only as good as the box office take on your last picture...need I say more?It's only too bad that the script he's been given to work with is straight out of the DEEP RISING/LEVIATHAN/DEEPSTAR SIX school. So does the film world really need another JAWS-meets-ALIENS knockoff? Only if the director can obey the cardinal rule of monster-mash-moviemaking keep it movin'.Now THAT Renny can do.Thanks to CGI and other visual and mechanical advances which far surpass the eccentricities and hardships posed for Spielberg and Company by a faulty shark nicknamed Bruce about three decades ago, Harlin and HIS mates fare far better in the WOW! Department. How? By giving us lightning-quick, brutally realistic, omigod-graphic shark attack sequences so stunning, we won't have a chance to contemplate how in the hell a movie this enthralling got made, about scientists who are a lot dumber than the sharks who snack on them.In this tale of mutant sharks turned homosapien gormands, we first must accept that Saffron Burrows is a geneticist, (yeah, I'm SO sure), who has possibly found a cure to Alzheimer's via shark brain research she's engaged in with partner/ex-hubby Stellan Skarsgard, aboard the deep sea research station AQUATICA. (And as you well know, dear moviegoer if ex-lovers or ex-marrieds in any action thriller are not the heroes, then they're potentially Hamburger Helper.)Well, since we have her for the guys to look at, gotta give the girls their due, too. And so we have Thomas Jane as the resident shark wrangler, who has the body of an International Male catalog model, the brass cojones of a fish-loving Evel Knievel, the machismo of a younger Clint Eastwood, and all the charisma of...well, Saffron Burrows. You'll find more sparks in a twenty-year old car battery than you will between these two, but maybe that's just as well, considering the circumstances...So what do we do for the rest of the shark cuisine...uh, I mean sparkling character development? Well, there's Samuel L. Jackson as the mega-rich entrepreneur whose millions are funding the research; LL Cool J as the research station's chef, (okay, so that takes care of SOME of the charisma problem), Michael Rapaport as the loveably-quirky-geeky-genius, (read you know he's toast already), and THE SOPRANOS' Aida Turturro as Brenda, the AQUATICA's den mother/weather lookout, (read again she's toast, too.) Oh, yeah, and Jacqueline McKenzie as a fellow researcher and Skarsgard's new love, (I don't have to say it, do I...?)Those wacky scientists, screwing around with nature to benefit mankind...they never learn, do they? I mean if they did, there never would be any monster movies like this, and we'd miss out on the fun. Which in DEEP BLUE SEA is not so much figuring out who's going to survive, as it is determining who's going to be next on the menu...It's always nice when you don't require the auspices of an MST3K to make a bad movie more fun to watch, and there is certainly no heckling required with a film this DEEP. Like its predecessor ANACONDA, it takes itself JUST seriously enough with the special effects, but lets you, the audience, have fun with the rest. Now if only Dean Devlin and Roland Emmerich had been able to see this before they made that mess with the giant lizard...  "},{"Title":"Bad, Really really Bad.","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was so awful, it's hard to know where to begin.  First of all the computer graphics were the worst.  I am convinced the producer had the local junior high computer class do the graphics.  No way were they even the least bit convincing.The acting was boring and I never believed for a minute that anything on screen was really happening.  The story line was even worse. To  get the most out of  this movie one should watch it with a sense of humor and get a good laugh out of it.  Honestly, I haven't seen this bad a movie in years.  Donsgal "},{"Title":"The Special Effects movie A new genre is born...","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Computers are among us. They make possible incredible effects we would never have imagined before. In this case, they created several sharks swimming and eating people. But sometimes (many times, I'm afraid) they think that the effects themselves can support the whole weight of a movie, and that's a terrible mistake. As it happens in The Perfect Storm (2000), they only offer a collection of CGI scenes with nothing else valuable. What's more, in my opinion, the effects aren't perfect (it's obvious for us to identify which scenes are computer generated scenes), and as a result we have another mediocre effects movie. Maybe a new genre is finally born the Special Effects movie, including all those films with nothing but effects.My rating 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Unexpected Surprise","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  From a critic's point of view, or any of the pretenseous film students I go to school with, one would not like this film. I however, dug it. Catching it on cable one sleepless night, I found this movie both engaging and suspensefull.But then again, I like movies like this A group of people not only trapped in some kind of complex, but pitted against a beast(s); who will survive and what kind of elaborate gorey deaths await the not so fortunate? Similar movies to this are The Thing (John Carpenter), The Alien Trilogy,Pitch Black, and Screamers. I don't know why I like movies like this, but I do, and I liked Deep Blue Sea, despite obvious CG sharks.Saffron Burrows is beautiful, LL Cool J is surprisingly funny, and Micheal Rappaport is his usual greatness.Bottom Line You will like this movie. Good, but not great. "}{"Title":"BAD...**Spoilers**","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"     When this film was advertised I reckoned it was absolutely great.    BUT IT WAS NOT!    I admit the graphics was very good and the storyline was also pretty good too.  The acting wasn't bad either however that's where it ended. The ending was really bad as, like in other movies, the 'mad scientist' should've been killed.  But no, she had to live.  And killing off Samuel L. Jackson was a bad bad idea!    There wasn't enough suspense in the movie too although the atmosphere was allright. "},{"Title":"Root for the sharks!","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Another silly predator movie churned out to fuel the public's ignorance and prejudice toward sharks, Deep Blue Sea sinks lower than low.    The CGI sharks look completely fake superimposed and weightless on the backgrounds.  Acceptable plot, but annoying characters give nothing to bolster the human predicament.    The poor sharks are abducted and imprisoned, tortured for medical research - the best part about this one is cheering them on while they dismember and gobble up their captors.      Throughout this film, my neighbors could probably hear me letting out triumphant hollers (Get 'im!  Bite 'im!  Yeah! Go for the face!) while I watched the multitude of flat lead characters get what they deserved.  The only sparkle in this film is nature finally getting some revenge on the cruel human beings who believe that wildlife is there to be abused and exploited.           "},{"Title":"Deep Blue Stupidity","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film was really stupid.  Renny Harlan, who hasen't done anything cool since The Long Kiss Goodnight, is at his worse and gets truly lame performances out of Samual L. Jackson and Micheal Rappaport. Also, if you think about it, the actions of the sharks make no sense.  At least Jaws on it's own level made sense, but this film doesn't make sense on any level.  And the sharks looked totally fake, Jaws seemed more realistic.  I really wish Hollywood would stop using such crappy computer effects and go back to models. The only good part about this film was looking at Saffron Burrows. "},{"Title":"It delivers what it purports to be - FUN!","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I am a huge Harlin fan and the man didn't disappoint me, again. It doesn't take a brain-surgeon to watch Harlin's movies (this movie included) and that is exactly what I want and got. I walked out of the cinema at the end feeling electrified, as if I just completed a funfilled obstacle course. For those who are expecting amazing storylines and Oscar-performances, you have bought the wrong ticket. This movie is a must for anyone who loves action movies with superior special effects and a very straight-forward plot. Long live Harlin! "},{"Title":"A Film with Bite.","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you dont think to hard about Deep Blue Sea and take it for what it is for which is an edge of the seat Horror/Thriller you will enjoy what you are seeing.  There are so many thing that you can pick holes in in this film but one thing you can't complain about is the entertainment. The main star of this film Samuel L Jackson and without spoiling it his departure is the best thing in the movie, not because his acting is bad but because the manor of it. This film is different in that the people who die are a big suprise, if i had to pick out the ones to cop it at the start at the movie i would have been completley wrong. The most irritating thing is the continuity of the film and what i mean by that is that when the Sharks are in the water they look huge but out of the water they look like a couple of sardines! But dont let that spoil it for you. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Holy Shhhhhh..hark","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I love Samuel L Jackson, and for me he was of the saving graces in a film that has some dubious casting to say the least.It's unfortunate that being a shark film it will get comparisons with the great flick 'Jaws', and the only thing I can say about that is it makes me wonder just how good Jaws could have been if they'd had the CG technology fimakers enjoy today.  (No offense to Bruce, who did a superb job in Jaws) Anyway back to the point, Harlin's direction is up (or down depending on your view) to his usual standard, and there are some really good moments that build up the tension through the film.  Faults aside, and I'm sure if you tried you could find quite a few, its a good film which I enjoyed, and it's worth watching for the CG characters which frequently scare the shark out of you. If you fancy a film that doesn't require to much thought and gives you the odd good scare then this is for you I'd give it 7/10  "},{"Title":"Sharks are STILL hungry","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is just another usual Hollywood gimmick which feeds on keeping audience on the edge of their seat. You might as well watch JAWS if your taste of film viewing is 'people being eating by sea animals', this should satisfy your appetite for life. DEEP BLUE SEA does no justice to its hierarchy of films like JAWS. The only thing that attracted me in this film is when Dr. Susan had to take off her clothes to save herself from the hungry sea men/animals. A large popcorn and a coke in the cinema hall will be more satisfying than the DEEP BLUE SEA. "},{"Title":"A Great Friday Night Frightener!","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  **********DEEP BLUE SEA**********The Plot Dr. Susan McAllester (Saffron Burrows) has been playing around with the brains of sharks, trying to find a cure for degenerative brain disease. She has accidentally made the sharks smarter, and in the eye of a terrible storm, the sharks break through the under-sea Marine lab and go against their masters. Now it is a race for survival for the Aquatica team&#133; 70%The Acting While the most well known actor, Samuel L. Jackson is probably the most pleasing of the crowd, some of the not so well known actors including Saffron Burrows, Thomas Jane and LL Cool J put in equally effective performances. The films worst actor, on the other hand, would be Jacqueline McKenzie, who started out with a strong performance, but as soon as the sharks got loose, you start to realise she was terribly miscast. 78%The Screenplay/Directing Renny Harlin is the director, you can tell he has given it his all to make this film successful, and he has, well, succeeded admirably. Duncan Kennedy, Donna Powers and Wayne Powers could of improved their script a bit more, actually, but you'll be having so much fun watching this film that you'll barely notice. 75%Other The sound, editing and special effects are absolutely brilliant, and worked to perfection. And I'll give an un-important mention to the outstanding DVD, with no more than 5 deleted scenes. 97%Overall Deep Blue Sea is heaps of fun, and one of the finest examples of pure entertainment in quite some time. Highly recommended for a Friday night frightener! 79%**********DEEP BLUE SEA 79%********** "},{"Title":"No match for JAWS","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea wasn`t at all as good as JAWS, It didn`t have the quality cast of JAWS and the music score lacked in comparity.Deep Blue Sea had however one a fantastic looking actress in Saffron Burrows which really for me made enjoy the movie somewhat.  I love this genre, but Deep Blue Sea depended too much on special effects which was sometimes really over the top,for example the speed of the shark sometimes, too fast for me.  The film should have been made at better and more intersting locations. Through all of the film we hear references to god, and that`s was negative too.All in all i give this a 6 because of Burrows and the genre. "},{"Title":"Pretty stupid monster movie","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Beware, spoilers ahead!Okay, apologies to anyone out there who actually liked this movie, but...I didn't like this movie.  Like, REALLY didn't like it.  Like I started to feel like bashing in the TV screen by about half way through it.What can I say?  It was really, really, really, really lame.  REALLY lame. The actors couldn't act (well, Samuel L. Jackson could, but they killed him right away so it didn't matter), the dialogue was cheesy, the plot would appear to be absent, and the special effects were...hmm.  Let's put it this way if you've played Nintendo 64...you've seen these special effects. Literally.  There were actually scenes where the PEOPLE were animated, and you could REALLY tell that they were animated.It was dumb.  Dumb, dumb, dumb.  And stupid.  And not even fun to watch or anything either.On a side note, why were they testing this Alzheimer's cure on SHARKS, anyway?  Why wouldn't they begin by testing it on small, non-dangerous animals like monkeys or something?  I mean, their brains are more like human brains than shark brains are anyway...Oh, wait, I know why, because a movie about rampaging monkeys wouldn't have probably made a very good movie, unless there were some reason for the monkeys to have sprouted long, sharp teeth... "}{"Title":"Mutant sharks on a rampage &#150; 'Jaws' it is not","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Three sharks with genetically enhanced brains terrorize their creators on a remote research station, whom of course never see it coming. Characters do typically ingenious horror movie things like go off on their own unarmed into dark rooms, sharks figure out things that they couldn't know no matter how smart they are, and helicopters explode like a Ford truck safety test on NBC. I guess if its free, you're looking to kill a couple hours and have nothing better to do, then this movie might have enough violence and gore to hold your attention, but don't go out of your way to see it because you've seen it all before. However it does deliver one particularly clever shock involving Samuel L Jackson, but I won't give it away here. I voted it a 4 out of the 10, a mediocre time waster at best. "},{"Title":"Full of Suspense","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  While not a particularly superb shark movie (which can ever compare to the original classic - Jaws?), this movie has its redeeming qualities, one of which is the suspense that permeates throughout. It seems no real people live in Hollywood movies. Where do you find people who would willingly wade in shark-infested waters to grab research papers, try to save a bird when your own life is in peril, and sharks with teeth which can crush metal with one bite but needs more time to bite through human bones? But keeping the viewers in almost constant suspense makes up for a mediocre plot. After all, who'd expect what happens to Samuel L. Jackson in mid-film? Trying to out-guess the sharks was also fun, though I sometimes think it is quite improbable that sharks as smart as these can make silly decisions sometimes, as at the end of the film. After all, the sharks are gifted with advanced intellect and brain capacity, and should be able to control their 'emotions' and instincts better. "},{"Title":"Pure Shock Value","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If being grossed out is your bag, then look no further. The blood spills and the guts are on display, baby. This was one of the most blatant attempts at stomach turning I have yet to witness. I'm sure all the teeny boppers love it, but sensible adults beware. Violence for violence sake is disturbing. And so was this movie. "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I won't say much about this movie - others have already done that. I saw DBS with a friend and co-worker after a long, exhausting day. I must say it was fun. Mindless fun.There are quite a few twists (come on, don't say you've guessed who's gonna be eaten next). Actually, that's what the movie is about Sharks hunting humans in an underwater lab. Period. Nothing less, nothing more.It has the right ingredients to let you forget about the daily routine and enjoy.And people, please stop comparing it to Jaws. The only thing they have in common is the word shark. "},{"Title":"Just the average slasher film...but with sharks","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I normally judge a film by how it relates to its genre (2 points), if I'd recommend it to someone (3 points), and how well I liked it (5 points).First, let me start off by saying this film was aiming for a horror/thriller type audience. It definately achieved horror, as in the average slasher film -- lots of blood, gore, violent means of death, etc. The only thing that makes it different from the factory bred slasher movies is how the killers are sharks. But the thing that the crew is actually running from is the hordes of incoming water, which is how the sharks get around the place and bring the victims into their world, where they become extremely vulnerable, a nice little aspect, and I appreciate this.But, the sharks don't just chase the crew and devour them, they kill/attempt to kill them with sometimes human methods (such as how when one of the crew locked himself in an oven to get away and the shark turned the dial to activate the heat, to possible fry the crew member, rather than try to break in -- and how instead of crushing the large front window, used an object to crack it and cause the pressure to do the job for them, etc.) I liked this aspect, it really made the sharks look smart rather than stupid carnivorous animals.As for the film being a thriller, it didn't grip me. I was never truly waiting for something to pop out of the door. The only real thing that boosted the thriller type aspect was the water that would break through walls and doors at any given moment. Horror, yes, thriller, almost -- but by that much. 1 point out of 2.As for recommending it. I wouldn't say, Hell yeah, it's a hit, go see it now, but I wouldn't say It sucks...you're better off just using it to tame your girlfriend into thinking you're all tough and nothing scares you. (for guys into dinner and a movie) So, it gets a 2 out of 3 for that.Did I like it? I didn't hate it, but I didn't love it, it was just the average performance. What saved it from being a total flop, in my opinion, was LL Cool J's performance as the crew's chef, Preacher, bringing the lighter side of comedy with little tidbits of it -- most likely to lighten the mood. So, it gets a 3 out of 5.Finally, a total of 6 OUT OF 10, 1 out of 2 for genre, 2 out of 3 for recommending, and 3 out of 5 for how much I liked it.FINAL SUMMARY A good idea, played out horribly...oh well, might as well watch Jaws, it's the better shark film. "},{"Title":"Out bites Jaws","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Ah the poor shark...demonized by yet another movie of the Jaws genre.This one makes hardly any sense at all, but it does keep you on the edge of your seat and makes Jaws look like a minnow pond. Just about everybody gets gobbled up with some spectacular special effects. They don't all live happily ever after. But some do. And there are a few surprises there. It's a no brainer but it's fun. "},{"Title":"Out bites Jaws","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Ah the poor shark...demonized by yet another movie of the Jaws genre.This one makes hardly any sense at all, but it does keep you on the edge of your seat and makes Jaws look like a minnow pond. Just about everybody gets gobbled up with some spectacular special effects. They don't all live happily ever after. But some do. And there are a few surprises there. It's a no brainer but it's fun. "},{"Title":"I've said it before....","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" ...and I'll - LISTEN you wanna-be fi-lem critics who write huge monologues on why Deep Blue Sea isn't up to Citizen Kane in quality, IT'S A G*DDAMN SUMMER MOVIE!!  For bleeps sake!!  Get off your disgusting ego rides and CHILL!  I liked it!!  So there!  I deal with computers all day long and when I'm not, I don't wanna haveta think, I want sombody to take me by the hand and say Look at this!!  BOOGA-BOOGA!  Now look at this -Yaaaaah!  What FUN! Deep Blue Sea  did it for me and managed to suprise me along the way. If you're like me, this movie is well worth a watch. "},{"Title":"What a sleeper..","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I think there were about 5 seconds of tension in this movie.  The rest was filled with boring dialogue, or unbelievable action scenes.  I love it how the sharks instantly learn how to ram a stretcher through a glass window in order to break it, but become dumb as dirt when attacking the chef (played by none other than LL Cool J) or the female doctor.  As least they wisened up at the end and finally ate her.  But not before she strips down to an itsy bitsy white bra and panties combo, and electrocutes one by simply tearing off industrial strength cables from the wall, and insulating herself with a damp wetsuit.  Give... me... a... BREAK!Acting was below average.  Samuel L Jackson did his usual overly intense character.  Right before he got eaten, I could have sworn he was going to try to play the role of The Negotiator on the sharks.  The female doctor tried too hard to be some smart, yet tough and rebellious lead character. And the fish guy was the typical brooding anti-hero saving the day.  Top it off with some other fluff characters used solely to get eaten after spouting off pathetic lines.Then again, I guess we're supposed to turn our brains off and stretch our suspension of disbelief as far as humanly possible.  This type of blockbuster movie really lets you know how Hollywood thinks of the average moviegoer's intelligence. "},{"Title":"Haven't I seen this before","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The plot seems to be a reworking of many different movies and I had a sense of Deja Vu all the way through it.  Some of the movies I felt like I was watching were Jaws (of course), Jurassic Park, Alien, and Extreme Measures.  There were others lurking in the back of my mind but I can't put a name to them.  I didn't find it very compelling, I didn't care for the characters much, and the effects were not very convincing.  Also, I didn't feel that it was as scary as it could have been with this type of movie.This was the first movie I watched on my DVD player so I did feel like it had good movie sound. "}{"Title":"Shark Attack! Get out of the theatre and don't look back!","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  You know how when you got a bad tune playing in your head, and the only way to get rid of it is with an even worse tune?I've had this truly bad tune playing in my head for a while. Maybe you've heard it. It's called Sphere. Well, that little ditty has been replaced by the blockbuster yawnfest called Deep Blue Sea.I ain't no film critic, so I'm not gonna get into analyzing how the film fails to capture the true nature of Shark as Christ figure.I will only say this I like Renny Harlin's films. They're fun, escapist pulp and usually very entertaining. This film fails to entertain due to a laugh-out-loud bad script, phone-in performances and action that just doesn't excite.You want sharks? Jaws. You want water? The Abyss. You want a cure for insomnia? Deep Blue Sea. "},{"Title":"Jaws + Speed = Deep Blue Sea","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea is a sharp, intelligent thriller, is like a mixture of Jaws and Speed. Director Renny Harlin once again proves that he is one of the most talented filmmakers in doing action films. He delivers bone-chilling situations, action at its best and achieves to create an entertaining-although not original- film, but, hey, that's what movies are all about. The cast is terrific, Thomas Jane, an unknown actor, had the chance to make a big transposition from small supporting roles to a bigger part. He is terrific as the tough, intrepid hero as is Samuel L. Jackson as the millionaire financing the shark project. There are a lot of roles in the story, the plot isn't convincing (sharks's  brains used to help Parkinson patients?right.) but Deep Blue Sea sustains the interest during its time by delivering action and tension, it's like a rollercoaster ride with turns and surprises. The sharks are really impressive, but comparisons with Jaws are a little bit unfair, because a lot of time separates the two productions. The main difference between those two films is that in Jaws, you really didn't get to see a lot of the shark (that was a nice idea, because when you don't see what is coming, the suspense gets higher, just remember The Blair Witch Project) and in Deep Blue Sea you see big sharks cutting arms and heads off, faster and meaner than ever. Hollywood seems to be looking for its own past in order to bring a new breath to the industry of filmmaking, and even Burt Reynolds, who became a movie star after Deliverance, is know working in his Island of the Dead, he calls this film the spiritual offspring of Deliverance. If remaking this old classics means to bring those interesting stories adapted to our time, then Hollywood is finally making a good bet! "},{"Title":"This is no Jaws","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Some people say that this movie is the new generation of Jaws movie.  I beg to differ.  The original Jaws was one hack of a scary movie (could it be because I was young???).  This movie fails miserably in trying to create the same level of suspense/horror.But it is not fair to judge this movie by comparing it with the best.  So I will look at this movie by itself.Weak plot, no character development, mindless gratutitous gory fast scene to generate scare.  This movie is so predictable that I yawn all the way through the movie...Would not recommend it if you are looking for a trully scary movie. "},{"Title":"Very Gory and Entertaining! (minor spoiler)","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Not since Jaws in 1975 have we seen such an awesome monster movie that is entertaining, smart and cool all at the same time. Jaws was all of those things, but Deep Blue Sea is something else. It may not be as good as Jaws, but it is different altogether. Unlike the 1975 smash hit, it had very few survivors in the end, and the sharks weren't out in the open ocean, they were caged. And it makes it slightly scarier than Jaws.So, if you enjoy movies about big sharks eating people, this is exactly what you get in Deep Blue Sea, but you also get a very fine peice of action film.Rating 8 "},{"Title":"First Draft?","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It fees like this film was drafted over a couple of nights, by a couple of authors and a bottle of tasty red, with 'temporary' one-liners and situations subbed in to keep the script moving. Some-one may have accidentally passed this notepad on to the director, who made a film from it. Whoops! Maybe those hollow 'clunks' that were LL Cool J's dialog should have been replaced with jokes, or witty banter... Maybe his character should have been defined instead of being an amalgam of two, maybe three characters.... Samuel Jackson tried to hum the tune... but was obviously only given half the song to begin with.... Renny Harlin possibly knew all this, and maybe put together the action scenes in the hope that someone...ANYONE would sub-edit this splatter of words, but no... This is like porn, you almost want to fast-forward the talking. Sorry guys, but as a wannabe director, I can see the value of money fairly well, you've insulted me and many others by not taking the time to actually read this script first, before going into production. 4.5/5 Action, 0.5/5 Narrative "},{"Title":"Not a GREAT movie, but funny enough...","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well, just another Run-like-hell (or swim, in this case), or-you-will-be-the-next-meal movie... And that doesn't matter, if you wanna have some fun (if your meaning of fun is seeing a few actors playing silly scientist being systematically trashed by computer-generated sharks), yeah, in any case this is a great movie of the genre (i'm talking about Jaws or Alien), but... what the hell.Samuel Jackson did a good work, as usual. Saffron Burrows looks really gorgeous, but don't ask her for a great performance, she is just there to see a nice female body amongst the bunch of underwater nerds, and Thomas Jane and LL Cool J do their part, forget the rest...no talk about Ronny Cox, one minute on screen without saying any word (!?).This movie could be a bit disgusting for someone who don't like to watch explicit carnage sequences, and seems like the film makers doesn't care who will be in the menú; nevertheless, there is an attempt to avoid some common places of the genre and some intense scenes are unpredictables. so, this is the best of the film... specially the shocking (and i mean SHOCKING) finale on the surface, when the shark happily chew and swallow an last (and really STUPID) victim. Oh My!... that was simply COOL!O.K. That's it... this one is not for the Oscars, but funny enough to have a good time. worth to see it, despite all. "},{"Title":"enjoyable movie","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea, despite some unbelievable moments, was quite an enjoyable movie. The casting was near perfect (with the exception of Saffron Burrows & Aussie Jacqueline Mackenzie). Samuel L Jackson gave a great performance as did LL Cool J, Thomas Jane & Michael Rappaport. Renny Harlin is one of todays best directors and the special effects in this movie were quite amazing. It sure makes you think twice about venturing into the water. "},{"Title":"Yawn","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The script is appalling.  The casting is misguided. The acting is dire.  The suspense is minimal.  The overall experience left me feeling patronised.Watching Deep Blue Sea has finally led me to draw a line under bothering to watch terrible formula computer effects driven films that Hollywood has churned out every year since Jurassic Park showed how to do it.I enjoy films that are so bad they are good.  Deep Blue Sea, like Godzilla, Independence Day et al., is just bad. "},{"Title":"The Poseidon Adventure and Frankenstein - but with sharks.","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I found two benchmarks for Deep Blue Sea.  At times it was The Poseidon Adventure - but with sharks - and at others it was Frankenstein - but with sharks.  My greatest criticism of the movie concerns willing supsension of disbelief.  No one who has ever dropped a fishing line into the water (and that includes most of us, I'd wager) would do other than shake their head violently to no or laugh out loud when fed a tale about a 45-foot long mako shark.  No one has ever sighted (much less caught) a great white shark that size, and any fisherman can tell you that a mako is the great white's runt cousin.  That would be the greatest fish that got away story ever told.  In this case, it is a fish no one could get away from story.  Part of the fun of Deep Blue Sea, for myself at least, was tagging the victims before something put the bite on them.  Mostly I was right, but not always. The human would-be fish food spent most of the film doing the Poseidon Adventure stroke up and away from danger.  And as advertised, these were smart fish, courtesy of a Dr. Frankenstein experiment gone wrong.  So there you have it.  It's not much on concept, but Deep Blue Sea does provide plenty of excitement.  Samuel L. Jackson, the most recognizable name amongst the cast, goes mostly wasted, but Saffron Burrows looks great in her underwear.  As a glib action hero, Richard Jane is heroic and resourceful enough.  He bears a faint resemblance to Kevin Costner and he sounds a bit like Mel Gibson.  I'm uncertain whether those attributes help or hinder.  LL Cool J probably gives the best performance of the entire cast.  He's funny but he doesn't distance himself from his predicament.  In other words, he seems natural enough.  It's an entertaining movie. "},{"Title":"Better than jaws","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I thought Deep Blue Sea was a great movie it was very exciting and entertaining. It had a good story and good acting for an action movie. The Special effects were good but in some scenes the shark looked fake just like in anaconda but that doesn't change my opinion I still thought the movie was great. Also I think deep blue sea is way more entertaining than Jaws. 8/10 "}{"Title":"'Alien' meets 'Aliens' on water","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  We've all seen this before a group of non-marine type people fighting off deadly creatures within a confined area. The confinements of a claustraphobic, confusing establishment, deserted out in the middle of nowhere, that already has the creature inside is taken from 'Alien', while the fact that there are more than one of the creatures on board and (MAJOR SPOILERS) the fact that your rescue has crashed due to the creature(s) is from, one of my favorites, 'Aliens'. But this movie is still really tense and scary. The fact that I hate both sharks and the ocean tripled the tension I had throughout this movie. Thomas Jane had a small part in 'Thin Red Line', but here he was the star, and did a pretty good job for a first time action guy. LL Cool J is an annoying rapper, but I like his acting (check out 'Any Given Sunday') and here he was good at playing the average cook who would be just as terrified as anyone  else. Samuel L. Jackson and Michael Rapaport had interesting characters, good or bad, and I don't know if they got the fates they deserved. Saffron Burrows was bad here, like in 'Wing Commander', and she almost ruined the movie. And, I forgot to look up his name, but the guy who played the award winning professor in 'Good Will Hunting' is here as a (MAJOR SPOILERS HERE) quiet scientist who gets very unlucky with the sharks. His situation actually effected me in a way, because it showed an actual suffering but still living human being having to live through it. I won't spoil what happens to him, but trust me, it's full of surprises and chills down the spine. "},{"Title":"Good, not great.","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't think this movie was THAT bad. Some parts were silly, stupid, & illogical, but they gave me something to laugh at in this otherwise grim film. With all the blood, it could be titled Really Red Sea. The acting & script ain't gonna win Oscars, but films like this aren't SUPPOSED to have heart-pounding performances, razor-sharp script, & flawless direction. They aren't supposed to make you think twice about the world around you or make you realize how 'beautiful' the world really is. They're supposed to give you ACTION & ENTERTAIN you! That's why they're released in the summer, when everybody's brains are on 'Standby!'The film, like some of Jim Cameron's works, takes time to get where it's going, but once it starts, it just doesn't stop! The action scenes are tense, you have NO assurance that ANYONE will survive, & there is 1 scene that is so unbelievably, mind-blowingly shocking, your heart will jump right out of your chest. When I 1st saw this scene, I actually almost burst out laughing. I don't wanna say anything else about this 1 particular scene except that I guaran-damn-tee that you'll know it when you see it.All in all, a good timewaster that, in some scenes, is actually pretty damn funny if you think about it. "},{"Title":"Exciting, fabulous effects, but so disappointing.","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I can now see why Geena Davis got rid of Renny Harlin.  He just cannot direct.  While this could have been a close second to The Perfect Storm, it lacked so very much that its frightening.  This Saffron Burrows is terrible.  She never seemed to know just how to respond to the scene she was in, not to mention her coldness, stiffness, and lack of theatrical skills. Poor writers Kennedy & Powers must've cringed when they viewed the final product.  It was totally absorbing, and so much blood, that I'm sure it was a success in theory. But the acting was totally high school, and I cannot understand how that kind of thing can go unnoticed and allowed to be filmed and then have financial backers to boost it along. Pity. "},{"Title":"Errrk! Gory, moral-less, pointless, and dumb. Racoon!","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What could have been so, so good is wasted in this special fx overblown gorefest. (Where I live, in looneyland, we would describe this movie as horse.) A bunch of sharks get smart and go on a rampage. Such a vibrant, original storyline (bulls***!), containing only one likable character who gets chomped in half viciously for no reason. And all the other poor bastards who get cruelly killed pointlessly. This is the sort of stupidity that makes me want to ram a filing cabnet up the rectum of film-makers. The only saving grace of this movie would have been if a massive Godzilla sized shark had jumped from the water, swallowed the survivors and chomped the rescue planes, but no such luck in this gopher of a film. In my opinion, they should rename this to Deep Blue Dugong and make it a porno. Good luck! "},{"Title":"A Thrill Ride That Just Won't Quit(Minor Spoilers)","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea is just behind Jaws as one of the great adventure/horror/thrillers of all time. The film stars Sam Jackson, Thomas Jane, Saffron Burrows, and L.L. Cool J. It's about a group of scientist who are trying to develop a cure for Alzheimer's disease by using the brains of killer sharks as the test subjects. But in doing this they increase the size of sharks' brain and making them much smarter. Before you know it, the sharks break loose and chaos is the final result. This film is a thrill a minute gore fest. There are a lot of bloody death scenes and plot twists. Like The Usual Suspects don't get two attached to any of the characters because you might or might not see them again. There are so many unexpected turns you might not be able to keep up. The film has thriller written all over from start to finish. It almost doesn't stop. With Renny Harlin(Cliffhanger, Die Hard 2)at the helm, your guaranteed lots of explosions and thrills. If you missed it in the theaters you should kick yourself real hard. Deep Blue Sea is a thrill ride that will leave you breathless. Without a doubt I can say, after seeing this film you won't want to jump into the ocean anytime soon.       "},{"Title":"My palms began sweating early on","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Harlin definitely knows how to make things tense with his never back down directing style.   My palms began sweating early on, and didn't really stop until the last 10 or 15 minutes of the film, when things just got a little too cheesy, and I wanted to groan rather than scream.  The horrible dialogue spewed out in a frantic race to tie up loose plot threads before the terrifying finale move beyond the cute sort of how dumb realm and into the how stupid can you get?!? world of eye rolling and head scratching.  A fun summer freakshow, if you stop it before the finale. "},{"Title":"Not good, but pretty cool","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the better claustrophobic action films that has arrived in later years. The casting is cool with Skarsgard, Jackson and my personal old favorite Rapaport in leading roles. The film is also pretty unpredicteble. You have no idea who is going to live and who is going to be shark food. It´s an ok late night movie, with just one problem. The computer animated sharks just look to fake. It´s a shame, but it´s true. Besides that Deep blue sea is entertaining. "},{"Title":"Cinematic fast-food","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Another no-brainer, but a pretty fun one. Bland characters, risible dialogue, big logic gaps - how can the sharks suddenly enter through a narrow door, when they´re almost the size of a whale? Overlook that, and you´re in for a fast, good-looking action ride, with a couple of surprises. SPOILER! Sad that my fellow countryman Stellan Skarsgård got such a stroke of bad luck so early on in the movie. All he got to do was deliver some pseudo-scientific jargong. And it suffers occasionally from overscoring. "},{"Title":"The result of mixing ''Jaws'' with ''Aliens''.","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I'd say it has been quite a while since such a ''true'' action-movie showed up. And then it is Renny Harlin that's up.I got DEEP BLUE SEA on DVD for my birthday, and I've checked it out 100% and I must say that it is a very Renny Harlin-style on this movie. The ALIEN'S CAST EFFECT was genious and surprising. Everybody who has seen the audio comment (Renny Harlin, Samuel L. Jackson) should know what I mean. I think this movie ranks pretty high on his movies, sure I'm not going to be such a goof and give it an 8 or something like that, but it is about as good as CLIFFHANGER and it hangs on below his two best movies DIE HARD 2 and THE LONG KISS GOODNIGHT.DIRECTING 9/10 Renny Harlin sure is a very good action-director. Of course there is not room for anything else. Any scenes with a small ingredient of IQ has been edited out by Harlin, and, well we don't blame him in a movie like this.EDITING/SPECIAL EFFECTS 8/10 Also here very good. The CGI is still impressing me, even though I've seen JURASSIC PARK 100 times.PLOT 6/10 Quite a smart plot, but we don't see that much of it.LANGUAGE & VIOLENCE 8/10 Very strong curses are pretty much out, but the shark victims aint gonna give back, trust me!MUSIC 7/10 Even though one track is a rip off from JAWS, with the classic theme basicly faster and in another instrument. But I loved the main theme (playing in the opening scene).SOUND 8/10 The average big-action-sound effects.HOOKABILITY 8/10 You'll stick around. At least if you like Harlin or love monster-actionmovies like this or ALIENS.LASTABILITY 7/10 Runs a little bit long, and I'm still sorry it couldn't have been longer time before the shark strikes back.OVERALL 6/10 For action fans memorable, perhaps even an action-classic, but it feels like it is tons of entertainment and nothing else.Sorry Renny, but DIE HARD 2 & LONG KISS was better. But hey, it's still a pretty good film.  "},{"Title":"Shallow Red Sea","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has some things going for it. Like amazing shark effects. But when it comes down to it, this film is literally Jurassic Park under water. Nothing in this movie is subtle. They have tried in no way to slightly change the basic plot and it sticks out like a sore thumb. I think this movie should have simply been called 'Gratuitous Footage of Shark Attack victims'. The majority of the characters are unlikable and forgettable. It is far-fetched movie, with ridiculous occurences which leave you crying, That would never happen!! The impression I get from this movie, is that they wanted to cram as many shark killings as they could into a movie. They have manipulated the movie so they can have as many people die as possible, in bloody ways. Plus, this movie takes itself way too seriously. The ending is ridiculous and the characters are unbelievable. As I said before, the only thing going for this movie is brilliant shark effects. Its worth watching to see them. 5 out of 10  "}{"Title":"good performances, but Samuel L. was wasted","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  this movie was better than i thought. It was really exciting at some points, and there was even space for some drama. The actors were quite good, but Sam Jackson did it only for the money and because he could play free golf, as he admitted in the feature commentary for the DVD. He's not bad (it's Samuel L. Jackson we're talking about here), but his role was too small. Anyway the movie was good and a highly recommended DVD. The computer sharks looked a bit funny, but they were cool nevertheless.   "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The first thing you have to ask yourself when you rent a film like this, or watch it on tv, is what does the director want with this film? Is Renny Harlin trying to go arthouse on us or does he want us to be entertained for a couple of hours (naturally, I'm not saying that arthouse films aren't entertaining)? My answer to this was that Harlin want me to be entertained probably without having to use my brain too much. So, from that viewpoint I started to watch Deep Blue Sea, and while it's not the best no brain needed-film I have seen, I think Deep Blue Sea entertained me. Actually, it entertained me enough for me giving it a 6 out of 10. It could have been better if it wasn't for Saffron Burrows who behaved like she was in another film and looked like she was sleeping the whole time. Possible SPOILERS follow. And the film was quite innovative when it came to the people that got killed, I never could have figured out that the two that survived were&#133; well, the ones that survived. Too bad Stellan Skarsgård wasn't in it more, though. "},{"Title":"Mold","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A slight disappointment. Well I didn't really know what to expect. Maybe I was a little bit bias being a finn; with Renny Harlin directing the movie. What's there to say then? I found Deep Blue Sea quit unrealistic, not very scary, sometimes even a bit silly. The movie is molded in the same form that the majority of cheap horror movies since the dawn of the genre. The plot is weak; you never feel for any of the characters. What's there to keep after this? Maybe it is the plot being so classic that is the strength of the movie. Harlin changes a couple of things in the mold, and succeeds in surprising me. My favourite scene has to be; spoiler warning; the one where Samuel L. Jacksons character starts to give a great speech about how the group should stick together when things are going bad, and the second he has finished a shark comes and bites his torso right off. Hysterically funny and brilliant scene. "},{"Title":"No Oscars sadly","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film has taken a lot of stick for all sorts of reasons - Jaws wannabe, boring, unrealistic etc. but I have just one question for the people who make these comments, what did you expect?The cast are virtual unknowns (apart from S.L.J. who was only in a bit part and LLCJ who is known as a rapper) but the whole point of this film is not to win awards but to entertain. Most rational people who go the cinema without a pad and pen would have had an hour and a halfs thought free entertainment. The sharks look good and the shocks and action, although unrealistic, come thick and fast, this film is ideal for a night in's entertainment.For those who claim it's trying to imitate Jaws you have to remember NOT EVERY FILM WITH A SHARK IN IT IS LIKE JAWS the only thing is Jaws is the best one. If anything this is more like Jurrasic Park with the scientists manitulating nature and then hitting problems when nature fights back.The plot is thin, the acting bad, characters stereotypical and the action unrealistic but I still really enjoyed this film. I don't want every film to have a hidden meaning or be based on a true story. If it wasn't for no-brainer films like this the truely great films would have nothing to compare to. The biggest laugh is all of the people going to see this expecting it to take them to the lengths of cinematic excellence rather than just a bit of fun with a laugh and a scream. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Maybe it was because I saw it first on video and not on the big screen but the only good things in this movie are LL Cool J and the fact that Saffron Burrows gets munched by the shark. Even the presence of Samuel L. Jackson who is generally interesting to watch could not save this movie. Belongs at the bottom of the deep blue sea "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I thought","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I had some serious doubts before watching this film. Well, another film about sharks that go on a killing spree, how good can this be?And indeed, this will, in my opinion, never become a classic. But if you are looking for a few hours of entertainment and are not afraid to be shocked, hire this one and you will not be disappointed. At least it had me on the edge of my seat. The images of the sharks, swimming through the corridors, the moments of shock (which you always try to anticipate, but never can to a full), the struggle of the scientists to get out of the facility (which called The Poseidon Adventure to mind), all very chilling.I particularly liked the decor in which the film is set (an abandoned WO II submarine facility). The fact that the evil/stupid scientist who lets things run out of control is a woman this time, is a refreshing new element. I mean, how often have we seen that?A pity that the special effects looked so fake at times. DVD surely asks for an enhancement of the CGI.Don't miss the little in-jokes towards the Jaws-series, while watching! "},{"Title":"Good, not excellent","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Not the best movie, but definitely better than any of the three Jaws movies. The kind of movie to see three times at the most,mostly at the movies with friends or at a party. It has a modern, scientific plot and is full of surprises. I personally like it, but it isn`t a favorite. "},{"Title":"Sea Foam from the Science Satire Section","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Many film plots suffer to a greater or lesser degree from holes.  Deep Blue Sea suffers from so many holes that is practically without substance to define them.  It should be viewed as a science comedy from the Man With Two Brains or Lake Placid genre rather than an action thriller.  While it is packed with action, most of the potential thrills are telegraphed thus divesting them of any surprise, with the notable exception of whom makes it to the second reel.Some of the larger holes are worth noting.  A team at a research lab located far out in the Pacific off southern California or Baja California develop large, intelligent Makos for use in Alzheimer's research.  Not only are the makos more like white pointers than makos, but with their increased intelligence comes incredible information.  The makos understand metallurgy and can differentiate between different kinds of steel.  They can understand the function and purpose of cameras.  They know the internal layout of the facility.  On the other end of the intelligence spectrum the humans seem to have lost some of theirs. Dr. Susan McAlester, leader of the research team, prepares to electrocute a shark by standing on her wet suit.  Well and good, but she is leaning against a wet wall.  The same Dr McAlester extracts a tissue sample from the brain of a shark and applies it directly to a tissue sample from the brain of a human affected by Alzheimer's disease.  In just six and a half seconds the human brain synapses begin to fire again. Truly amazing, since the sample was highly unlikely to have displayed any functions as a sample.The sharks also seem to have developed the capacity to alter size at will. They are huge in their containment pen, but  are able to swim down narrow corridors.The film is funnier than it is intended to be.  It is leaves you cheering for the sharks.   "},{"Title":"not Jaws but good","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was a good movie. It wasn't Jaws but it was very entertaining. It kept me in suspense. I liked the sharks in the movie. I liked the plot of the movie. The acting was good. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes Jaws, and a movie that keeps you on the edge of your seat. "},{"Title":"Not scary, just fun","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea is about a deep sea research trying to find a cure for Ahlzanheimer. By testing it on sharks. Samuel L. Jackson plays a billionaire who has to close down the research lab because its costing him to much. They've had some problems in the past since 2 sharks escaped. No one wants Jackson to close down the research lab, so they ask Jackson to go to the lab and see it for himself. Then later that night something bad happens...This is is good movie that has a lot of potential, but never quite reaches that point that would make it a great movie. I didn't think it was that scary, and I wasn't to impressed with the special effects. Although was much better then its other deep water movie Lake Placid. Also starring Saffron Burrows and LL Cool J.** 1/2 out of **** "}{"Title":"`Jaws' is to `Deep Blue Sea' as `The Day of the Triffids' is to `Attack of the Killer Tomatoes'","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Take sharks.  Take everything that's frightening and poetic about sharks.  Throw out the latter (but keep the sharks).  You have `Deep Blue Sea'.This point has been well made by others and I have no intention of belabouring it myself.  There are many other things for me to talk about.  This is a deeply stupid movie no one person can hope to cover the full extent of its stupidity.For a start, what's with the title?  It's clearly an allusion to the saying, `between the devil and the deep blue sea' - in case you thought otherwise, a surviving character (more about HIM later) murmurs `It's the devil ...' under his breath just after someone else has used the phrase `deep blue sea', but none of this explains how the old English saw is in any way an apt description of anything we see on screen.  I don't believe the writers knew what they were talking about.But here's the meaty bit, where I reveal stuff about who lives and who dies.  Stop reading, if you wish.The most OFFENSIVE, if not the stupidest, thing about the film, is its moral attitude towards Saffron Burrows's character.  I was certain that as punishment for defying God by finding a cure for Alzheimer's disease, she would die - and I was right.  She isn't even allowed to die in peace.  The writers, the other characters, the sharks, the very furniture, must bathe her in moral disapproval first.  At one point she risks her life in order to retrieve her cure for Alzheimer's; she isn't allowed to succeed and her calculated risk is presented as obsessive madness.  Yet in the end she is required to lay down her life so that a single, comparatively harmless shark doesn't escape into the ocean .  The writers clearly think THIS is a noble sacrifice, presumably because it's the kind of thing that the obsessively violent, God-fearing idiots that the script beams upon, would have done.  (When she mutters under her breath that the shark must be stopped, her friend Rambo the Shark Wrestler says, `That's the first intelligent thing you've said all day.'  She ought to have retorted, `Then it's also the first intelligent thing ANYONE has said all day; so on the whole I'm doing rather well.')I've already mention the two characters who are allowed to survive - they are, coincidentally, the two least likeable characters, and the two that the world would most clearly be better off without.  Firstly there's the muscle-brained shark wrangler of the preceding paragraph.  Far more irritating than him, though, is the chef.  How I hoped against hope that the chef would get killed.  This racist, God-bothering simpleton, one of those people who randomly substitute the phrase `yo' ass' for the innocent pronouns that would otherwise end their sentences (so that instead of `I'm going to kill you' we get the nonsensical `I'm going to kill yo' ass'), this anti-social Bible-quoter who lets his pet PARROT, for Christ's sake, fly around the kitchen while he's cooking ... HE is allowed to live, and he, alone of all the characters, gets to videotape an in-case-I-don't-make-it message for his wife, a message so inane that even if he HAD died, it would have been a waste of tape.The computer-generated effects are rotten, too.Strangely, I don't hate this film as much as my words might lead you to believe; but I feel I ought. "},{"Title":"Don't expect intelligence... (spoiler warning)","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  (spoiler warning) ...except from the sharks of course - they're so smart in this flick you'll never bathe anywhere else than in the kiddy pool.This film is fun, but not much else. I don't expect the Kieslowski fans to revel about this one (I don't, for one), but you have to know what to expect. In this case, a bunch of oversized white sharks go berserk because some dumbass scientist increased their brain mass (and since when does that make one smarter?, and now they're out to get'em. Who? A bunch of people gathered way under the surface in some old deep-sea sub pen from world war two, and of course the trip up to the surface is grueling.A good thing is that it's pretty hard to know just who is going to die. And a bad thing is that LL Cool J makes it through. He should have been eaten first as an ironic gesture - his character is a chef... "},{"Title":"Saffron Burrows Is Lovely!!!!!!!","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A wicked movie filled with thrills, suspense, action and funny dialogue. Topped up by a wicked cast including Saffron Burrows, Thomas Jane, rap superstar LL Cool J, Michael Rapaport from Friends and Samuel L. Jackson.Story about a shark seeking revenge on these people in a kind of an underwater world facility. Good special effects. Director Renny Harlen does some of his best work and also uses Samuel L. Jackson again.If you liked Anaconda, Lake Placid, Jaws or a movie that won't bore you then this is it. Also has a wicked soundtrack to go along with it which is supervised by LL Cool J. Also look out for my favorite part of the movie when Saffron Burrows takes off her clothes!!! WHOA!!!! Great movie!! 8/10. "},{"Title":"One of the stupidest movies I've ever seen!!!!","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Even for a B-movie, this flick was TERRIBLE!!!! OK, any good disaster flick is populated by characters who exist almost exclusively for the purpose of being killed off, with only one or two survivors, but even still...did one of the survivors HAVE to be LL Cool J (must have been something in his contract)???? Why couldn't one of the three female characters (all of whom are fairly intelligent characters, if in a typical Hollywood fashion) have survived??? I mean, ok, I can see them killing off the scientists, since they were the ones who were tampering with nature, but what about the radio tower operator? That was just plain gratuitious! And what was Samuel L Jackson doing in this movie??? I thought he was a REAL actor?Memo to Trevor Rabin please go back to making rock music! For those who don't know, Rabin is a rock guitarist and keyboardist. He was a member of Yes for over 10 years and co-wrote their hit single Owner Of A Lonely Heart. You'd never know he was capable of writing GREAT music from the score to this movie, though!  "},{"Title":"A tribute to disaster films that is wonderfully flawed!","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The idea of making yet another sequel to the classic film Jaws may have been blown out of the water by a string of silly follow ups, but attempting to make a film that is better than Jaws (while next to impossible) is not necessarily a bad thing.  Director Renny Harlin brings to the screen an updated version of man versus shark, adding more gore, more suspense, and more danger, but ultimately presenting a pretty cheesy movie. In Deep Blue Sea, a group of scientists have learned that they can house a potential cure for brain disease in the brains of sharks.  While they seem to be on to something, their project has come under scrutiny as one of their sharks have escaped and is playing havoc on a group of sailors.  Now their ocean fortress is being evaluated by Samuel L. Jackson and they have to prove to him that their cure is for real or they will be shut down.Jackson arrives for the weekend as most of the team is leaving.  The skeleton crew that is left behind is your usual assortment of disaster film characters, ready to die in an effort that seems to touch on just about every great disaster flick ever made.  Brit scientist and leader, Saffron Burrows looks like she just played Jacqueline Bissett in the Deep as she heads the team.  Her conviction to this project is so great that she would even sacrifice the lives of her team to ensure that her work is completed.  In what seems like a tribute to Alien, the first victim is a John Hurt-like character who, instead of giving birth to a monster through his stomach, is thrown through the stomach of the laboratory by the monster. The group must try to escape what becomes their oceanic prison, in a series of stunts that would make Shelley Winters proud.  Right from the start the sharks destroy a rescue helicopter and  the radio control tower, making it difficult for even Arthur Hailey to help them.  And of course, Charleton Heston wouldn't stand a chance in this predicament.  The sharks have been injected with something that has increased their intelligence, so now they have the ability to swim backwards, work in packs and (I'm not kidding here) even cook their victims.  It seems that somewhere along the line, the makers of Deep Blue Sea realized that this was not going to be a serious effort, no matter how hard they tried, however, that shouldn't stop anyone from making this picture.  As an action piece, Deep Blue Sea delivers the goods.  The action is non-stop, the suspense is right on and if you like gore, you will probably get a kick out of this.  I doubt anyone on this project thought that this was going to be an original project, and they certainly didn't expect it to be the next Jaws.  The plot line is silly and the acting is second rate.  As a viewer, go with it and enjoy.  But don't get too comfortable.  While cliche, this film is never predictable.  Who lives and who dies, and how they manage to live and die, is anyone's guess! "},{"Title":"Tori Spelling in a wading pool would have been more frightening than this","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you'd like to know whether you'd enjoy this film, just ask yourself the following question -Do you find the idea of genetically engineered 'super sharks' that can read maps, make plans, analyse architectural data, disable security systems, and YET (when convenient) fail to distinguish between a human being and a fire extinguisher, frightening or just plain stupid?I opted for the latter.I certainly didn't expect much from this film.  All I wanted was a few slightly suspenseful scenes, a decent line or two and some great visuals. I didn't even get that.The main problem with the film (and it really is hard to pick out a 'main' one) was this - sharks are scary for 2 reasons(a)  they're big, dumb, killing machines; and(b) they live in the ocean &#150; a place that they are well adapted to, and that we are not.Deep Blue Sea did its very best to destroy these principles.  For a start, the sharks were &#145;smart.'  Maybe it's just me, but the idea of a clever, scheming shark, carefully plotting my downfall, doesn't scare me &#150; it makes me giggle.  A lot of this stems from the fact that they don't have HANDS. Every time they do something clever, they have to execute it with their noses &#150; eg butting open doors, ramming into cameras etc &#150; it's not terrifying, it's comical.Secondly, the sharks are taken out of their element and placed inside a flooded building.  There is NOTHING scary about watching a fin hoon up and down a corridor and jump out from behind doors etc.  It's just silly.The other significant problem was that the script was aimed at ten year olds.  Let me give you some examples (without giving away any of the 'plot') -(1) We are told (in one particularly memorable scene) that the sharks' brains contained a substance that could help cure Altzheimers disease.  To get more of the substance, the team spends millions of dollars genetically altering the sharks to increase the size of their brains (of course, it would have been much easier just to breed LOTS of the sharks, but what the hell - lets concentrate on making 5 or 6 of them huge).Anyway, the team is 'shocked' to discover that a side effect of increasing the sharks' brains is that they become more intelligent.  Side effect???? Side effect????  Surely this is a DIRECT effect?  You're telling me they didn't even SUSPECT something like that might happen?  Just where did these 'scientists' get their degrees?(2) At the start of the film, the scientists demonstrate how the 'substance' cures Altzheimers.  Now, you'd expect the use of some sophisticated technology here.  The substance would need to be extracted, modified, purified, mixed with other substances, bombarded with radiation or heat maybe, and finally administered to a patient.Or at least, you'd THINK so wouldn't you?   But no.  In this film, they just stick a syringe into a live shark's head, extract some goo and then squeeze it onto a diseased piece of brain.  I mean, for God's sake!  Even an IMBECILE must know that cures for diseases are rarely just sucked out of an animal and then 'sprayed' onto the sick and dying.I KNOW this isn't meant to be an intelligent film and I'm just meant to appreciate it for the action and the effects, but did it have to be THIS dumb.(3)   Probably the single dumbest aspect of the script (an award which was fiercely contested) was the way in which sharks were caught early in the film.  5 sharks are kept in a big underwater cage.  Every now and then they need to catch one and drain the goo from their brain.  Now, this is a multi-million dollar facility and some of the world's finest minds have supposedly had a part in planning it.  So how do they go about catching a one?  A guy swims in with the killer sharks (and we're not talking about a one off here, this is &#145;standard procedure'), narrowly avoids getting killed and at the last moment pokes a tranquilising dart into them.  Come on!  Who thought of that?!?!?  At one point they even &#145;show off' this technique to investors in the project.  They all sit around nervously twiddling their thumbs and watching the 50/50 outcome &#150;`and&#133;&#133;&#133;&#133;&#133;.he made it!  Woo hoo!  That Sir, is the way we go about catching the sharks.  We lose a guy every couple of weeks, but it's the best method we've come up with.  So, do you want to invest in our project?'Some other, more specific comments - the effects weren't bad, but weren't nearly good enough to compensate for the abysmal script- the film is never, ever scary or suspensful- LL Cool J (who played &#145;Comic Relief') cannot act AT ALL.- Saffron Burrows (who plays the standard &#145;stunningly gorgeous marine biologist who, when the going gets tough, gets her gear off) obviously learnt everything she knows about acting from LL Cool J- Jacqueline McKenzie's character was DREADFUL.  I've never wanted to see someone get eaten more than her (and she was playing a &#145;good guy').- even Samuel Jackson couldn't rise above the rubbish that was written for him.All in all, this film is a disgrace.  If you haven't seen it, please DON'T. It's time people (myself included) stopped ponying up the dough on films like this and FORCED film makers to come up with better scripts. "},{"Title":"Good rental if you're looking for a B-movie.","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea is one of those movies that used to be shown on Saturday afternoon TV or on one of those late night horror-movie host shows. It has a thread-bare plot that is basically Jurassic Park, but under water. You have man messing with nature, only to have nature come back and start messing around with man.  There were some good jolts that keep you on the edge of your seat (or couch), and the sharks are very well drawn, but unfortunately, the sharks are the only really good thing about this entire movie, overall. And leave it to Renny Harlin. When he puts his characters in trouble, it's not just a little trouble, it's major problems!  All in all, not a bad flick for a rainy weekend afternoon.  "},{"Title":"eh........Its OK","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Good? yeah, I guess its Ok. Nice Acting? well, Carter(Thomas Jane) and the Sharks were considerable.This movie does keep you at the edge of your seat waiting for whatever happens next, but its not the greatest.So Bottom Line If you want to see a action packed, Romantic or even a good realistic Flick Don't see This, But if you want to see a totally Non-realistic that doesn't have the best acting or plot and is probably a waste of your 2 hours see the movie. See this Film.I VOTED A 7 FOR THIS FLICK "},{"Title":"Deep Blue C**p is more like it","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  First off, the premise is silly. They're trying to culture some brain matter inside sharks. Wouldn't gorillas or apes be a better choice? And then they put their massive laboratory out in the middle of the ocean. What's the point of that?  It's not like their important scientific experiments require them to be miles from nowhere.The acting is awful across the board (except for Jackson of course). The biggest role is that of the scientist who uses the brains of sharks to develop some kind of cure for Alzheimers. Very complex material. So who do they cast? A 25 year old girl who looks like a lingerie model. And she recites her lines like a humorless robot with a thick European accent. The hero shark wrangler dude doesn't fare much better. But that role was pretty much uncastable.I didn't realize before the movie that it was directed by the same guy who did Die Hard 2, Long Kiss Goodnight and Cutthroat Island. If you liked those cinematic masterpieces, you might enjoy this.   "},{"Title":"Average Film","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The story is an oft-repeated one - humans tampering with nature and reaping the evil effects. Only this time sharks are the animals. Watch this film if you have nothing else to do. The only minor modifications to the usual script are that the over-curious scientist is a female and she pays for it with her life. The guys escape unharmed. "}{"Title":"Harlin tries so hard to make Jaws 5...","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This Movie is at no cost, as good as Steven Spielbergs masterpiece Jaws. But that does not mean that its bad. Although the actors are to boring, and the shark looks allot like plastic, the movie still is very cool. Not Harlins best movie, but not his worst. I must say, that Samuel L Jackson is the real hero, but he gets eating to fast, in a very funny way. You can call this movie Jaws 5, because its much better than the sequels.* * * (out of 5)  "},{"Title":"Fun, even if unbelievable","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Other than the few totally unbelievable plot turns and unneccesary cliches thrown in, the movie was fun to watch.  The special effects were outstanding, especially the underwater shots, and a few scenes were as startling as any in recent memory.Definitely should be seen in the theater or on a very big screen. "},{"Title":"YAWN.....","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I seemed to yawn in unison with the sharks' mouths through this. My 8 year old daughter thought it was a comedy.  Stiff acting from both the humans and the computer generated sharks...The premise was quite interesting - turning degenerative brain diseases around by using extracts from artificially enhanced sharks' brains.  Presumably it would also turn the patients in to ravenous cannibals... now there's a movie.A reluctant 4 "},{"Title":"Is it safe to go back in the water ever?","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"       Deep blue sea is unique in many ways.The story of gentically meaner sharks is cool.I found the story to be fairly decent.The effects are okay.They do seem a little to digital in my view.That the trouble with digital sharks,creatures,etc.How to make them not stick out as such!Sam gives a so so effort.I THINK he should have a bigger part.Same thing as in the phantom menace.People wanted more of him than his cameo.Further,The comparsions to Jaws is not valid.Jaws is not trying to be repeated here.Jaws is the masterpiece and no shark movie will ever top it.Deep blue sea is a good summerflick nothing more or less.             I give it 6 out of 10...............                 "},{"Title":"Great cast, bad dialogue, fake looking sharks yet somehow fun.","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Even an impressive cast roster can't stop the sharks from being altogether too CG and the dialogue from being as stiff as my three day old ham and cheese sandwich.  Still, Renny Harlin plays the film as if it is nothing other than what it appears to be - a mindless, fluffy, yet somehow entertaining Jaws rip-off.  Check your brain at the door, get the popcorn going and prepare for ninety minutes of enjoyably disposable film making. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but not high-grade (**Spoilers**)","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"    I'm glad I didn't expect more than a standard action yarn.  The plot was fairly normal, but not overly cliched.  It did have impressive set design, shark effects and explosions were some good pluses. If you average the acting performances of the cast, you'd get about a 4/10. Although L L Cool J should have died, he didn't, and provided one of the movie's funniest lines, making fun of the fate of minorities in action flicks Man, brothers NEVER make it out of situations like this! Saffron Burrows Looked all right, but had to deal with bad lines and a detestable protagonist role, if you can call it that.  I wasn't too crushed when she bit the dust.   For me, the greatest point was Samuel L. Jackson's unfortunate demise.  I mean, he had his back to a pool of water--I saw it coming a mile away, and laughed long and loud when the shark suddenly jumped up and ate him.  A few weeks after I watched this, I heard a video store clerk evaluate it best This movie's good if you root for the sharks. 6/10 (And who could forget the hilarious rap song in the credits??)  "},{"Title":"Good for a scare here and there","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Scientists on a remote floating laboratory flirt with danger as they enlarge the brains/glands of several Mako sharks in the hope of discovering a cure for Alzheimer's Disease. Unfortunately the Makos (now somewhat larger and more intelligent) have other ideas and wreak havoc on all involved.I enjoyed this film for the action and suspense. I'm not concerned with the 'Jaws' comparisons (in fact I welcome any movies that attempt to emulate THE ultimate shark movie).The suspenseful moments, sudden suprises and body bits kept my attention and I was quite happy with the compu-shark images.If only we could find some duct tape to shut Saffron Burrows up. Her monotonous speeches took some of the shine from the film. The highlight of her appearance was the the wet T-shirt scene.Reality Check All sharks must keep moving in water to keep the water passing over their gills to provide oxygen. A stationary shark is a dead shark.Final thought Makos are quite agile. You should see them leap out of the water when hooked on a line. Big, smart ones like these probably could have jumped the perimeter fence whenever they wanted to (they probably preferred to hang around for a snack).I gave it a 'barely made it' 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"The Jaws of the 90's (spoilers)","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A group of scientist headed by Dr. McAlester (Saffron Burrows) conducts experiments on three  sharks by implanting human brain tissue into the cerebral cortexes of the sharks' in hopes of finding a  cur for Alzheimer's Disease. But things turn deadly when the sharks develop intelligence as a  side effect.While this concept is somewhat original, it is a foreshadowing recipe for disaster Common since  would tell you if you're going to conduct these types of experiments with unknown results, you do it  in a more controlled environment such as a bay or lake; and why on Earth would anyone conduct  brain test on whale size sharks in beyond my comprehension! The F/X was good, but at times the  sharks were a bit too animated--nearly appearing toony in some scenes. And where's the  consistency? In some scenes the sharks are able to poke their heads out of the water and sweep a  unsuspecting character off their feet, yet in others they don't seem to give the characters who're  knee-deep in water the time of day!As far as acting goes... I felt the sharks had as much charisma as the so-called actors with the  exception of LL. Cool J who serves up (no pun intended) a witty performance as the local  cook/minister. But Samuel L. Jackson was killed off way too quickly (shocking to see a big name  actor bite the dust so early in a film; although it's not totally unprecedented. See Executive  Decision.Overall, a decent film worth watching once, maybe twice; but by no means video library material  mind you.Rating 6 "},{"Title":"An embarrassing waste of good special effects","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"    This is a bad movie.  Saffron Burrows is horrible, and unbelievable as the lead scientist.  She looks more like a model trying to act.  Thomas Jane, the other lead as the shark wrangler, is better, but not very dynamic.  Michael Rapaport is the only actor who sold his performance. LL Cool J is mildly amusing as the alcoholic cook, but Samuel L. Jackson seems embarrassed to be there.  And he should be.Special effects are fairly well done, but aren't enough to save the movie, even as escapism.  It just doesn't work. "},{"Title":"The more that things change...","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Despite the nice homage paid to Jaws up-front, the more that action/suspense films stay the same these days.  It's rather sad really, as this film had a lot of potential - it just never lived up to it (literally and figuratively).Samuel L. Jackson must have some affinity for bad underwater films - he's been in two now this one and Sphere.  Nevertheless, even his part doesn't hold this one's head above the water.If you liked Jaws, but have the desire to see it at 78-speed, watch this movie.  Otherwise, don't waste your time. "}{"Title":"Who ya gonna trust?  Me, that's who...","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I thought the Aquatica setting was really cool, and I would love to have had a tour.  But the movie was mostly just your average suspense flick where the volume gets boosted every time something is about to happen.  The human chomp clips were fun to watch and I was surprised during one scene.  But other than that this film was just a crock.  LL Cool J should have been killed at least 3 times, not to mention Thomas Jane's (hard to believe he was Todd in Boogie Nights) final miracle.  But we are talking about Renny Harlin here.  The man who brought us the 45-second grenades (Die Hard 2), and the Cliffhanger grips of steel.  I don't regret watching it, but would have to recommend waiting for a free cable weekend. "},{"Title":"Such potential, such a waste...","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was warned before I saw Deep Blue Sea that it wasn't very good. Even with little expectation, and seeing it for free, it didn't live up to my expectation and it wasn't worth the money. What a terrible waste of a decent plot line. Everyone in the movie was unbelievably careless,(even when warned), and the sharks are lightning fast and extremely vicious one minute, and slow and clumsy the next.  How about a little continuity.  The sharks can attack people standing next to the water and kill them in  seconds yet it will grab others by the leg and drag them around for a few minutes causing little damage.I've heard people complain that it was unfairly compared to the 'Jaws' movies. Well guess what, one of the 3 sharks is killed exactly the same way the shark is killed in 'Jaws 2'.The acting is bad, the casting is bad and the writing is bad. The special effects are sometimes pretty cool but are obviously not real.Someone should drop this movie into the Deep Blue Sea.  "},{"Title":"JAWS MEETS ALIENS ON THE POSIEDON","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Don't ask me why, but for some reason I actually got a kick out seeing this.  Sure, it's totally stupid, but it kept me engaged.The first twenty minutes are so dull I was about to nod out.  Then the action abruptly kicks in (after one of the scientists loses his arm, courtesy of shark hostility), and it moves from there.It seems today that part of the fun of watching mindless action flicks is seeing how many other previous films they have ripped off.  Here, we have JAWS (naturally), ALIENS, POSIEDON ADVENTURE, with touches of KILLER SHREWS.The so-called premise merely serves as a plot excuse  Sharks become more intelligent, due to scientific experimenting (or is it meddling?);  hence the reason why the ocean predators behave in such a smart fashion.  It is not necessary to dignify this idiocy by attempting any serious criticism of it.With the splendid exceptions of Samuel L. Jackson (was he simply moonlighting between worthy projects?) and LL Cool J, the rest of the cast fails to impress.  Poor Saffron Burrows;  it seems nearly everyone has it in for her.  She wasn't believable as a scientist, and she's written up as a detestable character.  Yes, her Sigorney Weaver stripped-to-the-panties is impressive, but I'm sure that many actresses (women, for that matter) would be capable of reaching such a goal.By now, most are well aware of Samuel Jackson's famous speech, destined for a niche in cinema horror history (maybe that's why he couldn't resist the role).The shark effects are good and bad, but the action does move along, and some characters, who you're sure won't die, do.  That's about all I can say.  I certainly won't recommend this, for fear of being lynched, but I did find it entertaining in a dumb sort of way.  If you do decide to take the plunge, don't check your brains in at the door - leave them home. "},{"Title":"Oh So Typical!","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea really had nothing going for it (save a good cast and what good are they if the script sucks).  Granted, its just supposed to mindless summer fun, but it was a little too mindless and not fun enough by far. The movie has only one decent scene (which will go nameless for the sake of those who haven't yet seen the film) and two good characters (those played by Sam Jackson and LL Cool J).  The sharks looked fake and the shark attacks were incredibly preposterous.  Renny Harlin was pretty much sleepwalking through this one (I did enjoy most of his other films).  Really nothing new going on here.I was constantly comparing Deep Blue Sea with a similar film that I saw recently  Deep Rising.  Deep Blue Sea came off poorer in every category, mainly because I found Deep Rising to be wittier and fresher than this tired traditional fare.  Neither is particularly scary, but Deep Rising is at least amusing (in a good tongue-in-cheek kind of way).  "},{"Title":"Not bad...","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  But not a great movie by any means - another summer popcorn muncher along the lines of Independence Day (or any Will Smith flick for that matter).  The two brothers (or is that bruthas?) are the only characters worth watching.  A shame that Jackson had so little screen time, but at least it was an unexpected plot twist.  Saffron Burrows looks good in wet underwear, but can't act her way out of a wet paper bag. "},{"Title":"No, its not a cheap copy of Jaws","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Just because it has a similar all too familiar theme of famous movie(Jaws), Deep Blue Sea should not be underrated. Remakes of different movies have always been made with different plot lines and also have been successful at many times. One should not be too impatient to call Deep Blue sea an imitation.Matter of fact the main story line of of Deep Blue Sea is quite interesting (check out the trailer). the film lost its ground on other elements. Though I didn't go to the cinema to be impressed as a Oscar judge for acting, I still felt the lack of depth in the performance of the actors as to give a bit more realistic approach of the disastrous situations their characters were in to be.The film does have a lot of suspense and thrill. The sharks seem almost too invincible at times but yet at the end the heroes always succeed. The F/X seem good as it difficult to distinguish the computer generated effects but at some scenes they really look stupid like when a standing 6 ft man is just swallowed which meant that the shark had jaws a 6 ft wide jaw(thats big as a T-rex jaw).I think the movie could have had more suspense, thrill, realism and excitement from a relatively interesting storyline. So I give it a 6.5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"don't you just love mindless action films??","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw the trailer which had a full-length shot of Saffron Burrows clad in a white underwear bikini I swore I wasn't going to see it.  I mean, what plot device or development could possibly call for her to be displayed for the male gaze in such a fashion - in a wild beast film nonetheless!  But I eventually saw it.  What a film!!  Funny because it was so awfully predictable.  Basically about a scientist (Burrows) who heightens the intelligence of sharks so she can extract a cure for Alzheimer's Disease from their large brains.  (What this really is is a poor reason to have sharks, and not just sharks, but cunning! sharks chasing after the stupid humans).  So when during a storm the sharks are freed from their pen the tables are turned and it's now the sharks running around and proving that if you mess with nature it'll backfire in the worst possible way.  It follows the formula of ALIENS but while that film had its share of dramatic moments - this doesn't take itself seriously, thank God.  A great funny part involves the resident chef trapped in his own oven (oh the irony!!). Worth seeing because it's so hammy and enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Terror beyond the water...","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea is one of the best modern horror movies.Be ready for the encounter with mutated sharks.They're faster,more intelligent and more dangerous.They're real bloodthirsty predators.Awesome special effects,fast action,a lot of explosions and good cast.I like especially quite gory sequence when one guy loses his hand in the mouth of the shark.Give this movie a chance.It's absolutely worth watching.My rating 8/10(simply because it could be scarier). "},{"Title":"Terror beyond the water...","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea is one of the best modern horror movies.Be ready for the encounter with mutated sharks.They're faster,more intelligent and more dangerous.They're real blood thirsty predators.Awesome special effects,fast action,a lot of explosions and good cast.I like especially quite gory sequence when one guy loses his hand in the mouth of the shark.Give this movie a chance.It's absolutely worth watching.My rating 8/10(simply because it could be scarier). "},{"Title":"fairly moronic action adventure","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Though Deep Blue Sea has been compared most frequently to Jaws for obvious reasons, its real cinematic pedigree lies in the Alien movies, The Poseidon Adventure and a dozen other films featuring a small band of people trapped in a labyrinth of corridors, fleeing either rising floodwaters, monsters or both and dropping off one-by-one in the process.Still, the Jaws analogy seems inevitable, yet what made Spielberg's film score as a thriller was that it took place in a real world setting filled with innocent people as its potential victims.  This film misses that tension by being set far out to sea in an isolated research laboratory where some genetically altered sharks have decided to seek their revenge on the humans who have imprisoned them.  It seems inconceivable, but it actually took three writers to concoct this ludicrous tale of a comely researcher's search for a cure to Alzheimer's in the guise of raising brain-enhanced giant sharks.The characters fall immediately into their stereotypical action film roles we have, for instance, the sexy medical researcher so blinded by her humanitarian zeal that she foolishly delves into the forbidden areas of unrestrained genetic engineering to her and everyone else's everlasting regret; the brawny pragmatist who undercuts the doctor's idealism at every turn and who must try to save everyone with his muscle and brain power; and the comic relief black brotha who quotes Einstein and launches tepid witticisms at these munching predators of the deep.  The one moment in which the film seems to admirably recognize its own slavish devotion to action movie cliches comes when the black man quips brothas never make it out of situations like this, never.The situations are often cliched as well.  Let the cynical atheist, for instance, utter one of his blasphemous we-are-greater-than-God statements and we know he is destined to become fish food very quickly.  The action, too, is often incoherent, filmed with spatial confusion as to where in the facility the characters are or where the sharks are in relation to them. As to the film's derivative nature, there's even a bobbing corpse scene taken straight out of the Jaws handbook.  The film does deserve a commendation for devising THE most idiotic motivation ever for getting the brainy scientist to strip down to her undies to model her aerobics-instructor body. Still, you have to see our intrepid musclebound hero piggy-back riding the giant killer shark to its ultimate demise to believe it.Deep Blue Sea, sorry to say, drowns in its own giggle-provoking idiocy. "}{"Title":"Anyone who thought Samuel L. Jackson would get his, please raise your hand","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  That's what I thought.  C'mon people, the movie was not that bad.  There were a lot of things in it that people (including you) didn't see coming. Now I understand there were a lot of things in the movie that weren't exactly real.  But why do people go to see a movie?  To get away from the actual world.  Now, not only did this movie make you jump, but how many of you were ready to go swimming right after you saw it? Hmm? Alrighty then.WARNING If you haven't seen the movie don't read the rest of this.As for the actual content of the film, I was surprised at some of the turnouts.  For instance, the order of the shark's victims.  Ordinarily, the main characters die weakest to the strongest, but this one, I was amazed. Not only did Samuel L. Jackson's character die, but he was about the 3rd person, which is fairly early for a big name star like that. (And really he was the only one).  And it wasn't like you saw it coming either. He was making his big speech and BAM he's dead.  over in an instant you might say. I was sitting there thinking it was some kind of day dream and waiting for someone to snap back into reality and when they didn't it was like, Oh, OK then.  And, for awhile, I actually thought that Saffron Burrows' character, Dr. McAlester, was going to survive.  But then she was gone.  I wasn't sure the movie was over until the credits came up.  I was sitting in my basement waiting for another shark to appear.Now, I realize that this is all based on personal opinion, (mine in fact), but you have to remember that most movies are not meant to be real.  People do make movies to entertain, and they work really hard at it.  Give them a break.  You have to have some sort of an imagination when you sit down to watch a movie.  And for those of you who don't, I am truly sorry for you. "},{"Title":"Deep six this one wants to be either a science fiction or horror movie, but doesn't carry through as much of anything.","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Avoid Deep Blue Sea at all costs. Miserable film no horror, no comedy, no motivation for the audience to watch. The horror concept we're told from the start, that the captive sharks have become intelligent, but from that point on the sharks look like any other sharks attacking people whether they're intelligent fish or not. And how many times can one watch that same special effect, where we see the victim being carried away in the shark's jaws at terrific speed? The scientific research angle, to cure Alzheimer's, would have been provocative science fiction, but it just gets thrown away as soon as the sharks escape.   The characters seem interesting, but when some of them get picked off in the middle of the film the audience members who were focusing on those characters are left dangling. Some other films come to mind in which significant characters die in the middle of the story Alien, Against All Odds, remake of Cat People, and most unbelievably, The Year of Living Dangerously.Might have become something if they'd worked on the story a while longer, tying the horror into the science the way Michael Crichton did in his original novel version of Jurassic Park. In Deep Blue Sea, however, there's so little of substance that the loss is not worth mourning. "},{"Title":"Zzzzzzzzzzzzzzz....","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Boring.  Saw Deep Blue Sea in the middle of a movie marathon.  Would have slept through it, if the sound wasn't so loud.Take one bad horror movie, add three large sharks, several scientists, and cook in a medium oven until half-baked.  Sprinkle with bad cliches and serve boring.3/10  I wouldn't see it unless you've got a thing for people being torn apart by extremely large sharks. "},{"Title":"Hello, Cliche City!","Date":"24 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  With this script, it's almost as if someone went to a computer and said, Give me a list of all the cliches we've ever used in Hollywood, then used every one of them in this tepid dreck. Let's see, we have a genetic experiment gone wrong (as scientists use mako sharks to try to cure Alzheimer's), we have people isolated in the middle of the ocean, we have a romance that seems to be thrown in for no good reason, and we have an angry, emotionless enemy.Samuel Jackson plays the financier of these experiments, and naturally he has to fly in to check out his investment (shades of Jurassic Park). It isn't long before everyone about discovers that the sharks are.. well.. smarter than they've ever been. Of course, to be smarter than the people on this atoll is not a difficult feat, but at least the characters appear to be smarter than the screenwriters!Well, you can pretty much figure out what happens next, can't you? The sharks get out of hand, Man is taught a Very Big Lesson about meddling with things he shouldn't, and whoever survives hopes the movie grosses enough to warrant a sequel. Won't happen, kids. There was a distinct reason this tanked at the box office it stunk. Hey, the effects are good, but they were a lot better in The Abyss. Seeing humans being chomped on by sharks isn't enough to get me to pay good money to see it. Rent it, maybe - on a slow night. Least the sharks look kind of real. "},{"Title":"A fun, fast paced horror/disaster flick...","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea has got to be one of the most fun movies of the summer. It hits all the right points and has you entangled in a web of suspense the entire hour and 45 minutes. The plot mixes the horror and traditional disaster movie together for one fun, fast paced movie.The movie begins with the normal horror movie beginning. Young girls and guys making out, when some unknown thing attacks them. The movie then shifts to an underwater facility where they are trying to make a cure for alzheimers by using sharks that are genetically engineered to be extra smart. The cast holds an experiment(on the bottom floor of the facility) in which all hell breaks loose. On top of that a hurricane is raging above cutting them off of any possible communication with anyone. The cast is forced to find their way out through flooded hallways, and exploding corridors, while the sharks swim through the flooded facility devouring members of the cast.  The result is a fun fast paced horror/disaster flick the you will definitely want to watch more than once. Check it out.Rating *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Kind of silly but good","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is kind of silly but it did have it's good scary moments. I liked Thomas Jane's performance. I just thought he was good for the role of Carter. Sure during some of the scenes I thought he was nuts but hey he lived right? The most surprising part was when Samuel L. Jackson met his fate. I couldnt believe it! Happened so fast. Anyway, it's not the best movie but I think it's worth watching at least once. "},{"Title":"A nice little action picture.","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Although I'm sure this film won't win any awards, it should be noted that it is a good film for what it is trying to do....entertain you. I'm not the world's biggest Renny Harlin fan but I know he can make action movies very well. The cast is nice for a change, no real big stars, there are a few surprises as to the picking order of the victims. The special effects at times were very nice and at other moments in the film they were a little too cartoonish for my taste. I want to be the first to put in my bid for a remake of Grizzly, a film about a killer bear. It seems there are alot of rappers in these nature run amok films, such as LL Cool J in this one and Ice Cube in Anaconda. If you can get Method Man and the Wu-Tang Clan to go up against a killer grizzly bear, that sounds like a bonafide hit to me, but then again who's asking me? "},{"Title":"One of the greatest master pieces that I've ever seen.","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Now then, I have read all the reviews for Deep Blue Sea. Some of them were excellant. Others were an embarrassment. Who could not love this movie? Ok, I'll agree some parts were barrowed from other movies but still. This movie has not been given the credit it deserves. People (like most who critzie this movie) think this is your classic Jaws rip-off. It's not.Enough of my soap opera, let's get to the point. The storyline could have been a tad better, but it was still awsome. The shark effects were great and the dialog was pretty good, except for a few boring characters, but hey, what movie is complete without boring characters. This movie is probably the equal to Jaws. (Let's face it, not even Citizen Kane was better than Jaws.)  "},{"Title":"Above average, but not by much","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The first thing a movie like this should deliver is shocks and this film does that just fine. One character's attack in particular is a masterpiece of misdirection and uses what we've come to expect in films against us.Out of all the characters, the cook, played by L.L. Cool J was the one I cared about the most. The rest were just waiting in line to go into the Jaws of the shark.Special effects were uneven and sometimes the shark looked incredibly real and other times it looked incredibly phony.But the most surprisingly bad effect in the movie is when a character had his arm bitten off by the shark. It was so annoyingly obvious that the actor's real arm was taped to his chest undernieth an oversized shirt and prosthetic arm stump set up that it looked like he was carrying a big lump on the side all through the sequence. Effects like these were done much better before (like in 1982's Cat People) because the camera angles were much better chosen. But it seems Renny Harlin shot it any way he wanted and it looks comical. It was a prime candidate for CGI doctoring but I guess the computer graphics people were too busy delivering shark attack scenes.Overall, it was pretty good, but it doesn't beat JAWS (nothing ever will)  "},{"Title":"Very good!","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea is usually mistaken as a Jaws imitator. Well, the similarities between Jaws and DBS are the shark presence, sea water and suspense of being with a shark. Aside from that, DBS is actually different from Jaws. For one thing DBS has a bit of science in it (tampering with the sharks is one interesting topic), and best of all has many jumpy and/or shocking scenes for those of you who want something different from a shark film. Samuel L. Jackson is the  2nd biggest star in the film and his character is the most lively of them all...except that his presence was short. The rest of the cast are kinda less-lively but the film's high entertainment value will surely ignore that. The biggest star here is actually shared...by the sharks of course. You get to see how smart, fast and furious these sharks can be when one plays the role of God over them. Hence, every creation can rebel against its creator and this was very evident in the film!It seems that DBS was some sort of a desperate effort by Renny Harlin to get back to the box-office form he had with Die-Hard 2. The film just is not long enough for me, and I felt that Harlin could have done more to make this film a certified blockbuster. Sometimes I think that the film was a bit rushed.Overall Deep Blue Sea is a very good film to watch. Just don't think of it as a Jaws imitator. "}{"Title":"Should have used dolphins","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well it seems that Hollywood had an idea to take 3 blockbuster hits The Poseidon Adventure, Jaws, and Aliens and put them all together to make this movie, thus having a moneymaking smash on their hands. Alas this movie falls way short of the suspense and excitement of any of those features. The plot concerns a mixed bunch of people at a hi-tech ocean research centre where they are finding a cure for Alzheimers disease by experimenting on sharks( if it had been dolphins there would have been no movie as dolphins have no teeth). And this is a hi-tech facility folks  the fence is made from a titanium based metal we are told -wow!! Unfortunately technological advances don't extend to weather forecasting, and, what was to have been a minor squall, develops into a full blooded storm leaving our small bunch stranded on the center with no communications and a 48 hour wait before they can be rescued. Yes once again it is  guess who will survive time and you may want to amuse yourself with side bets on who will be killed next. As none of the characters are particularly endearing, you find yourself not caring who lives or dies as the sharks relentlessly hunt our heroes down. Nevertheless, they still manage to joke there way through it with some lighthearted dialogue after each graphic death. Samuel L Jackson looks suitably embarrassed to be appearing in this movie while the rest of the cast is instantly forgettable. The survivors may have been lawyers in a previous profession and are spared by the sharks as professional courtesy. Do yourself a favour and see any of the 3 titles I mentioned at the beginning instead of this. The only glimmer of hope is that Leslie Neilsen will make a spoof of this movie in the future and give us a lot of laughs. "},{"Title":"Predictable story","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I want to make just a few comments on this movie, since a lot of other visitor to the IMDB have already commented on this movie. Warning This review contains some spoilers, so don't read it if you haven't yet seen the movie.This movie really has a predictable story. For example the shark killing techniques have been stolen from the JAWS series (blowing up a shark, elektrocution). There's a slowly flooding underwater research facility. The crew gets eaten one by one. All this we've seen before in other movies.Before I visited the movie I heard that the graphics (sharks) would be magnificent. Well, they're not! Although they look nice, they swim much to fast (even for big sharks) and move very unreal.The one good scene in this movie was the scene in which Samuel Jackson gets eaten. He has this very convincing dialog about why the crew shouldn't begin fighting eachother. You would expect him to take the lead role, kill all the sharks and be the only survivor. But just after his dialog he simply gets eaten... It was simply great! May the force be with him (oops, wrong movie...)One last remark about the ending of the movie. All of a sudden the storm has gone, which in my opinion happened a bit to fast. And even though LL Cool J gets bitten by a shark and should be wounded very badly AND Saffron Burrows get totally eaten by the last shark, the two surviving men don't suffer from any trauma. They even make some jokes. That's a real Hollywood ending.... Yuck.... "},{"Title":"A good fish tale","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I went into my recent viewing of Deep Blue Sea not expecting a whole lot from it.  I got a surprisingly enjoyable thriller, packed with more shocks than most horror movies and enough laughs to keep it going.The plotline is simple, a group of medical researchers (led by Saffron Burrows) attempt to find a cure for alzheimer's disease by studying shark brains. Of course, in their zeal to find a cure (WARNING THE NEXT LINE COULD BE A SPOILER) they genetically alter the brains to increase the amount of vital proteins they need.  This side effect makes the sharks smarter.All hell breaks loose from there as the sharks figure out a way into the undersea complex, and begin to feast on the scientists.Saffron Burrows leads the cast as Dr. Susan McAlester, a scientist with a special interest in this cure.  While it is never fully explained just what connection she has, my only assumption is that a close family member has alzheimer's.  Her character is cold and calculating, worried more about the lives she could save rather than the ones she just cost.  She does get a shot at redemption at the end...does she succeed?  See it and find out.Thomas Jane is Carter Blake, a man who has a criminal past but is exceptional at dealing with sharks, and has the special skill of knowing the exact moment of strike and how to avoid it.  His character is the lead action star, leading the group to safety after.........Samuel L. Jackson is Russell Franklin, head of the pharmaceutical company sponsoring the research.  He has recently survived an avalanche in the mountains (sorry, I can't remember the exact chain, but it was an exotic place such as the Himalayas).  Does he survive the sharks?  Again, gotta see it to find out..The supporting cast was just ok, Michael Rappaport as Tom Skoggins, Stellan Starsgard as Jim Whitlock, Jacqueline McKenzie as Janice Higgins.  All good characters who don't get much development because they end up as shark food.The highlight of the movie??  LL Cool J.  He simply stole every single scene he was in as the cook/preacher.  His comic delivery was perfect, his rapport with his pet bird, everything about his characterization was great (could you resist saying LL Cook J when you first saw him??)Don't expect too much from this one, but it is a fun ride, and one worthy of a watch.  Not for kids, but teens and adults will get a real good time for their money.2 1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"A shallow story with sharks as the stars","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  No one should confuse this film with either Jaws or any basis of reality. It lacks the strong characters and more subtle terror of the former and calls for a good deal of suspension of disbelief to set the scene for the action.  Jaws was believable and possible, if somewhat implausible.  This movie is neither believable nor plausible, and is mostly impossible.The trailers gave away the story, what remains are the details. Bio-engineered sharks, increased in size several times so as to increase their brain size in search of a cure for Alzheimer's disease, go on the rampage in an effort to be free of their confines and return to the open sea.  The movie stars them in their attempts to do so while watching the crew dwindle in numbers.  The lackluster acting by the human actors ensures that the sharks are the stars of this movie.  Even Samuel Jackson was not notable and his character was all too predictable, (including what happened to him).The realistic models of the sharks and the computer graphics are far more realistic than Bruce, the great white shark in that other, better, shark movie, and are a bit more realistic in that respect, but don't be scared to go in the water.  The size of these sharks is well beyond realistic proportions and the traits they exhibit are a result of their genetic enhancement.  This movie is pure fiction and bears no resemblance to real sharks.It also breaks a few laws of physics, which are often overlooked  when they get in the way of the story.  Most scuba divers and others will recognize the fallacies of some scenes and their lack of decompression problems.Why would you want to see this movie?  For the sharks and seeing them rip the humans apart (done mostly at a distance and very fast so there is much less gore than you might suspect).  There is nothing else to recommend this movie.I saw it at a theater that only charges $2 and thought it a fair value.  I wouldn't pay much more than that, though.  You probably wouldn't want to either. "},{"Title":"Surpasses Jaws by a long way!!!","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  1. Ten times better than any Jaws movie!! 2. Actually scared me...and that says a lot!! 3. Better plot and more plausible!! 4. I would watch this movie over and over and still like it!! "},{"Title":"Jaws On Steroids","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A very entertaining movie. Fun, a little scary, well done.  High budget, good acting, good production value. The plot is not as developed as it could be and the character development is not going to win any awards, but if your looking for a good rental with a little bite to it, this is the one. "},{"Title":"A FUN FLICK","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What a fun movie this was! Not much in the way of story line, especially when you think about the way the scientists were attempting to draw brain fluid from the sharks in order to cure Alzeimers. Once you take off your thinking cap this really is one big silly romp through a flooded research facility trying to outwit hungry sharks. Has lots and lots of action scenes.Unlike some, I quite enjoyed this flick, I especially liked LL Cool J as the cook, he made for comic relief in what could've been a bad movie.  Too bad about his parrot...The sharks were fearsome enemies, just check out the scene at the end! The fact they were highly intelligent made these C.G.I created sharks much more deadly (and interesting).There were a few glaringly obvious holes in the plot, such as swimmers holding breath for amazing lengths of time, an oddly constructed facility that would've sunk the instant a storm hit it etc, but this is forgiven by lots of tense action.Although certainly not original this is still a fun flick to watch. I rate it 7/10. "},{"Title":"What a piece of junk!","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Still being mesmerized by their performance in Pulp Fiction, I saw General's Daughter for John Travolta and Deep Blue Sea for Samuel Jackson. Both were major disappointments. DBS was an absolutely plotless teenexploitation movie. Action just for the action, but in a so dumb way that you cannot enjoy it. Even the sharks were not so frightening! BOO!!!  "},{"Title":"Deep Fun","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What does a 25-foot mako shark with a brain the size of a V-8 engine and no natural predators think about? asks one of the characters in Deep Blue Sea. Well dinner of course. Or is it revenge. Or is it escape. Just how intelligent have these monsters become anyway?They're able to coordinate attacks and it's amazing to see. They can synchronise their lunges at human food and are smart enough to work out pretty ingenious ways of getting their way. Here lie some pretty chilling images, especially if, as I do, sometimes you venture into the water.These big grey fellows live at an experimental research station called Aquatica which used to be a submarine way station (huh?). The head scientist has been a naughty girl and has in some strange fashion pumped up the brains of these creatures. She thinks that this may somehow produce a cure for Alzheimer's disease.But the station begins sinking during a storm!We've seen Jaws and that was dangerous enough, but closing the beach is of limited use when the tide rises and the sharks start swimming into the house. We can then find a monster swimming in the kitchen or in the hallway, ready to rip off a leg or a head, or a head of a bed.This film is in many ways completely, thankfully, implausible. One look at the floating laboratory will tag it as a facility that definitely would sink in the first storm (as it does). And it doesn't stop with the hardware. A land based financier (Samuel L. Jackson) is brought to the lab, the crisis begins and he unbelievably takes control of the group.More unbelievably, as Aquatica sinks, the humans have to scurry through corridors closing doors as rushing water chases them. Not possible I'd think, especially when they manage to do this underwater after they couldn't do it when they weren't floating!One or two of the humans seem to be able to hold their breath remarkably well too, but still, Deep Blue Sea is charged enough to allow all of this to be forgivable.What wins the day here, first and foremost, are the sharks which are impressive, credible and scary, largely because director Renny Harlin (Die Hard 2, Cliffhanger, The Long Kiss Goodnight, and regrettably Cutthroat Island) doesn't have the sharks muck around. They're fast and vicious. The special effects are more than adequate.Lead shark handler of the group is Carter Blake (Thomas Jane) who is impressive as the virile, athletic and stoic he-man of the group. Of the women Saffron Burrows adds a certain respectability to her rendition of a desperate scientist and a favourite of mine, Australia's Jacqueline McKenzie (Romper Stomper, Angel Baby, Mr Reliable, Stark (TV), This Won't Hurt A Bit) is her usual fascinating self as one of the possible items on the shark's menu.In Cliffhanger we are brought to earth, so to speak, when that poor woman fell to her death in the first few minutes. We knew then that these people really were in dangerous country and that anyone, except probably Sylvester Stallone could die.Deep Blue Sea begins with a reference to Jaws. Horny teenagers, feet dangling from their languid boat are suddenly and viciously attacked by a shark. But does anyone die in those opening minutes?  I'll leave you to see Deep Blue Sea to find out. Be warned though. The sharks are well fed. "},{"Title":"Quite nice, but cheesy FX.","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Good acting, nice sets, nice sense of suspense and nice storm effects. But why were the CGI shark effects so cheesy? And why did the sharks keep changing size depending on where they were?The shark attacks are all very predictable except for one (you will know which one after you've seen the movie) and that one makes for a totally brilliant scene. I just wish more of the movie had been that way...LL Cool J should take up acting as a full-time job. "}{"Title":"Suspense without limit","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Scientist try to get a medicine against the Alzheimer disease from the brain of sharks. They enlarge the brains of the fishes to get more of the interesting proteins. The sharks became superintelligent, then there is an accident... And for some people, the nice weekend gets really long and wild.After this relatively short introduction, the movie is nothing but an endless, always increasing thrill. There is nothing else in it, but this is more than enough. I in fact thought more than once to leave the cinema because I couldn't stand that stress anymore. There is even more suspense than in the original Jaws of Steven Spielberg, if you know that picture.If suspense alone is enough for you, watch it. I only watched it because I was in a very bad mood - and it is the right kind of movie if you want to forget other problems !  "},{"Title":"Terrible film, but I liked it.","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film was terrible. The acting was completely awful and the script was non-existant. I don't know how it took so many people to script this one.However, now that I've said that I should probably also say that despite its flaws, I quite enjoyed it. This is an action film. If you expect anything else you'll be disappointed, but if you're in the mood for some (lots of) suspension of disbelief and no need to think for an hour and a half this is perfect. "},{"Title":"Why the bad reviews??","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I found this film the most entertaining in a long time, and i go to the cinema A LOT! There was never really a dull moment, and I liked the shark wrangler character that many seem to chew up and spit out.Definitely recommend this to someone who just wants to sit back and enjoy a non-brain taxing movie with very good special effects. I give it an 8 overall. 9/10 on entertainment alone. "},{"Title":"Not as suspenseful as Jaws","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  OK, this is pretty okay but there is too much action and no intelligence at all! Maybe it is wrong to compare a little film like that with a classic like JAWS but I noticed by watching that movie that it is TOTALLY wrong!! Because in Jaws there is some action, not much but enough and there is enough place left in the film for some cleverness. Deep Blue Sea is a wonderful film for a video-party with some mates but not a film where you can learn something about sharks! "},{"Title":"If you liked Jaws, you'll love this","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is one film that I've wanted to watch for a while, and boy was I not disappointed. Yeah, the plot may of been a bit thin, but it was action packed enough to liven up my Sunday afternoon. It was a really enjoyable film, with several scary moments (I have to admit that at several points I did have my hands over my eyes!!!). LL CoolJ's role and the parrot added some funny moments to the film GO AND SEE IT!!!! "},{"Title":"Look behind you!!!!","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a great action film. The acting was not bad either. Samuel L Jackson was average, the parrot was good, Thomas Jane and Saffron Burrows were very good, but LL Cool J - WOW. He was magnificent. This is the first time I have seen him act, he worked well on his own, and I think brought all the scenes of the movie together. To me he was the central character.Now to the sharks The special effects were awesome, and the sharks looked very good, but seem to look bigger in some shots compared to the actors. When these babies are loose - Look behind you.I give this a 9 - and saw it twice in one week. "},{"Title":"Action packed rollercoaster","Date":"29 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I would like to recommand this movie to everybody. Deep Blue Sea is full of exiting moments. It may give you some big thrills. The actors aren't that great, but that is compensated by the special effects. The storyline is predictable, although people are eaten, who I didn't expect to die.One little flaw in the movie was that one of the sharks was killed in a similar fasion as in Jaws 2. Conclusion go and see this movie. "},{"Title":"Worth watching.......","Date":"29 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Before I went to see this film I was told that it was a blatant copy of JAWS and cheap rubber sharks. When I actually saw it I thought it was excellent!! LL Cool J was funny with his dialogues. It was a bit disappointing when Samuel L Jackson was whacked by the shark though...but I think the film overall was entertaining...definitely worth watching. Overall 8/10 "},{"Title":"Jaws + The Poseidon Adventure = Fun","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  There are those who sit in cinema seats rubbing chins and nodding sage-like as they scour films for depth, meaning and underlying social metaphors. There are those who like to sit in their cinema seat with a bucket of popcorn, turn their brain off and enjoy the spectacle.  I subscribe to the latter category and, although cinema-goers no doubt display far more variation than the above would suggest, 'Deep Blue Sea' is a film not designed for analysis but for sheer, unadulterated enjoyment.True, we've seen it all before.  'Deep Blue Sea' would win no awards for originality - but therein lies the pleasure of the film.  As it races along why not play 'spot the stiff'?   see if you can guess who will make it through to the final reel.  Borrowed material it may be, but 'Deep Blue Sea' is far from being secondhand and its conclusion is far from being predictable.There is always a place in the cinema for well made and undemanding action/thrillers.  'Deep Blue Sea' is a fine example of the genre.  It may suffer at times from a lack of clarity with regards to whether it is a monster flick or a disaster movie but, with its tongue stuck firmly in its cheek, 'Deep Blue Sea' is a delight from beginning to end.  Renny Harlin has a clear agenda to entertain and succeeds admirably.Be warned - this is not a film for those with a chronic sense of humour deficiency.  If you're looking for social comment and an analysis of moral dichotomies in a post-modern environment - get a life! "},{"Title":"I'm a bloke, say no more","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It made the girlfriend jump ... once. Plenty of blood, dismemberment and of course sharks. And heh, the sharks look pretty good as well. Forget jerky jaws, sharks have moved on. It not exactly heart pounding stuff. If you want a circulation boost, an expresso is probably cheaper but this is a lot more fun. Most importantly, 10 out of 10 for the bra and knickers scene. She even sounded british'ish. Freaky. "}{"Title":"A fun and gory monster movie","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed Deep Blue Sea. The beautiful mad scientist was played perfectly (distant and subtly unbalanced), the male lead was remote but sympathetic, and the sharks were genuinely scary. The movie was a little more gory than I expected, but I guess when you're dealing with a swimming eating machine, gore is to be expected. It certainly isn't a kids movie, but on the other hand there was no nudity at all -- a rare, rare thing in movies these days. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea is an action film, not a horror film, which is what I was expecting to see.  The premise, intelligent sharks stalking human prey in an ocean lab, appeared to make some truly frightening moments possible even if the plot lacked any credibility.  And while the beginning of some scenes touched on that possibility, the execution and follow through were disappointing.  Of all the shark bite scenes, none were frightening, and only one was surprising. The director chose to craft this movie as a series of fast paced action sequences with minimum emphasis on fear.  Maybe the idea of being compared to Spielberg's Jaws was too intimidating; perhaps the pace was intended to give the audience little time to think of the problems with the story. The acting was average, the effects were so-so (Ebert was right, the sharks looked like cartoons), but I must admit I was kept guessing about who would die next and, as an action film, it has its moments.  All in all, I give it a 6.   "},{"Title":"Riveting","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is definately one of the best films of '99.  I watched it in a cinema with loud stereo speakers and it was completely riveting.  I couldn't take my eyes for the screen for a second.  The cast is brilliant, the story and effects are amazing and I recommend this film to anyone of any age who wants a good scare. "},{"Title":"Good sharks.....hungry sharks","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I really liked the characters and cared if they lived or died...and the fx/cgi was very good. Maybe I just love shark movies,but we have needed a good one for a while and this was it. And for once the bad person/persons payed for their tampering with mother nature. "},{"Title":"Superb action","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"   This is not a drama, nor is it a film that requires oscar winning performances from it's leads. Which is good when it's leads are as wooden as this. Thomas Jane is in this for a muscular presence whilst Saffron Burrows is the beauty factor. Neither have shown extensive acting abilities, but that is of no relevance in a film like this. There is excellent support with Samuel L Jackson, LL Cool J, Michael Rapaport, Aida Turtorro, and Stellan Skarsgard. All of which provide a comic performance, especially with Rapaport and his Bill Paxton impersonation in Aliens, and LL Cool J with his parrot. The sharks are very scary, and provide a nail biting predator. Although this a brilliant film, it has put me off this genre. The Alien series was no way scarier than this neither was the Predator series. I recommend that this is seen at the big screen or most of its effects will be lost. Rating=4/5 "},{"Title":"Who said GM food was dangerous?","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is an entertaining action film based (surprisingly enough) around the sea and some nasty looking sharks.The acting is certainly average, but the plot is not always predictable. There are no complex twists or turns (except by the sharks that is) but the person I was sitting next to insisted on jumping out of his seat at the appropriate moments (and this is someone who thinks that the Blair Witch Project doesn't look scary!).As action films go, this is certainly above the rest.  Worth watching for some mindless frights! "},{"Title":"A gripping tale of shark revenge","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea was a scary but entertaining action-thriller with 90s type Jaws sharks - smarter and much much faster than the original- making life very difficult for a group of research scientists at a remote testing facility somewhere in the middle of the ocean. The scientific reasoning behind tampering with the sharks' brains was quite original, being a scientist myself, however the overall acting was somewhat disappointing and far from being authentic or believable. My personal pick amongst the actors was LL Cool J , portraying the part of a die-hard, stay-cool, fearless cook, almost reminiscent of Steven Seagal in Under Siege. Samuel L Jackson delivered his usual solid performance in this movie leading up to a quite extraordinary departure from the script.The other actors are not worth mentioning and were terribly mediocre, however the director makes amends for his erroneous choice of actors by entertaining us to some stunning visuals and great camera-work.This one is action right the way through which will keep you at the edge of your seat - go and see Deep Blue Sea - a gripping tale of shark revenge. "},{"Title":"jaws meets alien3","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Disappointing 'super' shark thriller that is good on effects and short on acting ability. Crazy scientist,comedic cook,rough diamond with attitude and blond who only screams and gets wet. Mix the above on a floating lab and watch them run around trying to stay alive. Good idea but I didn't care enough about them to hope they make it..... Shark scenes were better than Jaws 1-4 (though in this day and age they should be)....5/10  "},{"Title":"The script matters","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A lot of people are trotting out the old So the dialogue and characters are lame, what do you expect in an action movie? excuse for Deep Blue Sea. Do these people have no minimum standard for writing? Would they be happy if the characters just came on and grunted like caveman?Action films with good scripts do better at the box office than ones with bad scripts. It's actually a good investment to have a good script. So why do films like this still spend more on make-up?Just a few of the things which didn't make sense SPOILERS AHEAD!The shark researchers spend millions of dollars on an underwater titanium cage for the sharks, and above water they have an eight-foot fence. For a forty-foot shark. Have any of them ever been to Marine World? Or seen Free Willy?Because the sharks have bigger brains, they develop the ability to swim backwards. The reason sharks can't swim backwards is because their gills only work one way, and they would drown. It's not because they simply haven't figured it out yet. A Harvard education doesn't mean you can breathe water.In his stirring speech, Samuel L. Jackson says if you think water moves fast, try ice, and recounts his mountaineering story. This is ludicrous. A, ice doesn't flow, it just kinda sits there, so obviously water is faster. B, the avalanche was snow, rather than ice. And C, ice IS water.And on, and on...But of course you could put up with any number of errors like this if you were interested in the characters or the situation, or entertained by the dialogue. Sadly, this film has one of the worst scripts I have ever heard. Example Saffron Burrows Have you ever known someone who suffered from Alzheimer's? Samuel Jackson (after a lot of thought) Well...no.  Samuel Jackson (on entering the amazing underwater laboratory) Wow.To all those people who say that this is an action movie, what does it matter what the script is like, I would ask Can you give me an example of an action movie that was ruined by a good script? "},{"Title":"Not good as I was expecting.","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I went expecting a film to be at the most as good as Jaws and I left disappointed. The story did not reflect what is known about sharks, but keep to the same stereotype that most people believe.This film felt like it was more aimed at the teenager who takes his girlfriend to the movies expecting her to hold on to him tight because it scares her, it certainly did not scare me!  "}{"Title":"You want a shark movie?  You got it...","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I went to this movie just wanting a good, old-fashioned beast vs man film, and that's exactly what I got.  I love a movie that has something with a lot of teeth eating a lot of stupid or bad characters, with no aim other than to get you as tense as possible and get a few squeals out of the audience!Sure, the acting not super (if you want to see Jacqueline MacKenzie actually act see Romper Stomper) and the plot is slight, but boy do those sharks chomp some people!  I found myself would tight once the action started and it didn't release until the credits rolled, Renny Harlin paced it perfectly.Just like Jaws, forget the plot or the ridiculous premise, and sit back and enjoy a great shark movie. "},{"Title":"Great Fun!","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie's exciting.  Packed with action, gore, awesome sharks, and good cinematography.  The acting is so-so(except for LL Cool J who was wicked) and the character development is minimal.  I was at the edge of my seat the whole movie.Check this one out. I highly recommend this movie to people who love action and quick pace. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw Deep Blue Sea, and must say that it was very entertaining.  The sharks were very convincing in some parts and very fake looking in others, I think that they moved a bit too quickly for creatures of 20ft and above.  That was my only gripe about the film, I read all the reviews and heard all this whining about how shoddy the script was and how bad the actors were.  I think the script added to the overall feel of the movie, and I dont recall anybody being such a bad actor in it.  I thought Saffron Burrows was good and I dont see why she has been critisised so much, I hope this bad press doesnt affect her career as I would like to see more of her in the future. All in all this is a total cinema experience, the soundtrack has you jolting and the visuals from start to finish are great.  A hell of a lot of work must have gone into creating all the sets, and they do look brilliant. If you are after 2 hours of solid entertainment look no further than the Deep Blue Sea. "},{"Title":"Exciting, but a little corny!","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The storyline would have worked in the 50's or 60's (where are the android silhouettes?). The gore was attention-getting, but by the end we no longer cared which of the characters would make it out alive. Don't bother with a sequel! "},{"Title":"Bad Effects, Bad Acting, but fun.","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This $100 million blockbuster left me thinking one thing where did all that money go?The special effects were comical, very unrealistic, and kind of reminded me of Anaconda. In other words, a 12 year old with 3D Studio on a $500 PC could do a better job.With a $100 million budget, one can only assume less than 10% of that was spent on the actor's salaries, featuring a lesser known cast. With the exception of Samuel L. Jackson, the performances were shocking. I got the distinct impression that Samuel L. Jackson got a huge pay check from the Polo Ralph Lauren company, since he only wore Polo throughout his on screen appearance.However, surprisingly, these don't detract from the film's watchability; it is quite an enjoyable, entertaining film.  "},{"Title":"Who's next on the menu?","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well, there are already so many comments for this movie, but I decided to add mine anyway. ^_^ (Warning! Spoilers!) It's not really a BAD movie, if you're looking for something to see it, by all means, go and see it in the cinema, but when it comes out on video, and you don't have a brilliant sound system and wide-screen TV, get something else. I must say during the WHOLE movie I was tense, even from the beginning credits. My friend (who was sitting next to me) kept complaining about how noisy I was ('No!' 'Oh, s**t!' 'Swim faster!' 'Behind you!' 'Eeeeeeeeeeeek!!!!'). ^.^;; I don't know if it's just me, because I don't watch TOO many 'scary' movies (like, I haven't seen 'Jaws' or 'I know what you did last summer' before), but I thought it was really unpredictable, what was going to happen and who was going to die next. One of my other friends said that she *liked* the movie because it was so unplausible - like that would ever happen in real life (so she wouldn't be scared to go swimming in the sea or something, I suppose). Anyway, the theater was packed when we went on the Friday night, and the audience were quite responsive...I think the BEST part was when that other blonde girl (the one whose hubby just met an unfortunate accident) called Susan McAlester 'You stupid bitch!' (for increasing the shark's brain mass), many people in the audience (including me) cheered and clapped. OH, and another favourite part of mine is when Preacher does the egg omelette recipe to the camera. ^_^ Overall... uh, the female lead is WAY to wooden and has no expression on her face whatsoever anytime... the only smart thing she does all movie is at the end... but go watch it anyway because it's one of those movies everyone watches and talks about the next day.  "},{"Title":"Of men and sharks","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well, would do you get when you enlarge the brain of a hungry shark? Of course, a very hungry shark. For those who like to be educated this movie teaches us that we should not manipulate genes cause it will cost us. ( one thing though, that striked me as rather silly was the fact that the good characters were rather surprised to learn that the sharks were actually manipulated. Although the sharks' names were gen1, gen2 and so on. I mean is was rather obvious...) Those would like to be entertained are being catered to their needs Thomas Jane is a sight for sore eyes (I am of course talking about his physical appearance, not necessarily his acting) and LL Cool J is very funny, add a couple of sharks and special effects and you have your evening of entertainment! "},{"Title":"Deep Blue Fun","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  First off, Deep Blue Sea does borrow liberally from Jaws and does so shamelessly, so criticizing the writers and director is like shouting in space  pointless.  Anyhow, Renny Harlin's main objective seems to be to redeem himself for his good-but-misunderstood box office bomb The Long Kiss Goodnight.  The first 20 minutes or so are pretty slow and tedious, but as soon as the sharks lose their tempers, Deep Blue Sea is top flight entertainment.  With more action than your average monster flick, guessing who dies next is not the most enjoyable aspect.  Renny Harlin's slow-motion sequences are still the best.  If anyone besides Harlin deserves praise for this film, it's indy actor Thomas Jane, as the likeable shark-wrangler.  All in all, Deep Blue Sea is the perfect film to revitalize Harlin's career. "},{"Title":"Sharp Sharks!","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What does a 25-foot mako shark with a brain the size of a V-8 engine and no natural predators think about? asks one of the characters in Deep Blue Sea. Well dinner of course. Or is it revenge. Or is it escape.Just how intelligent have these monsters become anyway?They're able to coordinate attacks and it's amazing to see. They can synchronise their lunges at human food and are smart enough to work out pretty ingenious ways of getting their way. Here lie some pretty chilling images, especially if, as I do, sometimes you venture into the water.These big grey fellows live at an experimental research station called Aquatica which used to be a submarine way station (huh?). The head scientist has been a naughty girl and has in some strange fashion pumped up the brains of these creatures. She thinks that this may somehow produce a cure for Alzheimer's disease.But the station begins sinking during a storm!We've seen Jaws and that was dangerous enough, but closing the beach is of limited use when the tide rises and the sharks start swimming into the house. We can then find a monster swimming in the kitchen or in the hallway, ready to rip off a leg or a head, or a head of a bed.This film is in many ways completely, thankfully, implausible. One look at the floating laboratory will tag it as a facility that definitely would sink in the first storm (as it does). And it doesn't stop with the hardware. A land based financier (Samuel L. Jackson) is brought to the lab, the crisis begins and he unbelievably takes control of the group.More unbelievably, as Aquatica sinks, the humans have to scurry through corridors closing doors as rushing water chases them. Not possible I'd think, especially when they manage to do this underwater after they couldn't do it when they weren't floating!One or two of the humans seem to be able to hold their breath remarkably well too, but still, Deep Blue Sea is charged enough to allow all of this to be forgivable.What wins the day here, first and foremost, are the sharks which are impressive, credible and scary, largely because director Renny Harlin (Die Hard 2, Cliffhanger, The Long Kiss Goodnight, and regrettably Cutthroat Island) doesn't have the sharks muck around. They're fast and vicious. The special effects are more than adequate.Lead shark handler of the group is Carter Blake (Thomas Jane) who is impressive as the virile, athletic and stoic he-man of the group. Of the women Saffron Burrows adds a certain respectability to her rendition of a desperate scientist and a favourite of mine, Australia's Jacqueline McKenzie (Romper Stomper, Angel Baby, Mr Reliable, Stark (TV), This Won't Hurt A Bit) is her usual fascinating self as one of the possible items on the shark's menu.In Cliffhanger we are brought to earth, so to speak, when that poor woman fell to her death in the first few minutes. We knew then that these people really were in dangerous country and that anyone, except probably Sylvester Stallone could die.Deep Blue Sea begins with a reference to Jaws. Horny teenagers, feet dangling from their languid boat are suddenly and viciously attacked by a shark. But does anyone die in those opening minutes?  I'll leave you to see Deep Blue Sea to find out. Be warned though. The sharks are well fed. "},{"Title":"Plenty of action and cool affects but way too much cheesyness","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea is an action/monster film and I never expect too much in the way of a story line when I go to view a movie in this genre. It delivers on effects, action scenes and even suspense but there are way too many religious speeches (from LL Cool Jay) and too many 'if we stick together' human hope type spiels for my liking (you know - the type of stuff that Independence Day reeked of). Overall I give it 5/10 for the effects and occasional gore - it could have been so much better. "}{"Title":"Plenty of action and cool affects but way too much cheesyness","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea is an action/monster film and I never expect too much in the way of a story line when I go to view a movie in this genre. It delivers on effects, action scenes and even suspense but there are way too many religious speeches (from LL Cool Jay) and too many 'if we stick together' human hope type spiels for my liking (you know - the type of stuff that Independence Day reeked of). Overall I give it 5/10 for the effects and occasional gore - it could have been so much better. "},{"Title":"Good.","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was more than happy to watch this movie, seeing great Australian actress Jacqueline MacKenzie going into Hollywood films and Australian company Village Roadshow going global with big budget, exciting films like this (they also did The Matrix and the big disappointment Disturbing Behaviour). I agree with others, the sharks do look fake but nobody could ever get a realistic looking shark in a movie, even the Jaws movies didn't get it right. Of course, comparisons with Jaws was inevitable for Deep Blue Sea but this is an exciting film with some good special effects.WARNING SPOILERS AHEAD.........I'M WARNING YOU, IF YOU HAVE NOT SEEN THE FILM DON'T READ.....This movie has a rather unexpected outcome. Samuel L Jackson gets eaten half way through it, I thought he was the main star! It's not very nice to women either. There are about three female characters and they all die! Oh well, it's still enjoyable.AUSTRALIAN CLASSIFICATIONM15+ Medium Level Violence,Medium Level Course LanguageVery violent, don't take the kids. "},{"Title":"And they told me they don't make good action movies anymore !!","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is absolutely Renny Harlin's best film so far. His two previous attempts were a HUGE flop and a flop. With Deep Blue Sea he shows that he can still make movies that aren't flops. DBS was and is a success. The film is filled with great action scenes and moments that make you go wow. I recommend this film to anyone who likes action movies even a teeny weeny bit.In this film we get to see what happens when the genetically manipulated sharks go rebel. Against humans of course. This takes place in an underwater research facility Argonautica. We get to see how the sharks kill staff members one by one. And we get to see it with great special effects. The robot shark is fantastic and the computer-made sharks aren't so bad as they say. To put it all together, this is a must-see.9/10 - Way to go Renny! "},{"Title":"Not deep at all...","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Personally, I went to this movie with high expectations.  I was expecting Jaws, and got computerized fish with a very unrealistic and laughable plot.Most every intense scene seemed very intellectually weak.  It was one of those....yeah, right type of movies.   I had the most fun heckling my friend about the fact that he (used to) like it.Pass on this one my friends.... "},{"Title":"Great action combined with an original plot.","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Having browsed through some of the reviews already, i thought i'd add my own thoughts on this movie. I didn't expect an awful lot in terms of originality after having seen it compared to the likes of Jaws, but in my opinion, this doesn't really even belong in the same category.  This is probably one of the more original movies of its type.If you like action movies and are not concerned with technical facts, as others seem to be these days, then you should enjoy this movie.  Some of the acting, especially from the main female lead doesn't tend to be as convincing as it could have been. The scene where she strips off to reveal hardly anything on underneath does focus on her more than the situation around her.  However, there are some more memorable moments. All i can say is that i certainly wouldn't want to be in their place with those creatures around.  Several of the scenes come as both a shock and a surprise, which adds to the suspense.  The final outcome also is a bit of a surprise. Overall, i give it an 8 out of 10, mainly for originality and great action. "},{"Title":"Tense throughout ...","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Almost sitting on the edge of my seat at the movie theatre. This movie (as expected from Rennie Harlin) has great effects and excellent casting. And a few frights in it to make you jump!I was not expecting much (as the Jaws movie series was rediculous), but walked out sidestepping puddles on the ground!!!  "},{"Title":"Waterlogged","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you don't go into your local multiplex expecting too much from this waterlogged cross between JAWS and THE POSEIDON ADVENTURE, you won't be overly disappointed 104 vacuous minutes later.Really, Renny, all the action in the world is marvellous, but you should at least TRY with other elements like character and substance.The cinematography (by expatriate Aussie Stephen Windon) is the most successful element of this film, encompassing as it does some nifty 'shark's-eye' shots and the virtually obligatory scenes of Saffron Burrows warding off the monsters from the DBS dressed only in her bra and panties. "},{"Title":"Chomp champ","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was pretty good, gory as hell, moved right along, equal parts Jaws/Aliens/and Anaconda. I liked LLCoolJ the best, his scenes in the stove, and with the Cross(you gotta see that one!) were terrific, you Really get to rooting for the guy. The Sharks are terrifying, smart, Possessed and fast. This is by no means a documentary, but you will enjoy the stuff passing before your eyes if you set your mind on hold and hold on! I would liken this to the Mummy, Congo and Anaconda, it does what it sets out to do without trying for anything more. Go see and bring a towel... "},{"Title":"teenager's view","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea is an action packed thriller will all sorts of scares. It opens up as the typical Action movie and then takes a bite (litterally) into a non stop thriller. For instance theres a scene where some of the people are trying to climb their way up on a very toll ladder while at the same time their is rising water bellow them with a hungry shark. Not only is that happening ,but there are fireballs falling from above and then the ladder...,but I want tell you that. This is a great example of an exciting and thrilling action scene.      As the movie has been labeled as the Jaws ripoff ,it really is worth watching for the sharks look undeniably scary. They may not look real with their pointy noses and super fast movements, but it gives the sharks a scarier look that jumps right at you. theres one perticular scene that left an everlast ing appresion on me and will do the same to you (in a good way). There are a number of those scenes in the movie that will make you go  I cant believe they did that. That way it makes alot more scarier. It has a wide range of characters that mix interestingly in the many moments of panic. Sharon Burrows the actress you see on the movie posters isn't so  bimbo- headed as she seems. She acted good for an action babe and L.L. Cool J. and Samuel are good as well. L.L Cool J.'s scenes of panic of him verses the shark were fun to watch. Like when he trapped himself in an oven while a shark was knocking at the door. Sharron Burrows as well has scenes  of her verses the shark that she plays well that are action packed. The movie is well acted, thrilling, captivating, and well done. There are all sorts of surprises I havn't told you. Go see it.Be prepared. "},{"Title":"We liked this movie.","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea wasn't a fantastic movie, but it gave you what you wanted if you were going for a suspenseful movie.  A little hard to believe sometimes. Sharks ramming there heads thru thick steel. Well what the hey, it could happen. NOT! )  We still enjoyed the story line and the suspense. "}{"Title":"A waste of $8.00","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  There was one good thing about Deep Blue SeaI didn't pay out of my own pocket to see it.Granted, I knew what I was getting into when I agreed to see this film. I was secretly hoping that I would be surprised. I wasn't.What can you say about a film that takes its plot ideas from Jaws to Jurassic Park to Psycho. Not a whole lot. The film makers could have at least spent more money on the digital effects to make the sharks more believable. Not to mention the 2 dimensional characters.When is Hollywood going to stop putting out garbage like this? Not as long as the movie going public is willing to shell out $8.00 to go see it. "},{"Title":"Fun,fun,fun","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Maybe it does not have the Speilberg genius that 'Jaws' had but I think DBS was made as a fun and an action packed movie which is exactly what it delivered. The ocean setting was great and so was the lab.Saffron Burrows looked really attractive but you won't feel like rooting for her as the movie made her responsible for the chaos. The sharks were the real stars of the movie and to enjoy the movie, I would ask you not to pay too much detail on the realism of the sharks.Keep it simple and keep it fun and you'll enjoy the movie. The ending by the way is unusually different from the Hollywood norms. "},{"Title":"Very very surprising...","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Suspense films usually are very predictable, but this film has some great surprises.  And the suspense is sustained from start to finish.  True that the premise is absurd.  But the film is science-fiction.  And it accomplishes its goal of scaring the heck out of you.  But beside being scary, it also is a lot of fun.0Just put aside the disbelief, and immerse yourself.  Virtually unpredictable and full of tension, this film delivers.Cinemas showing this movie should install seatbelts. "},{"Title":"*** out of ****","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Even though the film has a lousy-ass start and suffers from an extremely amateurish script with banal dialogue and lousy and all-too-familiar characters, it still remains slightly interesting.  The special-effects actually look interesting in most scenes.  The one thing that I'm glad wasn't overlooked were the sharks themselves, who were scary as hell.  They just kept jumping out of nowhere.  Scary sharks, sometimes believable special-effects and surprises keep this from sucking big time, but just barely. "},{"Title":"A very funny horror movie.","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The mindless ferocity of sharks is such a great  subject for movies that it's a shame the best one  was the first one.  The variation this movie tries  out involves some genetic alterations that make  the sharks intelligent instead of mindless.  What elevates the movie is its sense of humor.   The characters are all cliches, and the fun lies  in seeing them torn sadistically to shreds.  If  that sounds cruel, all I can say is you had to be  there.  There's also suspense, of the How the hell  are we going to get out of this one? variety, some  excellent effects, and a fine performance by  Samuel L. Jackson, who seems to get cast in these  things (Sphere, Jurassic Park).  The climax of his  inspiring speech to the other characters sets the  tone for the rest of the movie. "},{"Title":"This is a not half bad shark movie.","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"   I went in to see Deep Blue Sea expecting to see a really bad remake of jaws with, I had hoped a good spot here and there. What I got was a not half bad fast moving shark movie with a bad spot here and there.  The movie was fast moving, thrilled me, and kept me involved.  The plot did not depend on a government cover up or anyone or thing from outer space or anything supernatural.  The computer generated imagery was weak the sharks looked a little fake. and you cannot close a water tight door when water is pushing it open.  And some of the acting was a little flat but I would watch it again today. "},{"Title":"great film... these are my comments","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea is one of the most exciting and suspenseful movies I've ever seen in my life.  I can't remember the last time I was on the edge of my seat for a movie like I was for this one.  I thought the opening sequence of the film, beginning with the impressive shark lullaby of Trevor Rabin (i was skeptical of his ability to do a shark film, until i seen the film) and the sequence with the teenagers was very cool.  It pulled my girlfriend and i into the movie like nothing.  I like movies like that.  Even when we went back a second time and we knew what happened in the movie, we still jumped and cheered for the good guys and occaisionally the sharks. Forget the script, because a movie like this, to me, as long as the movie has a central point, in this case, an experiment with genetically engineered sharks to end Alzheimer's which goes fatally wrong, is good enough.  I thought that the film was only like JAWS in one way The end sequence...the sharks blows up.  That's it.  Other than that it was a different breed of evil. The action sequences Harlin performs in this film are nothing less than amazing.  I jumped more times and gasped and awed more times in this movie than any other movie i've ever seen.  The biggest thing was that most movies I watch i usually predict what is going to happen and it does happen.  but in Deep Blue Sea what i predict to happen didn't happen...it was totally unexpected. To sum things up, I thought the movie was fantastic, and aside from that, the best characters were LL Cool J and Samuel L. Jackson. different opinion?  same opinion?  let me know!Gen2 "},{"Title":"Same old boring action, no innovation","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  So you are reading this review not sure whether to see this movie or not.  Well if you still like the mindless action with no plot and very weak characters, than this movie is for you.  Personally I am way past the late 80's early 90's rash of mindless action movies with a lot of explosions.  Nothing knew happens here, it is Jaws gone mad.  I was generous with 3 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"One of the biggest and best surprises of the summer blockbusters of '99.","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie looked really cool when I saw a preview. I saw it for my birthday. WOW!!! This movie blew me away. I didn't expect anything. It scared me right out of the seat. I loved the performances. The cast was great. The script was great. I loved the funny lines it threw in. I laughed while I screamed. The f/x were great. I love the part at the end when the shark gets blown up. That was a bloody mess. Really. I just can't believe it didn't make more at the box office. It was a complete surprise. I didn't think LL Cool J could act but he was the best in the movie. I will buy the DVD the first day of release. It's just one of those movies that don't come around often. If your looking for a scarey movie that's funny and full of f/x than see this. Deep Blue Sea A+ "},{"Title":"Now, THIS is what a summer movie should be.","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea is, yes, a rip-off from Jaws, but it is the best killer-shark thriller since Jaws.  However, leave your brain at the door and you'll enjoy this for what it is an awesome summer movie experience. Renny Harlin, the director of two great action films, Cliffhanger and The Long Kiss Goodnight, brings more flare to this picture.  Deep Blue Sea is just one great action scene after another, building up excitement and suspense like a popcorn bag in a microwave.  Of the characters in the movie, the best is, hands-down, the bible-quoting chef played by LL Cool J.  He is becoming more comfortable as an actor and, here, he steals the show.  You can sometimes tell the sharks are computer-generated, but I just didn't care.  What the plot let become contrived and ludicrous, it made up in the action.  The action scenes were so skillfully constructed, you're heart is racing until the very end.  There is a moment when a shark attack is so sudden that the audience laughs when it's over because the surprise was so effective.  And I must say, a certain cliché was completely thrown out the window as far as a last minute rescue.  A strong recommendation is given to Deep Blue Sea for its skill and execute and for people who just want to have a kick-ass time at the movies. "}{"Title":"cliched but very good","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is the most surprising movie I've seen in a long while.  The plot involves a group of scientists/researchers along with some human film fodder playing against nature in order to create the cure to Alzheimer's disease.  The research also made the sharks smarter (though how smart that they could possibly know how to engineer an escape seem to go for disbelief). The characters all go through cliched moments but director Renny Harlin manages to pull in some nasty surprises.  Yes, there are predictable moments but there's also some unexpected twists.  The story as a whole is just okay, but it's Harlin's direction that's great about this movie.  Comparison with JAWS is unavoidable, Harlin even mentioned about making this shark movie in a way Spielberg wished he could have done.  Where Jaws is a shark that seems slowly swimming to its victim, the sharks in Deep Blue Sea are majestic yet deadly.  There's a part of me thinking Jurassic Park because the sharks are swift and deadly as Velociraptors.    And in a way, Harlin was probably right.The verdict 4 of 5 stars "},{"Title":"Raving about the film","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Kick ass fast paced action with a chilling horror atmosphere. The setting is totally cool and the storyline very good.  The shark effects will blow your mind away. Plus Saffron Burrows is so very sexy. "},{"Title":"sharks herding humans for revenge. hah!!","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  badly acted, poorly cast,tired story. my god, stay away. i was viewing it for free and i nearly walked out,(that would have been rude to my hosts.)can't think of anything good to say about it. yes i can !! if you like cliches, go for it.  "},{"Title":"Move over Jaws","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Renny Harlin does a great job bringing terror back to the sea.  It's been a long time since sea-goers had to worry about if they'll end up as shark food.  Not since Jaws has there been a mammal movie that took the nation by storm ( Anaconda being the exception because the snake is considered to be a reptile). The special effects team did a great job bringing you into the deep aquatic ocean (check out the shark attack scenes).  The cast was great!  L.L. Cool J must have a no kill clause in his contract when it comes to horror films because he makes the most daring escapes I've ever seen before.  Good writing, directing, acting and special effects all rolled into one film.  It may not be better than Jaws but it is equally competitive.  You may have to look past the story line to really get into the film ( I did ).  Just one thing, NO SEQUEL!!! "},{"Title":"Can't even measure up to guilty pleasure status","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Leading up to the release of this underwater shark thriller, a friend of mine had been jokingly referring to it as Jaws 2000.  And, although, it really doesn't have much in common with those pictures...it may have well been included as one, it's just as ridiculous and lame as the last two Jaws sequels.An ecclectic cast has CHUM written all over them as scientists/engineers/blah blah aboard an underwater research facility that is quickly flooding; stalked by genetically enhanced 'smart sharks'.  I was really rooting for Renny Harlin's film to be a guilty pleasure...but I'm afraid it can't even measure up to that status.  And we know for a fact that Harlin can take an action sequence as ridiculous as they come and make them work cinematically--look at the underrated Long Kiss Goodnight or Die Hard 2.  But, Deep Blue Sea asks too much from me.  It's so unimaginatively preposterous; and characters barely register a pulse, much less develop (with the exception of LL Cool J- at least he puts a smile on your face).  I'll admit that when the sharks attack in this film; it's visceral, grisly and exciting on the most purile level.  But, that's not enough to save this misguided, just plain silly monstrosity.  Also, ask yourselves how much money you think the great Samuel L. Jackson had to be payed to utter the line  all right people, these sharks are thinking...HARD AND FAST!! "},{"Title":"Leave your brain at home","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Hey!  Do you have an IQ?!  Well, leave it at home because we're going to see DEEP BLUE SEA!!!  YAY!!!Deep Blue Sea is an incredibly dumb film.  Please do not infer from this that I didn't like it.  It's one of those brains-in-your-bottom movies where you sit back, shovel popcorn in your mouth and watch people being eaten. It's one of those movies where girls take their clothes off when they are in peril.  It's one of those movies where your brain actually leaves your head while you're in the cinema and goes off to the library in disgust.  It was WAY COOL!!!Basically the plot is that the babe-scientist is trying to find a cure for Alzheimer's by increasing the size of shark's brains (I think she injects them with medichlorien).  This also has the effect of increasing their body mass and IQ.  (Ironic really, that while the sharks became more intelligent, I could feel my IQ dropping on the floor).  Consequently, the sharks are able to do lots of neat stuff that they can't in real life and those boring nature-documentary watchers can't whine about it - ha ha!!!The smart babe-scientist then puts the sharks in easily-escapable pens at sea, in a flimsy sea-rig and waits for a storm to brew up.The sharks take the first opportunity to eat people and basically we are then in predictably safe guess-the-next-victim territory.  (The rules to this game are  Well, he can't get eaten because he's the handsome loner, but HE will get eaten because he's just the comic relief, SHE won't get eaten because she's a babe, but that old chick is a goner and so forth).Except we're NOT, because this movie isn't as dumb as it looks.  It turns at least one giant-killing-machine-on-the-loose movie cliche ON IT'S HEAD. Leaving not only the audience but the ACTORS IN THE MOVIE AS WELL kind of pointing and going, Wuh?  Huh?  Nuh???  They can't do THAT!!!!!  The whole movie is worth it for that moment alone, the moment being when....AAAAAAAAAAAAAAARGHHHH!!!!!!  THEY GOT ME!!!!  THEY GOT MEEEEEEEEEEEEE!!!!!!Ha ha!  Just kidding!  Anyway, this film is a lot of fun - the sharks are scary, the script has enough jokes in it to let you know that no-one is really taking it seriously and there are NO Jedi knights in it.  "},{"Title":"Cheap thrills on a big budget","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea is a B-movie disguised as a Summer Blockbuster Action Thriller. If you're old enough to remember watching a flick at the drive-in on a Saturday night double date this is the kind of movie that made you look forward to weekends. Of course the 90s equivalent is a little different, we have to take into consideration the technology film makers employ today (special effects), audience expectations (special effects), and add production value (very expensive special effects)Deep Blue Sea is all about cheap thrills on a big budget and I dare you to not get a charge out of  it even if you're inclined to drive, or walk out well before the credits roll.A beautiful marine biologist (Saffron Burrows) may have discovered the key to a cure for Alzheimer's a protein extracted from the brain fluid of mako sharks. The problem is a shark's brain isn't large enough to secrete enough of the protein for clinical testing. Solution genetically increase the size of the shark's grey material. A side effect she fails to mention to her staff and corporate backers is this also increases the shark's intelligence fivefold. Samuel L. Jackson plays the visiting CEO more like he's playing the straight man instead of acting the part, which is just what his character calls for. The rest of the cast include the swashbuckling shark wrangler (Thomas Jane), the assistant researchers (Stellan Skarsgard, Jacqueline McKenzie), the math whiz engineer (Michael Rapaport), and in the juiciest role of all LL Cool J as the lab's cook. He also has the best lines in a dubious script, as a bible quoting born-again with a parrot for a best friend.The story takes place within a vast underwater military submarine installation converted to a marine biological research complex and shark pen. When a gale blows in one night isolating the complex and its inhabitants the three mensa makos seize the opportunity to wreak havoc and in the process ingest, maim and out-smart the hapless researchers while turning the complex to rubble.Director Renny Harlin, who made Die Hard2 and Cliffhanger has put together a tight thriller that is essentially one action sequence after another. This movie doesn't pretend to be anything more than a snazzy rip-off of some of the genre's best and it doesn't have to. Harlin gets the job done effectively and professionally. Deep Blue Sea isn't one of the wannabe retread thrillers you might expect. Its originality is most apparent in the rules it breaks not the rules it follows. To say more would give away too much.Harlin pays homage to Jaws in the very first scene -- Night time. Teens on a catamaran at sea making out and boozing it up. Cut to dorsal fin gliding across the surface -- soon after he gets down to the business at hand, which is more Jurassic Shark than Jaws. You better not play with Mother Nature.Once the action starts it's a roller coaster ride that doesn't let up and Harlin gives his cast members a one way ticket to a no win situation then sits back and watches them squirm. One of the most refreshing elements of Deep Blue Sea is its complete lack of predictability anyone can die at any time. Don't be surprised to see lovely Saffron Burrows having played in this year's Loss of Sexual Innocence confronting an angry shark dressed in nothing but a skimpy bikini bra and panties. Or that LL Cool J during a tense cat-and-mouse sequence with one of the makos seeks refuge in an oven, which the shark promptly turns on. (I told you this is B-movie material at its best.). There is one gotcha scene in this film that's worth the price of admission alone.  The sharks themselves come in two varieties, mechanical and computer generated. The mechanical ones are life-like believable and used in medium and close up shots (Spielberg would have given an arm and a leg for one back in 1975, not his appendages of course, a cast member's.). The computer generated sharks move in ways a real shark never would. And correct me if I'm wrong but I don't believe sharks can swim backwards as the computer generated models suggest. Not that it matters much because you did suspend your disbelief before you rolled down the window and hung the speaker. Didn't you?  "},{"Title":"Pretty God, but........","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I just got back from the movie theaters from viewing  Deep Blue Sea. I must say I was satisfied. Except for a few flaws. The story consists of an obsessed woman inching away to a cure for Alzheimers disease. For this to work, she must expand the brain size of 3 Mako sharks( 2 12 feet killers, and 1 massive 45 feet annhiliator). When she does its too late. The sharks figure out that they are being messed with, and decide not to take anymore crap. Thats when the fun begins. The action is good, acting well played, special affects top-o-da-line, and the story is pretty sensible. I just wish that they would have done some of the shark scenes differently. Now, I'm not going to give anything away, but in my opinion they should have kept the 45 foot shark less visible through the first half of the movie, making it seem darker and more dangerous.......harder to kill. Not like it needs it though. It'll keep your heart beating a mile-a-minute!!!  Most definitely worth seeing.   8 1/2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Why can't more summer movies be like this?","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is the kind of big-budget, special effects, scare-your-socks-off movie that used to be so much fun during summers like this. However, now we're being forced to endure a summer of Runaway Bride's and the like. This movie, with it's frighteningly intelligent killer sharks, huge, fiery explosions, and sudden surprises, is the kind of movie that makes summers worth having. It's more fun that a hundred Julia Roberts movies. Anyone else sick and tired of romance and boring character development? Want to just go to a movie and see some great special effects and big thrills and just go to a movie and be entertained? Go see this movie!  "},{"Title":"We always knew the fish were smarter!","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see DEEP BLUE SEA thinking I was in for another no-brainer evening at the movies.  In some ways I got what I expected--the characters are hardly deep, the dialogue often strays into cliche, and the outcome is in some ways predictable. But what grabbed me after a few minutes--and held me to the end--was the energy of the film and the genuine surprises.  There are some real scares in the film (for those of us who like  that), and the pacing is superb.  There literally isn't a dull moment.  And, yes, I did find myself thinking afterwards about topics like genetic engineering--about how real this film might actually be in the not to distant future.As for the actors--this is a fine ensemble effort.  While there are some big names mixed into the cast--LL Cool J and Samuel Jackson--no one person dominates the screen.  Although I missed individual character development, what I did get was the sense of a group trying to outsmart an often unseen enemy, a group in an increasingly claustrophobic environment working against time and the ravaging force of nature. For a Summer popcorn movie, I was pleasantly surprised and very entertained.  "}{"Title":"It's JAWS meets THE DEEP in a modernized WATERWORLD facility.","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  DEEP BLUE SEA does not feature an iota of originality in its whole structure.  The premise is arranged in a by-the-numbers pattern and the dialogue is strictly juvenile.  What this film does have is enthusiasm, pace, and lots of frightening surprises.  This film is a direct rip-off of JAWS from the story conception right up to the climax.  However, it boasts a few unexpected twists and turns.  In general, this movie somehow works as a horror and science-fiction combination...At an underwater research laboratory, Dr. Susan McAlester (Saffron Burrows) is conducting experiments, using people-eating sharks as guinea pigs in an attempt to find a cure for Alzheimer's Disease.  What Dr. McAlester has done to one of nature's most feared creatures is unbelievable...Corporate big-shot Russell Franklin (Samuel L. Jackson) has arrived at the underwater lab in order to check out McAlester's progress with the experiment.  What Franklin has elucidated from this entire project is that McAlester and her colleagues have been fooling around with Mother Nature. As a result, the sharks which have been subjected to various lab tests have become more brilliant.  Their brain masses have increased.  The sides effects though are quite hazardous.  The sharks may have become smarter...but they are meaner too!Once these sharks have gained more intelligence, no longer do these sharks rely purely on instinct.  They have become keen predators, and they know what they are after...Only a shark wrangler, Carter Blake (Thomas Jane) and a preacher with attitude (LL Cool J) can help McAlester, Franklin, and everyone else inside the laboratory fight off these naturally born killing machines.  Blake's courageous attitude compensates for a lack of brains.  The preacher's wiseacre personality may also be handy.  Not only do these people have to deal with one killer shark...they have to encounter a trio!  The humans must escape from the madness of the killer sharks...Consequently, the trio of sharks have one thought in mind freedom to escape from the confinements of mankind (and hopefully munch on some human beings along the way)...  Who will live?  Who will bite the dust?DEEP BLUE SEA has the same concept, same script, and the same action as any other movie involving a Shark Attack!  However, DEEP BLUE SEA features all new special FX.  Even if the sharks do look like phantom menaces, these creatures move as fast as cruise missiles.  These very intelligent sharks move furtively through the sea without a moment's hesitation.  They would barely give anyone any chance to escape and they have found ways which may guarantee these human survivors an imminent sign of doom.  You will end up rooting...for the hyper-intelligent sharks!The cast works well together though none of the performers are exceptional. LL Cool J delivers the best performance as a tough cook and preacher who must at one time, single-handedly fight one of the killer sharks.  Saffron Burrows and Thomas Jane are both charismatic but they are not show-stealers. (That honor goes to the sharks!) Samuel L. Jackson's role is all too similar to what is expected of an assertive corporation representative. All of these heroes are merely cardboard characters compared to the swiftly moving sharks.  In general, the acting seldom rises above familiarity. Still, it is a ton of fun to guess which personality will be devoured upon as the sharks' next victim...DEEP BLUE SEA is visually strong.  The production design is rather good and the cinematography is outstanding.  The underwater photography is well handled too.  Director Renny Harlin (THE LONG KISS GOODNIGHT) keeps this film tightly moving at a steady pace and the film only occasionally slows down.DEEP BLUE SEA is decent and watchable, but not really remarkable.  Again, the plot is bombarded with clichés and the formula is all too pedestrian. This movie constantly treads in familiar territory.  The characters are not at all interesting either. The sharks, on the other hand, are cool, and that is very scary when you start cheering on the sharks!  The action is sometimes easily foreseen but never let your guard down!This movie takes on a definite silly spirit that makes this film perfectly fine for the movie-going crowds who are ready to laugh and gag at the same time.  If you do not mind the movie's innate goofy essence, then you will find yourself having a fun time at the movies.  DEEP BLUE SEA is better than the countless sequels to JAWS, that's for sure.Watch while one of the main characters makes an awe-inspiring speech. Let's just say it blew everybody away...RATING **1/2 out of ****. "},{"Title":"Jaws meets Poseidon Adventure","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Is it just me, or is half this film lifted from these two movies? And not very well either. First of all, there will be many comparisons with Jaws, which would seem to be unfair because Jaws is over 20 years old. However, the directing in Jaws is way ahead of this. The shark in Jaws feels so much more sinister, you are more frightened by that shark (in my opinion) than the three on display here. Apart from the final scene in Jaws, the shark feels fairly realistic. In this film, the shark jumps completely out of the water to get Samuel L. Oh please.... The believable plot of Jaws is vastly superior to this super-intelligent shark nonsense. As for copying the two movies, we get 2 deaths by electrocution a la Jaws 2, the scene where they climb up the insides of the facility is almost exactly the same as when the characters climb up the ship's funnel in the Poseidon Adventure. Except this time, you've got sharks swimming in the water at the bottom. Scary, indeed. The character development in Deep Blue Sea is dreadful. There is no need for Preach. It is clear from the very beginning that he will survive, being the loveable character and Christian. As for the female scientist who created the super-intelligent sharks, she will obviously die because the writers would never let the film end with her alive and having to live with all these deaths for the rest of her life. In Jaws and the Poseidon Adventure, the characters are superb. The unexpected happens when Gene Hackman's character (Pos. Adv.) dies to save the rest of them, the character of Chief Brody (Jaws) will never be beaten (or could ever be played better), as is the same for Quint and Hooper (both Jaws). These fantastic films now appear even better after a movie made 20 years later still fails to capture the atmosphere created all those years ago.Rating - if you like jump-out-of-your-seat scariness, 8 - if you like never-go-in-the-water-again scariness, forget it, see Jaws! "},{"Title":"So it isn't Shakespeare, so what ?","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Having read previous comments I would like to express some viewpoints of the matter in hand ...In my humble opinion there isn't a fast packed action movie that would posess deep characters and involving plot. For some odd reason people expect this to be Kurosawas Ran on stereoids.Deep Blue Sea does exactly what it is supposed to do, give you a fast, action packed, ride on the other side of imagination. I enjoyed the movie a lot, and believe me I have seen a few . ..Deep Blue Sea sucks you in from the start of the movie and never lets you go, until the credits that is, and even then you might be seeing some quite odd dreams next night.So it hasn't got a involving story line, so it does not make you feel a better person, so you dont cry over some dramatic moment, so what ?Deep Blue Sea gives you bang for your bucks, what are you expecting from a action movie anyway ?Go there, watch it, be scared s***ess, and enjoy every minute of it ! "},{"Title":"Much Better Than I Expected","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Overall, this movie was much better than I expected. Given Renny Harlin's track record, I wasn't expecting much. Even the previews seemed a bit lackluster the first time I saw them. But in the end I was very surprised to find myself actually enjoying it. It wasn't the best movie I have ever seen, not by a long shot. However, after a long summer of one disappointment after another for me at the box office, I had a good time watching it. It was probably the best popcorn movie I have seen in a long time and stuck to the one principle of B-Grade horror movies which always draws me back to them anybody can die at any time. "},{"Title":"I got the humor in the movie...if only I could be sure its creators did...","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I laughed more during this movie than during any other movie I have seen recently.  The entire movie was a joke...the problem is, I'm not sure if it was intentionally horrible to get laughs or if it was just horrible.In brief, every single character and situation in this movie is a cliche. When the movie started and as the plot began to develop all I could think about was how terrible and formulaic the whole premise was, but as each new cliche was added to the stack, I started to snicker, then to laugh out loud.It gets better...characters die gruesomely in the midst of speeches you have heard before in countless bad action flicks.  Sharks swim through hallways and doors that are obviously too small for them.  The laws of physics are continuously broken far too blatantly to ignore.Guessing who will die next is entertaining, and the best part is that the wrong characters survive!In all, I enjoyed the movie immensely...I'm not sure I enjoyed it the way its creators intended for me to enjoy it, but I enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Hilariously suspenseful","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  How could a movie with a scene in which LL Cool J is trapped in an oven that is turned on and a giant shark is trying to get inside the oven to eat him not be a good movie? I had a ball watching this movie.. very suspenseful and very entertaining.  "},{"Title":"A summer movie, no more no less","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea isn't the brightest bulb in the world as far as overall quality plot goes, but I approached the movie as it should be looked at. A summer action movie. I liked the idea of the plot, but it wasn't executed right, maybe too many people got involved in the process, I don't know. I didn't like some of the things that occurred that are physically impossible both with the sharks, and with Thomas Jane's character at the end of the movie. However, the movie was exciting, and if you just sit there and watch without overanalyzing it, you should have a good time. "},{"Title":"Good effects bad movie","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Yet another example of a film that has great special effects but the Directing and Acting are so bad that I almost walked out of the theater. Samuel L Jackson is a good actor but he just took the money and ran on this movie. Saffron Burrows as the mad scientist was totally boring. The character of the cook/preacher  was very cliched, a regular step n fetchit. The problem with this movie is that none of the characters are really interesting or likeable all the money went for effects and I personally am getting tired of this lazy way of making films. "},{"Title":"Blah film","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  In all honesty I went to see this movie with the expectation of watching two hours of inane space filler.  I was not surprised with what I saw.  The whole movie seemed to consist of the actors stumbling about fearfully in waist deep water, while massive intelligent fishies charged at them from out of the gloom to pick them off one by one.  The screenwriters of this movie also took great liberties with the biology of these fish, as often as not we see the actors abrading themselves against the sides of these fish with no harmful effects at all.  One other instance that I found amusing, was at one instance the main heroine is sploshing about in water up to her hip, and then a shark fin rises up behind her. Just where did this fish come from?  Did it melt up from the floor?Don't waste your time with this.  Do anything else instead. "},{"Title":"A GREAT MOVIE!!!","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I don't jump easily during movies, but I jumped in this one. My fiancee took me to see it, and I held on to him tight! This is one of the best movies of 1999. The movie is not all that scary, but it is very suspenseful. The plot has a very nice twist to it. The people you think that are going to die survive, and who you think is going to live dies. I recommend this movie to anyone who wants a good thrill. "}{"Title":"Go Away bad action flicks!","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I normally am open minded when it comes to accepting all of the merits and uniquities of movies, but this is really something that deserves no more credit than laughter -- or, for those who place more value on their box-office ticket money--- some anger and irritation that money was wasted in such a manner. I predict that this movie will crash and burn.Makes you appreciate JAws a little more when you see how poorly a shark movie can be done... "},{"Title":"No Jaws in fact not much of a movie at all!!!","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Quite possibly the worst movie that I have ever spent money on.  The acting was poor.  The plot...smart fish!  I think that pretty much explains everything.  The special effects were very poor, with the shark scenes looking like a video game.  I left the theater unfulfilled and with a headache.  Whether you liked or hated the movie Jaws DO NOT see this movie. "},{"Title":"It achieves its modest goal.","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea - ***In her quest for a cure to Alzheimer's, Dr. Susan McAlester (Saffron Burrows)  unwisely begins to genetically alter killer sharks, enhancing their brain mass.  The plan is to harvest the altered tissue and use it to regenerate human brain cells.  Uh huh.  Sounds like McAlester could use a few more brain cells her own damn self.  This is not so much the plot of Deep Blue Sea as it is an excuse for a series of action set pieces involving humans and killer sharks.  Naturally the malevolent meanies escape from their pens and storm Aquatica, the floating science lab where McAlester performs her experiments with the aid of shark wrangler Carter Blake (Thomas Jane,) cook Sherman Preacher Dudley (LL Cool J,) and millionaire businessman Russell Franklin (Samuel L. Jackson.)  Also assisting in the experiment are scientists Jim Whitlock and Janice Higgins (Stellan Skarsgard and Jacqueline McKenzie,) along with technician Tom Scoggins (Michael Rapaport.)The mayhem is helmed by director Renny Harlin, who is no stranger to the action sequence.  (For proof, I refer you to Die Hard 2, Cliffhanger, Cutthroat Island, and The Long Kiss Goodnight.)  Harlin's ability to construct a thrilling scene cannot be disputed.  Unfortunately, his penchant for completely ignoring plot and character also cannot be argued. Technically this film is well mounted.  And the actors do an adequate job with what they are given.  But the screenplay simply does not allow for any real character development or involvement.  Jackson, Skarsgard, and Rapaport all do their usual top notch work, but in small and uncomplicated roles. LL Cool J is adequate in his comic relief function.  But what about the leads? Certainly Saffron Burrows is easy enough to look at, but can she really be believed as a genetic scientist?  No.  It is evident that the filmmakers realized this, for they managed to write in a scene whereby McAlester must strip down to her skivvies to escape from one of the sharks.  (A writer myself, I can admire the ingenuity which this required.)  As Blake, I initially feared that Thomas Jane was cast merely because he looked good in the bathing suit.  But I was pleased to find that he delivered a surprisingly sympathetic and well-rounded performance.  More than any other, I wanted his character to survive.Which brings me to the true fun of this movie - guessing who will die next, and how, and when.  What this film lacks in depth and insight, it makes up for in body count.  If you are familiar with the genre and think you already know all of the cliches, you will enjoy Deep Blue Sea.  It takes relish in subverting those standard cliches, in killing off characters in an unlikely order, and in surprising ways.  Indeed, the final action scene is practically groundbreaking in what it asks the audience to accept.The sharks are scary enough, I suppose, but I found them a bit disappointing.  Perhaps this is because we are simply allowed to see too much of them.  The reason that Jaws was so terrifying was because the shark remained a mystery.  We did not get a good look at the beast until the end. It left a great deal to the imagination.  Deep Blue Sea makes the unfortunate mistake of taking an omniscient point of view, frequently showing the sharks beneath the surface of the water.  Wouldn't it have been scarier to see the sharks only when the human characters see them?  I suppose the filmmakers were too impressed with their CGI effects to let that happen.  It is telling that the most riveting scene in the film is one in which characters are suspended from a great height, trying to climb skyward as the water level below rises, bringing a shark with it.  It is the fear of the shark, not the shark itself, which thrills.  "},{"Title":"Big budget, B-rated movie","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I might be tempted to agree with somebody saying that this movie mocks every other horror movie.  However, it seems to take itself too seriously, and maybe that was part of the joke.  Either way this movie made me laugh my a$$ off.  You have never seen such a formulaic, cliched movie ever.  If you have seen this movie, and Alien Resurrection, read the MAD satire of the Alien Resurrection.  You will find more than a few similarities.Plot  Laughably retarded.  Doctor looking for cure for Alzheimer's disease increases shark's brain mass, and SURPRISE the sharks become smarter.  As if you could not guess that one.  The sharks know how to do everything including turn on the oven.  You read that right, and you will see what I am talking about.  The ending is so stupid that you can't help but laugh.Acting  Horrible.  The doctor seemed like she came right out of Weird Science.  Even Jackson has a problem with the acting.  They act as if this was a no-budget cult movie.  It seems like they all walk through it.  Example of another movie with this acting style is Deep Rising, which was also hilarious.Dialogue  Cheesy.  The dialogue made me laugh at highly inappropriate times.  There is one point where SPOILER IS COMING Jackson gives a speech on how he lost a member in an avalanche because they turned against each other, and then is promptly eaten.  I laughed during the speech because it has been done so many times.  I also laughed when he was eaten.This movie rocks.  It is not scary, however, I think that if Joe Bob Briggs were still writing, although alive on TV, he may give it his best by saying, Anyone can die at any time.  Those movies rock.  This movie becomes a guessing game of who will die, when and how.  I was rooting for the sharks.  They were cool.  P.S.  This movie had plenty of gore, and some T&A just for kicks.---------------8 "},{"Title":"Jaws Reunion","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Jaws Reunion! This Movie beats the classic out of the water. It isnt really a gore film, more of an action film with gore aspects. I loved the way the characters made sacrafices for the good of thier friends and the level of character development was great. The part with Samuel L. Jackson surprised me (those who seen it know what i mean.) That part caused me to jump in my seat. "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I went into Deep Blue Sea knowing that it was a shark movie and knowing that nothing could top the original Jaws film. I also kept a very open mind. The film was actually quite good (IMHO).The special effects were quite well done, the computer generated sharks were decent and the action was reasonably constant with very few lulls. The story was predictable but there were a couple of good jump out of your seat moments.All in all it was a pretty brain dead film that lets you have some fun, knowing full well that this is not Jaws and does not pretend to be.Adam "},{"Title":"Rip-offs and Parodies","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a B suspense horror movie.It contains concept scenes ripped off from nearly every sea movie I have ever seen.The facility flooding scenes are right out of The Abyss.One shark is killed like the shark in Jaws II.One shark is killed like the shark in the original Jaws.Swim scenes are right out of The Poseidon Adventure, Leviathan, Deep Star Six and the Abyss.Opening scene is much like the catamaran scenes on Jaws II.Saffron Burrows stripping to her underwear to face the shark is reminiscent of Sigourney Weaver's final battle scene of the original Alien.DBS also makes light fun of Richard Dreyfuss' underwater boat scene from the original Jaws.   Not bad.The only thing I appreciated about this movie is that they did not go overboard with gore and guts.  These scenes are heavily done with Computer Graphics Animation.Unfortunately, the CG work also looks too much like computer animation. It does not look real.  An obviously animated shark eating obviously animated person is simply not frightening, and blood REALLY does not look real.In that sense, movies like the original Jaws were a lot more frightening.Having sharks bash inwards through OUTWARD OPENING submarine hatch type doors was also not realistic.  Hatches that have to be pulled closed simply do not bust open inwards like Arnold Schwarzenegger plowing through a bathroom door, because these types of watertight hatches are, by definition, larger than the holes for the doorways.DBS uses some clever timing to place attacks at moments when the audience has just been elevated by the protagonists' success, but surprise is not the same as shock and fear.If you don't take it seriously, DBS is more of a fun movie as opposed to a horror movie, just as CreepShow was intended to be more campy and fun and not serious horror genre.Billing this as a Jaws class movie was a marketing error, and it terribly misleads the paying audience.Deep Blue Sea is mostly guessable, because we have seen the schticks before.If the creators were attempting to make a serious horror film, they failed miserably.If they were attempting to do something like CreepShow, they did a fairly good job.MARKETING FOR THIS MOVIE DID A DISSERVICE.THE AUDIENCE NEEDS TO SET ITS EXPECTATIONS PROPERLY.If you go to this movie expecting something serious, you will feel ripped off and cheated afterwards.If you go to this movie expecting something more campy and fun like a rollercoaster ride, you will feel better when you leave the theater. "},{"Title":"I thought movies were getting better?--this one destroys that theory","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Perhaps my expectations were too high--I was looking for a decent movie with a few scares. What I got was a movie that was a rip-off of the Jaws series/Jurassic Park and anything else the writers could find. The sharks were carbon-copies of Jurassic's velociraptors. If someone tells you that this is an original movie, cover your ears and run---that person is insane. Not just were the sharks killed in roughly the same manner as in the Jaws movies (electrocuted, blown up), but they were almost killed in other already seen before ways (fire extinguishers, etc.).I understand that these characters are probably used to 40 foot sharks attacking them, but how about more than 5 min. of acting worried.  I read a review that said a few plot holes--what did they drink before seeing this. First of all, their escape plan has more holes than swiss cheese.  Second, did anyone else have a problem with 40 foot sharks maneuvering in 4 foot wide/3 foot deep corridors?  Or what about how the sharks can ram through steel doors, but not make it through this Superman-like titanium steel fence.  And the sharks just happen to know what cameras are--and no one thinks anything is strange about this?  Obviously, Hollywood thinks that we're too stupid to understand a continuous plot.Then we come to the final scene.  The biggest letdown in the history of thrillers.  One of the heroes must be eating his wheaties b/c after being munched by one of those 40 ft. critters, he manages to recover from shock, find the gun, somehow crawl to a different area and  shoot the shark. Ummm, okay.  Also there's a scene where the hero decides to jump into the water and save somebody instead of shooting the shark--this person's too stupid to be a hero.  Then the scene where someone becomes bait for the shark. Let me see--I'm going to jump into the middle of the ocean so that I can't escape instead of swimming next to the edge so I can easily climb out.  Do you actually think the shark could tell the difference?  Unfortunately, I could (oh, I forgot, these are super-smart-Ivy League-sharks).I have to admit that I (and a lot of other sane individuals) laughed our way through and out of the movie.  Perhaps they should have marketed this as a comedy b/c if you go in with a clear head, you'll be smiling most of the time? "},{"Title":"Jurrasic Park Floats","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Just a quick note about his movie in relation to Jurassic Park. Jurassic Park did so well because it captured the imagination of millions of people with fascinating creatures, dinosaurs. Sharks are just as fascinating, and this movie had the potential to do the same, unfortunately it takes more of a hard hitting action movie. It's still a great movie, there was just so much more it COULD have been. score...7 "},{"Title":"Rehashed","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Very predictable, Jaws rehashed with a little different twist. The best part was where the owner of the drug company is making the the We all have to pull together to survive speech and the shark ate him. I still haven't figured out how a 40 foot shark was able to submerge in 3 feet of water and pull off a surprise attack on the inhabitants of the research station. "}{"Title":"Offers several shocking moments, but it is just so predictable and obvious. **1/2 out of ****","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" **1/2Director Renny Harlin   105 minutes   Rated R (for graphic shark violence and some language)All right, lets try to get beyond the fact that Deep Blue Sea is a rip off of Alien Jurassic Park, and most obviously Jaws. Lets all just black out the fact that this film is one of the most predictable, most obvious horror films in years. If we do that, than what to we have one of the most exiting, suspenseful, shock provoking, and realistic looking horror films to come down the road in years. So how do I review a movie like this, so flawed, but so fun at times. Well, I won't put my thumb up or down here. I'll just give you the good and bad qualities of Deep Blue Sea and you make the call on your own call.The premise, both unconvincing and too quickly developed, takes a really big underwater sea base and puts its characters in charge of doing research to try to cure a deadly disease by experimenting a cerium on sharks. (I am unclear of why the characters had to use sharks for the testing, why not a dog or a cat?) The main scientist is Susan McAlester. While her wealthy supporter, Russell Franklin, is unsure about producing her ideas, he ends up lending a helping hand.The ocean crew consists of a cook, Preacher, and his bird who spews out profanity, Carter Blake, the guy who deals with the sharks personally, Dr. Jim Whitlock, Janet Winters, Tom Scoggins, Doc, and Glenn. Names don't mean much, do they? The filmmakers agree, for they have no compassion for the characters. They almost pick them off randomly after a certain point in the film. This concept offers the single most shocking moment in film history when Samuel L. Jackson is in the middle of a meaningful speech. It's moments like these that make Deep Blue Sea a good popcorn movie for the non-critical portion of an audience.It is now when the disasters strike. First, a hurricane hits the base with absolute strength. Then, the shark being experimented on goes nuts and takes a guy's arm off in the process of escaping. As he goes back into the base tanks, Susan explains to the rest of the crew how her team had to increase the size of the animal's brains to produce more protein in order for the medicine to work. In result the sharks got smarter. Now, all three of the sharks experimented on have motive, purpose and genius, and in an attempt to reach the deep blue sea to escape to freedom they will finish off more than 90% of the cast. They will eat them, rip them apart, and sometimes kill just for the sport.There is no major character development in the film, nor is there much reason to care about the characters. Director Renny Harlin wouldn't know how to elaborate on human emotion if it jumped out of the water and bit off his head. The characters have no purpose in the story other than to be eaten by the antagonists. This makes it kind of hard to root for the good guys, and not root for the sharks, but at least we know what and who they are.The sharks themselves are really neat. I saw an HBO special the other day about how the film was made. The filmmakers supposedly spent years designing and producing such a realistic looking animal to evoke terror in the likes of an audience. In that case the film does work. With its share of wonderfully frightful music, high class suspense and many characters to pick off like flies, the possibilities are unlimited and the filmmakers do take advantage of most of them.However, due to the enormously familiar story and characters with equal value to the filmmakers as flies on a web, after the few momentous sequences that make Deep Blue Sea partially succeed, it was only a madder of time before I found myself jumping ahead of the plot predicting which character would be the next to go.For better or worse, Deep Blue Sea offers less psychological terror and more character deaths  than The Haunting, a better film, albeit not much. So, is Deep Blue Sea worth seeing? Not at first run theater prices. "},{"Title":"Heart pounding, edge of your seat, excitement,...to say the least.","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Comparisons to Jaws are inevitable, but Deep Blue Sea stands apart all by itself.  It has everything anyone could want in a movie awesome special f/x, great story, action galore, beautiful set design, and Samuel L. Jackson, though for not very long.  It was the biggest shock of the summer to see the biggest bad-ass in movie history (reference to Jules Winfield) giving another one of his deep, emotional speeches, only to become fish food at mid-sentence.  My heart never stopped racing from then on. The action and suspense never stopped, and director Renny Harlin even threw in a little drama. Who didn't tear up at the death of LL Cool J's parrot.  All in all, DBS is the best movie of the summer not directed by George Lucas. Go see it again and again. ****1/2*'s out of *****. "},{"Title":"It makes me sad that Mystery Science Theater is no more.","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  There were hints of a good movie wanting to shine through. Unfortunately that got lost on this unfortunate Titanic meets Abyss catastrophe. It's quite unfortunate that Mystery Science Theater 3000 won't be around enough to cover this film. It would make a good target. "},{"Title":"Hmmm...","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I really don't know how to react to this film. It was semi-enjoyable, even blatantly fun in a few places. Yet on the other hand there were a number of problems that grate on the intelligent viewer.Deep Blue Sea is great in a number of places. As in Halloween H20, LL Cool J performs above expectations, and is a welcome sight whenever he is onscreen. Samuel L. Jackson, in the all-too-brief time he is in the film, does a superb job. The setting of the film is also striking and compelling.On the other hand, the mechanical sharks looked blatantly mechanical, even comical in places. (Perhaps that was the effect Warner Bros. was going for?) The opening scene, where spilled red wine attracts a hungry shark, was horribly wrong--a fourth grader could have spotted the error. (Sharks are NOT attracted to spilled red wine because it looks like blood. Sharks' eyesight is poor. They SMELL blood in the water. Red wine means nothing!) Finally, Saffron Burrows, another British chick who is convinced she is the greatest actress who has ever lived, is nauseating every moment she is onscreen. When her character gets chewed to bits by an oversized mako, it was all I could do not to stand up and cheer.My recommendation See Deep Blue Sea, but wait for the dollar theatre.  "},{"Title":"Sit and Smile","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Usual disaster plot featuring smart, yet awfully vicious mako sharks and co-starring poor fish-bait who are stranded in a research facility in the middle of the ocean. Comparisons to JAWS could be made, however an easier bet would be to compare JURASSIC PARK to this one. Do not take anyone under 12 to see this unless you want a third party in your bed for the next two weeks. Saffron Burrows was not the best choice to play the doctor who sought a cure for Alzheimer's, but LL Cool J did have fun playing the preaching cook. See this movie whatever way you want it, just be sure to leave your brain at the entrance or in the rental cassette. "},{"Title":"The special effects are great, I'll tell you that!","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea looked like just another rip-off of Jaws, but when it got a decent review in the LA Times, I thought twice about seeing it. Well, I just came back from it, and it was very suspensful and had amazing special effects.The plot is easy and at times a little unbelievable; A female scientist wants to cure Alzheimer's Disease, and how she plans to do it is to get a special substance out of Mako sharks' brains. Well, the more of this Secret-Goo the better, so she makes the sharks brains bigger, and as a side effect the sharks get smarter-- and meaner. The cast is mediocre, all except LL Cool J, who brings humor, warmth and a whole lot else to this ensamble. Saffron Burrows and Samuel L. Jackson are OK, but could have been better in their parts. The special effects on the other hand are fantastic. From rushing water to sharks attacking to bloody body parts to huge explosions, they did a great job. The beginning is not that great, though. It takes you a while to get into the whole feel of Deep Blue Sea, but when you do... it's a thrilling ride.My rating 6.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"how big was the shark's bite?","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw Deep Blue Sea, and the thing that struck out at me most was how stilted Samuel L. Jackson's performance was.  Usually, he's a wonderful actor, he's very talented and I enjoy his work.  But in this film I was thoroughly disappointed.  You could practically see him reading the words right off a page.With that aside, Deep Blue Sea is quite an entertaining movie.  It's no epic adventure film, for sure, but that's not what I expected going to see it.  I was a bit afraid that it would be a Jaws rip-off (and there were moments when my fears were confirmed), but for the most part it stemmed out in another direction and held it's own quite nicely.The one thing I really appreciated about this movie was that it broke a common stereotype.  I won't give away any spoilers on the subject, but after you've seen it I'm sure you'll know what I mean.The characters were a little weak, but the plot was alright.  All in all, it was a decent film worth a matinee viewing.  I'd recommend it to anyone looking to have a fun time at the movies. "},{"Title":"preposterous and idiotic","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It's preposterous and idiotic, but at least it's not a rip-off;  you get the feeling that the director actually wants to provide you with an experience. And it offers a lot of unintentional laughs, which is more than you can say for The Haunting.  Watch it with Congo. "},{"Title":"Don't expect a plot...","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" ... but do expect to be entertained.  I may have had more lenient expectations for this movie because we saw it at a drive -in (where, for one, two movies are only six bucks so something has to be *really* bad to be a disappointment and, two, I just seem to expect everything to be campier, lighter, more entertainment, less serious), but I wasn't disappointed.  It was a goofy, action packed, unrealistic summer movie and if you are not expecting more than that I think you will enjoy it.I was expecting some great special effects with the sharks, and I was a bit disappointed in that because they moved so *fast* that it was hard to appreciate them.  Don't know if that makes sense, but you'll see what I mean when you see the movie.I think they did a *great* job of mixing up who died and who lived and that was probably what made the movie so entertaining.  You can't help doing the oh, he/she is going to die for sure bit in the first 10 minutes of the movie and it was fun to be surprised (and wrong!) for a change in a movie.I don't know if I would spend $8 to sit in an uncomfortable theater chair to see this one, but if there is a drive-in in your area you can't go wrong with this one in terms of no-thought required, action, effects and entertainment. "},{"Title":"Thrilling, Surprising, Shocking!","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is definitely the surprise hit of the summer.  It has chills, thrills, good scares, good suspense, and a sense of claustrophobia and the feeling of no-turning-back.  Yeah, you can't help but think of Jaws when you see this, but simply because both are shark movies.  Deep Blue Sea is far different than Jaws, and far more scarier and thrilling.  The movie is about a doctor (Saffron Burrows, played very well) who uses sharks to increase their brain size to create a pill to cure Alzheimers.  Well, long story short, the sharks (three test sharks in all) escape and wreak revenge on the doctor and her co-workers.  Throughout the movie, there are plenty of good and fresh scares, good kill scenes, and great action.  Great acting all around.  And to not spoil anything, expect the unexpected.  There were a few surprising and unexpected scenes that keep the movie fresh and make you stick with it to the end.  **** out of *****. "}{"Title":"Great movie! Remember to turn your brain off though...","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoyed it... wasn't expecting too much before the movie, and was more than pleasantly surprised ;)  It was very exciting, and *very* unpredictable in the sense that I tried very hard to figure out who would and and who wouldn't (there were some surprises).  The sharks were awesome, and very freaky to add.  I really didn't like Saffron's performance, but Thomas Jane was pretty cool... he did a lot with his minimal lines, and it got the effect out.  I mean, he's just a quiet guy that likes to keep to himself and just happens to be a very good survivalist.  I think he portrayed that role very well.Other than that, I would recommend people who like action to go watch it. It kept me on the edge of my seats the whole time, like Armageddon.  But also like Armageddon, if you think about it too much, you won't like it... *don't* analyze this film, just enjoy it! =)That's my opinion,  "},{"Title":"A thrilling shark movie that definitely makes you jump!","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea doesn't really have a deep plot or acting,but it was a pretty fun action movie.  I enjoyed it a lot.  This movie is like a stronger, scarier JAWS without the originality.  Many surprise deaths, and too many I might add.  With an interesting cast, (Saffron Burrows, Thomas Jane, LL Cool J, Samuel L. Jackson, Michael Rappaport, Stellan Skarsgaard) and awesome CGI effects, it is a movie worth seeing.  8 out of 10, OR 3 stars.  "},{"Title":"Physics Takes a Coffee break...","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" ... and so did the writers, it seems, for this film defies both dramatic symmetry, and plain common sense. The idea that anyone in their right minds would attempt such a project as the movie's premise suggests is silly in the extreme. Character motivations are not simply weak, they are laughably ridiculous. Even moreso, perhaps, because they are constantly re-stated and urgently argued by the scientist who has created the dangerous situation the characters find themselves in... long after the obviously dangerous results are thrown in her face. Whoever wrote this film has likely never once been diving, nor have they made any research at all into the biology of sharks. The only reason to see this movie is to watch LL Cool J, the best actor in the film. Even Samuel Jackson, normally a superb master of dialogue and pacing, comes across as wooden and misplaced. Perhaps because the other actors around him cannot work well in concert with him? Who knows... Every single action scene in the film is riddled with impossibilities and absurd conclusions. I spent a great deal of the film shaking my head and muttering, No, no... it wouldn't WORK like that... that's not just impossible, it's stupid... The effects sequences are awful, save for those incorporating mechanical or prop effects, those were nicely executed. Spielberg would probably look at the mechanical shark and sigh with jealousy, but the rest of the film is a joke. A bad joke. A joke with the audience as the punchline. If you can't see this one at a matinee, rent it. Better yet, wait for it to be shown on cable somewhere... or skip it entirely.---What!? How can a wetsuit insulate you from electric shock... it's WET!! (Unknown member of the audience during a senseless action scene) "},{"Title":"great action","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had all the characteristics of a bad movie.  Bad dialogue, too many plot holes, and most of the plot they had was ludicrous BUT I loved this film. The actors did an extraordinary job at their roles and the action was really well done.  Renny Harlen is one of the best action movie directors around.  It even scared me and I have seen hundreds of horror movies.  The sharks seemed so real. Go see this movie because it will give you a really good ride.  "},{"Title":"Not bad, but leave your brain at the door","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Renny Harlin's latest opus, Deep Blue Sea, is everything a person could come to expect from a Hollywood summer blockbuster. It is derivative, mindless, and totally lacking any social or artistic value. Having said all that, I must admit,that once I shut my brain down and began watching it in it's proper context, I must admit I rather enjoyed the silly thing. Deep Blue Sea is a reved-up hybrid of Jaws and Alien featuring a pack of genetically enhanced Mako sharks who use their heightened intelligence to attempt to escape the mid-ocean research lab they were created in.To accomplish their goal they have to kill all the people on the lab who want to keep them where they are. Imagine the raptors of Jurrasic Park with fins and gills and you have a pretty good idea of what these sharks are like. It's a bare whisp of a plot, but it's serviceable enough to keep the film going at a pretty good clip without straining suspension of disbelief to badly. Like all Renny Harlin films, Deep Blue Sea is filled with spectacular action sequences and set pieces. Harlin also takes full advantage of the best special effects technology a studio could buy to come up with very lifelike, scary sharks. Harlin is truly a master at what he does. Another big factor in what makes this film work is the surprisingly good performances from most of the cast. With the exception of the top-billed Samuel L. Jackson (who seemed to have faxed in his performance from a Beverly Hills golf course) every actor in the film seemed to make the best of their rather thankless roles as shark-bait. The two biggest surprises came from the two relative unknowns Harlin cast in the leads Thomas Jane and British actress Saffron Burrows. Thomas Jane (who resembles a younger Eric Roberts) has been around for awhile, but it wasn't until last year, when he was cast as the world-weary Pvt. Ash in The Thin Red Line, did people finally begin to notice him. His role in Deep Blue Sea, as a swashbuckling shark-wrangler who must fight them off, displays a Harrison Ford-like charisma that should take him far. The singularly beautiful Saffron Burrows is equally good as the obsessed scientist who tries to keep her rather insane experiment at all costs, to the chagrin of Jane's character. Like her appearance in the dreadful Wing Commander earlier this year, Burrows tries to add some humanity and dimension to what is basically a card-board cartoon. In the case of Deep Blue Sea, she succeeds. There is a lot of sexual and romantic tension between Jane and Burrows early in this film. Unfortunately, the writers and Harlin have other things on their minds, and the sparks between these two appealing leads are allowed to fizzle. Too bad. Despite that minor complaint, Deep Blue Sea is not a bad popcorn flick as far popcorn flicks go, and if you compare it with most of the wretched sewage that came out this summer(The Haunting, Wild, Wild, West) it's a freakin' masterpiece.   "},{"Title":"Jurassic Park meets Jaws meets Godzilla meets Flipper meets Scream...","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  After seeing this movie, I understand why IMDB categorizes it as an Action/Horror/Sci-Fi/Thriller.  However, I think they've missed a category, namely Comedy.  I can't remember the last time I laughed out loud at a suspense-filled man vs. mutant nature movie... okay, I can remember. It was Godzilla.  This, however, was nowhere near as painful.  Though I reluctantly admit to enjoying this movie somewhat, that doesn't mean it was good.  In fact, I liked it for the same reason that I like movies featured on Mystery Science Theater 3000  it was so bad, it was funny.  I would love to go into detail about why this is the case, but I wouldn't want to give away any of the plot, other than to say that it's not wise to screw with Mother Nature.  If this is scarier than Jaws, then I need to see Jaws again, as it must be hilarious. (L.L. Cool J was the best actor in this movie.) "},{"Title":"Better than you'd think","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea keeps you on the edge of your seat for the full duration of the movie.  And those moments that you're not, you probably jumped out of it.  This is classic escapist fun.  Every time a movie character puts a body part into the water, the blood pressure rises.  There are some great scenes of people and animals being grabbed and devoured by the sharks.  This is not a movie for the weak of mind.  And sure, the sharks don't really look that realistic and some parts of the plot have holes.  But spend your seven dollars here.  I give this nine stars. "},{"Title":"A real thrill ride that truly surprises.","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, I have to admit that I wasn't really expecting to like this film. In fact I was prepared for it to be cheesy. In a way, it is. One reviewer described it as Jurassic Park meets Jaws and that isn't far from the truth. But is was very enjoyable. I can't say what exactly surprised me with out giving away the plot, but I certainly wasn't expecting that. I seldom get surprises in a movie, so when I do I sit up and pay attention. The actors all did a good job and the sharks look dangerous and vicious in way that no real animal ever could. If you are looking for a movie that will startle and surprise you without leaving you paralyzed with fear, then Deep Blue Sea is the goods. "},{"Title":"exhilarating movie-going","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea is everything an action/horror flick should be. It moves like the wind, is terrifying and hilarious all at once. It is a great audience piece and the casting was inspired. There were enough relatively unknown actors in the piece to make us feel that the characters were real people, like you or me, stuck out there in the claustrophobia of a world run horrifyingly amok with Sam Jackson up there showing them the ropes. The editing and effects are amazing, the music as menacing and beautiful as the sharks themselves and the acting fabulous. This film has no delusions of grandeur. It doesn't pretend to be academic nor hugely serious but my oh my, I promise, it will it frighten the pants off you! DBS is exhilarating movie-going, a 'MUST SEE' and classic Renny Harlin.  "},{"Title":"It shocked me...","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have to admit that I went to this movie with full intentions of mocking it.  There I was, seated next to a friend who brought a little plastic shark.  I was just watching that shark gnaw on some popcorn and yell at the screen Hey.. you stole my line! when the movie first began.  I sat there trying to hold back laughter as the first underwater shots brought the fear of the inevitable first attack.  Somewhere in the first 15 minutes of the film I stopped laughing and actually got quite caught up.  It wasn't the plot, it wasn't the acting, it wasn't the smartness of the sharks.... it was just the suspense.  I looked over to my pal somewhere toward the middle of the film and there they were, friend and plastic shark, together, eyes opened, mouths covered, and the grin that says I can't believe I actually think this movie is good.  A must-see matinee! "}{"Title":"Great suspenseful summer fun","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Much better than it had any right to be.  Suspenseful and exciting.  Not really a Jaws ripoff, more along the lines of Alien...people are trying to escape a closed environment, rather than hunting a creature in an open environment like in Jaws.  The action sequences are terrific and the characters are functional, if shallow.  It's been awhile since I had this much fun watching a thriller. "},{"Title":"OK Jaws ripoff","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  An OK film--basically a bunch of people stranded in the middle of the ocean with a few super intelligent sharks out to get them.  It's well-done, the acting isn't bad and the fact that most of the cast is made up of unknowns, it keeps you wondering who's going to make it.  Also the movie manages to exploit the male and female leads--actually this is improvement!  It's about time men are shown as sex objects!  It's suspenseful, reasonably intelligent...you could do worse.  No great shakes, but entertaining. "},{"Title":"Expect the Unexpected!","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Now like most of you, i though this would be a terrible movie. Just one of those jaws rip offs that didn't have anything we hadn't seen before, boy was I wrong! It starts out normal enough, introducing the characters, getting on with the background of the story etc. But once we get into the film, it starts to get very interesting. Now many of the death scenes were VERY unexpected, and the way they were able to capture the shark was just awesome. You really couldn't tell who was going to die next, since, this movie, like nature, doesn't care who the STARS are. This made this movie just that more believable. I guess we are all sick of the movies where there is some superhero like arnold shwarzenegger that saves the day, and does some amazing things to save it. In this film on the other hand, we could just see how human we really are, and how helpless we are to mother natures wrath! Defiantly gives movies a new dimension with the random pickoffs! Great Job! But please, spear us the sequel! haha "},{"Title":"Deep Blue Sea review","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea reviewMovie rated on 10 point scale. Divided into ten categories. If movie is good in a particular category, then it gets a 1 if not it gets a 0.Story - 1. Intriguing. Scientists, in a desperate search for the cure to a decease, must save their own lives, when the sharks they are testing on, escape.Characters - 0. I didn't care about any of the characters, because they were never given enough time to develop.Acting - 0. The acting was lacking all around. Everybody seemed to have that, Oh my God, i'm in a shark movie look.Cinematography - 1. Everything from the action scenes to the deep sea lab was gorgeously shot. Even the CGI sharks looked good.Beginning - 1. Wasted no time diving right into the story and introducing the main characters. It started off as an intriguing and promising box office hit.End - 0. Since most of the people I was rooting for died early in the film, I really didn't care about the survivors. Also the last action scene was a serious disappointment compared to some of the other action scenes.Believability - 1. What I respected about this film is that unlike other horror films, nobody tried to be a hero or did anything too stupid to jepordize their lives. When the sharks broke into the lab, NOBODY wasted anytime attempting to escape.Attention holding - 1. When the action begins, don't leave your seat, because you may miss some pretty cool shark attacks.Memorable - 0. There are one or two scenes that you probably won't forget anytime soon, but right after I left the theater, I could hardly remember anything else.Could Watch Again - 1. Not at the movies, but when it comes to DVD, I will probably rent it to show to my friends.Total - 6 out of 10. Could have been better for an 80mil. budget. "},{"Title":"Immensely entertaining!","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Humans being pitted against one of the worlds most efficient predators with a believable plot to support the intense action. The movie necessarily draws certain elements from other 'humans vs. predators' movies; Alien, Jurassic Park, Jaws. But the presentation, and execution, especially the effective, not overbearing, use of computer graphics make it a fun summer movie that is sure to give you a few chills. There are several jaw-dropping scenes which alone make it worth seeing. The intensity and raw physics of a human vs. a big fish are extremely entertaining.  "},{"Title":"fun but goofy","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The cliches pile one atop the other as the flick unfurls.  Beautiful woman scientist (but without glasses, oddly), the sensitive brooding tough guy action man with a hidden past, only 48 hours to get the answer that will (well almost) save the world, ...  Yeah there were some fun Hollywood heart stoppers towards the end.  But much of the action was implausible.  I'm no stickler for scientific accuracy in action movies, but my goodness are the film makers shameless or just air heads?  For example, when a bulkhead door seal is broken and a 10' diameter column of water geysers 30' into the air, how can two guy shoving against that same door POSSIBLY reclose it??But I liked the flick, and here's why.  All the characters at one point or another cry out for a dope slap, either for their silly behavior and just plain dumb dialogue.  And our friend the monster gives it to them.  Go shark!  He's the hero of the film! "},{"Title":"The funniest movie, next to American Pie, all summer...must see","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  For all those with a slightly morbid sense of humor, this film is simply awesome. Me and my friends were laughing as hard at this one as we were at American Pie. This movie does a great job of not taking itself to seriously. Don't believe me? Then just wait for the last seconds of Sammy's inspirational speech. "},{"Title":"Jaws meets Alien. Shockingly effective.","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea is a horror/sci-fi flick that defies logic and reason, but is still entertaining enough for you to feel as if you have gotten you're $8.50 worth.Scientists in an underwater lab (which must have cost someone a massive fortune) have developed a potential treatment for Alzheimer's disease in a protein that exists in the brains of sharks. The sharks, for production value, have been genetically altered in order to produce larger amounts of this protein. Unfortunately, when the test proves successful, the sharks turn on the team. To complicate things further, there is a hurricane preventing any help from coming. Apparently, the genetic engineering has giving the sharks a high inteligence, or as one character remarks,  You've taken God's greatest killing machine and given him will and reason. The premise is typical, a mixing of Jaws and Alien. In a movie like Deep Blue Sea, the acting and writing is almost inconsequential because rather than focusing on that, you spend the whole movie wondering where the sharks will come from, and when next they will strike. The special effects have done the sharks justice, they move at lightning speed, as if somebody had injected them with speed. But the special effects are obvious at times. Like all blockbusters, it's all about the special effects.As a horror movie, it does have the occasional scare. But it relies on shock value, the sharks spring out of nowhere, making you jump out of you're seat (I caught myself covering my eyes and ears on occasion). Unlike Jaws, which only showed the shark towards the second half of the movie, they are right in you're face, and they'll make you glad you are in a theatre and not out there with them. In the writing, there are a few suprises here and there, but it scores very low on the originality scale. But it was actually interesting in parts, and despite it's obvious weaknesses as a movie, it was entertaining. It is not a thinking persons movie, and it definitely is not in the running for best movie of the year,  but I am not sorry I paid to see it.  "},{"Title":"JAWS meets JURASSIC PARK","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Question what do you get when you mix JAWS + JURASIC PARK. Answer  DEEP BLUE SEA A few surprises. ***out of ***** "},{"Title":"Critics need to stop reading too Deep.","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What's really driving me crazy these days is that critics, and wanna-be critics,(like some I see here with there bad comments) don't know how to have fun.  Yeah Deep Blue Sea had a few problems, but why be a critic and try to drown all the fun out of a movie.  Most critics thought the movie should have discussed more about how the sharks got smarter.  I seriously DON'T CARE.  This movie was great.  For the first time in a while I was totally engrossed in a thriller movie, or in any movie at that.As you probably already heard is that Samuel L. Jackson does not have that great of a part.  I was happy about this.  Now don't get me wrong Samuel is a great actor in the many movies he has made, but I was sick of the big stars always having the best roles.  The great roles go to Thomas Jane(Carter Blake), Saffron Burrows(Dr. Susan McAlester), and LL Cool J(Preacher).  Again critics are saying that the performances of Thomas and Saffron were not energetic enough.How energetic do you want them to be?!  Would the critics like them to sing and dance while fighting killer sharks!I thought the performances were great especially my favorite of this movie, LL Cool J.  Which outshines all the other actors for what I saw.My last words  This is a great action-thriller for everyone except critics. So don't listen to anyone badmouthing the movie.  Just go see it and have fun.  Take my word for it.  Its a GREAT movie.--------10 "}{"Title":"Not Jaws, but not bad","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Jaws's status as the best horror movie ever (in my opinion) is in no danger of being displaced by Deep Blue Sea, but I was surprised to be clinching my seat during many parts of the movie.  I've always thought director Renny Harlin was skilled at putting together a good action scene but ignores characterization and lacks subtlety (just compare McTiernan's Die Hard I and Harlin's Die Hard II), and in those respects this movie was not all that different.  However, the movie was so technically brilliant that you can't help being impressed.  The helicopter rescue near beginning was one of the best I've seen in recent years, with the many different catastrophic elements compounding into the inevitable we're trapped! situation.  The animatronic sharks were the best ever put on celluloid; ironically I thought some of the CGI sharks were less realistic by comparison.   The story had enough twists that it wasn't completely unpredictable; the whole play with brothers die first in horror movies was great.It could have been MUCH better, though.  I think that one thing a lot of film directors/producers/writers do not understand is that realism and cerebral elements CAN exist in action or horror movies.  This movie came up with an interesting concept (using shark brain to cure Alzheimer's disease), but didn't go very far with it.  The writers seem so caught up with keeping the audience guessing as to who will be shark dinner next that they ignored the premise of the movie.  The film moved so very matter-of-factly (for some reason I wasn't convinced that any of the characters were in shock of the predicament they were in) that tension was built by action elements rather than story elements.  Some good foreshadowing and symbolism could have built up the tension a lot more.  Still, it was an enjoyable flick and good for a few good scares.  "},{"Title":"Jaws x 10","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw Deep Blue Sea on a tuesday afternoon while i was screening it at the theatre i work at.  I was expecting a typical people trapped somwhere and trying to get out while being hunted down movie...it was that but what it also had was a pretty good script to go along with it.  The shark scenes were very well done even though some were obviously CGI...the animatronic sharks looked good though.  The cast is not your typical major league stars except for Samuel l. Jackson and maybe Michael Rappaport so you don't know who's going to get killed from one minute to the next, and there are scenes in it that will shock/surprise you and possibly make you jump.  My advice is go see this movie it's one of the very best of the summer and best film Renny Harlin has directed.  Good effects, acting, direction ,photography,etc.,etc.  Thomas Jane makes a good leading actor and i hope we see more of him.  I give this movie an a- "},{"Title":"Hi-Tech Poseidon Adventure","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Thankfully, this one didn't have the hammy cast of that 70s disaster classic- although Stella Stevens could've done a better job than Saffron Burrows! I felt guilty watching this because the female characters were so unlikeable-- I wanted them to buy it, first! Saffron Burrows is certainly easy on the eyes, but that's about the only praise I could give her-- the role required a more interesting actress, like Julianne Moore or maybe Angela Bassett. Thomas Jane was very charismatic and can use this film as a springboard to even bigger roles. If you can get past the dreadful first 20 minutes, the film kicks into high gear, moves well, and has the courage to give the audience exactly what it wants, while mixing in some surprises along the way. The shark attacks are shocking- one in particular, which had the audience screaming and laughing. Also- kudos to the set design team, which provided a memorable, and key component, of the film. "},{"Title":"Keeps you on the edge of your seat.","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was the last movie that I wanted to see.  Now I can't begin to say how glad I am that I did.  Deep kept you on the edge of your seat wondering who was next on the menu.  People you thought were goners weren't and definite survivors ended up eaten.  LL Cool J kept you laughing and helped to ease the tension.   Half way through the movie the entire audience was screaming, laughing, and clapping.  The suspense was wonderful.  Blood and guts were at a minimum, nothing you haven't seen on the nature channel.   In one sentence This movie was fun. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie, JAWS updated with today's special effects!","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A must see movie.  Any fan of the original JAWS will love this thriller.  Cast made up of virtual unknowns leaving you wondering who will survive to the end, it just might not be who you expected!  Now for those of you that are into movies with plots that will hold water *no pun intended*, this might not be the movie for you.  However if you're looking for a fun exciting nail biter to help you pass a couple of hours this is worth the admission. "},{"Title":"I'll never swim in the ocean again","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea was a not a great movie, but a perfect summer action thriller. The plot is simple, but interesting, scientists try to reverse Alzheimer's disease by using sharks brain cells to restore memory loss. Of course when this goes awry you are treated to one of the best action movies in 1999. Jackson, Burrows, and LL Cool J provide enough substance to make the movie float. No the movie is not a classic, but then again not all movies that we love are either. If you're looking for a movie to make you jump and scream but not to test your logic (e.g. Usual Suspects) then I highly recommend Deep Blue Sea to you.rating-8 "},{"Title":"Tired of the heat? Take a 'swim'","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  19 heat-related deaths took place during my stay in Washington this week, so what is one without an air-conditioner to do? Well, go to the movies of course.Ah, the second creature feature of the year, Deep Blue Sea is one hell of a movie. I  don't care what people say, the fxs kicked ass. And you were never sure who was going to die and when. I think the most memorable scene was (stop reading if you haven't seen it, but if you have), you'll have to agree with me, was Sam Jackson's death scene. I mean, he's standing up their giving his speach, which made me yawn 'oh god, here we go with the speach' and then CHOMP! Just like that.If you're looking to get away from the heat, stay away from the Wild Wild West and take a dive into the Deep Blue Sea. I asure you, you'll get your money's worth of super-smart sharks chomping on no-so-smart humans. "},{"Title":"DEEP BLEW SOMETHING...","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Have you ever wondered what would happen if Hollywood combined Jurassic Park with Waterworld, and take the shark bashing the glass window and explosions from Jaws 3 and you have this...another Harlin masterpiece. At least Jaws 3 was 3D. The sharks are rejects from the Mintaburst commercials. The live action sharks are impressive however. More realistic than the story itself which combines typical Crichton-style scientific jargon with the expected Hollywood one-liners. As a shark lover myself, I can't understand why there would be such enormous mako sharks? Why not add a few other species. I saw a striped mako no doubt masquerading as a tiger shark. And wouldn't basking or whale sharks be more productive; they are not only the largest sharks out in the deep blue sea but also harmless to man. While it was nice to have cinematic sharks again, this was way over-the-top with some absolutely implausible action scenes (to pass in some viewers as unpredictable action). Unless classics translate to mindless horror, this shark movie really bites!   "},{"Title":"Worth watching once.","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I found the movie to be fun, scary at times, although fairly predictable.  Didn't quite guess who would be left at the end though.  Definately worth seeing on the big screen for the visual effects of the sharks. "},{"Title":"Somebody please stop Renny Harlin!","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Here's my two word review funny bad, but only marginally funny.  This movie is so bad it's often completely silly and better yet, all those moments of hilarity occur when the movie is supposed to be serious.  I couldn't stop myself from snickering through about 80% of it.   I just hope that the cast and crew weren't taking themselves seriously when they put this tripe together.I knew what I was getting into when I went to see Deep Blue Sea so I'm not going to act as though I was expecting more.  The problem is that these kinds of movies could be more intelligent, the plot could make more sense and the dialogue could be something other then cliche.  But it isn't. On a technical note, the computer generated sharks looked awful and there were some truly substandard compositing shots where the base was supposed to be floating out on the ocean.  Unfortunately the rest of the movie was far worse with cliched action scenes and the predictable methods of demise for the hyper-intelligent, hyper-huge mako (?) sharks.  How come evil sharks can only be blown up or electrocuted?There have been far too many movies like this from Hollywood lately and I feel pretty stupid about giving them my money.  Out of 10, this movie rates a 2.Quinn "}{"Title":"Jurassic Park Minus Spielberg","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  As this movie begins i couldn't help but think of jurassic park. isolated in the ocean, a short-staffed group of scientists give a tour to the financier (s. jackson) who has come to inspect his $200 million investment into shark research for the sake of alzheimer's treatment in humans.  just as most of the staff leave, a storm comes in to create havoc and set the genetically altered sharks free.  naturally, the staff become the hunted, the plot stops, and the hunting begins.  in the deep blue sea renny harlin sits in for spielberg and the result is nicely staged action, o.k. special effects, and campy one-liners. the cast is ok. and it helps to have recognizable characters act as shark bait and keep us guessing as to who is getting munched next. l.l. cool j. does bring an interesting character on screen, but otherwise the characters are pretty bland. every now and then the sharks jump out of the h2o for a scare and some gore. result is o.k. consistent action, but forgettable movie in the long run... score 6 "},{"Title":"Finally an action movie this year that delivers....","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea begins with some fairly suspenseful scenes at the very beginning. But then as it uses the first third of the film to introduce you to the characters and set the stage for what is taking place it is a little slow.However, once all that necessary stuff is out of the way the movie takes off like a rocket and you are on the edge of your seat up to the very end. If you have read the other comments here I don't need to go over the story again. The sharks are quite terrifying and I think the fact that they have incredible speed and can strike so quickly is what makes them even scarier. The other aspect of the film that I found quite creative and unlike anything I can recall seeing before, are the scenes where the underwater lab has been ruptured by attacking sharks and this giant wall of water rushes in sweeping everything before it. I am not sure how they filmed some of these scenes of people being overwhelmed by rushing water that tosses them cartwheeling down corriders and stairwells. It sure looked real and if it was, how they kept from killing somebody is beyond me. There are a few scenes that stretch credibility....like the guy who jumps in a pen with a shark and proceeds to grab its fin and ride it and then treats this like it is an everyday act. Yeah, right.  And some of the scenes are pretty gory and graphic. But those are minor quibbles. The real story is that the movie is very entertaining. LL Cool J is the chef on board the sea lab and he has the best lines in the movie....most of them very funny. The audience I saw it with loved him. All in all, a very satisfying film if you go for this type of thing, which I must admit I do.  "},{"Title":"Leave your expectations at the door and just have fun","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  No, it's not JAWS and I don't think the filmmakers expected to do that. This is your summer-film roller coaster ride and I enjoyed it.  Was I looking for plot.  Not really.  How creative can you be with this kind of movie.  My heart was pounding and the scares lasted for awhile which is to say that they were pretty effective.  Thomas Jane is a good action star.  I expect to see him in future action flicks.  As for Renny Harlin, I hope he can make some profit on this one after the last two.By the way, if Speilberg was to have made JAWS in the 90's as opposed to the 70's, I'd bet a dime to a dollar that he would have used CGI sharks as well. "},{"Title":"Every minute is tense","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A wonderful bonding of The Poseiden Adventure and Jaws. If you liked either you will love this one. Lots of twists and unexpected endings to characters. For just sheer entertainment you have to like it. Great special effects!!! "},{"Title":"Deep Blue Don't See","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have only myself to blame for seeing this movie, I should have known better, afterall it is a Renny Harlan film. (Anyone remember Cut Throat Island ? All I can say about this movie in a positive nature is that the special effect were pretty good. Need I say more ?  One question I have is why does an excellent actor like Samuel L. Jackson get involved with a movie like this ?? "},{"Title":"fun","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this movie at a late night staff show.  It was a very amusing movie to watch if you are able to sit back, enjoy and ignore the many, many plot holes and stupid dialogue.  I enojoyed the movie in a silly sense, with support of a running dialogue ala mystery science theatre 2k by myself and my coworkers.  Not a good quality film, but defiantly an enjoyable experience. "},{"Title":"Nothing Fancy","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Go watching something else instead.  Thin and predictable plot.  Special effects are at the same level as of The Deep Rising and Virus. The only right thing I did with this movie is watching it at discount price. )  "},{"Title":"The best of the JAWS sequels ...","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Pretty nice looking film with an interesting story idea.  Too bad, there's no character or plot development.  It's just a who's-gonna-get-eaten-next? film.  Great special effects.  Maybe Renny Harlin could remake Jaws ala Gus Van Sant's remake of Psycho.  At least he'd have great story and characters to start with ... "},{"Title":"hold on to your popcorn.","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a good film. It is not your average jaws type film.Which is also a film I loved in the 70's. Now that it is the 90's these sharks are smart.and it also is very exciting at one point i actually screamed which a movie hasn't did that to me in a long time. The music in the film really can get your heart racing at times. And the actors did a good job. Even knowing the sharks aren't real i just don't think i could ever play apart just the thought going under water looking at that shark with it's mouth wide open i would freak.Samuel Jackson played well.Without giving the movie away I found it great worth to go and see. It teaches us leave the sharks alone. Leave them in the ocean and I will keep my  feet on the ground. "},{"Title":"Warning!!! You may wet Yourself...","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A very cool movie.  You never know who or when someone is going to die. Final man vs Shark battle ended un-realistic but cool.  Combine all the Jaws films with the Friday 13th flicks and you have this Shark Feast. "}{"Title":"BAD EFFECTS MAR SO SO THRILLER","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Summer is the Silly-Movie season. You know the type, a tale whose actions defy most laws of physics, characters embrace cliched stereotypes, some cockamamie premise and plots that usual involve risk to the world and life as we know it. Yet if done right, Hollywood's domination of this market is unparalleled. You forgive the lapses to enjoy the thrill ride. Popcorn movies, whose mass belies actual caloric weight.  Although cotton candy is probably a better analogy; big fluffy masses of sugar that is quickly forgotten. Usually, when a few years go by and the effects are no longer state of the art you're embarrassed to admit you actually thought the film was great at one time. Although a few do stand up pretty well.While the Jurassic Park films  have become, well, dinosaurs now that the CGI work is common place and the stories are the creakiest Speilberg has ever produced, a handful would qualify for the Average Joes' Hall of Fame if such existed. Face/Off from two summers ago is prime example. Expert filmmaking from top pros. Renny Harlin's comeback vehicle from the back to back mistakes of Long Kiss Goodnight and Cutthroat Island (did anyone else see this bloated, miscast spectacle besides the ten people I saw it with?) tries for this box office bull's eye and misses. But, Deep Blue Sea comes awfully close and as such is a fun failure.Early on  I knew this was a film that requires its audience to turn off its collective brain. After a semi-homage to Jaws' opening and the Dramatic Set-up (research facility has to show investor Big Discoveries are imminent or lose funding) it quickly begins to rack up the improbable plot developments all the other staffers leave for the weekend, a big storm is coming, a lot of furtive looks between the scientists (i.e., we did a Bad Bad Thing), equipment that fails for no reason other than the set-up for an even bigger disastrous chain of events.Every year Discovery channel has it's hugely popular Shark Week special, something the writers and shark effects supervisors ignored at their own detriment. Admittedly, how many know that mako sharks are rarely over 14 feet is and can leap out of the water is debatable. However, one can imagine the added menace the latter could have added if the writers had done more research beyond the Ooh, that one looks scary! variety. That more people than not know how sharks look and move is not debatable. These are some of the worst animatronic and CGI effects work ever put on screen.The mechanical sharks rarely seem believably alive, save for a few shots of them slicing the surface of the water. 25 years of technological innovation has not improved upon the benchmark mechanical effects work of Robert Mattey (not Joe Alves) for Jaws. Think about the first time you get a good look at the great white gliding serenely under the boat (trust me, that is an effects shot). Nothing in DBS comes close to suggesting the beauty of that shot. Hands down, the worst element of all the effects work though is the computer graphics. The supervisors must all have grown up in rural Kansas or the like, having never seen a living fish on even the TV. Watching these ichthyians swim about is like watching children play with dime store rubber sharks, their hands digitally removed.  Producers really need to realize that CGI does have limits.I do have a lot of admiration for fact the writers like to play with the audience's expectations. Those who are destined to be Survivors and those bound for Fish food are not who you think they will be, which caused such startlement in one scene I heard honest to God screams. And the Captain Morgan joke was funny enough that I actually laughed out loud (not saying much; I laughed out loud at Wild Wild West once too. ONCE...). In the end, I can't really recommend spending money to see Deep Blue Sea in the theater unless leave most of your brain at home. I'd wait for video for this one. It's certainly worth $2 at least.  "},{"Title":"Good Enough for Friday Night...","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  As far as Big-booms-things-jump-out-and-scare-you with some one-liners movies go it was great! Worth the price of admission. Just be sure to check your brain at the door and you'll have a good time!  Go L.L.!!!! "},{"Title":"EXCELLENT!!!!!!","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I LOVE THIS MOVIE!!!  It's well done and excellently acted.  The only complaint (and a minor one at that) is the cgi sharks could have been more fluid.  If you've seen THE HAUNTING and seen how fluid the cgi in the bed sheets and pillow were so fluid, then you know that the same goes for this one as well.  But that aside this movie still gets a 10.  It was lots of fun and made me jump out of my seat.  It scared me more than the Haunting.  That's not to say it's better but for me, sharks and the deep dark unknown ocean just creep me out.  )  I highly recommend this to anyone.  And if you go by what critics say and you favorite critic pans this movie, just try to remember that critics don't know what good movies are and go see it any way.   "},{"Title":"good thrills, bad music","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film was pretty good, although The Haunting made me jump more.  Still, it meets summer horror movie standards any day, and the suspense was genuine.  LL Cool J adds a nice touch to the movie.  Good movie. Oh- only two gripes 1. Samuel L. Jackson's great vengance and furious anger way of speaking came off sounding corny this time around, which is really sad.  Also, I got tired of him asking, Will someone PLEASE tell me what that is?  Please. 2. Whoever wrote the music to this had little imagination.  I could've written better music.  Seriously.   "},{"Title":"Absolute Ludicrocity","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea is complete drivel, but it's slightly more entertaining than average drivel.  As much of a formula thriller as it is (and it certainly is one), you have to give it credit for at least attempting to be fun and off-beat.  As well, congratulations are due to LL Cool J for managing to steal at least a few scenes from a scene-stealing Samuel Jackson, whose sole purpose in the film seems to be distracting people from how insipid the scrip really is. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining while poking fun at self","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Seeing Deep Blue Sea was like a breath of fresh air during what I feel is the summer movie drought of 1999 (in addition to the real drought going on here in the US).  I had practically written this summer's movie season off, but here is an entertaining, suspenseful, sometimes comical, sometimes self mocking movie that tries to do nothing more than be enjoyable without completely insulting your intelligence.The story is basically about scientists researching a cure for Alzheimers disease by using shark brain tissue.  The experiments yield amazing results but have terrifying consequences, smart sharks!  This turns out to be a very cunning little twist in the development of the script because it's just this little extra element of the unknown that gives the material its edge and makes this film really stop from sliding into a huge pit of mediocrity.  Actually, that and the fact the LL Cool J provides some really great comic relief as the perfectly cast chef working at the underwater research facility.  I think I heard the audience laugh at LL as many times as they jumped out of their seats when something truly scary happened.  Speaking of scary, there is one scene in this film which made everybody hit their heads on the ceiling, then laugh when it was over.  It was truly a great scene which was completely over the top.I also liked the way the filmed tipped its hat to the classic Jaws films (there are several, rather obvious, scenes towards the end which pay homage where due).  The sharks themselves look great, and are not overly animated or computerized; they look pretty realistic.  I'd love to see what Steven Speilberg could have done had he been give nineties technology back when he did the first Jaws.I also thought the music (the theme if you will) of the movie was really nice, even though that had little part in the overall process.Take a break from the heat.... See some well done campy summer fun.... See Deep Red, er, Blue sea.  "},{"Title":"Really good and expect the unexpected","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  lots of surprises and and thrills.  I thought it would be a stupid shark movie.  Boy was I wrong. I went to a premiere of the movie and expected - well you know, a low budget - stupid thriller. This move had me on the edge of my seat and had me cheering and jumping in the aisles.  LL Cool J was so funny I think I hurt myself..THE SHARKS WERE hungry and smart -did I love this film?		 "},{"Title":"Cheesy dialogue but GREAT action","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Man, the dialogue for this movie was weak, and I really didn't think that comic relief intended to be provided by LL Cool J's character didn't work.  However, the suspense was pretty good and action was great.  Worth going to see, but don't expect a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Not What I Expected","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Can we say Con-Air meets Jaws in The Abyss? As far as being an Alien rip-off...yeah I'll give it a little bit of that. And I agree that it isnt spectacular at all. I am sorry to say that this film will be thrown into a heap with other films that insist on using as many special effects as fiscally possible to impress the audience. However, I was impressed with a couple of FX feats and some of the cinematography I saw in the show. The FX sharks were well done and some of the underwater scenes were a first. I am fresh out of the theater so maybe someone else with a little more time on their hands could elaborate on my feeling that something was out of sync in this film. It was more than likely the plot. There are spots where you are left shaking your head at some of the character reactions to certain situations. Yeah, corny is a good word for it and can anybody else say inappropiate response? LL Cool J seems to be getting a little more comfortable with acting but the brutha always gettin' it in the end act was a bore. We humans both white and black don't need that stereotypical rubbish anymore except when its intention is to make us, both black and white, laugh. Also Samuel L. Jacksons character being pretty much an outsider to the experiment doesn't spend enough time being boggled by the situation he is thrust into. Doesn't struggle with it enough...was too accepting of his place in the situation. And there was this constant blaring of the soundtrack which was, to me, was a little too overbearing and intrusive to some scenes. Oh, I know why....can we say Con Air again? See who did the soundtrack to Con Air. I'm just not a big fan of films that use overbearing, unnecessary glory shots and loud, mind numbing music to make scenes or characters look bigger than they need to be. In this case they used the soundtrack to do that. Come on Mr. Rabin, sometimes subtlety works. As for the characters, it seemed that once their character type was established they would go schizo and turn into someone else for a scene or two. They just seemed off balance at times. I don't know....I am just so disappointed to go to see a film and have the films FX and overintensity rob me of what my own imagination could have easily done. I want to see a horror/sci-fi film and have it let *ME* scare the sh*t out of myself. Alien did that...Dallas in the ventilation shafts? And there was *NO* soundtrack blaring during these scenes in Alien. I think that the more whizbang razzle dazzle you put into a film to scare people the less the audience will be scared and participate with the film. They walk out of the theater feeling like they weren't allowed to imagine anything. Anyway, sorry about the rant...I gave it a vote of 5 and it didn't make me any more fearful of deep, dark water, tight spaces (I am a caver so that won't work on me) and sharks than I was before I went to see it. It could have been much better than it was with talent from T2. I think Renny Harlins best film so far was Long Kiss Goodnight. Keep up the work Renny, you'll hit another one in the future. "},{"Title":"The sum is not as great as its parts.","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I know this film is supposed to stand on its own as a motion picture and comparisons to Jaws should be left out of it, but it is kind of hard to watch this film and not compare it to the Godfather of underwater terror movies.  And what made Jaws as scary as it is, is several factors really.  First and foremost, we don't see the shark for at least an hour.  We see images of people getting eaten and lots of blood and we see an overhead glimpse of the shark's head and mouth as it eats the man in the estuary.  Next, it had one of the best scores in the history of motion picture history.  John Williams had us scared in anticipation with his ominous music.  And third we had a dire situation where it seemed almost helpless for the three heroes to survive.  And the reason I mention these three things is because Deep Blue Sea really had none of these elements and thus leaving us with a film that is not all that great.  There is no real mystery to this film, no wonder of what the shark looks like or what it is capable of doing.  And again I realize that it doesn't have to be a carbon copy of Jaws, but it just isn't that entertaining.  Do you remember a film called Deep Star Six that came out maybe a decade ago?  It had a premise where there was a monster underwater at a secret base, and people get chased and people die.  It was unmemorable and people soon forgot about it.  I think that is ultimately the fate of Deep Blue Sea.  Still, there are a few things that were enjoyable about the film, one being the homage to Jaws.  First, one of the sharks brought in to the site early on has a license plate in his mouth.  The plate is removed and it is a Louisiana state plate, which is the same plate that the Tiger Shark had it's mouth in Jaws.  Also, the first two deaths of the sharks are a complete yet more subtle homage to Jaws.  In this film, the first shark explodes, and the second one is fried.  Jaws, it explodes, Jaws 2, it fries.  I like those simple touches.  Also good about the film is L.L Cool J.  He provides the film with most of the laughs and he plays his character well.  When he was on screen, I enjoyed it much more than when he wasn't.  That is great seeing as the guy really hasn't been in many films to showcase his talent as an actor, but this film should get him some recognition.  Also good is the fact that you don't know who is going to die and when.  Renny Harlin establishes that about half way through the film.  And I think everyone can appreciate that.  The set design in the film is almost a cross between Titanic and Aliens.  Deep Corridors, flooding hallways, claustrophobic surroundings and the very real possibility that the monster can and does pop out from every area that feasible.  And that does make the film scary, or at least tense in some parts.  Some of the deaths are scary and some of the scenes where people ellude death are funny, but that's the films downfall.  It has so much potential, and so many good individual parts, but it just couldn't pull the entire film together to make a great film.  It is sorta scary, quite funny, well acted by most, pretty well directed, poorly written, poorly scored, well photographed some of the special effects are done well and some aren't.  So that is it in a nutshell.  Deep Blue Sea was an okay movie, it just left me feeling unsatisfied at the end.  And it also made me mad because there is one death that just didn't need to happen, and that was put in there just to have some tense moments before credits role. There are worse movies out there this summer ( Wild Wild West, The Haunting ) and there are better ( Star Wars, Blair Witch Project, American Pie ).  So if you are going to see this one, make sure you go to a matinee.  It'll cost you about three dollars less and maybe that will help you enjoy the film more.  Don't expect to be scared out of your mind in this film, just expect a typical Hollywood shin-ding and perhaps you'll be entertained.  I was in some parts and then others left me feeling empty.  And what that comes down to is that the sum is not as great as its parts.    "}{"Title":"Deep Blue Sea kicked ass!","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  My god.  Who cares if you think it's like Jaws.  I enjoyed this movie so much.  They just did so many things that were so shocking and wrong and surprising that it was a breath of fresh air very needed in the movie industry.  I couldn't find anything wrong with this film.  In fact, this is the first film I've ever written a review for.  I felt I had to after enjoying this movie so much.  From now on, I'll always cheer for a shark before I try to get away from it. "},{"Title":"Deeply Entertaining","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I'll admit, movies aren't what they used to be.  I have been disappointed by many movies this year and I'll just say Deep  Blue Sea didn't do such a thing.  I was extremely satisfied with every portion of this movie.  Although I had trust it would be good due to the fact that Harlin was directing it, I was a bit skeptical due to the horrid Wild Wild West which was directed by Sonnenfeld, who I like.  Anyways, this movie starts out slow (not boring), and about 30 minutes or so into it, bam! What a thrill ride.  Aliens rip-off? Maybe.  But who cares? In my opinion this is PURE entertainment.  It is the only movie in a LONG time that has had me guessing who was going to die in what order.  And what I had guessed, was TOTALLY wrong.  The mechanical/real sharks look fantastic, and although the CGI sharks were a little dated, they didn't effect the movie one bit.  Harlin's direction is slick, and from the first action sequence we don't get a breather until the closing credits.  There is a scene in the middle of the movie, that I just can't get outta my mind, its brilliant and everybody in the theater was screaming.  The score by Trevor Rabin is surprisingly good and all the acting is decent or better.  Also, the only part of this movie I wasn't looking forward to was the fact that LL Cool J was in it.  Well, I was pleasantly surprised, he did a great job.  Anyways, enough about this movie.  Maybe its not that exciting, but it just seems that way due to the fact that we haven't seen anything good from this genre for a while.  Anyhow, I definitely recommend this film to any action or horror fan, and I hope that you will enjoy it as much as I did.  9/10 "},{"Title":"Good special effects, but disappointing overall.","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I had the feeling that the folks responsible for this movie saw Jaws, were sorry that the shark didn't eat more people, so they decided to make their own film - chomp! chomp! What disappointed me was that the film had a very good premise - scientists messing around with genetics (ala Jurassic Park).  Rather than developing that theme, however, it became a briefly mentioned, incidental excuse for all the effects.  Bottom line - Jaws and Jurassic Park were much better and much scarier!  "},{"Title":"A Thrilling Ride","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I guess it's inevitable that this movie is compared to Jaws but that's not a bad thing is it? Besides, if you look hard enough, almost every movie bears some resemblance to a previous movie. I found this movie to be quite thrilling and at points terrifying.The storyline revolves around a researcher (Burrows) trying to determine the cure for Alzhiemer's. She's certain that she's discovered a cure but encounters a snag when one of the test sharks escapes the lab compound and has to be hunted down. As a result of the escaped shark, the funding company (represented by Jackson) threatens to put an end to the research if a cure is not found soon before the bad publicity threatens the stock value of the company. He visits the research facility and all hell breaks loose when a sudden storm blows in causing all kinds of problems. They soon discover that these sharks are not as dumb as they seem and what ensues is a carefully orchestrated feeding freenzy by the sharks.I found this movie to be amazingly fast paced. There is a lot of dialogue but it never seemed to slow down the movie. Albiet, some of the dialogue is rather corny but in general it was pretty good. Keep in mind, the dialogue in Jaws was never spectacular either. There were many unexpected situations that definately created a scare and added to the tension that the characters were feeling. There were some creative situations that lead to some entertaining action sequences and in the end, this movie accomplished it's objectives with flying colors. It entertained us. Of course, with movies if this type, the plot usually suffers gaping holes but nothing so significant that you become lost.LL Cool J's performance was mediocre but I suspect he'll get better as he finds roles more suited for him. This one didn't quite seem to be the right one but he does make good with what he's given. Saffron Burrows plays her role as the cold determined researcher well and Jackson does his usual good job. Thomas Jane plays the dashing shark hunter and plays it well. Some of his lines are a bit corny but this movie definately belonged to him.The sharks were well done, although in some sequences, the special effects tended to fall apart. For those of you who don't know, most of the surface shots of the shark were performed by a radio controlled model shark (no cables) and I found the movements amazingly realistic. There were some very creative things done with the sharks and in the end what you're left with is a fun filled (some may say terrifying) ride. This is the second creature movie (Lake Placid) of the summer and I would recommend both. This one doesn't have the humor that Lake Placid has but makes up for it with graphic and shocking action shots. One note to parents, don't take your kids to this movie. This is not Flipper or Free Willy. There is nothing friendly about these sharks. I found some parents taking their kids (12 and under) to this movie and I thought that some of the scenes were much too graphic for children nonetheless adults. But, if you're an adult and you want a mindless but entertaining ride, then go see this movie. "},{"Title":"Yawn!","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Yet another big, stupid & loud summer blockbuster.  A quick introduction to all of the characters & any motivations they may have, followed by the methodical elimination of the cast.  Highlight  Saffron Burrows in underwear.  Lowlights  Just about everything else.  Samuel L. Jackson slumming.  CGI & animatronic sharks look, well, CGI & animatronic.  Why do they have to be in the middle of the ocean to do their research?  How can you not see a hurricane coming your way? "},{"Title":"No great acting, but will definitely make you jump!","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  And thats all it is supposed to do. The thing I liked about the movie most was the fact you had no idea who was going to make it and who wasn't. I would definitely call it a fun action movie. Worth seeing. The movie will keep you guessing until the end. Beware attacks are not very pretty! "},{"Title":"OK sci-fi slasher pic","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It's a tad disappointing that Harlin shows neither the wit nor the visual flare that he had with The Long Kiss Good Night or Die Hard 2, but for its kind, Deep Blue Sea gets the job done.The premise matters little, the only thing you're required to know is that this is an Attrition Movie; you start out with about a half dozen quickly sketched characters, and one by one, they die.  (Kind of like Saving Private Ryan and Scream).  The only thing that keeps the story anchored is that you have to guess who's going to get it next, and in what gruesome, crowd-pleasing fashion.To his credit, Harlin knows we've seen movies from this genre before, and that as soon as we're introduced to the ethnically diversified cast (let's see  rich suit, minority cook, muscle-bound hero, brainy sidekick, evil woman-in-charge, miscellaneous other scientist who smokes, asexual supporting female, miscellaneous charming Hispanic cast member in a bit part...did I miss anyone?), we'll already be guessing not only who'll die first, but in which order they'll go.  The higher prizes go to who can guess the cast member(s) who'll make it to the finale, if any.  Harlin mixes up the order a bit, and he also screws around with the timing.  We really don't know when the next one will strike, except by last-second visual cues.  I guess in Hollywood this is called creativity. "},{"Title":"A Jaws echo that doesn't quite cut it...","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I must first state that I grew up on Jaws movies and that I consider sharks to be scary as heck.  Despite the better looks of the sharks in Deep Blue Sea they just weren't as scary as the sharks in the Jaws movies. The opening scene of the movie came straight from Jaws 2. The compoud where the movie takes place is a rip-off of Jaws 3, in many ways, as is Carter the shark wrangler.  The trek that the group has to make through the destroyed compound to the surface is a rip-off of The Poseidon Adventure. The movements of the computer sharks are about the quality of the snake in the movie Anaconda.  Overall, there was hardly anything original in the movie and the scares were few and far between.  The plot was mediocre and the deaths (of sharks and people) were passé and redundant, respectively.  In my humble opinion, the movie was full of more blood than close calls and that, as any good Jaws fan knows, is not what makes a good shark movie.   "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Finally, a fun and entertaining action film to come this summer, (besides Run Lola Run).  Though the dialogues are just silly, the unpredictable who's the shark meat? guessing game and the performances of Thomas Jane and LL Cool J make this movie the most decent action flick coming from major Hollywood studio this time of year.  Jane exuded major confidence - he definitely has charisma.  If you've never heard of him, catch him in Last Time I Committed Suicide, Thursday, Boogie Nights! "},{"Title":"to borrow roger ebert's words... the film is professional...","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  to borrow roger ebert's words... the film is professional...the film is enjoyable and thrilling... the action sequences are well crafted... in some occasions, the audience break great laughters after a very surprising or scary or even shocking action sequence... not because it is funny, but because it is so darn well made... made to surprise and scare...the film works, in its genre, because the surprises are plausible yet not-guessible, because the actions do not try to make the whole film...it is true that the special effects are not the greatest of all... but it does its job more than sufficiently...nevertheless, as most of the same genre's films are, this film does not have the re-view value... meaning that this film is not one of the films one would watch more than once...enjoy the film in a well equipped theatre to absorb all the thrills and surprises... they are only good the first time... "}{"Title":"Better than the dentist","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw Deep Blue Sea while waiting for the effects of anesthetic to wear off after a filling at the dentist.  I will say it was scarier than my dental work.  It's nice to see Renny Harlin back in form, even if it is within fairly identifiable genre work.  To say this is Jurassic Park meets Jaws meets Aliens is an easy cop-out which is why I'll say it.  But if you watch closely, there is some fun being had at the expense of the action thriller genre.  Who will be the hero?  Who will live?  Who will die and how?  The writers know enough to play with your expectations in a very satisfying way. Perhaps they should have fleshed out the characters a bit more, but hey, what action movie does?  All and all, a good effort, a good way to spend an afternoon, and a good way to take your mind of off the dentist's drill. "},{"Title":"This is good!","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen the jaws and this is better. Samuel Lee Jackson makes a great job and Renny Harlin`s action scenes are worth of buying the ticket to theater. Shark look even too real for me. After all, I think this is Harlin`s best movie ever.  "},{"Title":"A whole new film...","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was the first one to put a review of this film on the site. I'm back to say that the second time around was even more pleasant because Renny Harlin made the film even better...He took what WAS a sappier/happier ending (with annoying singing from L.L. Cool J in a rubber raft) to a go-for-the-throat (or torso for that matter) ending that left me smiling from ear to ear. In my opinion the movie just jumped from ** 1/2 to ***.  "},{"Title":"A Nifty Popcorn Picture!","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea is a first-rate, white-knuckle adventure thriller.  It follows a time-honored formula, but throws in enough innovation and surprises to make it well worth watching.  Director Renny Harlin paces the whole thing like a roller-coaster ride, with plenty of action, suspense and some very effective shocks.Don't write this one off as a Jaws rip-off.  It might not be the classic that that one is, but it can stand on it's own merits quite nicely.  It's a well-made little thriller that sidesteps the cheesiness of many other films of it's ilk.  See it and I'm sure you'll be pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"One great horror film","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie blows Jaws out of the water and leaves a bloody trail behind it. I didn't expect to much from this movie walking into it, and it started off a bit slow. But after awhile, this film turned into a totaly explosive action/horror film. The sharks are amazing and believable. The story is there, but as with most chasing slasher films, it isn't really needed. So with that aside, lots of action and bloody half human remains and loads of water, a few dramatic places and one death you'll defenitly cheer for because, well face she deserved to die (you'll know who it is when you see the film). One great flick. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great High Energy Action Movie","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  With the always high energy action of Renny Harlin (Cliffhanger, Die Hard 2, The Long Kiss Goodnight) this movie rocks.  Even though I have seen better performances from Samuel L. Jackson his role was pretty plausable. (even through his untimely death) I bought my ticket and planned on going to see a rip-off of Jaws.  What I got was much more.  With great effects, Die Hard genre action, and music by my personal favorite Trevor Rabin, this is easily one of my all-time favorites.  I also liked how the use of special effects were used to enhance the thrills and energy instead of trying to replace them. (The Haunting) From the moment the fun starts I promise you will keep on guessing who will be the next to go and who will be the ones alive.  KEEP ON ROCKIN RENNY "},{"Title":"The best Action packed movie of the summer","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  First of all let me say that I love Sharks. Everything Shark related is a must see for me, so when I saw the trailer for this flim I knew I was going to be there on the first day, and I was.This Movie ROCKS!!!. If you are going to see just one movie this summer, make it Deep Blue Sea. If you like Sharks, like I do, make sure you see it twice. The acting in this movie is great, the Special effects are state of the art, The SHARKS, well there is no way to describe this Sharks, you are just going to have to see them. L.L Cool j is just great from start to finish. Everything in this movie is great. Also the Trailer, if one of the best trailers i have seen in a very long time.The only down point I expected more from Samuel L Jackson. GO SEE IT Julio Muvdi "},{"Title":"Baaaad!","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a marvelous thrill-park ride of a movie.  There is not one redeeming moment in it and I loved every second. It is intended to scare you witless and I think it exceeds its goals, certainly beyond my expectations. One caveat do not take small children to this film.  You will be saddled with their psychotherapy bills for decades. "},{"Title":"An Anticipated Disappointment","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Renny Harlin's highly-anticipated Deep Blue Sea turns out to be nothing more than an action-packed bore, a rather tired hybrid of Jaws, Jurassic Park, and Alien.A pretty scientist on an offshore research facility has been experimenting with mako sharks, making them larger and much smarter, in order to cure a brain disease. Unfortunately, the nasty sharks escape, do their best to destroy and flood most the facility, and then go after the humans. Along for the ride (or the lunch tray) is Thomas Jane as shark expert Carter Blake, Samuel L. Jackson as the funder of the project, LL Cool J as a bible-quoting cook named Preacher, and Stellan Skarsgard as an eccentric scientist.The film was directed by Renny Harlin, the guy who made Die Hard 2, the best in that series, the vastly underrated Cutthroat Island, and the crowd-pleaser The Long Kiss Goodnight. I'm not surprised that he took on Deep Blue Sea, and I guess I'm not too surprised he devoted more time to action than the much-needed terror.While there are a few undeniable jumps, in my opinion Deep Blue Sea is too violent to build up any real suspense, its material is blatantly unoriginal, and would it have killed the filmmakers to tell us a little bit of something about these characters before they started to kill them off one by one? Rated R. 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Jurassic Shark","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When will scientists (and screen writers) learn that we've already seen this movie many times over. I will admit there are a few scares and surprises (like who is going to get bit....and finally some writer has decided to get rid of the moron who created the situation they have found themselves in). Alot of plot holes and the underwater effects, mainly the sharks, were not very good, Jaws looked more real. I found myselftalking thru the movie, saying how hokey and stupid people were being, i mean come on a 5 yr old wouldn't do some of these things. "}{"Title":"quality, no thought required, entertainment","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  While Deep Blue Sea's plot may not hold up to close inspection I almost guarantee you'll be entertained.  Thomas Jane and LL Cool J are both great in their roles and the film does a good job of making it hard to tell who's going to get killed next.  See this with someone who you can grab!  Bottom line Quality summer entertainment.   "},{"Title":"Damn Good Popcorn Movie","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Going in not expecting much from this latest summer disaster movie, Deep Blue Sea was surprisingly good and left me and my compatriots nodding our heads in approval as we left the theatre.  It was well paced, full of surprise, and kept you on the edge of your seat from the opening score to the climaxtic ending.  Definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"special effects galore and a man named LL","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw a screening of this film and had pretty low expectations, just hoping that it would not turn into some Jaws ripoff.  Turns out that this was a decent movie, and not much of a Jaws rip off at all. I was jumping out of my seat throughout the whole movie, even when it was obvious what was coming up.  Yes, the film does contain your classic horror 'don't go in there' situations, but handles those moments without boring the audience.  The dialogue is pretty poor, but the special effects were very well done.  Thrown into the mix was a nice performance from LL Cool J as a religious cook that loves his pet parrot, and a great ending to a monologue by Samuel L. Jackson(if you've seen the movie, you know what i mean).  When I go to a horror I want a good scare and some laughs.....this gave me both.6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Very thin plot","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had a very thin plot line.  To be honest, it stunk! Who will get eaten next? is about the extent of it.  Doesn't come close to Jaws though even the music seems to be a rip off of Jaws.  Just one more piece of junk.  I was extremely disappointed. "},{"Title":"Entertaining popcorn movie","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A mix of Jaws, Jurassic Park, Aliens, and countless other similar movies, Deep Blue Sea is a pretty dumb, but thoroughly entertaining movie.  Who doesn't want to see sharks eating people?  Not only that, but this movie has one of the biggest surprises in recent movies.  I won't reveal it, of course, but I genuinely didn't see it coming. The biggest fault of the flick is the CG Sharks.  They look pretty fake in most scenes.  The animatronic sharks are flawless, however. Other than an over-reliance on slow-motion, there isn't much bad to say about the movie.  It was entertaining, and as long as you don't expect anything cerebral, you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Good, intense and unpredictable thriller","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea was surprisingly good for what looked in the previews like a Jaws clone.  It was quite unpredictable and a good level of tension and suspense is created, especially towards the end.  Just look past the hackneyed opening idea presented in the first scene. "},{"Title":"Harlin's thrilling disaster movie with sharks really gets the adrenaline pumping and never looks back.","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What another shark movie? After four `Jaws' movies, we thought it was safe to go back in the water. Well this could be the movie that makes sharks scary again.  Cliffhanger and Die Hard II director Renny Harlin takes us to a top secret lab where a group of scientists are trying to harvest a `miracle serum' and save humanity from Alzheimer's. The only trick is that they have to extract it from a shark's brain. Ok, the plot is ludicrous at best but how it's pulled off is quite a ride.  Echoing `Jaws', `Aliens' and `Jurassic Park', Harlin's thrilling disaster movie with sharks really gets the adrenaline pumping and never looks back. The only question you ask yourself is `Ok, who's gonna make it?' and that's all you need to be captivated. The visuals in this film make every `Jaws' movie look like the shark I used to play with in my bathtub. These sharks are phenomenal.   A standout performance has to be the new heroic portrayal of shark-wrangler `Carter Blake' played by newcomer Thomas James. A cross between Clint Eastwood and Harrison Ford, James delivers us a hero not seen since `Indiana Jones' last jumped across the screen.  The type of hero we like to jump out of our seats and cheer for.  As for the rest of the cast they sum up like this. Saffron Burrows plays the head scientist who thinks of nothing but her career even if half the people are dead. Next, we have LL Cool J's preaching cook who is there for comic relief. And finally we have billionaire Russell Franklin who wants to shut the place down if the cure isn't harvested during his visit. But put these aside and the rest of the cast are never explored and should we say `lunch'. (4 of 5) So Says the Soothesayer.  "},{"Title":"Scientists enlarge sharks brain for research, now the sharks use it to kill the scientists.","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea is a good action thriller featuring sharks that are genetically smarter than the average bear. When some experiments go wrong, the scientists that created them are trapped in their underwater labratories, with three super smart sharks out to kill them. Advantage sharks!!!! "},{"Title":"Good, but not great","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Not a bad movie, nice effects, lots of suprise deaths. They had to put in the obligatory R&B/Hip Hop singer though, in this case LL Cool J. Its sad that the studios keep doing this, anyone who remembers the Faculty with Usher Raymond will know what I'm talking about. A bit slow moving but I didn't feel like i wasted my money. Sam Jackson unfortunately doesnt even seem to be trying to act, he's at his worst that I've ever seen him here. He had a better performance in Jurassic Park. I'd rent it but i wouldn't buy it. "},{"Title":"Keeps you guessing, never resting.","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is Not as good as Aliens, and lacks the absolute horror factor of Jaws. -But the simple fact is that you absolutely have Now clue whatsoever who is going to doe when. -Very good for suprise, but it's lacking in other areas, such as realism. Saffron was hot, but they made you hate her. Ice tea was a rapper, but they made you like him... They may have thier priorities backwards here. The effects were quite good, but not quite perfect. I give this movie a 7 out of 10, mainly for keeping me guessing so well.  "}{"Title":"Kicks ass... but left a lot unexplored","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I was really looking forward to this movie almost more than any other movie this summer. I love sharks, I love movies with animals eating people (I even saw Lake Placid!), and I liked the idea that the sharks were smart.First off, let me say that I think the trailer for this movie was one of the best put-together trailers I've seen in a long time. The pick-up/slow-down pacing, the editing... great job, whoever did that. I REALLY wanted to see the movie after that.The movie is good, but it left me thinking about all of the areas they could have explored that they didn't. I had hoped that they would do a little more about the sharks being smart. I had expected to see the sharks slowly swimming by the window and looking in at the people, stuff like that... but no, we're basically just TOLD that the sharks are smart, and not really left with much else. I would have liked to have seen a lot more personality and presence given to the sharks. I would have liked to have seen the sharks have a whole master plan that they manipulate the people into carrying out for them. To be honest, I would have been perfectly happy if the film had ended with the last person being chomped, and the sharks gleefully leaping over the fence to freedom (the film developed such a root-for-the-sharks idea that I think the audience would have been happy with that, too). But they do succeed in giving the sense that these are large, wild animals, not just machines. But I wish they had a few more quirks and personality.The movie succeeds best by subverting a lot of the conventions of these films, i.e. who lives, who dies, and in what order. I don't think I've ever really heard an audience cheer like they did at certain scenes in this movie. Be sure to go with a big, rowdy audience. I'm actually a little sorry I didn't wait to see it on Friday night instead of opening Wednesday. The sharks also really just munch viciously on these people, devouring them whole in seconds.. and that was what the audience really seemed to get into.Other than that, not much else to say. I got what I came for, and I would give the movie an A-, but I had hoped for a little more development of the shark intelligence, and a sense that the humans are being manipulated by a smart animal. Well, for the sequel maybe.--- Check out website devoted to bad and cheesy movies www.cinemademerde.com "},{"Title":"Absolutely the MUST SEE thriller of the year!","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I expected Jaws with better graphics - and was therefore totally unprepared for this movie. IT'S FANTASTIC!Take it from a guy who's yawned his way through every scary movie made since...well, FOREVER This one will have you on the edge of your seat for the duration. The plot continues to surprise, the suspense is tangible, and the SFX will blow your mind!Unlike another commentator, I thought the movie featured very little gore. The sharks dispatch their prey (a good choice of word, I think, for these guys do HUNT the humans) pretty cleanly - IMPLIED gore is often so much more effective, don't you think?Go see this movie - you won't be disappointed. See you in the water!  "},{"Title":"Sharks!","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the few movies I've seen in a while which delivers what it promises. And what it promises is simple Sharks.   Sharks swimming after people.  Sharks eating people.  Sure, the characters could have used some work and there are some big plot holes, but if you sit down expecting to be entertained and scared, Deep Blue Sea will deliver.  And watch out for the highlight of the movie, Sam Jackson's rallying speech, which is unforgettable.   "},{"Title":"Jaws meets Titanic in the scariest movie since Alien","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I've waited 20 years for a movie to scare me as much as the first Alien did -- and DEEP BLUE SEA finally did it!  Imagine the terror of being on a sinking vessel and genetically-enhanced smart sharks are hunting you down no matter where you go -- the movie was a relentless nightmare and is full of suspense and surprises as well as scares.Don't let anybody tell you any details -- just go see it! "},{"Title":"dialogue written by intelligent sharks would have been better","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The major failing of this movie lies in the pathetic dialogue.  You can see the actors straining so hard to be convincing while being forced to mouth insipid one-liners when a shark appears.  The characters neatly fit into creature-feature archetypes set down long ago in the Alien movies (with LL Cool J doing a passable impersonation of Charles-Dutton-meets-Yaphet-Kotto.) But some fun plotting turns the unoriginal characterizations to the film's advantage.  Playing the who gets eaten next? game has rarely been this challenging.  Maybe it's because the sharks are smarter this time, they've decided to mix things up a little. . . "},{"Title":"Ehhhh.....","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie didn't really do it for me...although it had some great killing scenes...the acting, plot, and claustrophobic atmostphere made it weird...Samuel L. Jackson didn't do that good of an acting job in this movie...it was like he didn't really care about the role, and just said the lines...he sounded fake, for unknown actors they did a pretty good job, LL Cool J was the laugh as usual...but this movie didn't live up to the expectations.. all in all 2 outta 4... "},{"Title":"A typical summer blockbuster packed with intensity","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea was a pleasant surprise for me.  Where it succeeded most was that it wasn't trying to be the next Jaws sequel, it was much more creative than that.  Instead of seeing pointless victims being killed one after another it moves at a very thrill-packed pace leaving you guessing what's gonna happen next.  When the characters must find out the best way to get out of the lab is where the most exciting parts are found.  Some great special effects and very well placed unexpected shark attacks make this worth watching.  There are some parts that are rather corny or just plain stupid but most of that can be overlooked during the next scene, they're all packed with intensity.  It looks like the Die Harder director is back on his ground after the horrible Cutthroat Island. "},{"Title":"The best Movie of the summer","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I think Deep Blue sea ROCKS! This movie is just great, Samuel L Jackson is very good, LL Cool J steals the show AND THE SHARKS!!!! The sharks are very impresive, both the computer generated and the mechanical ones. If you are planning to see just one movie make it Deep Blue Sea. Really one of the bests action / horror movies ever made. And remember, This time the sharks are smart! "},{"Title":"It is pretty good.","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I just came back from seeing this movie from the theater. I thought it was pretty good. Even though it had a relatively small cast, the film held itself together. Many people thought this was a Jaws-type rip-off film, but it was not. Renny Harlin kept it relatively original. The sharks were pretty good and with some of the light comedy it made its way to the end. "},{"Title":"First half okay. . .second half rocks!","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was fortunate enough to attend the world premiere of this film and I think it's safe to say it's quite an audience pleaser.Although setting-wise and structure-wise, it's an absolute rip-off of James Cameron's ALIENS (even more so than the original ALIEN) it's a very well done rip off.  To be honest, I was on the fence with the first half of the film because it's full of corny dialogue, stilted acting (almost all of it by the one little blonde female character) and overt character exposition that's rather hamfisted.  However, there's a point halfway through the film that is so jaw droppingly surprising that the entire crowd couldn't stop gasping and screaming for over a minute after it was over.  (you'll know it when you see it).  After that, the movie kicks into serious overdrive and doesn't let up until the final frame.  It definitely redeemed the movie for me and makes me feel confident in recommending it.Besides, L.L. Cool J. absolutely steals the show.  He's hilarious and it's worth the eight bucks just to see him kick ass throughout this film. "}{"Title":"Entertaining within reason...","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie at a screening a couple of days ago. Director Renny Harlin was there and gave a brief speech about the movie and to inform the audience about an unfinished scene near the end. Nice enough guy. Now for the movie... I have to say that it was a lot better than expected. This movie has enough destruction of human life in it to make any gorehound happy. It's a watchable horror movie with just enough flashy direction to make it better than average. This movie is pretty tense in some parts and Thomas Jane makes a cool, take no s*** hero. There's something about this guy that makes me think he's gonna be pretty big, but I'll let you decide that upon seeing it (check him out in Boogie Nights as well). The rest of the cast is okay and LL Cool J seems to be getting more comfortable with himself as an actor. I agree with the previous review regarding the quality of the sharks. The mechanical ones were incredibly realistic (poor Spielberg, too bad he didn't have something this dependable to work with... but we all know Jaws is still king of the shark flicks), with the CGI sharks looking borderline cheesy. Also, I thought it could've used more sharks in general, but that's just me. This movie is also a tiny bit predictable in that you can tell pretty much who's gonna buy it early on. Even though, it's never boring and this is definitely not a movie for people with high blood pressure and fear of sharks. I'll give it a solid *** out of ***** on the simple fact that I wasn't expecting an AFI Top 100 Film Of All Time. I just wanted to see people get eaten and boy, did I get it. Final word sharks have little patience for long-winded people. I think you'll know what I'm talking about if you ever see the movie. "},{"Title":"A typical Alien rip-off that keeps you guessing.","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I recently saw this film at an audience screening. Although this is your typical Alien rip-off, the movie does a great job of making you guess who's gonna get munched next because of the absence of big-name actors (save Samuel L. Jackson). But don't get me wrong...this movie isn't spectacular. There are some BIG holes in the plot...not to mention the bodies. And I didn't think there were enough characters left after the initial disaster. Also, the characters and dialogue are pretty one dimensional and sometimes really corny. BUT the movie looks great. The sharks are amazing...although the CGI sharks aren't as good as the mechanical ones. However, the movie did it's job in keeping things claustrophobic and tense, and it's one of Renny Harlin's better films. I give it ** 1/2.  "},{"Title":"The more I thought about it, the more I hated this film","Date":"27 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" If there's one thing I hate most about films it's films that are pretentious; this film starts out as a serious and potentially thought-provoking film about the use of sharks in order to research a cure for Alzheimer's disease. The film switches tone about half hour in and then ends up becoming a cross between Jaws and The Poseidon Adventure.The problem with this film is that the whole Alzheimer's research with the sharks seemed to merely be a plot device to create what was to follow. I believe that the only reason that the writers set the narrative up in this way was to stop people claiming that it's a shameful rip-off of Jaws and The Poseidon Adventure. If the 'scientific' aspect had been fleshed out more then the writers may have been able to argue this point, but the problem is that this aspect is glossed over and I felt that the writers rushed through it in order to get to the more exciting parts. There's no problem with this per se, but I felt that the writers should have either made a serious film focusing on finding a cure for Alzheimer's for humans by experimenting on sharks or just do a shameless B Movie style knock off of Jaws or The Poseidon Adventure. As it is this film tries to do both and that's what gave it a really pretentious feel to it.I also thought that the start of the film was quite stupid; what was the point of showing the red wine spill into the water and then show it as if it were blood? Was that supposed to be a parody of some sort? It certainly wouldn't have attracted the shark to the boat? Unless perhaps it was an alcoholic. Then the shark managed to smash through the underneath of the boat. Now I'm no boat expert, but surely the underside of the boat would be the strongest part of the boat so it's hard to believe that it could break through the underside of the boat. Yes they've got advanced intelligence, but where did they get their advanced strength from? There are other lapses in logic such as when the team conduct tests on one of the shark's brain and secure it with 2 pathetic looking harnesses whilst they drill into it's skull. Predictability shortly after the experiment has been completed successfully, the shark breaks free and kills one of the crew. It made me laugh that they would conduct this experiment when the shark was conscious. Surely it would have made more sense to tranquilise the shark and then carry out the test as drilling into the shark's skull would clearly antagonise it. Absolutely moronic.The sharks are billed as being super intelligent with super advanced brains yet the only smart thing that I saw any of the sharks do was to push one of the crew into the glass screen in order to break into Aquatica. The rest of the time the sharks just seem to catch the crew by chance and at every opportunity the sharks are killed easily. Where's the tension? Where's the suspense? The sharks were meant to be intelligent, but I didn't see much evidence of this.The sharks were also laughable and I'm unsure whether they were computer generated or animatronic, but either way they were awful. They didn't move like sharks - they twist and turn ridiculously quick and whilst I wouldn't go as far as to say that I laughed when they attacked anyone, these attacks certainly caused me to raise my eyebrows once or twice. The ending of the film was ridiculous and obvious and only made me even more angry and disappointed with this film.This film really should have either stuck with being a serious film exploring how to find a cure for Alzheimer's or it should have just been a Jaws/Poseidon Adventure knock off (had it been the latter it still wouldn't have been great, but at least it would have been honest). However, despite the fact that it is mildly entertaining it still angers me how pretentious and false the film feels. "},{"Title":"Fine actors wasted on a nonsense story plus the worst VFX ever.","Date":"13 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" 10 star reviews praising this very very bad movie are simply unbelievable. That movie is trying to be serious and fails miserably - and then trying to be funny with making sharks eating an actor on a leading role to shock us during his pep talk and fails on that attempt too; that scene alone draws back the entire movie into the form of a crappy B-movie.It's just about fine actors and actresses wasted on a nonsense story of epic fails. Plus the VFX are the worst (especially for that budget) in the entire cinema (or even human) history.Waste of time and money... "},{"Title":"Ridiculous film, but mildly amusing if bored.","Date":"28 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This film is absolutely ridiculous, but if you can completely suspend disbelief it is mildly entertaining. Super smart sharks is one thing, but these sharks seem to have access to blueprints and have an understanding of engineering and electrical systems, as well as knowing how an oven works. These sharks are so amazing they even have the ability to take down aircraft in flight. As far as the human characters, there is really no character development or anything, in most cases the people were unlikeable and I was rooting for the sharks. If you're really bored and have access to marijuana this can be an amusing film, but it can't be taken seriously at all. Samuel L. Jackson doesn't even yell at the mother-f-ing sharks to get out of the mother-f-ing underwater lab. "},{"Title":"DO NOT take this film seriously. It is meant to be fun","Date":"14 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" First off, People think that because it's about ''Smart '' sharks it's supposed to be taken really serious. It's not. This movie is really awesome if you just watch. It is so much fun to see the sharks do what they do. Now this is no Jaws. This movie is just awesome! It was a good theater experience. If you take it lightly and just have a fun time then you will love it! Easily one of the best shark movies ever. I highly recommend this movie if you like Jaws or any of those crappy Syfy films like MegaPiranha or Sharktopus. Please and I mean PLEASE See this movie! It is really really good. I rate it ★★★ 1/2 out of ★★★★★ I really hope I am not the only person that enjoys it. Great film. "},{"Title":"Deep Blue Sea A Decent Action Thriller","Date":"16 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Deep Blue Sea is a decent action thriller from director Renny Harlin whose admirable in making this story about a group of scientists on an isolated research facility searching for a cure to Alzheimer's disease who find themselves prey to a trio of huge intelligent Mako sharks. The cast are good in their roles including Saffron Burrows, Thomas Jane, LL Cool J, Jacqueline McKenzie, Michael Rappaport, and Samuel L Jackson whose role in the film like many others is cut short. Stellan Skarsgard and Aida Turturro shows up for a brief appearance before being written out of the movie rather quickly like Jackson and McKenzie. The special effects are quite good and the sharks do look terrifying. You definitely wouldn't want to be swimming in the water with these things in there. No way in hell. The action sequences most of them involving someone getting eaten in a gruesome way by one of the sharks are well executed. You can sort of tell it's obviously CG but the sharks still look cool none the less. The decisions some of the characters made like enhancing the brain of sharks isn't the brightest idea in the world but I was willing to suspend my disbelief for the movie. There is some suspense once the sharks get loose into the facility and begin to hunt the researchers one by one but some of their deaths were a bit predictable because you saw it coming from a mile away. Despite it's flaws though Deep Blue Sea is still a solid action thriller with just enough gruesome deaths at a steady pace, cool special effects especially the sharks, some suspense, a little humor, and decent performances by the cast thats sure to please almost any fan of the genre. "},{"Title":"A Thriller that Avoids the Usual Pitfalls","Date":"19 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" What does an eight thousand pound mako shark with a brain the size of a flat head V8 engine and no natural predators think about? So asks Samuel L. Jackson in Renny Harlin's stupendous thriller Deep Blue Sea. Franklin is one of seven people trapped beneath the ocean's surface. One of them has already died, and three unnaturally brilliant sharks are eager for more. The undersea laboratory is flooding, and wherever the water travels the sharks can follow.The movie opens when an escaped experimental shark attacks a 25 foot boat. The two couples aboard are saved from becoming fish chow at the last moment. The resulting publicity gives primary investor Russell Franklin (Jackson) cold feet about the safety of his money. He gives the scientists one final chance, and he needs to be present to satisfy his mind.Dr. Susan McCallister (a mildly de-beautified Saffron Burrows) is attempting to harvest enzymes found in shark brains for human benefit. Unfortunately, she can produce enough enzyme volume only by increasing the size of the three sharks' brains. When a medical emergency arises, the sharks seize their opportunity to breach the inner part of the facility. The survivors are Franklin, McCallister, Carter Blake (Thomas Jane), a shark wrangler; Jan Higgins (Jacqueline McKenzie), the medical assistant; Tom Scoggins (Michael Rapaport), the facility engineer; and Sherman Dudley (LL Cool J), the chef.One trait that elevates Deep Blue Sea above nearly every other hunter-and-hunted movie is its cleverness. The closest anybody comes to stupid is when they spend too much time looking at cracking glass. Harlin and the three writers never contrive situations for extra effect. We are warned about the risks each new area holds. Both the places the humans go and effects of the sharks' destruction are entirely reasonable and believable. When falling debris burns Carter's arm, he must bandage it to prevent his dripping blood from endangering the whole group. Sure, ladders break with characters on them, but those are natural occurrences considering the structural damage around them.Most of the tense parts do not even involve a device such as the breaking ladder. The humans spend a majority of their time in undamaged areas. By moving his camera underwater, Harlin provides a constant reminder than even those places are not safe. In fact, two of the decisive encounters occur in undestroyed areas.The layout of the structure is clearly explained. When the characters speak amongst themselves, we are reminded of the design without hearing them needlessly tell each other what they already know. No extra words are needed for us to follow their progress and thinking. When mere words are not sufficient, Harlin shows the speaker skim his finger over a floor plan. They discuss the pros and cons of each decision and always make the most intelligent one.The movie makes no attempt to conceal the sources of its plot. The chase around a facility with a shrinking safe area comes from the Alien movies and the end of Jurassic Park. The idea of smart sharks is taken from Jaws. Harlin borrows the shark vision camera from Jaws and composer Trevor Rabin makes his impending danger theme similar to John Williams'. The sharks die the same way as those from the Jaws trilogy. Deep Blue Sea does not rip off those films, but rather expresses great pride towards its inspirations. Harlin provides a new twist to their masterful ingenuity without plagiarizing it.The sharks are the main audience draw, but the humans remain the movie's true stars. Each has his or her own personality and reaction to traumatic events. They are not merely sources for lines that need to be spoken. They all have their strengths and drawbacks; every personal relationship carries its own dynamic. Higgins undergoes the most shock and Franklin takes responsibility for helping her along. Some characters undergo change, most notably Scoggins and Dr. McCallister.Burrows has the most difficult role. Watching her at the beginning of the movie and then skipping to the end will reveal two different people. That indicates successful acting. McKenzie's part is a close second on the difficulty scale, and she also evolves with the character. Samuel L. Jackson convinces us of Franklin's role of stability and authority. I agree with James Berardinelli; Jackson is one of the greatest actors working today. Jane and Cool J bring even more to their roles than would be satisfactory. Franklin and Carter are the rocks of the group and the two the others can least afford to lose.All of these elements are figuratively chapters 1-11 of the pre-marriage counseling book. The attacks themselves are chapter 12. Chapter 12 is the most fun and rewarding part of the marriage, but the prior lessons are what make it so special. The foundation is solid, and the ferocious shark scenes are even better. They come quickly and unexpectedly, and nobody is guaranteed to make it to the 100th minute. Harlin withholds opening credits to cast further doubt as to who will be next. Then, as soon as we think we have it all figured out, Harlin reveals that the sharks are even smarter than we imagined. Deep Blue Sea rates a nine of ten. "},{"Title":"Deep Blue Sea review","Date":"7 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" There has only ever been one really good shark movie in the history of film and deep blue sea is not it. For those of you that don't know what film I'm talking about SHAME ON YOU!!!! This film is undoubtedly entertaining, however falls short on many aspects.The story is quite poor but it does enough to keep the viewer awake during the film. the fact that the sharks are super smart adds to the drama for one thing.However thin story lines of a Doctor trying to save the world and using sharks as the Guinea pigs just doesn't do it for me but i suppose this kind of plot line is to be expected in action/thriller movies so that does not take the film's mark down to much.The ACTION!! is good and there are times in this film that the tension level is ALMOST as high as SOME parts of JAWS but frankly does not reach the same level at any point. The director has obviously went for action ahead of storyline(most likely because he thinks thats what people what to see, and he is probably correct). However there is no mystery in the film you see all the sharks all the time and there is no attempt to conceal them from the audience. I know I am comparing this film to Jaws a lot but come on, who isn't ?!?. The casualty count is also WAY to high with all but two of the main characters surviving and frankly some of the deaths are just plain over the top. Pradickable is a word that springs to mind also while watching this film.The ACTING is what i would describe as very bad even Sam Jackson's performance falls short here, mind you the cheesy duologue and bizarre romantic under tones do nothing to help what is a very good actor. The best actor in this film by some way is LL COOL J he is dare I say....good in this film, adding his own style to the part and at times being quite humorous.The CGI is okay in this film but at times is very obvious. I would not say it is bad but not a CGI masterpiece as another reviewer called it. Don't get me wrong it is much better than Jaws but it is HOW it's used that lets it down e.g going as far as to actually show a huge shark eat and swallow an entire human body!!!ALL in all id say this film is okay if you do not take it seriously, but is still quite bad. 5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Damn good","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" With a voracious trio of make sharks wreaking havoc, Deep Blue Sea dares to up the ante on Jaws, but director Renny Harlin trades the nuanced suspense of Spielberg's 1975 blockbuster for the trickery of the digital age. In other words, why build genuine terror when you can show ill-fated humans getting torn into bloody chunks? The aforementioned Markos have been lab rats in an effort to harvest a miracle cure for Alzheimer's disease from the brains of sharks, but the research has an unfortunate side effect the sharks get smarter, and they're determined to break out of Aquatica, the deep-sea complex where they've been penned. Model-actress Saffron Burrows plays the researcher; Thomas Jane pulls double-duty as shark expert and action hunk; Samuel L. Jackson's the corporate sponsor who chooses the worst time for an Aquatica tour; and rapper LL Cool J is nicely cast as Aquatica's cook and comic relief. Michael Rapaport, Jacqueline McKenzie, and Stellan Skarsgård round out the cast, most of whom are turned into shark food as the Markos turn Aquatica into a floating junkyard. Harlin takes devilish pleasure in providing sudden, unexpected shocks--no small feat in such a derivative thriller--and as a series of action set-pieces, Deep Blue Sea never disappoints. It's inevitable that Burrows should end up in her underwear like Sigourney Weaver in Alien, but even then the movie offers a credible reason for the strip-down; that Deep Blue Sea can be simultaneously ridiculous and sensible is just another one of its Shylock charms. "}{"Title":"A Piece of CGI Mastery of the MOST uncannily naturalistic qualities ever seen.","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" People who justify their enjoyment of this film with weak words like 'enjoyable' are missing the point about as much as the bleating idiots who go on about how unconvincing the CGI sharks are..Its a B MOVIE for christs sake...Im not looking for Peter Jacksons fabulous rendering of an Apes arse or Dostoyevsky's mutli-layered plot lines and political commentary.The pace is perfect, the ideas such as the last imploring look from the arrogant scientist as the tensile glass of the window he's been hurled against cracks around his face. As with all the very best B movies, its details like this which make you fall in love with them. And thats not withstanding some of the absolute peachy lines coming out of Ol' Sammy Jackson - The Grand Master 5th Dan in CheeseJitsu.From the start to Mr Cool J's breathtaking closing Soundtrack- I Move My Hand Like A Shark Fin, this film is FINESSE. And, actually, the CGI in the finale- whilst totally implausible- is a visual feast.CMON- LETS HAVE A SEQUEL "},{"Title":"Respect the Shark.","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is an intense and exciting science fiction movie, with an interesting story. Also, the movie is well-acted, especially by LL Cool J, who makes this movie work through a great performance. Further, the movie has a useful message - not to tamper with nature and to respect the creatures who inhabit the planet with us. The shark is a fascinating but dangerous creature, to be admired - from a distance - and be respected too. When unprovoked, the shark is, well, a shark. But when man invades its habitat, then the shark reacts and conflict ensues. This movie does not improve the reputation of the shark, and in fact exploits our fear of sharks. For sharks are one of those creatures that defy man's attempts to control it, which is what this movie is about. Scientists want to study the shark, but the sharks refuse to cooperate. Shark enthusiasts may object to the way sharks are vilified in this movie. But no matter how you feel about sharks, the message of this movie is apparent - sharks are dangerous, should be respected and should be left alone. "},{"Title":"Great shark flick","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Doctors at the research station, Aquatica are doing experiments on Mako sharks. They are trying to harvest protein from the sharks' brains so it can be used to cure Alzheimers Disease. However, a normal-sized sharks' brain would not be able to develop enough protein so the doctors figured out a way to increase the sharks' brain size so they would be able to harvest a sufficient amount of protein. Since their brains got bigger, they got smarter and more aggressive.Soon, things go horribly wrong. The sharks begin flood the whole facility. The sharks then come after them, and its a race to make it to the surface.This is a very frightening and suspenseful movie that will have you on the edge of your seat. It's definitely one worth watching. Personally, I think this is the best shark movie since Jaws 2. "},{"Title":"good unique shark movie","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I thought this movie was really good! The story actually was different than practically every other shark movie out there. The story for this shark movie was different than 99% of the rest, which all have the same story with three stages in the story which are 1. Shark eats innocent people. 2. People go hunt shark 3. People kill shark. Movie is over. i know this because i love shark movies. The story above is in but not limited to all of the jaws movies(well all these other shark movies are pretty much fancy copies of the original jaws), the megaladon movies, the shark attack movies, red water,and pretty much everything except open water. The movie deep blue sea actually has a real plot and doesn't have, like practically every other monster movie out there, the end having a boy and girl survive and falling in love. Instead, the girl surprisingly dies because of her stupidity(jumps in the water as bait so the shark gets closer to the boy so he can shoot it with a dynamite loaded spear gun). This movie, like jaws did at the time, has a new idea with some originality in it. This is a movie with a new idea and is very fun to watch. IT IS A GOOD MOVIE. (***.8 out of 4 - a little for not enough info about the characters in my opinion) "},{"Title":"Deep Blue Sea","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I love this film!! I thought it was a great shark film. Jaws was made 30 years ago, but yes it was and still is a great film, but i think people like it a little to much and won't let other shark films in and be able to like them!! the only bad thing i would have to say about this film would have to be CG yes i understand why they used it but i wish they worked a little harder on it to make it look better. But the only reason people don't like it is because of jaws, stop thinking about jaws when you see it!! This is a hot movie, and its not getting the credit that it deserves!! Scores- Acting- 10********* shark-8******* Score(music)- 10********** Idea (story)-10********** Overall- 38/40If i was to do jaws-Acting- 10********** Shark- 10********** score(music)- 10********** idea(story)- 10**********Overall- 40/40these are both great films. "},{"Title":"Deep Blue Sea","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" From director Renny Harlin (Die Hard 2 Die Harder, The Long Kiss Goodnight), I didn't really pay full attention to this the first time, but the second time I took more notice. Basically Dr. Susan McCallister (Saffron Burrows) needs funding for her new brain re-activation facility, and she is allowing investigator Russell Franklin (Samuel L. Jackson) to look over their progress. When he arrives at Aquatica, he meets fellow scientist Jim Whitlock (Pirates of the Caribbean's Stellan Skarsgård), and the rest of the team marine biologist Janice Higgins (Jacqueline McKenzie), engineer Tom 'Scoggs' Scoggins (Michael Rapaport), shark expert Carter Blake (Thomas Jane), meteorologist Brenda Kerns (Aida Turturro) and chef Sherman Preacher Dudley (LL Cool J). They have experimented and genetically re-engineered large Waco sharks, and one is captured to test in the lab to see whether or not a blood sample can cure a brain sample infected by Alzheimer's Disease, and it proves successful. However, things start going wrong when a the shark wakes up and bites off Jim's arm, and the other two sharks follow suit and cause Aquatica to start flooding. The survivors of the structural collapse know that they have to get out before Aquatica completely floods, and they are having to go against the rush of the deep sea water, and of course the dangerously intelligent sharks, oh yeah, the experiments made them smarter. One by one the survivors are killed by either the destruction of the facility, or more often the sharks coming after them, and in the end, the last three to reach the surface are Carter, Susan and Preacher. They realise though that the sharks have been playing them all along, two of them have been killed, but the last one they know wants to get out to the open sea, so Susan sacrifices herself and the other two try to blow it up. It is basically an excuse to spice up the tricks and traits invented in Jaws, with a B movie cast, that all do well, especially Jackson and Cool J. There are plenty of jumpy and bloody moments, and some good tension, if it is wasn't for this it might just be an average science fiction action thriller, but it isn't. Good! "},{"Title":"it has a beginning and an end and an amazing plot","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie is awesome and is very graphic but it makes the movie extremely intense. The cast is awesome and fits the parts perfectly. In some parts of this movie you think what is wrong with him but in other parts you want to hide behind your pillow or you boyfriend and scream.(boyfriends are better because they think it's cute and then you might get some great make out session or you might get a little something something else you know what I'm talking about right SEX thats right you might get some hot steamy SEX) Have fun and hope you get to see this movie. This movie starts off happy but end in a gory scary breath taking denouement that just a Fancy word for end. "},{"Title":"Gosh, that's great!","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Usually in American movies you can see car explode. Here, in the final scene of the movie, you can see a shark explode, that's a big step forward in American film-making, isn't it?Renny Harlin does is honest job as a director with the only talent of being able to make a stupid American action movie which can still make some money, probably because he come from Finland, I know they still have some brain up there in the cold.LL Cool J is the only really good think about that movie, he is funny; he is a smart guy, isn't it?Samuel L. Jackson is smart too, getting some free money just to show is face uselessly.And finally Thomas Jane perfectly fit the role of the macho man I have big balls.That's all, you can really miss that one, believe me. "},{"Title":"A missed opportunity...","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Shark movies are always compared to Jaws. Jaws set the standard. However no other shark movies have hit that spot. Shark movies are usually released straight to video, 'Shark Zone', 'Shark Hunter', anyone? Whilst 'Shark Hunter' hovers on the totally abysmal side Deep Blue Sea hovers more towards Jaws but is severely let down due to the lack of development in story.The concept is simple. An underwater science facility is taken over by the sharks. Although the idea may see ridiculous it can be bought. However the problem is, that whilst the sharks get smarter the movie borders on idiotic. The writing just isn't tight enough to hold the audience's attention. The dialogue is partly cheesy and the characters are people you would see in your regular 'B-movies.' You don't really care much for them. On the plus side though, there are some truly great sequences.For those expecting something as good as 'Jaws' this movie isn't really recommended. However with the right junk food and a group of friends, Deep Blue Sea is perfect as a guilty treat. Just remember, do not expect a movie of similar quality to Citizen Kane. My Rating 5/10 "},{"Title":"Yet another modern B-movie","Date":"21 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" You have to wonder; when exactly did Hollywood stop caring about quality? Did they ever care? This movie is yet another one of these new B-movies, just like Deep Rising and other recent movies which I have avoided due to my lack of tolerance for them. A B-movie can be fun, campy, corny enough to be entertaining... but the new ones aren't that. They're just bad, pure and simple. This film really doesn't have anything at all going for it... except for maybe the big names in the cast. The plot is ludicrous... the writers probably didn't even consider making it plausible... at all. Breeding super-intelligent sharks in order to cure Alzheimer's disease? Oh, come on. The pacing is awful, the movie is very, very hard to sit through. The characters are poorly written stereotypes and clichés. The acting is mostly mediocre, but a few performances go even lower and almost hit rock bottom. The special effects are laughable. They're among the worst I've ever seen... and that says quite a lot, believe me. The sharks aren't the least bit scary... I was never scared of them. They look so terribly fake. The film tries to be original by never really killing anyone when we expect them to die... every time someone looks like they're about to die, they survive. If everything is quiet... expect someone to die. Once, they even went to the trouble of having a character go into a deep, meaningful monologue just to set up a giant shock for the audience... which is all the movie is about, anyway. Shocking the audience. If you ask Renny Harlin what he wanted to achieve through this film, I'm sure his answer would be to scare people. That's it. No message, no symbolism. Just a bunch of scares in an empty movie. The worst thing about it is, we know exactly who's going to die. We may even know the order, if 'we' pay attention(mind you, I did no such thing for at least 95% of the movie, if you add up how many seconds I payed attention versus how long the movie was) which leaves only one question; *when* they're going to die. Now, if you think that is enough reason to sit through about 105 minutes of pointless B-movie crap, then this movie is for you. If not, avoid this like the plague. My high rating for this movie must be due to my being in a very good mood today... or maybe I just found laughing at the movie made it deserve more than a 1. Who knows. I recommend this only to fans of new B-movies and possibly fans of the various actors... I would recommend it to fans of director Renny Harlin, but I doubt that they exist. Approach with caution... or a lighthearted attitude and too much free time. 5/10 "}{"Title":"AWESOME MOVIE","Date":"13 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I for one hate it when people call this movie a Jaws rip-off. This movie has more action and everything else than Jaws. I don't know why people seem to lick the ass of that movie when it drags on for yonks, Sure, it IS good, but Deep Blue Sea is for the new generation-accept it. You cant make a shark movie that will ever be different from Jaws because its got sharks in it!!! Anyway I loved it when I saw it 5 years ago...hell, five years...anyway, it was amazing. The special FX were a little 'odd' in some parts yes, but so was ID4, and that was still cool. I read 2 years ago that a sequel was in the works but it has definitely been dropped no question about it, it was going to have LL Cool J and Bruce Campbell (hell, not him, please! Is he even an actor??)I kinda don't want them to ruin it with a sequel anyway, but seeing as Hollywood never listen to us fans, make one anyway! I want more sharks, more gore and more action! GO FOR IT! Just make it good, if not better! There's an underrated franchise going to waste here!!! "},{"Title":"Quality Shark Movie with good Special Effects","Date":"8 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Despite its weak plot, this movie was very good and entertaining. I was disappointed by the performances of some people such as Burrows and Jaqueline mackenzie who I found unbearable in this movie, especially Burrows whose accent makes us brits sound embarrassing! The deaths are very good any you don't know whose gonna die. I was very glad that SPOILERS LL Cool J and Tom Jane were the only two to survive as the other characters were extremely irritating, plus there is always a woman that has to survive in a monster movie. Why? it just irritates me seeing the female character always surviving. So it was nice to see two guys survive hearDefinitely worth renting for a good suspenseful action thriller!  "},{"Title":"A Perfect Example of Underwater Monster Movies","Date":"2 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This has all of the elements crucial to a Water Based Monster Movie. Water, a Storm that isolates our heroes from the outside world, and a monster (or monsters in this case (sharks)) that want to eat our heroes.This one also has a great cast. L.L. Cool J (Should run for Public Office), Thomas Jane (The Punisher), Saffron Burrows (Wing Commander, Enigma), Michael Rapaport (Friends), Samuel L Jackson, Aida Turturro (from the Sopranos)and other great actors.The Sharks are great. The Sets are great. The Action works perfectly, and the first time, it's quite hard to guess the order of deaths, and who will survive.Giant Piles of Fun. A Tent Pole of your Underwater Based Monster Collection. "},{"Title":"Really, really scary","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  *SPOILERS ALERT*5 years ago this came out and I was just starting to like horror movies, ever since Jaws I was a bit jumpy at shark movies and was even scared for being a in a bath for too long (I was 10 by the way). Me and my cousin sit down to watch this and immediately we're were scared, I hated it with LL cool J getting trapped in the oven and when Samuel got a surprise shark attack, and then it didn't make it any easier when my cousin locked me in the room by myself with it still on. Even now I still have it and I love it, it is seriously a class A horror movie with fantastic acting, wonderful special effects and intense story line. But for some reason this movie made me OK to have a bath without getting scared anymore, either way, watch it, you won't regret it. 4 and a half stars.  "},{"Title":"Bad Shark.","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie could have been one of the best yet, but....effects and realism were way off...For starters, the makers should have studied there shark (Mako) before they made there models because the only thing they got right was the body shape and the teeth, but Mako's are kind of a light metallic blue with light underbelly...not Black and they grow to a maximum of about 13 feet...not 30 which brings up point number 2....how does a 5 or 6 foot diameter fish get through a 2 and a half foot wide pressure door further more how does a shark of any size break down and airlock door which is designed to withstand thousands of pounds of water pressure....Oh yah I just remembered a scene from the beginning where they throw a full grown tiger shark in the tank and the mako makes it look quite small....A full grown tiger can reach a size of about 24 feet. The other problem was with a lot of the visual effects which were very poorly done, other than that it was a good movie and I would have to say it's worth watching at least once and if you know nothing about sharks or physics then watch it more than once.  "},{"Title":"Wow, this was dumb","Date":"21 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I can't believe they made this movie. It was a complete failure and LL Cool J was absolutely terrible and should jus stopped acting and go back to his singing career. Thomas Jane was alright even though he was better in 61. This is Samuel Jackson's worst movie and Saffron Burrows got quite annoying. And can u believe this, the director made the sharks look bigger than the great white sharks. He also made the MAKO sharks really smart. It had a very bad script and bad film editing. The only positive things I could say that sometimes I like the action and the gore in it and the sight seeing's in the movie but other than this was a bad movie.4/10  "},{"Title":"23 Jaws","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  An action director is nothing if he can't do something unique with the actors, the camera, the sound, or the editing.  Mastering any one gives him an edge.  Woo mastered the camera.  McTiernan had sound.  Petersen had actors.  But Renny...I can't say he's mastered anything.So what do we get here?  Underwater photography reminiscent of 'Point Break', underwater fights from 'Alien Resurrection', and casting from 'Replacement Killers'.Renny's problem is he takes it all so seriously and tries to make up for ridiculous material with his own gags.  In that respect, I'm happy he didn't make 'Alien3' and left it to a smarter director.Overall, this is the 'Land Before Time' of the shark genre.  No teeth to bite.Final Analysis = = Cinematic Dud "},{"Title":"This movie stinks","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  After watching almost all movies in this particular genre, I just have to say that this movie stinks. The FX are so sorry, that a sixth-grader, given time, could have made them on a Commodore 64. And the plot? Don't get me started... "},{"Title":"Not very good.","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see this film whilst working near a cinema (I got cheap tickets.) and because I hadn't been paying attention to all of the reviews telling me how bad it was. The acting was terrible, the effects were obvious, the plot was poor and there was no common sense applied to the film. I mean how can a shark which can smash through a metal door to get into the complex be unable to smash his way into an oven door. How is a human able to wade faster than a shark can swim. How can forty five feet long sharks, or however long they were supposed to be, come vertically up through the water when inside the complex. None of the other rooms looked that tall. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I don't like horror movies. Never did. Up untill the moment that i realised that you have to watch them as comedies. And that is the way i watched this one.If i hadn't seen it as a comedy, i would have now been comenting about its idiotic plot, it's resemblance to any other shark movie, its lack of interesting characters etc.....But i didn't.If you want to see it, see it with a bunch of friends commenting and making fun of every line of that movie. And the special effects aren't that bad either. So, there is a way to enjoy it. "}{"Title":"Pass (Spoilers)","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  DEEP BLUE SEA (1999) *1/2 (D Renny Harlin) - JAWS meets THE POSEIDON ADVENTURE, with none of those films' talent. Experimental lab sharks go berserk undersea. Some decent attacks, including the surprise early death of one of the main characters - but LL Cool J gets in the way with his comical antics. "},{"Title":"Crap","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What a waste of too much money this film was.  There are just so many bad things about it.Let's start with the sharks themselves.  These critters were so poorly made you can see the fabric seam down the side of the animatronic shark!Second, how can the sharks break through a very very thick plane of glass yet can't break the relatively thin glass on an oven door?And for all film goers who love nothing more than seeing an Australian actor trying (and failing miserably) too pull off an American accent, well then look no further than Deep Blue Sea.  Jaqueline McKenzie's attempt at an American twang is just purely farcical, shame really as she is a very good actor.Overall, avoid 3/10 "},{"Title":"Deep Blue Crap","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  God this movie is boring. Whatever Saffron Burrows paid her acting coach was money thrown into the wind. Bad Action, Bad efx, bad all round.Does Samuel L Jackson even read the scripts he's handed anymore? "},{"Title":"Tries too hard to be thrilling","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  OVERALL MOVIE RATING * star. A bad movie.DEEP BLUE SEA REVIEWWhen I was watching this movie for the first time, I realized how hard it tried to be thrilling. This movie in fact wasn't the least bit thrilling. It was basically about as scary as a slasher film, but it's in the ocean.Deep Blue Sea is about a group of scientists that go to a base in the ocean to research the intelligence of sharks. They plan to get fluids from shark brains and then cure alzheimers. But things go awry after a man has his arm bitten by a shark. They rush him to a plane but the plane but shortly after the plane gets in the air, the guys reel falls loose and he falls in the water still connected. A shark grabs the guy and drags the plane down with him, and creates a big explosion causing the place to flood and the sharks to be let loose and attack them.This had some pretty cool special effects at times, but I couldn't get passed how dumb the people were. I mean, why would you locate yourself in the middle of the ocean with no help?The acting was alright, but nothing special, that's for sure. The movie had bad writing. Some of the things the characters said were dumb. When you try to combine humor and horror, things go bad.I recommend this piece of garbage to no one because it isn't worth your time. I couldn't believe that I stayed awake through this. Skip this. "},{"Title":"The best comedy of 1999!","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have seldom laughed as much at a movie as when I saw this hopeless excuse for a suspense/action-movie.The dialog is down-right stupid, the actors horribly bad (and I usually consider Sam Jackson as a fine one), the story and plot riddled with inaccuracies and logical flaws...Luckily I eventually realised that this movie was a comedy! (It has to be!!!) With that revelation, the experience of seeing this movie transformed from being uncomfortable and irritating, to truthfully quite enjoyable! Especially the ending cracked me up!I would think this movie would make an excellent candidate for Mystery Science Theater 3000!Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Sloppy, sloppy, sloppy","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Sloppy script, sloppy acting, sloppy filming, sloppy effects, sloppy, sloppy, sloppy.The basic plot could have worked, had it not been for incredibly poor implementation. Sharks swimming like stereroid guppies despite several tons of weight yet unable to catch up with injured people. Sharks jumping several feet out of the water to snatch a bite but incapable of clearing an office table. Men manually closing hatches with tons of water pressure on them. A shark blown to smithereens by a 50 gram powder charge - a charge being detonated by a single uninsulated wire. A chef heavily mutilated climbing a ladder to detonate it. High voltage circuitry submerged in water still working. Sea water with nothing in it but a couple of sharks - no weed, no fish, no plankton, yet at one time considered murky. No, this is not worth loosing sleep over. The not so subtle hints at Jaws were a mockery, not a tribute. "},{"Title":"The worst movie I've ever seen.","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  `Deep Blue Sea' is absolutely the worst movie I've ever seen. I cannot even begin to describe the fundamental scientific, technical, medical AND rational errors, which drag this movie down to a hitherto unseen low. Look, they're firing?!?!?! The scene where they see the neurons fire in the microscope was the worst and less studied thing I've EVER seen on film, for many, many reasons!The plot itself is uninteresting, tremendously boring and vastly predictable, except for the scene where Samuel L. Jackson gets eaten in the middle of the standard hero-speech. The characters are onedimensional and fit all too well into the standard horror movie recipe.If I were to rate this movie, I would give it ZERO stars of ten possible. It sucks; it really, really sucks! "},{"Title":"hollywood hates you","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Immortalized in celluloid for years to come is the half-assed story about genetically engineered sharks and a floating science vessel out to rid the world of alzheimer's by taking the brains of sharks... ...Starring L.L. Cool J.Hollywood must have a reserve of awful stories that they feel need to be told at one point or another, and apparently, 1999 was the year to tell this story of intrigue, logic, POV shark-cams, and really bad CGI.  There is no other explanation for this movie, except for one  Hollywood hates us. And we come in droves to see this crap.  (We meaning you, because I know crap before I see it.)The movie tries to be interesting at several points, like where the helicopter tries to leave and is taken down by a shark (Jaws 2), consequentially flying into the building and exploding BEFORE impact (rewind it, watch it...  the flames actually shoot out of the building and engulf the chopper before impact.  CGI.)The other time it tries to be interesting is when the girl is running from a shark and the only logical thing to do is take off her wet suit for a moment of semi-gratuitous bliss -- an attempt, no doubt, to justify the cost of the ticket.  "},{"Title":"Deep Blue Snore","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Satisfying only for people who would be satisfied with special effects and nothing else.  Some good actors are wasted literally with a plot line that does not deserve them.  And the so called science in the film is dreck.It could win an award for the most contrived reason for a heroine to take her clothes off.  Then lose it because she doesn't go all the way.Find something else to do. "},{"Title":"This movie CAUSES Alzheimer's disease!","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" ....and if that comment is too cryptic for any of you that haven't seen the fim, well, what do I care? First up I have to admit I have no real constructive reason for reviewing this piece of *ahem* cinemahhhh (basically I'm a little bored and joyfully mean-spirited right now). DBS is undoubtedly not the worst movie ever made, but it is the most colossally expensive sub-Roger Corman shlock I have seen in quite some time. Seriously, I'm sure there are much faster and efficient ways of flushing money down a toilet (and more honest too). Who cares? -you say- It's just dumb entertainment. Well there's entertainment, and then there's entertainment. I mean I find clawing lint out of my navel and plugs of wax out of my ear a pleasant personal diversion, but you probably wouldn't want to watch THAT. What probably needs to be debated is the line between acceptable stupidity and unacceptable stupidity. There are simply no apparent standards on display in this movie. Script? What script? Plot? What plot? Characterisation? What characterisation?, etc. Now, I personally enjoy a lot of crass, stupid films as a general rule, but they're mostly cheap, and they're mostly savvy wrapped in a moronic cloak. But I simply would not give this film (or Renny Harlin, or the scriptwriter) that much credit. It's far too dismal to suggest the kind of wink-nudge knowingness that makes truly awful flicks excusable. DBS makes 70s Irwin Allen disaster cheese-fests (such as EARTHQUAKE) look like Kurosawa. The biggest bee in my bonnet - and I'm surprised that not many people have picked up on it - is the appalling license taken concerning biology in a film which has the temerity, even on the most facile level, of affecting some kind of scientific awareness. What I'm talking about is the 'Tiger shark' which most definitely ain't a tiger shark. Basically it's just a model of a mako with stripes painted on it. This is a bit like grabbing a bulldog, or an alsatian, or a chihuahua fer crying out loud, painting it white, daubing it with black spots and calling it a 'dalmatian'. Am I the only one who finds that not only stupid but pathetically slack? And, if I'm not mistaken, the mako is the fastest species of shark on earth, yet it has trouble outswimming LL Cool J, or, as he is otherwise known, The Brother who would not die (not even when a 40-foot long, 6 ton razor-toothed monster is using him as dental floss). And what about the preacher and his parrot? Is the loss of the parrot symbolic of the preacher's spiritual rebirth? And is Stellan Skarsgard the logical successor to Max Von Sydow in the category of fine Scandinavian actor who makes really crappy Hollywood dreck? So many questions. But best of all I am moved by the underpinning motif of the 'Call of the Wild' as the remaining shark pines for the 'deep blue sea' beyond ( a remarkably nimble segue). In some ways DBS is a bit like like BORN FREE except with giant cheezmo cgi killer sharks who simply must annihilate every human in sight in the most gruesome possible fashion, before tootling off to revel in their miraculous creation. Just in case you weren't completely staggered by the dreadfulness of what you've just seen, the film is closed out to a really, really cringe-inducing LL Cool J gangsta-rap riff on the theme song (or whatever). Yup, DBS is real damn 'entertaining' - sufficiently evidenced by the dozen -or-so similarly 'entertaining' fillums Mr. Harlin HASN'T made since this stiff came out. I don't think I'm being entirely unreasonable in declaring DEEP BLUE SEA as a prime example of corporate Hollywood at its most bollocks. "}{"Title":"Pure bunk.","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Anyone defending this as an entertaining movie is contributing to the continuing production of this swill.  Even if you enjoy the suspenseless action and cartoony CG sequences, you have no excuse for tolerating the 3rd grade dialogue.The best action movies are all anchored in the scripting and pacing, not the effects.  This film has neither.  By saying you'll see entertaining movies like this regardless of how bad the writing is, you set the bar for Hollywood.  And the bar for action needs to be well above Renny Harlin.If you liked Cutthroat Island, you'll probably find this entertaining.  "},{"Title":"WHY DID THEY DID THIS FILM????","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Some people just never learn,shark films are always dumb compared to JAWS,and this is no different.The plot is pretty good,a group of scientists get locked in a aquatic base after an accident with their supersharks,it doesnt take long and they start being hunted by those 3 supersharks.The movie is not bad,it was better than I tought,but after you ve seen it twice,its just ...err....funless.Its a pretty pleasant film,even more pleasant when the shark eats that doctor watever at the end of the film,but it will never be as good as JAWS,but its better than its sequels tough. "},{"Title":"Simply the best movie !!","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Some people believe the graphics were crappy.  As if you guys that say that can do better.I thought this was a amazing movie. Yes it was a new-style type.These kind of movies dont have perrfect story lines but this one was great. I can describe it as a mix of Anaconda,Lake Placid and err....umm.. well some others.This movie is somewhat better on the big screen.BUT... if you wanna scare your self silly.  Watch it on DVD on a BIGGG screen with surround sound and turn off all the lights!!!The acting was great. The sharks looked real. The ending was a bit of a suprise, but im glad to see (Spoiler) all movies dont have the ending of the main charecter or hero win and lives.This movie get 10 out of 10 stars!!! ********** "},{"Title":"Utter rubbish","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I can't believe that anyone found this scary - it kept us laughing from start to finish. Every time we said Wouldn't it be ridiculous if this happened...? it went and happened. With a film like this you expect wooden characters and risible script (and you aren't disappointed!) but what you want is a bit of building suspense to go with the action, a sense of heightening tension. Particularly, you do not want to see the obviously fake sharks too early in the film. At least with Jaws you had the menacing feeling of the unknown, the lone swimmer struck at dead of night by an unseen monster, before the in-your-face gorefest started. I won't be scared to go back in the water this time... "},{"Title":"More irritating than entertaining","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Before you see this movie you know you are going to see computer generated sharks and you know you are going to see people get eaten. And thats what happens. Fine. Trouble is you can work out the entire plot as its going to unfold after 15 minutes of watching. Then you have to sit through the rest of the movie waiting for it all to happen while being irritated by the overpowering moralising that goes on in the dialogue.  If you're like me, you'll be especially disappointed that the character you hate most of all ends up surviving. Only redeeming idea is the way one character meets a particularly cruel end. Once again Hollywood can't help making movies where the actors may as well have Goodie and Baddie written on their T-shirts. Strictly for 12 year old Sunday school pupils. "},{"Title":"The best shark movie since JAWS","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen a lot of movies about sharks, but none of them have been able to be as good and entertaining as JAWS...until now. I saw DEEP BLUE SEA one night while I was looking for something to watch on television. I went to Cinemax and this was on. Since I like movies about sharks and I like Samuel L. Jackson, I decided to watch it. I didn't know until after I finished watching the movie that it was directed by Renny Harlin the director of other great films like DIE HARD 2 and DRIVEN. This came as a surprise to me because normally is movies are great, but not THIS great. This movie was a movie that instantly became one of my favorites due to the fabulous script by Duncan Kennedy, Donna Powers, and Wayne Powers. I hope to add this movie to my DVD collection soon. I give it four stars. "},{"Title":"Like Jaws, only lacking all quality","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** A movie about sharks, very interesting. Immediately Jaws comes to mind. Well this movie is a bit like Jaws, there's some pi**ed off, smarter than average sharks after humans... The only thing is, Jaws had quality, Jaws is a classic. This movie has no quality what so ever, and it's only a classical example of how not to do it. The story is total nonsense, and only there as an excuse for showing the audience sharks eating people. The actors... well... this might be a spoiler, but the best actor dies after about 30 minutes, and with him dies the only reason to keep watching the movie. I assure you, LL Cool J is not that actor. He was put in this movie as the clown, for the people who can't understand the 'difficult plot'. Well, for a clown he's doing a very bad job, because he is not funny at all. And his acting... that was even worse than his jokes. If you look at the scenes removed from the movie that are somewhere on the DVD, and if you listen to the comments of the director, you see that some weird things in the plot would have been much clearer if the director would have just left those specific scenes in. But it also makes very clear that the director had hardly any idea what he was doing while making this movie.My advice, do NOT go to see this movie. If you are bored out of your mind, go read a book. If you want to see sharks, go see Jaws or the Discovery Channel. If your girlfriend ever rents this for you cause she thinks it was a great movie, break up with her. This movie was pure hell all the time it lasted. "},{"Title":"Worse than I thought","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I just watched this turkey on HBO -- or should I say tried to watch since I walked away rather than submit myself to the rest of this idiocy. Cliched situations, fair (at best) special effect, it just goes on. Under Alternate Versions I found that the DVD features more character development. How can you have more of what you don't have at all?(Mild spoiler alert) I will say this for it, though, it is funny. However, I don't think that was the plan. The funniest scene was when the helicopter came to rescue the injured member of the crew and the entire complex is, well, let's say, damaged. (This sets up what I presume is the usual who lives and how scenario. I can't be sure since I turned this turkey off shortly after that.) This was so bad, I was laughing at the stupidity. Avoid at all costs.  "},{"Title":"Plankton.","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is the sort of film that makes people with talent want to shoot themselves. Samuel L. Jackson is barely allowed to make much of an impression, the lead female is punished for being ambitious, educated and/or British, the special effects are weak and the ending is Hollywood limburger at its stinkiest. Throw this one back! "},{"Title":"crap","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  comparing this stinker to jaws is like comparing buffy to bram stokers dracula! in fact this film has nothing of the great atmosphere, the great script or the great cast of great actors jaws had!this stupid movie has not only a story which some 14 year old could have come up with, it also has annoying flat characters, as there arethomas jane the mysterious and brave hero, a tough, reticent daredevil and ladykillerSaffron Burrows spoiled rich girl who's getting all into trouble with her stubborn behaviorSamuel L. Jackson the elderly wise guy, who has been through a lot and now keeps the group together in dangerand finally the most annoying LL Cool J obligatory black cast as stereotype ghetto goof, who's turned into a godfearing cook, but still provides us with cool dialogue!! ARGH!!!!!the only great thing in the movie where the animated sharks (and i'm not talking about the CGI here!!!!!), especially in the beginning, where Carter Blake pulls out the plate from the tigersharks' jaws! aside from that it was a really bad hollywood movie with no depth! not that Renny Harlin is known for producing films that do not fall into this category! "}{"Title":"Don't watch this movie","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is so flawed it's awful to watch. It's plot has some potential but as the story unfolds it gets more and more unbelievable and stupid. The special effects are very cheap ones. I think it's a waste of time and money to watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Fake looking sharks and a horrible movie.","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a stupid attempt to start a new Jaws type franchise and one big stinky fish of a movie! Instead of the movie taking place on a beach community terrorized by a shark it revolves in an underwater compound. Scientists trying to find a cure for alziemers by creating their own breed of sharks and using fluid from the shark's brains. As a side effect the sharks become amazingly smart and fast. While humans need to be taught in order to learn apparently these sharks are psychic too as it makes no sense how they could figure out the things they do in this horrible B horror flick! To make matters worse, the sharks look like rubber toys when they jump out the water! This movie so stupid that the running time of 104 minutes seemed like eternity. It also wastes the talents of Samuel Jackson and L.L. Cool J. Don't waste your time.     "},{"Title":"Another lame special effects-only movie...","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea had some pretty good special effects, but had one of the worst & implausible stories since Twister.  They had a couple of big name stars and wasted their talent.  This is another production that shoots its wad on special effects and ignored plot & character development.  This is unfortunately becoming typical fare for big-budget scifi movies.  This movie and several others like it leave me wondering if Hollywood really thinks that the target audience (males 20s) can only comprehend special effects and have no interest in plot & characters.  Come on!  Can't the major studios do better than this? "},{"Title":"More chomp to the bite. Smarter sharks are deadlier!","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  One good thing said about this movie is the special effects. The scenes of human consumption were something to see. This thriller also had the old music rise and fall with each event. A scientist tampers with DNA in order to find a miracle drug. She ends up creating sharks that are much larger, hungrier and more aggressive.The acting was miserable. Thomas Jane was smug and plastic. Saffron Burrows was nice to look at, but did not fit the character she tried to play. The best lines in the movie came from rapper LL Cool J. Samuel L. Jackson was killed off too quick. Action and suspense prevail. If high anxiety is you thrill, start here. "},{"Title":"I was rooting for the shark","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" For reasons unknown to me, I actually saw this movie, for lack of a better term, in the theater. It might have been because I do enjoy creature movies, so I failed to miss all the tell-tale signs that were there all along, pointing out just how dreadful Deep Blue Sea is. That was why I didn't act on the almost flawless premise that states that rappers are always bad actors, that CGI monsters never manage to impress much, and that this is a genre that isn't supposed to be a blockbuster.Now, what is wrong with this movie, apart from the generalities I have already mentioned...Pretty much everything. The goofs are too many to be numbered, and worse, are actually perceptible even to a not too alert viewer. I found myself rooting for the sharks, they clearly had the upper hand in terms of likability, the rest of the cast being inept, to say the least. Why did Samuel L Jackson feature in this is beyond me, his death scene being one of the most hilarious things I have ever seen. Of course, there is the matter of explaining how such huge sharks manage to swim in waist high waters, or how they are capable to swim backwards, etc etc. Even if we decide to let all these details go by unacknowledged the final product is dull, logic-less, poorly directed, atrociously acted and overall stupid. *Mild Spoiler* In one of the final scenes, when the cook is being dragged around by the shark, without actually dying, I wonder if the idea was to pay a tribute to Jaws IV in which something very similar happens. If so it would be a case of very bad movie pays homage to even worse flick. Oh the poetic justice of it all! *End spoilers*There is one saving grace in this movie and that is soundtrack and by that I mean the opening music. Sadly, by the time the credits start to roll, thus putting an end to this excruciating ordeal, we are greeted with yet another dose of rap. Of course. Anyone who found the opening musical sequence to be interesting might like to know that a metal band, Nightwish, made quite a remarkable cover of it, which I truly recommend. "},{"Title":"This film makes no sense","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is bad! These are super sharks who seem to know everything down to how CCTV systems work.In the film they are super strength sharks with the power to break down a sea door to enter the complex. But, later on have trouble breaking an oven door.I could go on but I would be here all day. The only fun thing about watching this film was listing all the mistakes.  "},{"Title":"Just when you thought it was safe to go back into the water ...again!","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  DEEP BLUE SEA (1999) *** Thomas Jane, Saffron Burrows, LLCool J, Michael Rapaport, Stellan Skarsgard, Jacqueline McKenzie, Aida Turturro, Samuel L. Jackson.    Effectively thrilling sci-fi horror flick that retreads `Jaws' with `Die Hard' yet still manages to radiate enough tension and flinch inducing moments of dread a research facility in the ocean experimenting with genetically altered mako sharks' brains to find a cure for Alzheimer's results in the old adage, `it's not wise to fool with Mother Nature', which unleashes the `smart', nasty and fast  fish to destroy the fortress-at-sea and begin a human sushi-thon in gory detail!   Game cast, ingenious special effects, quick paced action and fireballs aplenty certainly don't dull the viewer (especially one genuine gotcha! moment when one poor character riffs on a let's get-it-together rousing speech with a subtle touch of Robert Shaw's Quint's `survivor' tell lifted from `Jaws').   Nerve wrenching.  (Dir Renny Harlin) "},{"Title":"It Belongs in the Deep Blue Sea.","Date":"11 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Deep Blue Sea (1999) Dir Renny Harlin / Cast Thomas Jane, Saffron Burrows, Samuel L. Jackson, L. L. Cool J, Michael Rapaport Cheap shark thriller that specializes in extreme crap. It is certainly no Jaws. An experiment is conducted on sharks that expands their brain mass but that only opens for opportunity for the sharks to turn on people and have lunch. Why any idiot would agree to an experiment of this nature is beyond normal understanding but much of the film delivers its real purpose, which is to showcase pointless scenes of sharks tearing people to shreds. Special effects are good but story is dimwitted. Director Renny Harlin seems more interested in production than a story but he is skilled at delivering action. He previously made Cliffhanger and Cutthroat Island. Among the wasted talent are Thomas Jane, Saffron Burrows, Samuel L. Jackson, and L.L. Cool J and not one of them delivers a performance worth showing up on set for. In fact Jackson in particular was a huge waste after his spotlight in films better than this. They are basically fish bait with none of the care that the cast of Jaws received that allowed that film to be involving and frightening. It could have been an interesting and intense thriller about tampering with nature but the only thing tampered with is the screenplay in the wrong hands. It is a dreadful and graphic mess that should be fed to sharks. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"Sounds associated with the anus","Date":"22 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A movie about sharks! It must have been one hell of a script, cause some one bought it. At a certain point in time people with the money met people with the script for this movie, Deep Blue Sea, and the people with the money f*cking said yes. I'm mean, I'm sure it's not some scam movie, y'know the money people made their precious goddamn money, but surely in retrospect they watch this movie and feel cheated. Hopefully they feel cheated, hopefully. That's what's so perfect about Hollywood, is they will make a ridiculous movie about super-intelligent sharks, but loath to make a movie that's surreal or satirical. The lowest-common- denominators are the luckiest movie going audience in the world. "},{"Title":"Enjoyed it to the core !","Date":"19 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie a decade back, It was really scary at that time! Still this movie really thrills me a lot ! The story line is amazing with the sharks really frightening. I love this one compared to jaws and all. Samuel L Jackson, who suddenly got caught by the sharks was cool. The story is Searching for a cure to Alzheimer's disease a group of scientists on an isolated research facility become the bait as a trio of intelligent sharks fight back. The sad part was saffron getting killed by sharks for her stupidity. The direction was not so great,though but I loved the background music and loves the Cook character. "}{"Title":"Bloody fun, of inhuman Jaws's, 1999","Date":"6 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" An addictive killer shark movie, that makes Jaws look like Tinkerbell, is the strangely but catchy titled Deep Blue Sea. Opening with a lucky escape for four youngsters, two of them hotties, one of them looking yummy in a strawberry bikini with her two assets, this pick off one by one, sea thriller, sees a group of marine biologists, the prey of their own conjuring. These sharks that are housed there, are super smart, and at Aquatica, a sea based plant in the middle of the ocean, it's boss, the impressive Burrows and her team are about to learn that. From the word Go, we're in for an exciting ride, yet no thanks to not the best of scripts. DBS is blood thirstily shocking too, arms, legs, what have you, gone in the beat of a crunch. That's what's great about, it, if sometimes over the top. Check out Rappaports demise, the shark going through him in seconds, until he's a skeleton. When things get drastic here, Rapaport doesn't adhere to Burrow's orders, where she's the one pulling the strings, owning them like cattle, where as I remember, like Maximum Overdrive, some of the employees had criminal or probationary records like Rappaport and Jane. DBS is just a bloody good terror driven thrill ride, an excuse to kill off some time of reality, and head to the big screen. As in endings like this too, with a little number survivor rate of two, or three, you the audience, can have fun guesses, who the lucky survivors are. You'll get what you're after in this film. Believe me. "},{"Title":"No other like it.","Date":"18 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I first saw Deep Blue Sea when I was about 6 years old, and I was completely captivated. I loved sharks, and I loved movies, so sharks in a movie was just the bomb-diggity. For some reason, this mediocre movie has stuck in my head over these past years, coming up in my mind rather often. It's not even that I necessarily payed attention to the story all that much, I mean, I know that there are sharks with mombo sized brains, and they're out to kill the scientists that made them that way, and the one b*tchy scientist lady won't let the guys kill the sharks. I just thought that that was awesome. Deep Blue Sea really is just mindless shark action and a chick in her underwear, with a splash of a great story line. There really is so much potential for such an interesting story, but it was downgraded by the massive amount of unnecessary violence. I, personally, have a great fondness for this film, though I have not seen it since I was 6, so don't hate me if it sucks a lot more than I am leading you to believe. It really is a movie that you should take the time to watch at some point in your life. "},{"Title":"*","Date":"25 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Horrible. It's not even so bad that it becomes funny, it's just bad. It takes itself epicly through the whole movie when in all reality, you really don't care, you just want to see sharks attack. But then, these sharks that they show you take up like half the ocean are suddenly able to maneuver through the corridors of the underwater lab.Then, these sharks, that have become SO SMART that they have engineered the entire escapade to escape, after being 2 seconds from freedom, are lured away by a little blood to their ultimate demise. I could understand if the movie was trying to be funny, but it didn't allow itself to be funny and just became non sensical. The only fun part was after Sam Jackson's big speech. And LL Cool J as the comic relief, he was just trying WAY too hard to be funny, which again, just made it boring instead of funny. I really wanted to enjoy the obscenity of the movie, but in the end it was all too forced to make it funny in any way, instead just making it more and more ridiculous and boring. "},{"Title":"deep blue sea","Date":"27 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" i really liked this movie,, you got Samuel Jackson,, a sexy Saffron Burrows,, Stellan Skarsgard,, a decent story line,, super smart sharks,, flooding, explosions,, what's not to like.. apparently some super smart scientists, have found the cure to Alzheimer's,, although later we discover that the sharks had some serious side effects... like making them even more smarter than they already are,, geesh they don't need to get smarter now do they... we all know that sharks don't get cancer.. so the team have to figure out a way to get 3 super smart sharks back in the tank before they hurt anybody at their little aquatic tank out in the middle of the ocean,, that's where the mayhem and fun start,, excellent movie i thought,, lot's of action, and surprises. "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable to watch. I had a great time!","Date":"17 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The only reason i'm giving this movie a grade this high is because it's rated way too low! I don't know why but it is! This is a great movie! And way better than Jaws 2 and 3. Sharks are made great, action is continuous as you would expect and hoped for it to be from this kind of movie, the script is dull but totally forced with action sequences which i really liked, there is blood all over the place in almost every sequence and there is even some cool dialog... What more to expect from a movie that's about gigantic sharks!!! If this was made like fifty years ago than it would be called a classic just like Jaws are. I'm not saying that this is better than Jaws because it's not, but i'm saying that when it comes to having a good time this movie gives as much of it as the Jaws. Or at least almost as much of it as the Jaws.A great shark (shark's) movie! Intelligence = zero , Action = ten !!! Good time guaranteed. "},{"Title":"When will scientists learn? Tamper with nature, and soon enough it'll bite you in the ass.","Date":"26 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It must be a real drag to not be able to watch a dumb, summer blockbuster without poring over the details of the plot, analysing the performances, and studying the special effects through the eyes of a Weta employee. I am just thankful that I can sit down and enjoy a film about over-sized, super-intelligent, man-eating sharks without worrying about insignificant things like character development, scientific accuracy, or whether a killer fish looks 100% real or not.If you are also able to divorce yourself from reality and enjoy a film as pure entertainment rather than a work of art, then Renny Harlin's Deep Blue Sea should prove to be the perfect way to spend an hour or two. The director who gave us excellent action-fests Die Hard 2, The Long Kiss Goodnight and Cliffhanger delivers yet another slam-bang, explosive and thrill-packed adventure that delivers top-quality excitement and effective scares from the get go.Set on a floating, mid-ocean research facility, the film revolves around the search for a cure for Alzheimer's using fluids extracted from the enlarged brains of genetically altered sharks. As is usually the case when scientists decide to meddle with nature, the s**t soon hits the fan a series of disasters result in the scientists being trapped in the slowly flooding facility with their hungry scientific specimens for company. Cue lots of water, loads of screaming, and bodies being torn apart with ease by massive CGI sharks.As far as I am concerned, this film really delivers the goods the cast are great, with Thomas Jane playing the hero with ease, Burrows' sexy scientist adding some T&A (giving us one hell of a gratuitous 'strip' scene), LL Cool J as the stereotypical comedy relief, and Samuel L. Jackson providing the film with the movie's standout scene, a motivational speech that doesn't quite have the desired effect; in addition, the action is slick, nail-biting, and perfectly executed by Harlin, and although not always perfectly rendered, the sharks are believable enough to be scary.8.5 out of 10, rounded up to 9 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"Theme song should be Forgetable.","Date":"10 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Everything about this movie is forgettable; the sharks, the people, the plot, the action. It's about sharks eating people on a big boat. The plot is hack, B movie material, but even judged by those standards, this film lacks luster. The filming is ridiculous. It'll be all you can do to keep from laughing when the sharks lunge out on the screen in typically comic horror fashion. All scenes, and I mean all scenes, are 100% predictable. Way too formula. The camera work is clownish. Also clownish is the way some characters ride sharks like broncos. You'll either laugh or fall asleep, one or the other. The movie seems to last forever. You will be glad when it finally ends and you can remember never to let your friends show you a movie again. "},{"Title":"Unpredictably good","Date":"19 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Well directed, good effects and an unpredictable ending. The two, what we're led to believe are the main characters, the good looking cool white guy and Dr. girl don't necessarily survive and neither does the big name actor in the flick!Some good action sequences and a nice direction. Cinematography was OK also.Worth watching.See it.If you want.Didn't know these comments had to be a minimum of 10 lines, dunno if that's a good thing or a bad thing. "},{"Title":"Worst shark movie in history?","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Saw this movie at the premiere in Norway. I was looking forward to this movie and had actually won some tickets to it in a contest, and was looking forward to a great shark action movie. Boy, was I wrong.If you are in the mood for almost 2 hours of mindless entertainment, then maybe, just maybe it's worth it. It has all the ingredients you expect from a effects driven action movie. A mindless collection of explosions, water, arguing main characters, the comic relief side kick, running from danger and plain stupidity.I was discussing movies with a friend a few days ago and I think he might be right in one thing. We have seen too many good movies to accept stupid plots and short cuts. Maybe it has ruined my ability to enjoy this kind of movies, but I don't think so. Sometimes I look for and enjoy some mindless action, but this was just too bad to be enjoyable. This was not good value for money, even if I got to see it for free. I have to give this movie a 3, based solely on the fact that we get to see a beautiful lady in her underwear.Vherna rating Stay away!PS! This is my first review, but I'm hoping to write more. Hopefully you will get to know what kind of movies I like and will be able to judge my reviews based on that. "},{"Title":"The New Jaws","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This was a fabulous movie of the 1990's of a shark movie,this was an absolute great movie that we ever saw.This had a creepy music,good acting,and perfect ways that they got killed from a shark.This is a movie that cannot be explained with words but to see the movie and tell me about it,or better tell it to your friends.This time the sharks are bigger,smarter,and tougher than any shark ever-ed made in life.This was an outstanding movie that I wished it won awards because their is no downside to this.And a movie that no women are alive and good another movie that Samuel L. Jackson to die,all movies he was in he died but this was better.Soon this will be in the top movies,and I'll be happy that I will make sure whatever it takes for this to be in the top. "}{"Title":"Just kill the guy and get it over with","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is yet another creature kills/hunts people movie. The idea has been done. Samuel L. Jackson is the only cool actor in this movie, and he dies!!...What!? The effects are okay, in my opinion. The sharks look real enough for me to believe it.The story starts off interestingly enough also, but then it takes a dive(no pun intended).First, the sharks take down a guy being lifted to a helicopter, then swim real fast at some glass, let the guy go, and the momentum causes him to break the glass....What!? That wouldn't happen! he'd just lightly tap the glass. Momentum doesn't work that way! Plus, the shark is some how not pulled into the room that had the glass broken...Huh!? Some thing else that really gets me in the flesh, is how the sharks have the opportunity to kill the blonde guy like ten different times!! And they never do!! "},{"Title":"A unique addition to any movie collection","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Seriously, this is a movie worth more recognition than it has.Granted - it does have it's flaws, but then those flaws are not mistakes in my eyes, but classic action-movie poetic licence. He wouldn't have been able to walk after cutting his feet in Die Hard, no one cared though - he's Bruce - he can do everything. See what I'm saying? This film needs to be enjoyed, not analysed.I think one of the reasons it really gets me going is because it really appeals to my avid fear of sharks and how fascinating a creature they are. It has a claustrophobia that Jaws doesn't, and the very idea of intelligent sharks to me is terrifying. So, it works as a horror and is also a really good slice of shiny action. "},{"Title":"One most of the most skillfully crafted at sea thrillers I've ever seen","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" DEEP BLUE SEA, in my opinion, is one of the most of the most skillfully crafted at sea thrillers I've ever seen. It really kept me on the edge of my seat. Despite the fact that I liked watching the sharks, I got really startled when they suddenly popped up out of the water or tried to devour someone. I just have to say that Renny Harlin has scored a huge hit. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that the performances were superior, the production design was beautiful, the cast was perfectly chosen, and the costumes were perfectly designed. Now, in conclusion, to all you Renny Harlin fans who haven't seen this skillfully crafted at sea thriller, I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"One of the best shark movies since JAWS!","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I loved this movie, it was great & in my opinion like I stated above in my summary, is one of the best shark movies since JAWS, the story has it that a group of scientists are working on a cure for Alzheimer's disease, while stationed at an old abandon building in the middle of the sea, their test subjects however are sharks & soon these guys (The sharks) take a mind of their own & start to attack the scientists one by one & they must ban together & try to find a way to escape them & avoid being on their menu, what's even worse, these sharks are much smarter due to all the experiments being run on them, making them twice as deadly as ever before! I think what I liked most about DEEP BLUE SEA was it's unpredictability, you'll be quiet surprised at who lives & who dies here, another thing too was the fact that DEEP BLUE SEA played up on several suspenseful scenes & concentrated more on thrills than out & out gore, at first I thought we were going to deal with a teen horror movie with sharks, since there's an opening scene with teens partying on a boat when they are all the sudden attacked by one of our finny friends, but was happy to learn that the teens had nothing to do with the actual story, there are plenty of good characters & direction here & each character is played by really good actors, that make their roles all that more interesting, all in all DEEP BLUE SEA is definitely worth the rental, it's very memorable & always interesting & is a must see for those who enjoyed films like JAWS.**** stars "},{"Title":"Deep Blue Sea is a thrilling, sleek, clever movie that will send chills up your spine","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Finally, a shark movie that doesn't disappoint. Saffron Burrows and Thomas Jane are excellent, as are Jaqueline McKenzie and Samuel L. Jackson. The movie has surprising twists the shark sending the doc at the glass and the water breaking, the death of Susan and the visual effects are nearly perfect. The movie never gets dull and the film looks and feels like a lot of effort was put into it. Renny Harlin directs effortlessly and the score for the film is terrifying. The sharks could use work, but the film is unusually genuine. With surprises around every corner, a creepy atmosphere, brilliant actors and a invigorating story, Deep Blue Sea is one hell of a fun movie that is even better than Jaws! "},{"Title":"I Jumped More Watching This Than Any Other Film In My Life!","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Just got this on DVD from my library last night. I cannot believe I had never heard of this film! I also am amazed at the low rating given it here,what do you all know,LOL! This movie absolutely CREAMS Jaws,IMHO! Jaws is Finding Nemo on the scare-scale compared to this,but unlike Nemo,Jaws is a total BORE-FEST! I wish it had no offensive language,but it does.Though not to the extant of so many of the films today. Wow, I was so on edge after watching this,that I had to wind down a bit by playing a word game on my computer before going to bed,LOL! Intense,VERY INTENSE!If you enjoy having the BE-JEEBERS scared out of you,go for it,LOL! I must warn you,THIS IS NOT FOR KIDS! The violence of the shark attacks are extremely GRAPHIC. I really also loved the story in this movie,very interesting and different,premise. Have fun! "},{"Title":"It was bad enough as mindless eating machines","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The ultimate in summer movie exploitation, this takes the Jaws concept and adds in the usual genetic tinkering to give our toothy adversaries an added advantage brain-power! The goal was laudable a cure for Alzheimer's; the side-effect not good. Jackson plays a rich investor who decides to check out the progress on this work at a remote installation in the middle of the ocean. Very bad timing. Pretty soon, the crew and scientists are being picked off by a trio of nasty man-eaters which can think their way around our technology. Current special FX allow us to see stuff which was not possible a few years earlier. Needless to say, most of the cast are chewed into hamburger and the filmmakers do not spare us the full details of the various dismemberments, but, curiously, the effect is less gross and more in the vein of cartoon-style violence. Perhaps the modern mind instinctively knows that what we're seeing is not really happening, despite the incredible realism. Then again, if your DVD player is capable of freeze-frame/slow motion, you may notice in a couple of spots the fake cartoony blood inserted digitally. The strength of the flic is its ability to surprise the viewer, who is probably wise to the ways of this horror genre. Of the cast, Thomas Jane, a relative newcomer, did show movie star potential. "},{"Title":"Renny Harlin's best movie","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Jaws is without a doubt the best shark movie and could never ever be dethroned,but Deep Blue Sea is the second best Shark movie. Renny Harling who for the most part is a blah director actually establishes fear in Deep Blue Sea and creates a cold hearted ocean setting.The Sharks are evil in Deep Blue Sea you feel it more here than Jaws.The performances are actually pretty good,it is too bad Samuel L Jackson and Stellan Skarsgård are eaten so fast because they are the most talented cast members but their deaths are fun.The premise is kind of strange,a group of scientists produce super intelligent sharks to cure Alzheimers.Of course there is a rich man(Jackson) a scientist who must have their work done even if it costs lives(Burrows) and a hero(Jane).The CGI in Deep Blue Sea is believable,and doesn't overkill the story(Renny should have thought about this when doing Exorcist) The movie is successful because of the dark setting and elements and the actors churn out great performances.LL Cool J actually acts well,even though his comedy must be present.The shark movie is revisited and is given great treatment for the first time since 75... "},{"Title":"Sit back, relax, and enjoy the action","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Pretty much all race for survival movies like this don't have that deep of a plot line, so I don't know why critics and movie reviewers keep nit-picking at it. I also notice that a lot of critics and movie reviewers have made bad comments about the acting, but I found absolutely nothing wrong with it. Particularly in the dramatic scenes, actors like Samuel L. Jackson did a wonderful job. In addition, it was not like all aspects of this movie were fake. Sure the idea of increasing the shark's brain mass to make it smarter was a tad out there, but the way the sharks act, their attack patterns, and their coordination were all incredibly accurate. When I first saw this film 5 years ago, I was just stunned by the quality, suspense, and impact of scenes. The graphics and CGI were well mastered, and the sharks DID look fairly realistic (unlike Jaws). Any person seeking an action packed film, this is the one. Too much nit-picking on a film like this could completely ruin it. "},{"Title":"Great Plot - weak dialog, acting","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw the beginning, I was really looking forward to a great entertainer. The opening scenes, with the exception of the poorly acted scene by Ms. Burrows was a good opening. What was her appeal anyway - bad actor, not much of a body - so what am I missing? The seaplane sequence was good, location was perfect and the whole premise had promise. Then we bring in the morons. The acting was ridiculous, except for Mr. Jackson. The rumor was he asked to be killed off early when he realized the stinking heap the movie was headed toward becoming. In short, Hollywood, f**ked up another great storyline with ridiculous CGI effects and bad casting. A saving grace were the mechanical sharks - I have never seen such menace under water.  "}{"Title":"Wow! Did this movie blow!","Date":"7 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I remember watching this movie a few years back and thinking it was all right, but at the time I was pretty drunk. Now with the veil of booze lifted from my eyes, I can't believe I sat through this movie the first time and what's even sadder, I watched it once again today. This time however, I did laugh at how poor the writing was and how it stole all it could from every shark movie made until this point. It seems that the writer and Director figured that if they could give the sharks a new attitude that some how it would all work. Well it didn't. This movie would need a complete re-write and a new director just to suck - never mind being watchable. The movie was one tiered cliché after another, which I found funny, such as the shark sneaking up behind a character in tiny flooded office. The giant fin slicing its way past a 3 foot high desk with all the scary music playing was hysterical. There was one other scene where an average sized guy try's to pry open a bulk head with his fingers, but of course that didn't work, that would be stupid. So he pulls a Bowie Knife off his waistband, slams it into the crack of the two giant steel flood doors and pry's them open! WOW, just...wow.The movie was so bad in fact, that Sam Jackson asked to be killed off early just so he could limit his screen time in this steaming waste of time.Watch Discovery Channel's shark week if you want to see some really cool shark footage. If you want the Hollywood shark treatment, watch Jaws 1 & 2, they are great but not the other sequels, they suck to. In the event that you do sacrifice 90 minutes of your life for the sake of viewing this piece of crap, be prepared to enjoy it on an ironic level, other than that I guess all I have to say is, I told you so.I almost forgot, just because some idiot took the time to make a movie doesn't mean you have to watch it, life is too short.  "},{"Title":"deservedly confident enough to know that it doesn't need a plot","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This film is deservedly confident enough to know that it doesn't really need a well-thought out exposition because it knows it can more than make up for it in the second act. Essentially the film starts out, experts in a field I can't even remember, visiting some sort of scientific facility where they, for some purpose or another, genetically engineer sharks to make them smarter. Everyone who comes to this meeting, even Samuel L. Jackson who spouts off wise sayings as if he's preparing for his upcoming role as a Jedi knight in Star Wars, is pretty boring and underdeveloped. The only character who catches our attention is the resident cook, played by L.L. Cool J, who had the aura of being a little smarter than he lets off to be. Later, he is one of the people we root for most.The exposition is a little bit sloppy and for the purpose of the audience's intelligence, it would have been nicer if the writer's had at least put in an effort to make a coherent story behind the action. Nevertheless, we're able to discern that these sharks are genetically engineered and that the beautiful but cold and humorless Dr. Susan McAllister, in the name of science, made the mistake of engineering these sharks beyond scientifically acceptable levels. Around the time, we learn this secret, the action gets under way and the sharks have escaped. The struggle among the group of scientists to make it out of the complex alive is an incredibly terrifying ride, and we're desperately rooting for these people because the sight of seeing one of them eaten by a shark is pretty graphic (fair warning to people who have weak stomachs). Ultimately, and I won't say which ones, some make it out alive and some don't, which raises a curious case of lifeboat ethics (as in which ones deserved to survive and which ones didn't). The struggle of Dr. McAllister, was interesting too, as her genuine determination to cure diseases with the experiment that triggered this disaster, comes to turn into regret and more. **1/2 stars out of 4 "},{"Title":"not very smart but dumb fun WARNING SPOILERS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! WARNING!!!!!!! SPOILERS!!!!!!!!!","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  not very smart but dumb fun features some lame dialog and a script that is uneven but basically this is an entertaining mindless flick that we all need to watch once in awhile the acting is okay Saffron Burrows is okay has a thick accent but has to suffer from poor lines at times but she comes out okay LL cool J is hilarious and provides excellent comic relief i loved him there is a cool and hilarious moment where he fires up the lighter and says you killed my bird that was pretty funny stuff and boom they explode Samuel L Jackson is okay but there is some lame effects where he gets chopped it's obviously animation or something Thomas Jane does good and was pretty likable however there is problems  like the dull first half and some lame effects at times and the uneven script and the sharks look very robotic still i  had fun with this as it is pretty entertaining and an exciting second half and actually tense finale and it is cool to see the sharks smart and control the humans mind and play mind games with them overall well worth a watch just put your brain in check and ignore the films faults *** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Sea of Deep Blue","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Contains Spoiler!! Dr. Saffron Burrows is trying to figure out a way to cure brain cancer and is experimenting on sharks to do so. Once again, people trying to figure out a way to combat natural diseases start messing around with mother nature and guess what? It comes back to bite them in the ass.During a really bad storm at their facility, which is being visited by businessman funder Samuel L. Jackson (Ronny Cox appears uncredited), the sharks break loose and start eating anyone and everyone within reach. The other female scientist in all this is eaten alive in a most unpleasant way the shark literally bites her in the crotch as he devours her! The two biggest shocks here is that Samuel L. Jackson and Saffron Burrows actually get eaten, even though you'd swear they would live simply by virtue of the fact that Sam was the big name star here and Saffron was the main character (but I guess that's the price she has to pay for messing with mother nature).One of many Jaws rip offs that falls so short of the mark. Thomas Jane seems to have a knack for bringing a touch of humanity to tough guy characters though. LL Cool J is kind of funny as the cook.I tell you Preacher... I quit this job. - Carter Blake (Thomas Jane) "},{"Title":"A Good Popcorn Flick **Possible Spoilers**","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw this movie on TV and it was definitely enjoyable. The plot wasn't deep by any standards. It was only there to provide a back story for the main point of the movie a fight for survival against three giant, intelligent, and most definitely aggressive sharks.But the depth and cleverness of the plot, or lack thereof, doesn't matter in a movie where you have sharks literally throwing people underwater and turning oven knobs. These things might turn some people away but I think they show that the director was having a fun time with the movie. In the case of the oven knob, I think he was just getting a little silly, which is alright.One good thing about the film is that it doesn't always set up deaths in the cliched way that these disaster/animal attack films normally do. It keeps you guessing. There were was only one time when I was absolutely sure when the character was dead meat and that was just before they died. The way that death was set up was very well done because it seemed like the director intentionally built up that anticipation of the character's death to create tension. The character may as well have worn a sign saying, Shark Food. That scene has a special place in my heart.All around, the acting was at least believable. There were no terrible actors in this movie. If there was an actor that wasn't as good as the rest, they were killed off earlier on. At least that's what it seemed like to me , but just like everyone else I have my own standards. Who knows what my opinion of Samuel L. Jackson is?Anyway, one of my biggest gripes with the movie is that the computer special effects are sometimes a little iffy (i.e. you can tell that they were done on a computer or they defy reality in some small way). Fortunately, those moments are relatively quick and brief, so they're not that prominent.One other problem I had is that the sharks change size. When they're out in the open water they are gigantic monsters capable of eating an entire human in one bite. Yet somehow they can manage to swim in the flooded hallways of the labs in waist deep water.Overall, despite its flaws and occasional silliness, I think it's a fun and exciting movie. My advice is to go rent the DVD or VHS, get a bowl of popcorn, turn off all the lights, clear your mind, and have a good time. That's the best way to watch a movie like Deep Blue Sea.My Vote - 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Better than most of these","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Kept me into it and I tune out most of these.  Nothing special but just enough suspense and cleverness to hold you.  Nice placing of the funny side gags.  Effects decent and no wooden efforts.  These guys did get wet. Touch just enough of the usual human phobias to push the buttons. They should all be at least this good. "},{"Title":"Uncool J","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Forget the Jaws comparisons.  Even the many Jaws ripoffs that followed it's initial release make Deep Blue Sea pale by comparison.  Aside from decent performances from Thomas Jane and Michael Rapaport, the best performances were given by the sharks themselves.  What bothered me the most about this film, however, was the feeling that it would have been a much different, and much better, film had it not seemingly been structured around LL Cool J. Perhaps I am mistaken, but it seemed to me that someone decided that his otherwise needless role should be beefed up throughout this film, with scenes created solely for the purpose of making him seen as some kind of action hero, possibly for any future roles he might have in his career.Granted, the implausibility factor was off the charts throughout Deep Blue Sea, but that is something one takes for granted when watching such a film. Nothing I will spoil about the plot here, such as it is.  The special effects were hit and miss, though I will say that it would have been a difficult proposition (as well as extremely expensive) to make some of the scenes presented here more realistic.All in all, this is a tough movie to rate.  For the indiscriminating sci-fi/horror buff, this does contain all the elements needed to sit back with a cold one and enjoy, but if you're looking for  a film that has more to offer than the occasional that was a pretty cool attack, I think you'll want to look elsewhere.   "},{"Title":"so another killer shark is on the loose..","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  well i never really saw jaws, so i couldnt begin to compare it to this one. so if you have seen it, just to refresh my memory, were the sharks pumped with drugs to increase it's intellegence, and was the base where the experiences were taken place under the water? well, it kinda connected the dots and just blurted out to the viewers that the killer sharks are going to go crazy and attack all who pump their brains full of drugs. i found it to be gory and the sharks did look fine to me, but most found them to be too fake. but i didnt praise the shark's appearance, i just called it fine and that is all i said.  l l cool j put on a ok performance, but he never really sold the fact that he had a possibility of getting eaten by the drugged up sharks. and by the way, what was the lady trying to accomplish when the sharks gained their smart points? did it ever cross the line in her head that they could come up with a plan and counterattack the scientists and take over the entire ocean and breed and breed and breed until the ocean would never be safe to human kind again?  i seem to have the ability to stretch plots and see beyond the picture and see the little details, even if i come up with some of them. the gore is out there, and is generally detectable, but for some reason, the movie entertained me once i put my brain on hold for a hour and a half.  (C C-) "},{"Title":"Nail biting thrill ride","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I am so surprised at all of the negative reviews on this movie.  No, this isn't an oscar caliber movie nor is it likely to be one of you all time favorites, but come on, if you saw this on the big screen with the lights out and the SFX jammed to the max, are you going to tell me that you weren't the least bit scared?  Being a horror film buff, I am not scared that easily, but this movie scared the crap out of me.  Not so much as the far superior Jaws did to me or hell, the entire population of the world, but Deep Blue Sea still had it's fair share of thrills and shocks.The thrills start the second Thomas Jane's character is swimming with a large tiger shark trying to get a license plate out of its mouth (nod to Jaws, perhaps?).  The rest of the movie is equally as gripping, just like other Renny Harlin movies (Cliffhanger, Die Hard 2), we have a disaster situation in a hostile environment with lethal bad guys trying to kill the innocent.  Yeah, there were a lot of unbelievable parts in it, but I find that unbelievability can be ignored (and ONLY ignored)when there is substance, in this movie's case, thrills and suspense.  I saw this in the theater and it literally had me on the edge of my seat...a rarity for me. Did it have a profound effect in scaring me to go back into the water? Nope, I lived on the beach for the better part of my life, and the only movie to ever do that to me was of course, Jaws.  But it did play on my biggest fears, namely fear of drowning and fear of being eaten alive.  And yeah, it is pretty obvious who will make it and who won't...but not all, and everyone who has seen this will know exactly what I'm talking about. There are two charcters in particular that I did not expect to see die, nor when they did, which made the film all the more shocking.Yeah this movie has its fair share of dumb moments, but it makes up for it with suspense and thrills.  I thought the CGI was quite good, though others have oddly complained about it.  They also used real mechanical sharks in some scenes which look really cool and are a welcome site in the era of relentless CGI.All in all, a pretty scary flick.  Read all of the negative reviews on this site you want...I'll agree with a lot of their points, but if you watch this one in the dark with the surround sound on max, then I will guarantee that you will be scared.  I think a lot of people may have caught this one on cable with all of the good parts edited out and in a room full of people that turned it into sarcastic fodder, and I probably would too if I were in that situation.  But, if you rent this for a good scare, and appreciate horror films for actually being scary, then you will not be disapointed. 8/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Thrilling, good and interesting.","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I think is film was very good. There was a good mix or horror, comedy, action and gore. Here's points of different sections of the movieHorror 7/10Comedy 6/10Gore   9/10Plot  10/10Action 9/10Thrills8/10Overall9/10Brilliant. "}{"Title":"Too bad","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It's just like they said let's show everything Spielberg didn't dare to in Jaws. That could've been fun, but it wasn't. Sharks are quite nicely crafted but it's mostly a bon, appetit, fish adventure. Kinda reminded me of Alien, too. Plot is foreseeable and even Sam Jackson can't help it out. Sharks are terrible, sharks are dreadful - especially, when You're in the water, nothing new there. Watch it, if You like - but don't be too disappointed afterwards when You ask Yourself what a lot of nice things could I have done instead of watching that. "},{"Title":"Deep Blue Sea = Fun Action Flick!!","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, Ok, Ok so its not JAWS. But this fish movie has teeth. and it was great slam bang action fun. The dialog was ok but not great, the plot was cool. But then again I am a sucker for films like this. Where humans think there smarter than we really are. I didn't like LL Cool Jays character to much, but than again I am not a big fan of his acting ablites or lack there of. The rest of the cast was great though, and they had enough suprises to keep you on the edge of your seat for the whole 90 minutes to two hours it was on. But don't take my word for it go rent it or buy it you won't be disapointed. Just don't go in thinking your going to see JAWS because then you will be really shocked. "},{"Title":"Good Fun. Enjoy it.","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a stupidly entertaining movie.  My only criticism would be the casting of LL Cool J. It is typical of Hollywood to have a token black man who happens to be an ex con; turned man of God; carrying a large Crucifix around his neck; giving us quotes from the Bible. Pleeeassee! How many times have seen that before. Look past that and it is an enjoyable popcorn flick.  "},{"Title":"JAWS got smarter.","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This may seem like another sequel to Jaws, but in a way it's very different. This movie brought back a dying francise, I mean the shark stories were getting pretty old. A determined scienctist(Saffron Burrows) makes a formula to increase brain patterns, in hopes of making a cure for Alzheimer's disease. She and a couple of scientists work at an under water lab. Tests her formula on sharks. But it backfires, has the bad end results, the sharks are getting smarter by  are in danger the minute. The lives of the people are in danger, we wonder will they make it out alive? A great shark film. Okay maybe the acting may seem a little lame. But the suspence keeps this movie rolling. LL Cool J keeps the humor at a float. "},{"Title":"(SPOILERS) Not your average fish story...","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  While searching for a cure to Alzheimers disease, a group of scientists must try to escape from the underwater research facility as three killer sharks begin to hunt them down. Well, there it all is. Right there in a nutshell. Samuel L. Jackson, who is the film's central character up until he meets his demise right in the middle of the movie, had no enthusiasm in making this picture at all. It is quite obvious. He had some fun during the making of it, but all in all, I don't think it was a film credit he wanted attributed to him.On the other hand, the remaining cast members, Thomas Jane, Saffron Burrows and rap star LL Cool J all have the time of their lives as they fend of the killer sharks. Now, only a moron could not tell what film this was inspired by. Speilberg's smash 70's hit, JAWS was the grand-daddy of all action adventure movies, and this film is its closest grandson.All in all, this film is a smart, entertaining creature flick. There are some notable special effects sequences, but other than that, there wasn't much else to brag about. Came out right around the same time LAKE PLACID did, which was probably what did this film in, as LAKE PLACID was a far better movie. This one still gets recognized though.DEEP BLUE SEA gets 4/5. "},{"Title":"A best!","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I honestly have never seen this movie until it aired on TV. I thought it was great even then. I wanted to buy the movie, so I did and noticed that the television version was stupid because they had edited all the gore scenes out. What fun is that? I love this movie and I still remain watching it to this day. I don't care what other people have to say on it, if they think it's horrible, then that's their judgement! I loved it! It was a great cast, not too many I recognized besides Samuel L. Jackson, LL CooL J, and Stellan Skarsgard. I found a fresh new face, Thomas Jane and Saffron Burrows! They are such great actors and I am happy to come across them. The movie was great, but the death scenes seem a little too computerized and you could completely tell. That was a negative thing-and oh yeah, the very end where 'Susan' uses herself as bait! I mean, c'mon stupid thing to do! Hello!!?!! Anyways, I thought the movie was great and I give it a full 10 for excellent!! Thanks "},{"Title":"Better Than Jaws","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea was one of those movies where I didn't expect much but I got far more than I expected.It's better than Jaws (maybe it's unfair to compare movies of different eras)and it has a lot of suspense throughout. The sharks themselves are very very mean indeed and make Jaws look like a goldfish.There are great characters in the movie too and unlike most movies the ones who die are the ones you'd expect to survive and the ones you expected to become food are the ones who survive. The movie is fantastic from the get-go right up until the conclusion and the special effects are top-notch too.I highly recommend this movie. Roll on Deep Blue Sea 2 sometime. "},{"Title":"Kicked Jaws a$s","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, you read that right. I thought this movie was much better than Jaws. Don't get me wrong I love Jaws and it will always be a classic considering it was made in the 70's. I can't find Jaws anymore without that damn letterbox. When I see a movie I want to be able to see the whole screen. Deep Blue Sea had better graphics; I really liked seeing the guts and blood come out when the sharks tear them in half. I expecially liked it when Samual Jackson got devoured during his speech. He deserved it.  I didn't care for the female lead, she got on my nerves by letting the shark out when the shark bit off that one guy's arm. I always thought that it was the bird's voice that talked, but I was wrong. It turned out to be a human voice. I guess people don't want their parrots to curse. People who compare this to Jaws is way off and doesn't understand movies at all. Jaws attacked because that it is what sharks do.Deep Blue Sea sharks attacked because they were pissed off (and can you blame them?)  I mean these sharks were captured from their home and kept captive with daily shots. If you have a brain and aren't to critical of every little stupid thing then I would recommend this movie. 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Fun Movie. Full Of surprises, Blood and water. AND HUMOR!!","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a FUN movie. Why does everyone say it sucks? They say it's unrealistic because Sharks can't become smart because of testing and since it can't happen, It's not scary. Those are the same people who p*** their pants at Freddy Krueger, who kills people in their sleep, which is less real than Smart Sharks.It's just a good movie. It's got some funny scenes with Bird and Preacher(LL Cool J), some cool death scenes (Both Types Shark killing Human, Human Killing Shark). I won't give anything away from who dies, who doesn't. But you can predict who will survive and who won't from the beginning, but be surprised, because 2 people surprised me. I picked at the beginning who would die at the first time I saw it. (*I sat there, point people out* He'll die, and Him, and Him, And Her, and Him, She'll survive, and Him, But He'll Die) Who gives a crap about scientific facts? Just sit pack and enjoy the ride. my Rating 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"It's deeper than you'd think","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Guys, it's not another natural disaster flick that wouldn't have actually have been that bad if a whole bunch of people hadn't pretended that they didn't notice all of the signs!!! Well, it kind of is. But there is a heart to the movie. Meaning, the lead character does actually have a motive for being ignorant. The lead doctor had experienced the terrible side effects of alzheimer's first hand (her father) and therefore had reason to do....what she did (I don't wanna say anything to get myself blacklisted). And it actually is quite frightening at times--especially if you try to recreate the movie theatre effect at home by turning down the lights so low that you're running up your electric bill for no light and put on the movie with surround sound and convince all of your friends who are afraid of sharks to watch it because you told them it was really a musical!!!      However, the one thing that could ruin the movie and the message is getting too caught up on the unlikeliness of the situation or the at times, really fake appearances of the sharks!!!! DON'T FALL INTO THAT TRAP, MY FRIENDS. This movie took a huge risk by not only having a point (these days.....) but also showing the whole shark! Remember, Jaws.....parts of shark. So this is different. So take a deep breath and dive into the deep blue sea---but don't really unless you know what you're doing because you'll miss the movie if you're off diving somewhere where there are crazy sharks that are obviously more intelligent than you lurking. "}{"Title":"Surprisingly scary!","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was one of the first movies to scare me in ages! It is one of the best horrors of the 90's! If you want an exciting movie then look no further.On a man made island experiments with sharks and the protein in their brain have been taking place so a cure for Alzheimers can be found. To find enough protein they're going to have to make the sharks brains bigger but as that happens the sharks get really smart. They mutate. Then things go wrong and people start dying.The were bad points. There were people that died that I didn't want to die especially the last person that dies. A character dies before he is meant to die in the script.The scariest parts all had Thomas Jane's character in them because he's the one character you don't want to die.Another favourite character of mine the directer tried to make an unlikeable character but she is so sexy I had to like her. In one scene she is in her bra and knickers! Thats my favourite scene probably.One character Sherman Dudley, the cook owns an obnoxious bird who does nothing but make fun of him. During a shark attack he nearly dies an ironic death.This is probably the second or third best horror film of the 90's. This film is better than Jaws in my opinion and that is some acheivement.9 outta 10. "},{"Title":" `Jaws' meets `Deep rising'","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  At first sight one may think this is a far from original movie since we have seen dangerous sharks and other wild creatures in too many thrillers before. Some famous, but not always great films in this genre are `Jaws', `Tremors', the `Alien' trilogy and of course `Deep rising'. Although this one does not divers much from the above mentioned movies, it certainly does combine elements from those titles in a superb way.                                                                                                       The sharks look more vicious than `Jaws', and they are way more intelligent. (Here we see the element of genetically experiments from `Jurassic park'.) Quite unusual for a movie of this genre is the character development we are treated on. It also shows us that the line between good and evil can be extremely thin. All this gives the movie an extra dimension. Despite the serious touch `Deep blue sea' remains a fun movie witch does not take itself too serious. Just watch the cook fight the shark and you'll understand! It's the loose approach you know from `Tremors' and `Deep rising'. Isn't there anything wrong left to mention? Yes, there is since Samuel L. Jackson does not get enough screenplay. His departure from the movie is abrupt, but funny to.                                                                                          In conclusion I can recommend this flick to everybody who is in for an exciting and funny evening.       "},{"Title":"Unrealistic, dodgy special effects - but entertaining.","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw Deep blue sea for the first time a few days ago. But I didn't expect to see such dodgy special effects at times. Nor did i expect to see it rush into the action so quick -too quick, i think. This is not a good thing, in my book. The main attribute about 'Deep blue sea' is the entertainment and suspense. It dosen't beat Jaws, but its still a good shark movie. But what weighs it down is the unrealistic things about it- the way the sharks act. I mean, the shark turning the oven switch with it's fin? C'mon. And one of the guys manages to kill the shark in the room before it gets to him? He'd be dead in 2 minutes if it were real.Pros Very Entertaining and full of suspense. Cons Sometimes weak special effects and unrealistic.Overall, not a bad movie. 70% "},{"Title":"Vicious Fishes","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a jump movie, pure and simple. It's sole purpose is to give the audience a few chances to jump when something unexpected happens. It's a fairly small cast, so one jump per menu item means a lot of meaningless splashing around in-between.The CGI sharks frequently look phony; the technology has been advancing so rapidly that what was state-of-the-art only a few years ago now seems primitive.Bottom line An okay time-killer if you want to see people shredded like bloody Enron files. Just set your popcorn in a safe place. It spills when you jump. "},{"Title":"Duh???","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Just to point out to Mr Dugger, if he ever returns to this page - the reason they were making the sharks brains larger was to increase the size of the part from which they hoped to extract a cure for Alzheimer's - as is very clearly explained in the film - and the side effect WAS that the sharks got smarter - does this have any scientific reality - Nope indeedy. Is there a scientific explanation for your inability to follow a plot-line blazed in handy pointers throughout the film - I suspect so and investigating brain growth stimulants may be the way ahead for you. I suggest you buy a DVD of the film and get to work.... "},{"Title":"JAWS 5 unless you want to be pedantic and call this an original idea","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Continuing his shining run of mega-costly flopperoos, Harlin back-ends the ever-worsening JAWS series with this coulda been way better marine epic. Having blown well over 1/4 billion dollars on THE LONG KISS GOODNIGHT and the infamous CUTTHROAT ISLAND, which studio bosses  observed failing to recoup barely 50% of production costs, one might wonder what contacts Harlin has in the industry that saw him back at the helm of another $100 million plus box-office wannabe.Okayish in the plot development department - a marine scientist, Dr Susan McCallister (irritatingly played by charmless Saffron Burrows)  uses government funding to tamper with a few big fishes to come up with, what one character in the movie refers to as a shark with the brain the size of a V8 engine!  Little wonder then the sharks are a little miffed at their constricted living quarters in the multi billion dollar underwater research laboratory complex. Quite understandably, they begin to kill people.  This is where the wheels irredeemably fall off! The shark attacks are so laughably digitised that the average viewer will fall about laughing. Equally as bad as the unintentionally hysterical swimming aliens in ALIEN RESURRESTION, the demise of Samuel L. Jackson in particular is awesomely stupid. I take nothing away here since every second reviewer on average has made mention of this particular character's exit! Great water effects one has to admit, but how much flooding of corridors can one viewer take during any two hour period?Were this not enough, we witness another character chomped up in a sharks jaw for some minutes, his guts turning the water red only to find him casually extricating himself from his indelicate position and a short time later taking it up to the shark with a an assault rifle, wearing a few band-aids and a small bandage! This is crap!One could be generous and say that DEEP BLUE SEA offers a degree of entertainment value. One could be equally astute and declare the film a thinking person's nightmare and a technical person's insult to intelligence. Still, JAWS 3 and IV were no better!  "},{"Title":"High octane shark thriller","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Everyone  will inevitably compare this to Jaws,but the comparison isn't really fair. This is a solidly entertaining action/horror/thriller. Scientists  have genetically engineered huge intelligent sharks in an effort to cure Alzheimers disease. Naturally,something goes wrong.This is a high octane shark thriller that grabs you by the throat and never lets go. The actors handle their jobs well.Special notice goes to Thomas Jane and LL Cool J. If you want a movie that gives you plenty of scares,some laughs,a cool Samuel L. Jackson death scene,a good Trevor Rabin score,and no boredom,this one's for you. Check it out! "},{"Title":"a good film,dodgy special effects","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A few glaring flaws i.e the really dodgy c.g sharks and dying people (mr Jackson). The action set pieces are brilliant, and the acting good enough,but the direction whilst good,is not flawless like that of jaws,i think Harlen got carried away with special effects, and used them in favour of shocking scares.Still quite scary and entertaining,a very good film. "},{"Title":"Cool, yet gory","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I thought that this movie was very good.  It had a good plot, good acting, and good characters.  The movie takes place in an isolated place in the ocean.  Where a group of scientists are searching for the cure of the Alzheimers disease.  While one of the characters is feeding the shark, the shark attacks the character and the other scientists are about to kill the sharks until one VERY dumb character frees the shark.  A huge storm approaches and the have to get the victim out of their.  When the helicopter arrives,  the sharks are smart enough and take the place down.  Now it is up to the scientists to get out of their alive before they become minor snacks for the shark.The acting is superb over everybody.  Thomas Jane plays the good character well and I enjoyed him.  Samuel L. Jackson's character is cool but he is not onscreen long enough.  LL Cool J plays a good comic relief and whenever he was onscreen, I enjoyed him.  Michael Rapaport acts well and I enjoyed his character probably most of all.  The rest of the characters are well-acted, especially the British lady. She's good.Overall this movie is EXTREMELY gory.  These sharks makes Jaws look like a creampuff.  I am VERY surprised that this movie went OK with the censors. I mean these sharks have more gore than 4 Friday the 13th Movies combined! Everybody either gets ripped in half, limbs ripped off or something sick. personally, I did not enjoy all of the gore, but overall this movie was good enough.  Rating 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Straightforward, involving, serviceable.","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The first scene is obligatory, and once the movie gets truly started, feels like it wasn't even necessary.  Party kids on a boat, shark in the water ... exactly what you'd expect.After that, however, it's anybody's guess.  This movie is not big on science... we never get any juicy details about the evolution of sharks, the ways they hunt, their place in the world ... But let's face it, this is not an intellectual's film.  The characters aren't there to educate us, they exist to be eaten in random, unguessable order.That's the strong point of this film, really.  We all know what the plot has to be like.  Beyond that first scene, we're ushered into it with succinct, mechanical efficiency.  Once it gets started, however, the writers and director do a very good job of making sure we cannot guess who's next on the lunch table.  There are no heavy-handed camera tricks to clue us in, there's no signature dun-dun, dun-dun, music, very few giveaway lines of dialogue.Giveaway lines ... you know, like, some guy says, Well, I'm glad it wasn't me!  He might as well dive into shark's mouth himself and get it over with.Good rentable film.  Thank goodness it doesn't try to crib off Jaws. Not big on philosophy, not big on science.  Big on chomping nonetheless. "}{"Title":"Good...if you like this kind of thing","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Some of the reviews of this film leave me bemused - what exactly did you expect when you went to the cinema or rented the DVD? This film delivers on all the fronts you should expect it to deliver on - and it's more fun & entertaining than many more well known monster flicks such as Jurassic Park. As for the sharks, they are the real stars of the film. The Samuel L Jackson 'bit' is pretty unexpected if you are being honest as well. If you want great acting, great suspense and an insight into human nature....go see Jaws...if you want some popcorn fun with good thrills, some laughs and good use of CGI...then this is a good choice of film.  "},{"Title":"Is it stupid?  Yes.  Is it fun?  You bet. 7/10","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Cheesy, borderline retarded, and directed with glee by Renny Harlin.  Deep Blue Sea is not the classic that Jaws was, nor does it want to be.  As a monster movie, the film succeeds brilliantly.  Stupid people get caught in an under water facility; stupid people make big super smart sharks; stupid people get eaten by sharks.Deep Blue Sea is fun, worth a watch, and if you are into violent deaths in the cheese sort of way, you might dig it like I did. "},{"Title":"nice try","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Failed sci-fi saga which takes the premise of the classic film Jaws and dumbs it down into a far-fetched monster movie. After a devastating hurricane, a group of scientists find themselves trapped inside an aquatic habitat in the middle of nowhere. To make matters worse, they're being hunted by supersmart, genetically-engineered sharks that have gotten out of control as the result of a ludicrous experiment. Occasionally exciting, with good special effects, but lacks a truly spine-chilling atmosphere, has unappealing characters, corny dialogue, and a ridiculous story. Lower your standards and it's an effective way to pass the time. ** "},{"Title":"sinks to the bottom of the sea","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea is based on an extremely silly and far-fetched premise done strictly for the purpose of creating a monster eats people movie. It lacks the intensity and thrilling suspense of Jaws, and the dialogue is extremely poor. The cast and special effects are pretty good, but it's mostly just a bunch of one-note characters running around, arguing, and never being able to make the right decisions. If you like senseless violence accompanied by a weak story and no scares, then tune in. 1/4 "},{"Title":"Did the directors son do the CGI?","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I remember this movie's TV ads when it was still running in the cinemas in Norway - boy am I glad I never went!There's nothing logical about this movie - just weird things happening one after another. I suppose if Jurassic Park could be real, so could this, but don't expect fancy graphics. The CGI in this movie is just horrible, and the actors seem like they're unsure how they should utter their next line each time one of them has something to say.The time I just spent watching this movie wasn't completely wasted, LL Cool J was the only thing that kept this movie above water(literally speaking). Perhaps it'll do better as a 'crowd-having-fun-with-alcohol-and-watching' kind of movie. 3/10. "},{"Title":"Dull and Drab","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I thought that this movie wasn't something to inspire me, more like something to put me asleep, like how many times can you watch a jaws clone? I thought that this was dull and drab (as already said!)I couldn't understand why people would want to see this movie, it wasn't something that i could understand, it had very little relevance to anything factual and to be honest, half the time i thought that it was verging on plain studpidity (Watch this movie when you're drunk, thats the only way that i can honestly say you will enjoy this movie, i don't know any other way... "},{"Title":"SHARKS CAN'T SWIM BACKWARDS!!!!!","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The fact that sharks can't swim backwards and the horrible CGI are my 2 main gripes about this movie.  The plot, while building up pretty good, dies and is totally forgotten as we are paraded from one poorly done cgi shark attack to the next.  And the death scene's seemed way too sensational....With such a little amount of water, a shark would not be able to jump up  and grab someone, slam them on the ground and then drag them under water....The movie tried to hard to be a comedy at times....I'm sorry, but remembering the scenes with the sharks is just p***ing me off...such a big budget movie, and such horrible CGI.  I can't beleive this film made it past test audiences....The acting is almost minimal, since that is not what the audience is supposed to pay attention to...Saffron Burrows is beautiful and that accent....her death scene was over the top though....Thomas Jane as good as Carter...He does kinda resemble a monkey, though....LL Cool J was almost the same character he was in Halloween H20.  Samuel L. Jackson was wasted in this film...and Rappaport was funny...all in all, this wasn't a bad film, but it wasn't good...the story, or lack there of, is left behind, and forgotten...3 writers couldn't come up with enough, so they opted for more shark attacks....while Jaws was gone many years ago..with not computer work, it still was a better movie than this....5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"I have seen some bad films over the years....","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" ....but few have irritated me as much as this one. I don't even want to think how much money was spent on it.Since I wasted a part of my life watching this pathetic mess of a film, it's only fair that I make up for it by pointing out its flaws(this should be very therapeutic).********THERE ARE SPOILERS INCLUDED IN THIS REVIEW********************Why when the helicopter crashed into the lab did the explosions go on for around 5 minutes??? Were they carrying nitroglycerine? I thought an H-bomb had been dropped on the site when I saw that mushroom cloud. Isn't there room for just a little bit of reality?It's summer entertainment, sit back and enjoy, they saySorry guys, this film can't have it both ways. It tries to throw up an interesting moral dilemma with the Alzheimer's cure, then proceeds to do everything with complete disregard for the laws of science and basic intelligence.Why should LL Cool J throwing a match into a flooded kitchen(with water I presumed), set off an explosion large enough to level a small island??As for the graphics, I have come up with more realistic looking things using Paintbrush. Unlike in Jaws where you see in graphic detail Quint being savaged, here they make the attacks as quick as possible when they can get away with it. Both sea, shark and victim instantly transform into badly realised cartoon animations during the 0.5 seconds the attack takes place. We are supposed to think Wow, what fast sharks!! Instead we think Which program did they use to come up with that? I think I'll stay away from itI can imagine the programmer explaining how he got the attacks looking so realisticProgrammer Well you click on this grey shark-like thing using the mouseRenny O.KProgrammer With your finger still pressed down, move it back and forth really, really, really quicklyRenny Neat!Programmer Now move the cartoon figure behind the shark-like figure, so it looks like its been eaten..Renny Incredible!!! How did you come up with that??!!Programmer Practice..... Now click on the paintbrush and click on red.   Renny For blood?Programmer (after long pause) Yes.Renny Thanks guys! Here's 25 million dollars, you earned it!Samuel L.Jackson's death was funny, but predictable.  Also Superman was in this film. That was the name I decided to give Mr obvious hero as soon as I saw him holding a shark back with the harpoon he fired(any normal human would be dragged into the water). Near the end when he somersaulted underwater over the attacking shark to grab onto its fin and hitch a ride(as he did earlier without breaking a sweat) - my brain had already shut down. Belief had been suspended to the point that I would have accepted him running across the water and physically strangling the sharks to death.In my opinion everyone died in this film. LL Cool J was dragged savagely by the shark for ages before escaping(a few bandages should see to that..) HE SHOULD BE IN PIECES!!!! Superman takes a harpoon to the leg with no apparent effect. He's even able to make a few jokes afterwards(you hit me!!!! Ho Ho Ho) Well forgive me for not sharing in this brilliant moment of humour but your leg should be floating in the ocean and you should be bleeding to death.I suppose if the scientist(Saffron Burrows) can rip that thick cable from the wall, she can survive being electrocuted just by standing on a WET_SUIT(and a damp one at that). At least some sense of consistency(??)Now for the super-smart sharks. If you made my brain five times larger I would not gain an instant understanding of quantum physics. I would still have to learn it(though I could probably do it faster).Why these sharks have such great knowledge of battle tactics(?), cameras(?!) and cooking(Roast LL Cool J anyone?) is not explained. I did laugh when I imagined the sharks gathering round to discuss what their next move would be when they weren't in the picture.  Shark 1Right, so you pretend to be under anaesthetic, throw the guy through the window, disable the cameras, corner them - and that's dinner for three   Shark 2The logistics of such a plan are debatable. If the window was designed to withstand such high pressure at that depth and large creature inevitably bumping into it - what makes you think that throwing the injured guy into it will break it?Shark 3 Which part of dinner for three didn't you understand?I think even if they had made the brains of the sharks five times smaller they would have made easy work of this group of half wits. By the way, an oven door is harder to break than a steel gate or the hull of a boat. Wouldn't want any sharks trying to get at our nice new pie now, would we?The film is filled with so many inconsistencies my brain collapsed under the weight of it all. Don't get me wrong, I like mindless entertainment - I do not like to be insulted.  "},{"Title":"A Disappointing Film","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  As Steven Spielberg had already engaged with the killer shark, 'Jaws', in the 70's, to see this film was an insult to Spielberg's contribution. Samuel L. Jackson makes an unnecessary guest appearance and gets eaten up by a CGI shark and makes you wonder what he contributed to the film if he was only going to be the token black person who dies before the film finishes. "},{"Title":"How to get away with murder *contains a mild spoiler*","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  There just are some movies which as a whole are way better than the parts of which it's assembled mainly the acting, the script and the directing. I call the uncredited ingredient simply 'Magic of Hollywood'. Now Charlie's Angels is the perfect example of this a movie which, considering the plot and the actors (or in this case, ACTRESSES) could easily have been crap, is now a solid ***** entertainment movie! An other good example is, of course, Waterworld. I'm not sure if 'MH ingredient' is an outcome from The Optimal Chemistry of random factors (script, actors, director) or simply the magic touch of the director, but I know that  sometimes it simply exist and sometimes not. Now, I must note that the 'MH  ingredient' as an independent and random outcome and is not, and should not, be confused with fantasial positive vibes for example Spielberg's movies give.Anyway, there's a fare share of 'MH' in DBS, which is about the only positive thing anyone can say about the whole movie! The script is basically bad B-movie fodder (filled with thrills and action, though); about the leading actors, I-don't-even-remember-their-names-anymore (the scientist woman and the obligatory everyman-hero) are totally miscast, and the only thing keeping this one afloat seems to be the charismas of Samuel L. Jackson and Stellan Skarsgard (of which Skarsgard gets killed in the first reel and Jackson seems to be taking a vacation from serious acting throughout his part of the movie!) Take a few moments off the film (including a beautiful scene in which an explosion on the surface lightens the sea below) and there's not much to say even about the directing.But here's where 'MH' literally comes picture; only bad things to say about the independent factors which contribute to this flick, and still the outcome delivers a positive surprise- a great Saturday matinee roller-coaster- ride! However not a classic you'd wan't to rent over and over again... but for a few viewings better than your average B-movie. Take this one over for Anaconda or a Mark Dacascos flick any day! "}{"Title":"What A Train Wreck","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Detailing the... shall we say, inadequacies of this movie would be too easy and take too much of (y)our time. Acting, writing, effects... pick a topic and you've got a 90-minute catastrophe. It is how this movie ends (particularly when viewed on HBO), though, where it crosses the line from being simply dreadful to being an Eighth-Wonder-Of-The-World-esque disaster. First, the credits roll, and the (attempted) emotions of the final shot are obliterated by the rappings of LL Cool J (one of the film's players). Simply amazing.THEN, on HBO, we get a picture-in-picture mini-documentary on the making of the film, and all the actors start talking about how exciting the script was, and how scary the sharks were (Clash Of The Titans had better visuals), and how neat it was crafting their trade in underwater sets. You see them say all this with completely straight faces and realize that they're giving better performances than they did at any point in the preceding ninety minutes. "},{"Title":"SUPER SHARKS ??","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film is one of those movies that are so bad, they become fascinating and entertaining. Intelligent sharks, unbelievable and corny storylines; with poor acting. It's all here in abundance.Obviously the likes of Burrows were in need of the cash. If you've had a bad day, this will put a smile on your face.  "},{"Title":"To put it mildly, the movie is intense !","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It takes a pretty bad movie for me to walk out on it.  Deep Blue Sea I walked out on twice before I was able to finally see it through till the end.  It was a totally waste of my time.  I'm sorry but I can't find one redeeming factor with this movie no matter how hard I try.  I generously rated this a 3. "},{"Title":"A lame attempt at a suspenseful movie","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I could go on a five-page rant about the many, many failings of Deep Blue Sea, but I'll restrain myself to a brief rundown. The premise is decent - Not unlike Jurassic Park with sharks. The rest of the movie is a greater letdown - the dialog ranges from half decent to god-awful, the plot devices are not only unlikely, but downright impossible, the acting is lousy, and the writing is atrocious. Not only does this film suffer from an extremely poor script, but also a simple lack of care on the part of it's makers. Some examples range from having a huge, fragile plate glass window 50 feet underwater, to a character running DOWN STAIRS to get away from flooding waters. If someone with a little knowledge and experience had written this, it might have been much better. Unfortunately, the acting isn't much better. Saffron Burrows, while being quite pleasing to the eyes and ears, seems to lack any acting talent whatsoever. Thomas Jane isn't much better. Samuel L. Jackson is good, but he gets about 10 lines. I can only assume he did it for the money. There is one really genuinely startling and scary moment in this movie - if you've seen it, you know what I mean. But unfortunately, it isn't worth it. If you want killer critters, watch Lake Placid or a Jurassic Park movie. "},{"Title":"You get what you pay for (","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I received this film as a free DVD in a promotion. It was worth every cent that I paid. If I were in to animated, gory, shark attacks I probably would have loved this film. But in looking for a plot (weak), characters (shallow), emotion (strained) and a good story line, I was left wanting. The purpose of the movie was to show off the animation of the shark attacks, some of which was convincing, some was not.If you like seeing people being used as potato chips - go for it, otherwise find something else. "},{"Title":"Jaws it ain't","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film recently after many recommendations by so-called 'friends'. The movie is about a team of researchers' struggles to find salvation in the form of dry land when 'Super Sharks' intent on destruction run amok in a secret sea-based facility. 'Doesn't sound like it can be that bad', you might say. Well, it was dreadful. The acting was third-rate at best, with unrealistic portrayals of all characters. Samuel L. Jackson, in quite possibly his worst film yet, is the standard rich-guy-who-nobody-respects-because-he-doesn't-have-experience-in-the-resea rch-field, and harbours a dark secret. The fact he has a secret isn't fore-shadowed at  all, and just sort of pops-up to add to the 'shock-factor'. The script and direction are very bad but not in the B-movie way, but in a can't-be-bothered way. The film just feels lazy. It is very bad, but not enough to hold camp value for some people. It is more corny than camp. "},{"Title":"Computer graphics shark animation competition that went wrong.","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I could not get a grip on this movie.  The movie is definitely not a candidate for the `dethronement' of JAWS as the ultimate in shark horror movies.  This is rather a sample movie for developers of  computer graphics software so that they (the developers) can establish what they have to improve about the software for future projects.  I'm not going to complain about the backwards swimming phenomenon of the sharks,  but the movie is just too unrealistic to digest and it is completely extra-terrestrial when you compare it to JAWS.  Okay, a film does not really have to be realistic and there are many people who love science fiction,  but it's usually the realistic films which are the more popular films at the end of the day.  Take JAWS for exampleWARNING  SPOILER JAWS has the realistc `human touch' where 3 ordinary men that we can associate with go out on a boat to hunt this great white that's terrorising the small coastal town where they live and where people have been attacked. (Sounds normal enough to me.)DBS is this fictional underwater base with sharks that grew intelligent as the result of an experiment that went wrong.  The sharks also form a `conspiracy' with their newly aquired intelligence to destroy the base and the human bait within. (This is very good science fiction with sharks that are clearly born on a computer screen) The last shark is blown up in the end as in  JAWS.  (That's one of the copycat parts...)SPOILER ENDThe film did manage to keep me on seat's edge,  because of the `dumb' humans' struggle to get out of the base. Overall I would give it  2 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Could've been better...","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING The following may contain spoilers!Being an insane JAWS fan, I was very excited to see another shark movie hit the theaters. I knew, of course, that nothing was going to affect me in the same manner that JAWS did (I saw JAWS when I was 4 years old).The way that they hyped this movie was almost as if it was a sequel to the legendary shark film. Bigger, Smarter, Faster, Meaner? Than what? I think we all know what that refers to. And how about that license plate scene, an obvious tribute to JAWS, but where did he (the shark) get that license plate? Don't get me wrong, I love it when a director pays homage to a classic (or his/her favorite movie for that matter), I just think they hyped this movie to be like JAWS too much! I would have never compared them on my own, except for the fact that I kept getting JAWS references thrown at me throughout the film.This movie would have done better without that hype. It had some fun moments, unfortunately, at the expense of believability. This movie just did not have the ability to suspend my disbelief. Samuel L. Jackson's demise, as an example, is one of the funniest things I have ever seen in a movie, yet I think that scene was supposed to be terrifying. (Watch that scene in slow motion and you'll see Samuel Jackson turn into a cartoon version of the toy diver you had when you were a kid.)As far as the acting is concerned, it's about par for the course. One really shouldn't expect an action movie to have superb acting, unless there are superb actors in it. While Samuel L. Jackson was in this movie, his part was pretty weak, and a shark eats him pretty early on. (They must have been running over budget). Enough said.  LL Cool J however, had a part in this movie that was fun and enjoyable, and he had some cute lines.Now we come to my pet peeve in the movie industry... CGI effects that don't stay consistent with the background! The big problem with CGI (Computer Generated Imagery) is the difficulty in keeping a moving CGI image consistent with it's background (or medium as the case may be here). Jurassic Park was an excellent example of this being done well. (Aircraft flight paths must be very difficult to model because I've never seen a CGI airplane fly correctly.) As such, watching these sharks swim did not make me think they were underwater. the water seemed too thin. The problem may be that I've seen real sharks swim, and real airplanes fly, but I've never seen a real dinosaur run. To be honest, there's nothing like having something really there. I'd rather see a bad model (JAWS), than a bad CGI effect (Anaconda). If your movie is well rounded however, the impact of some bad effects on the whole movie is not as big. The shark in JAWS could've been made of papier-mache and the film would still have been a hit!As far as that JAWS comparison goes, here it is.JAWS Golden Actors, Papier-Mache Shark, excellent movie.DEEP BLUE SEA Papier-Mache Actors, Nonexistent Sharks, not a very good movie.My Rating 3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Deep Boring Sea","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A very, very poor science fiction/action movie, if that is indeed what this was. Much like the equally dismal Anaconda, Deep Blue Sea has very poor special effects. I laughed out loud at certain scenes where people where attacked by the shark, because the effects looked so half-assed. I would have been more terrified by a papier-mache costume from Mardi-Gras.Samuel L. Jackson, normally an excellent actor, mails in his performance here, and picks up his paycheck. The entire cast looks as bored with the script as I was, and once again we see another action movie where brilliant scientists are unbelievably stupid. They film-makers obviously did not want to pay for real writers. One note of creativity from these writers, however They did find a way for a Mako Shark to coax the lovely Saffron Burroughs down to her bra and panties.Dumb movie. 2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"DVD review, an action, destruction, survival movie with bio-engineered sharks. Worth a watch for action fans.","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea is about a small team of workers caring for sharks at an aquatic farm off the coast of S. Calif. Their mission is to harvest brain matter from the sharks as a possible cure for alzheimer's disease. Part of the problem is the small brains of the sharks.Samuel Jackson's character, the richest man in the world, is financing the project. One of the team is a lady scientist who, in violation of standard agreements, uses bio-engineering to greatly increase the size of the sharks' brains, so they can harvest more material.  This creates the problem.  The rest of the movie is about how they fight a battle of wits with these smart, 8,000 pound sharks.CAUTION -- SPOILERS -- SPOILERSTo make their first withdrawal, an anesthesized shark is brought inside the center on a special platform. The first test on inactive human brain tissue indicates that it works. With no warning, the shark turns and bites off the arm of Stellan Skarsgard's character. Trying to get him airlifted out during a severe storm, the winch jams, the gurney plunges into the water, one of the sharks gets it, the heicopter crashes into the control building, igniting fires and explosions.As the integrity of the compound is lost, water intrudes everywhere. The smart sharks systematically hunt the survivors. Only two of them make it out, the shark wrangler, and the preacher/cook played by rapper LL Cool J, who looks like a mini-Shaquille O'Neal. The last shark was harpooned and blown up just as he breached the fence and headed for the deep blue sea.Although most of the film is serious, with characters being torn apart and gobbled by sharks, there are a few light moments, and some of them work. The last scene, as the compound is almost completely sunk, and a yellow boat is shown approaching, Cool's character says, here comes the next shift.I saw the DVD version, and overall rate it 7 of 10.  The story isn't too great, and dialog is forgettable.  However, the action and the Dolby Digital 5.1 surround track is superb. For those who still watch movies, VHS or DVD, using the TV's speakers, literally are missing half of the movie, because so much of the effect is imbedded in the sound track, especially in the deep bass sounds.The DVD's picture is sharp and colorful, just great, and there are a couple of interesting extras on the making of the film.  They developed and used an animatronic shark that actually swims, all 8,000 pounds and with a 1,000 HP motor.  "}{"Title":"What a stinker...","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is about as bad as a big-budget horror flick can be.  It uses EVERY cliche in the book (well, I think they missed evil twins).  It is seriously bad.  The only redeeming factor is when S. L. Jackson gets eaten by the shark after delivering a speech almost directly out of Animal House.  Thank you for shutting him up.  Worst of all is that I'm sure they didn't intend for it to be funny.  Do not waste your time or money! "},{"Title":"No big deal","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The movie was all right.  I am a little too old to get excited about some very good effects and CGI and all that.  Part of me thinks using a computer to make a movie is cheating.This particular movie is pretty dopey, especially ALL the inane dialogue that you must suffer through.  I liked Thomas Jane in Boogie Nights and The Velocity of Gary but here he is flat and unimpressive as the leading man/hero.  None of the actors make much of an impression, to be honest.Its all the just the sharks, which aren't sharks... "},{"Title":"Thrilling","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film is thrilling, but it is not Jaws.  This film has a good plot to begin with (taking shark brain to cure alzheimer's), and some good thrills, I just felt un easy about the film.  I mean, I thought there were rules to the characters that die (spoil I won't) and don't.  Still, It's fun to watch LL Cool J, Samuel L. Jackson and Safrron Burrows trying to escape from a smart shark.  Never can be as good as Jaws though (so please don't say it is as good if not better than it).  Cool J performs the theme to the movie.  B+ "},{"Title":"More exciting than Jaws but lacks a good story","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This shark film is nothing but a dumb remake of Jaws. There are more death scenes in this movie and slightly more action but the plot keeps it from being a good movie. The sharks start to kill everyone in a lab when the stupid researchers make the sharks smarter in an attempt to cure Alzheimer's Disease. The sharks escape and all havoc is unleashed when the people responsible for the mishap all drop, one-by-one. This movie put no thought into the story. He/she probably just watched Jaws once and thought, we could make this movie so much better and made a trashpit like Deep Blue Sea. Do yourself a favor and be sure to avoid this movie when you're thinking of what to rent for a Friday night. "},{"Title":"WOW!","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't even have time to catch my breath. This is a rip roaring ride of unstoppable mayhem. Stick your brain in neutral and enjoy the ride.Samuel L. Jackson, what a way to go!!! Super stuff... "},{"Title":"I give it 10/10","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I first saw DBS when I got it on DVD.I thought it was pretty good.It's got that suspense thing that keeps you on the edge of your seat,and the effects were good too.Unfortunately I found a few of the shark attack scenes a bit fake,I mean you look closely and you can tell the graphics were done by computer.Also the part were the guy slips and gets his arm bitten off by the shark,when he falls down you can see his real arm behind him (he didn't do a good job at hiding it).But honestly I like this movie.On the back of the DVD box it desribed it as Jaws on steriods "},{"Title":"Just awful","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Appalling rubbish centreing on scientifically and technically implausible ideas, featuring a terrible cast of badly acted cliches and helmed by possibly the worst director possible. I hated it, it wasn't even funny, and every five seconds either I or my friends pointed out and error of some kind. Avoid at all cost, even the sharks and the effects were rubbish. Watch Jaws and Tremors instead. "},{"Title":"This is a cool, cool film!","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  There are a few questions that you must ask yourself when reviewing this film1) Does this film explore the human condition? Err, No. 2) Does this film attempt to asses the dangers of genetic engineering and its social and biological consequences? Err, No. 3) Does this film deliver a thought provoking plot and characters that have more depth than those from the best Shakespearean tragedies? Err, No. 4) Do any of the above matter in the slightest? Err, NO!Critics who attempt to rate this film past the premise of being a fun, action packed, sci-fi horror are being naïve. This is a film that was never meant to draw the audience into the inner turmoil of the characters, it was a film that gave us exactly what it was designed for1) Big mean sharks 2) Teeth (and lots of &#145;em) 3) Lots of blood, gore and screaming.This was a great film that makes you jump and think `I'll never swim again!'.Well done to all involved!!10/10  "},{"Title":"Smashing shark hokum","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I read a critic who said this was a turkey but I thought it was cracking. Entertaining thrills and spills although rather crass and unnecessarily noisy and overblown. Great high camp moment with Jackson. Superb photography and effects plus gorgeous bikini babe in opening scene. Saffron Burrows can't act but who cares with that figure. The blonde lead guy is...who? Funniest bit is when a character is chewed by a shark losing pints of blood and then seems to carry on chatting quite happily until the end of the film without passing out or showing much in the way of ill effects. It doesn't bother to hide the 'Jaws' influence and sends it up without sacrificing tension and unpredictable shocks. Fun and better than expected. "},{"Title":"Scary, effective thriller","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea is a scary, effective thriller from Cliffhanger director Renny Harlin. It's no Jaws to be sure, but it's a classic compared to the three Jaws sequels. It's about a team of scientists who work at an underwater facility somewhere in the Pacific Ocean. These scientists, led by Dr. Susan McAlester (Saffron Burrows), have genetically altered the brains of three huge Mako sharks to develop a potential cure for Alzheimer's disease. This creates a major problem for the scientists. The Mako sharks have become more smarter than they ever imagined, and before long the scientists are on their menu. Who will survive? After a slow start, Deep Blue Sea becomes a very entertaining show all the way to the end. The special effects are good (if not great), and the action scenes are suspenseful and exciting. Be prepared for one moment in this film that will make you jump from your seat. The performances by the humans are good, but pale by comparison to the performances by the sharks. Samuel L. Jackson is kinda funny in this film, since his performance here is not some of his best work. LL Cool J on the other hand is very funny as the chef known as Preacher, who's best friend is a parrot. Saffron Burrows and Thomas Jane (as shark wrangler Carter Blake) are fine even though their characters (as well as all the other characters in the movie) aren't developed that much. But these weaknesses are a minor factor. In my opinion, Deep Blue Sea was the best horror movie of last year. Yes, I though this movie was better than The Sixth Sense (very good), The Blair Witch Project (so-so), and The Haunting (terrible). However, Deep Blue Sea bares more of a resemblence to the crocodile picture Lake Placid which opened two weeks before this, than it does to those three big moneymakers. Lake Placid was good, but Deep Blue Sea was better. If you want some advice on what movies to see about killer sharks, see Jaws and Deep Blue Sea. Forget about Jaws 2, Jaws 3, and especially Jaws The Revenge. Jaws is the best, but Deep Blue Sea is close behind. And for those out there who thought this was a Jaws ripoff, come on! Give me a break! This movie has a different location (the undersea laboratory is not off Amity Island), different characters (no Brodys in sight), and different sharks (the Jaws movies had Great White Sharks; Deep Blue Sea has Mako sharks). And the shark attacks are much faster and more vicious.  I go to see these movies for scares, thrills, and excitement, and Deep Blue Sea delivers the goods.***1/2 (out of four)  "}{"Title":"deep blue sea","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" i thought this film was great, all of the actors and atreses worked very well to make this film what it was.i thought that it wouldnt be as good as jaws but when i saw it, it was just as good, the special effects work extreamily well and realy brought the shark to life. i would give this film 10/10 "},{"Title":"deep blue sea","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" i thought this film was great, all of the actors and atreses worked very well to make this film what it was.i thought that it wouldnt be as good as jaws but when i saw it, it was just as good, the special effects work extreamily well and realy brought the shark to life. i would give this film 10/10 "},{"Title":"A profound meditation on the Eternal Conflict--Man vs. Crazy Super-sharks","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What more _can_ one say about a film so exhaustively discussed by the leading intellectuals of the age?  Already the subject of sold-out coast-to-coast university lectures, Renny Harlin's Deep Blue Sea has deservedly captured the popular imagination of Western Civilization!The Sea!  Such a limitless topic for the Artist on his quest for Truth!  The same Sea so vividly described by Herman Melville is HERE thanks to the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.  Fantastic motorized ships and strange craft that actually _fly_ through the very air of heaven have been captured on film!  You may have to catch your breath when a strange sky-mobile confidently touches down on the _roof_ of a gleaming tower hundreds of feet above the ground.  With such confidence in Man's Progress, the director--clearly an heir to the giants of the Italian Renaissance--quickly wins our enthusiastic approval for his inspiring Vision.We stare, awestruck, as the very limits of Science are tested by characters so compelling they seem to live and breathe with the passionate force of Life itself!  The shark, symbol of the Soul's deepest fears--and some would say, it's deepest identity--has never before been so effectively portrayed in such a tantalizing context.  The attempt to transform the mindless Destroyer into a vessel of Hope is a theme so gripping, so bold, so...very...new--it strains the capacity of even the most gifted among us with the blessing of Reason.  This is truly unbroken ground, nay, holy ground!Never sacrificing its tender-hearted compassion, Deep Blue Sea maintains a pace that rivals the Iliad.  Noble men and women of Action struggle with Fate and we find ourselves weeping at their soliloquies.  We are overwhelmed with the surge of mythic power blossoming in scene after scene drenched in poignant symbolism.  After the lights come up, it is no surprise audiences have engaged in marathons of spontaneous hugging, seeking reassurance in the arms of strangers after learning how fragile life is in the face of the devastating forces waiting to be unleashed by the next tempting bite from the forbidden Tree of Eden.  Friends, Citizens, lovers of Truth--Deep Blue Sea is not to be missed.  Put off that visit to the Sistine Chapel.  Walk past the Folger library.  Reserve your tickets early to the special stadiums which are being built to accommodate the public's unprecedented demand to plumb the depths of this Work, destined for everlasting acclaim.  Bravo, Mr. Harlin!  Bravo!  "},{"Title":"Cool Action Flick!!!","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Man! Renny knows how do makes Actionfilms with quality!Deep Blue Sea has a really really great score, great effects, great characters, unpredictable death scenes, great jokes and is great directed.So if you like good Actionfilms (i dont mean Anaconda s**t) then you will love this movie "},{"Title":"Silly, but still fun","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Bad acting and a silly story, but still entertaining and sometimes scares.The main problem for me was how did 45ft Sharks squeeze motionless through doorways just big enough for a humans. Anyway if you don't expect too much story and you like a few scares and a bit of gore this is a good choice. "},{"Title":"Once again,hollywood gets a bit carried away with itself.","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable.****Very Good.***Okay.**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead.*Avoid At All Costs.A member of the new breed of young madam young female scientists going out into the ocean to extract a cure for altzeimer's from sharks.A gang of homeboyz' on some huge towering ocean fortress,headed by a bubbly dude with an insulent parrot.Some macho dude who wrestles huge killer sharks for what he considers a profession.We never were talking oscars when Deep Blue Sea was helmed. >> > Like The Mummy (though nowhere near as poor),Deep Blue Sea is another special effects reliant hollywood pic.To be brutally honest,the charecter development and very gradual plot development going on here is likely to get you achy very quickly.DBS is basically pumped up,techno Jaws for the '90's.Samuel L.Jackson,as wasted here as he was in The Phantom Menace,pops up as a cultural professor of some sort whilst what seemed like a host of unknowns to me were there as the main charecters.Plus there were numerous stereotype charecters along the way.The forthright madam , the dithering student know-it-all,even a comical guy in the fat homie bloke.I was certainly impressed by DBS's effects and location setting's.Let's just say,I certainly was glad when the killer shark finally got it.** "},{"Title":"The worst movie I have seen in a long time!!","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie amused me, not because of witty lines from any of the characters or anything like that, but because the whole thing was SUCH a low-quality affair.The whole plot was, to me, completely unrealistic, so were the sharks themselves, and they ate every human they found in the same stupid and over-dramatic way.It wasn't exciting or scary or anything...just boring and predictable the whole way through. Save your money, that's my advice.  "},{"Title":"Waste of Water","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Actually, it was so bad I started laughing my head off. The entire movie seems based on Jurassic park, cartoonish sound effects cranked up to beyond hearing level, and your standard idiotic characters doing predictably dumb things while the director used all the obvious tricks. Samuel Jackson was wasted. My friend and I walked out after 50 minutes - it's the first film I've left since Costner's lumbering Robin Hood Prince of Thieves.Maybe I would have gotten more laughs had I stayed. I sure would have LOVED to see what Crow, Joel, Gypsy, and Tom Servo would have done with this one at MST 3000.  2 out of 10, and I don't give low scores out lightly. "},{"Title":"a jaws wannabe","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  this movie rips off jaws and maybe other movies. it's not  nearly as interesting or entertaining as the first two jaws movies. deep blue sea is just another mindless  action/horror movie. it's just as mindless as the lost  world jurassic park. but like the lost world it's  entertaining in parts. all in all brainless but a little  fun at times. i give deep blue sea ** out of **** "},{"Title":"Jaws without the bite...","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was a major disappointment! Even the shark in Jaws, which was after all created over 20 years ago, looks a lot more convincing - and therefore makes the movie more suspenseful - than these lame-looking creatures with way too many, and not to mention strangely crooked, teeth...Considering the kind of computer technology that is available these days and how realistic things can be depicted with it (e.g. Deep Impact, Titanic, Jurassic Park, etc.), it's really a shame that this movie was done in such a sloppy fashion. The attack scenes and many of the underwater shots of the sharks look so fake that one is tempted to burst into laughter - or leave the theater and ask for a refund...The majority of the dialogue is worth ignoring - I got the impression that the whole idea was Well, it's probably better if we don't just make them run and scream for two hours, so let's make them say something every now and then too - and that's exactly what the dialogue sounds like. And the character with the most annoyingly corny lines is Samuel Jackson. Why on earth did he decide to participate in such a movie? It's not like the role was challenging, and I doubt that the plot (uhm, plot?) could possibly have blown him away...The only thing that's even remotely entertaining in this movie is LL Cool J's character, who adds a little dimension to it. But beyond that, this movie is hardly memorable. Due to LL Cool J's redeeming performance, I refrained from giving the movie a 1 and gave it a 2 instead... "}{"Title":"brainless,but some fun","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  deep blue sea is a brainless thriller,but at times fun. itrips off jaws,and maybe other movies. a lot of the moviejust isn't interesting. i think it's because the story is weaker than weak. it's also cheesy atpoints. all in all it's ok,but just not interesting enough1 give deep blue sea ** out of **** "},{"Title":"Weak...very weak","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep blue sea, to me was a somewhat pathetic attempt at bringing back the classic Jaws, and combining it with bits and pieces of Sphere.  The plot was quite weak, with very little evidence of how a shark (no matter how large it's brain) could so easily recognize, say, a surveillance camera.  Even the shark's brain was huge, how would it recognize a thing like this if it had never had experience with something like it? A man, no matter how smart, could not foil a surveillance camera if there was no possible way for him to know what it was.  Anyway, this movie, despite the lack of an original or well-thought plot, was somewhat entertaining, and if you're out for some action with nothing deep or meaningful behind it, then go watch this.  However you're much better off watching Blair Witch Project or something like it that gets you to think and has some meaning. "},{"Title":"Extreme lameness alert!!","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If it weren't for Jaws, Jaws II, Jaws III, Alien, Aliens, The Island of Dr. Moreau, The Abyss and The Poseidon Adventure, this could have been an original movie.  It still would have been awful, but at least it might have been original. "},{"Title":"Highly enjoyable 'Creature Feature'.","Date":"11 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Deep Blue Sea starts as our teenagers are attacked in a catamaran by a huge genetically modified Mako Shark after it escapes from it's enclosure at the Aquatica research laboratory. Fearing bad publicity investors demand head scientist Dr. Susan McCallister (Saffron Burrows) justify her research, rich businessman Russell Franklin (Samual L. Jackson) flies to the Ocean bound laboratory & witnesses the research for himself as Susan is close to developing a formula that could eradicate degenerative brain disease like alzheimer's using extracts of protein from the enhanced Shark's brains. However to harvest enough protein the team have genetically altered the Shark's brains making them five times their normal size & as a side effect making the Shark's much smarter. The Shark's organise an ambush & manage to start flooding the Aquatica letting them swim inside, the team inside quickly realise the Shark's want to kill & eat them & somehow must find a way to to get to the surface...This American Australian co-production was directed by Rennt Harlin & is probably the best Shark based 'Creature Feature' out there (Jaws (1975) doesn't count as a mere creature feature as it's so much more) & the type of film the Sci-Fi Channel can only dream of making, Deep Blue is a real guilty pleasure of mine & I have throughly enjoyed it every time I have watched it. There's nothing deep or meaningful here & it has it's silly moments but as a blockbusting piece of entertainment you can't go wrong. At just over 100 minutes it's fast moving, there are a couple of surprise moments as character's you don't expect to get killed off, there's plenty of set-pieces as the intelligent Shark's lay traps for & chase people, there's action, some thrills, some suspense, some horror & gore, some neat effects & a fairly satisfying outcome. As a whole Deep Blue Sea works very well although it has it's silly moments like the cook trapped in an oven in a flooded kitchen & the Shark somehow turns the cooker on & while cutting his way out with an axe he doesn't even create a single spark as that would have blown him up, then there's the scene in which a scientist puts some Shark brain protein on dead human brain tissue & it 'sparks' back to life which is just plain ridiculous but these are small quibbles & it's very easy to go with the film & enjoy it for what it is. The character's are pretty good with Burrows scientist in particular coming across well, the dialogue is fine & easy to follow, the Shark's come across as clever but not too clever which gives them a nice edge & it's just a really great horror thriller with Shark's, in fact you could say Deep Blue Sea is a cross between Jaws & Alien (1979) with Shark's replacing the alien as they hunt down corridors.Some really good big budget monster films came out in 1999 including this, The Mummy (1999) & Lake Placid (1999) & Deep Blue Sea is as good as any of them in my opinion. There's a wholly exploitative scene where Saffron Burrows takes her wet-suit off to reveal her panties & bra in order to insulate herself against an electric shock which stands-out as being odd (if a giant Shark is attacking you would you take your clothes off?) but still much appreciated by those who are fans of a fine female body. There are a few nice touches & gags for horror fans including the license plate pulled from the Shark's teeth in this is the same as the one found inside the Shark in the original Jaws while the three Shark's in Deep Blue Sea are killed in the same way & in the same order (first one is blown up like in Jaws, second one is electrocuted like in Jaws 2 (1979) & the third is blown up like in Jaws 3-D (1983)) as in the first three Jaws films. There's some decent gore including ripped in half bodies, a bitten off arm & some blood splatter. Surprisingly I personally think that there's some nice tension, some surprises & a bit of suspense too, I mean it's not amazing but at least it's not dull & I think it manages to evoke a few emotions from the viewer.With a supposed budget of about $78,000,000 this did alright at the box-office, the production values are high & the CGI effects are mostly very good although it is a very wet film with water in virtually every scene. Shot mainly in Mexico. The acting is pretty good from a decent cast, Saffron Burrows is good & she looks great too, Thomas Jane is alright while even LL Cool J doesn't irritate like I thought he would while Samual L. Jackson is always watchable in this sort film.Deep Blue Sea is the best Shark themed 'Creature Feature' out there bar none, I throughly enjoyed it from start to finish, sure it's not deep & it has it's silly moments but the positives far outweigh the negatives which are more minor quibbles than full blown criticisms. I definitely recommend this to any creature feature fans, fans of killer Shark films or anyone just wanting a fast paced horror thriller. "},{"Title":"This movie SUCKS!","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS! Deep blue sea is a very,no VERY bad movie. Every bad cliche there is to think about horror and especially shark movies is in this one.The story is about a group of so called scientists on a floating and underwater laboratory. Samuel L. Jackson(what the hell is he doing in this disgraceful movie?) comes to the compound because he is the boss of it all. The scientists have created sharks with a lot of protein,but to achieve this they had to multiply the shark's brain 5 times,this logic strikes me. Of course the huge shark escapes during an experiment because one of the scientists doesn't want to kill it(where have I seen that before). Of course before they are able to catch this monster almost every character has to die,among those is Sam L. and at that point all hope for this movie is gone,if there ever was any. The sharks are so smart that they can swim backwards(??) and misguide the humans by letting them think that they don't want to escape the compound while this was of course there general purpose. To prevent the shark from escaping the leading girl(English accent is over-the-top) cuts herself and draws the shark to her after which the shark eats her in two. This is probably the only surprise of the movie,but a very bad and confusing one because the girl doesn't have to die at all. then one of the leading male characters jumps into the water and outspeeds the shark(???) and then climbs one him while miss cast LL Cool J shoots the shark and then blows him up so the only survivors are two men and no women,perhaps the director is very old-fashioned.Now I will give you some very bad and cliche parts of the movie 1 The shark can break through a steel door but cannot break oven glass! 2 LL Cool J cannot die because he asks for the help of God and of course like in every bad Hollywood movie when you ask God's help you are immortal so from the moment you see LL you just know that he will survive! 3 The sharks in motion are very bad,it looks like a cartoon. Even the Shark-classic Jaws has got a better shark and that movie is from 1975! 4 The scene in which the girls sacrifices herself by jumping in the water is hilarious in a bad way,because after she jumps in the shark turns himself towards her like you would expect in a Looney Tunes cartoon! The death of the girl is too exaggerated and totally not in line with the rest of the movie. 5 The death of the shark is a copy of Jaws 2. 6 The final scene looks very much like Jaws.Overall,this is one of the worst movies I have ever seen and not even the great Samuel L. Jackson can't change that! 1/10 "},{"Title":"I WANT...","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  a refund! no wait, I want the time I wasted of my life back!(btw there's spoilers in here)first off I would like to say, did no one else notice that these wonderfully intelligent marine biologists knew absolutely NOTHING about sharks??? for the love of god, anyone who's ever watched the discovery channel knows more than these fools.i was hoping that because of Samuel L Jackson being in the film that I would be able to sit through it; alas he is done away with, albeit in a rather entertaining way.however, i must say that this film definitely falls under the category of hilarious horror/action flicks(keep in mind though that humor was definitely not the intent of the creators of this piece of rot, and you may find yourself weeping uncontrollably). i'm sorry to say that anyone who is looking for a Jaws-type thriller is better off watching any episode of Crocodile Hunter. While LL Cool J was actually pretty funny in this, unfortunately out of the cast at hand if Samuel L Jackson couldn't save this, no one could have. Actually, this was beyond hope from the beginning......ahhhh, when will Hollywood learn to stop relying solely on special effects?don't bother unless you're looped out enough to have a good laugh. "},{"Title":"Critics must be insane","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I can't believe that this film got generally good reviews. Dear god it was lame. Renny Harlin needs to be taken out of the movie business and never allowed back in. The effects are terrible,not OK, terrible. The characters seem like they were cut out of carboard. There isn't one scene of suspense or excitement. Only an idiot couldn't predict who was going to die next. What I don't understand is the this got good reviews and Lake Placid was generally hated. Now, Lake Placid was pretty damn stupid. It has some really bad dialogue. But, I thought the special effects were better, and there were even a couple of remotely suspensful scenes, in a not actually scary way. Deep Blue sea was a waste of my time and money.LL Cool J needs to stick to rapping, even though he sucks at that too. "},{"Title":"Another pathetic attempt to prey on Jaws fans","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Poor acting, no emotion.  The story makes no sense.  The special effects are very convincing.  Maybe if they had chosen a better cast, this movie might be worth the time to watch.  Sharks are continually getting a bad name and this movie doesn't help! "},{"Title":"Horrid film","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movies has long been on my personal worst ever lists. Everything is bad about this movie that can be bad. Terrible acting, bad script, dumb storyline, poor special effects and bad characters. At one point in the movie when Samuel L. Jackson was giving one of his win one for the gipper speeches, the special effects were done so poorly you could actually see the computer generated image of his body drug into the water. And apparently in post-production the film's director missed the fact the shark kept changing size from gigantic in the open sea to the size of a dolphin when he was swimming inside the cabins. The characters were all so dislikable in this film I actually didn't want anyone to survive. How they convinced a fine actor like Sam Jackson to do this film is beyond me. Horrible movie in every way. One of the worst Ive ever seen.  "},{"Title":"This movie is really, really horrible!!","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I typically like to comment on movies I like, but this one was so pitiful, I just had to say something!After I see any movie, I always read the IMDB user comments section to see what others thought of it and to see if I missed anything about it that might sway my vote.  I've read over 600 different movie user's comments.....and I've never, ever been so surprised at people's reactions! For the most part, people love this movie!  HOW!?!  This is the most typical, cookie-cutter, Hollywood-style movie I've possibly ever seen! This movie is for people with the IQ of about 2!  One of the few people who did write a comment to say it was horrible was my own brother!  I agree with him on this one, and we don't normally agree on movies.  Read his too if you get a minute (same last name).I could go on and on and on about how ridiculous some of the parts in this movie are.  On most movies, I can overlook details that may not necessarily be true.  For example, for the movie Waterworld, one user wrote that he thought the movie was horrible because if all the ice caps melted, there would still be lots of land on Earth and the drinking water would be so diluted that it would be drinkable (in the movie, it is saltwater).  I mean, SO WHAT!!  That stuff is trivial and can be easily overlooked, especially for science-fiction.  But some parts in this movie are so ridiculous, I nearly turned off the TV in complete disgust that people were paid to write and act for this crap!  I could get started on how someone escaped being eaten by the world's most ferocious shark WHILE ALREADY BEING IN THE SHARK'S MOUTH!!  Or how you could simply run away from an ocean's worth of water charging at you at a tremendous rate of speed, you know, like your buddy was chasing you or something!!  But no, the part that absolutely kills me, just sends me over the edge with stupidity, is this scientists (or oceanographers, whichever), are attempting to increase brain mass in sharks by injecting the sharks with some type of drug.  While explaining this to Sam Jackson, the woman says, and I unbelievably quote, There was one side affect, and that is the sharks got smarter!  UH, DUH!!  What the heck were they increasing brain mass for, if they didn't intend the sharks to get smarter?!?  To make them more handsome with a larger sized head?!?  COME ON!!!  I thought the side affect was what they were hoping for in the first place!  That's like taking a penis enlargement pill, then saying Doc, there was only one side affect, my penis got larger!!  Absolutely stunning in it's stupidity!!According to most of the other user comments, nobody else must have caught that!  Simply ridiculous.Believe me, there are other parts just as bad.  I could type forever I think.  Just do yourself a favor, if you like movies that don't expect the average viewer to be a complete moron, then skip this title!  If you're a fan of the Scream series, go ahead, this movie is for you.JD "}{"Title":"worst science EVER in a movie","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie sucked.  If you have ever read an elementary school science text book and understood it, your brain should reel in disgust at this farce.  Every law of physics, chemistry, biology, and genetics is violated - well, I think that gravity worked OK, but nothing else.  This movie was dumb, dumb, dumb, DUMB!  The acting, special effects, plot, and premise are surprisingly even dumber than the writers' attempts at scientific explanation.  A real loser of a film. "},{"Title":"Deep Blue See it at your own risk.","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A rowdy clan of cartoon sharks meets the castaways of Gilligan's Island in a Jurrasic Park / Jaws in a titanic of a flop! The movie drags not only its income to Davy Jone's Locker but unfortunatly the carreer of Samuel L Jackson as well! Shiver me timbers! Sam made about the same impact as Mace Windu, and was chomped in half in the first 30 minutes, leaving Capin' Cool J to take over the scene in his dynamic blockbuster debut. Parrot on shoulder and cooking vinager in hand he diverts the sharks and helps the castaways to the surface only to be eaten by more cartoon sharks. In the end there is some fire, a lot of intrails, and a bucket of chummy one-liners. If you like Sharkies, Carreer Mistakes, and a whole lot of Chums then this flick is for you. What am I saying this flick AINT for you no matter what! RUN *Jaws theme* The movie is right behind you! Aaaaaaarg! "},{"Title":"Deep Blue Stink","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Personally, I thought this movie absolutely stunk.  They had too many gaping holes in the plot line and took way too many liberalities in certain areas.  It seemed to me that this film just wanted to show us how sharks can attack humans.I read through all the previous reviews and everyone else has liked this film, so far.  I went with my husband, who also hated this film, and his best friend, who enjoyed it.  One never knows.  Tastes vary greatly, you know?  My hubby and I thoroughly enjoyed The Haunting (1999) but this movie sucked the big one, to us.Now, if you really want to be scared, go see The Blair Witch Project!  IMHO, of course ... "},{"Title":"DEEP BLUE SEA (Renny Harlin, 1999) **","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Moronic hi-tech sci-fi/horror film for the popcorn crowd with a trio of monsters in the form of very bad CGI sharks JAWS (1975) it ain't and, in fact, the film succeeds better as a disaster movie - with the elaborately-designed undersea facility submerged in a spectacularly over-the-top explosion, and with the occupants having to swim to the surface amid the ruins and the marauding (and revenge-seeking) maneaters; apparently, their brain cells offer a cure for Alzheimer's and, so, ruthless doc Saffron Burrows argues that if their brain cells are genetically augmented, the eventual cure would be that much more effective...with the unfortunate side-effect being that the sharks are now capable of thought!! Again, the film is merely a B-picture type of plot brought up to date and given a glossy surface - but it's fun in the way that dreck like the Friday THE 13TH saga never is to me! As a matter of fact, the more the film took itself seriously (i.e. the thinner the cast list grew) the more hilarious it became - from the moment Samuel L. Jackson is delivering an impassioned speech about the vital need for the group to remain united if they are to survive (he has just come from a similar tension-filled 'hopeless situation' incident on the Alps, so the guy knows what he's talking about), only to have a shark jump out of the water, grab him and go down again, I couldn't contain my laughter (actually, all the various death scenes were howlers)! It is when the film does try to be funny - courtesy of a fat Latino telephone operator or a foul-mouthed parrot - that it fails and Stellan Skarsgaard (as the head doc) looks pretty bored. The scene where a shark turns on the submerged oven to roast the colored chef taking refuge within has to be seen to be believed, though... "},{"Title":"The Anti-Jaws You'll Die Laughing.","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" To put it simply and bluntly, this movie is bad. However, it's not stupid because it's bad. Rather, it's bad because it's stupid. Even the most stupid movies have some redeeming quality to them, and sometimes you might even get the urge to watch them again. Well, that was anything but the case for me and Deep Blue Sea.I remember seeing this movie on TV almost a year after it came out (1999, coincidentally the year of release for the abomination known only as The Haunting), in a hotel room in Canberra, Australia. Virtually my entire family had gathered in one room for a celebration, and after hearing that Deep Blue Sea would be airing soon, we resolved to watch it out of curiosity. Perhaps we assumed that, as cheesy as we had heard it was, it would still be possible to take it seriously.All we did was laugh. Nobody, and I mean nobody, could help it.Deep Blue Sea takes itself far too seriously for a suspense/action thriller involving bio-engineered sharks hunting down hapless human prey. It features an eclectic cast of stereotypical horror movie characters (portrayed by forgettable actors who deserve to remain nameless) who are predictably pursued by the shark in question and must fend for their survival in as moronic a way as possible without sacrificing the tension it works to create. Really now, why swim for your life when you can strip down to the bare essentials and show off some meaningless fan service to the camera? There are only loads of better movies to turn to than this one for that sort of thing, and heaven forbid that your clothes hinder your movement any. As for who dies and who doesn't, there are absolutely no surprises. If you know the clichés of the genre, they're all perfectly intact here. The ending? Pffft. Just smile and nod.Deep Blue Sea may not be stupid enough to be enjoyable, but it is stupid enough to leave an impact on the fragile human psyche. If you don't mind shelling out a few bucks for a quick rental, you might just get a good laugh or two out of it.Don't expect much more than that. It was a thriller released in 1999, after all. "},{"Title":"Possible contender for worst film of all time","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This film skillfully combines a very bad plot, terrible acting from the entire cast and incidental music that makes the audience want to attach large chunks of bloody liver to their legs and go swimming off the coast of Australia. If you want to waste two and a half hours of your life, by all means watch this film, but don't expect to be anything other than slightly amused. Unfortunately this amusement won't be directed at the very unfunny LL Cool J, but rather at the sheer lack of talent, credibility and suspense generated by a cast marginally weaker than the overall concept itself. The only good thing I can say about this film is that occasionally it makes you jump, but only if (like me) you're on the verge of nodding off.If you happen to come across a copy of this film at any point then take it to the coast and catapult it out to sea, hopefully it will be the cause of indigestion to a Great White Shark and nobody will ever find it again.I gave this film 2/10 (that was for the inclusion of an irrelevant but humorous parrot) and I was being far too generous. "},{"Title":"I rooted for the shark!","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie became campy after a while. Except for the realistic and excellent underwater photography, I found it somewhat predictable. The performances were so-so, with some good actors saying some pretty funny lines and trying to make them believable. Among the cast are Stellan Skarsgard (GOOD WILL HUNTING) doing an admirable job, Thomas Jane, also doing the best he could as our hero, Michael Rapaport in supporting role, Cool J giving some comedy relief with a parrot, Samuel Jackson, giving his presence and prestige to this film, and Saffron Burrows, who annoyed me the most. Defiant to the others and wanting to keep the sharks in tact, she managed to cause the deaths of many others. I couldn't wait till her surmise. She'd stand around watching others with this look that made you not trust her at all. Were they that blind? Rapaport at least had the chance to tell her off, which he did, and we all cheered. "},{"Title":"Sharks Become Frankenstein's !!","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"               If you know a film is going to be about Sharks, then just sit back, relax and try not to be upset with the plot or the acting, lets face it, it is for your entertainment, why waste your time and words trying  to be critical with a film like this?  I personally enjoyed this film and the director, Renny Harlin who also created Die Hard 2,90 and has some great films for 2004!    The star of this film was LL Cool J(Sherman Dudley or Preacher),Rollerball,'02, with his pet bird and kitchen skills as a cook and comic acting, like hiding in the oven, to avoid these BRAIN THINKING SHARKS!  Saffron Burrows(Dr. Susan McCallister),Hideous Man,'02,was the creator of these Monster Sharks that could think about how they would destroy their creator by knocking down the fences in which they were caged.  Dr. Susan tried to find a cure for Alzheimer's, but you will have to see the film to find out if they  are using these TESTS TODAY!    Great entertainment for a SHARK FILM!, but does not compare to Tintorera, with Susan George.  "},{"Title":"A bit of a wimpy title for a killer shark movie.","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a shark movie that is actually more Alien than it is Jaws.  Don't get me wrong, it was a pretty good movie as long as you didn't take it to seriously, but I would have preferred more attacks in the open sea.  What we get are most of the attacks happening in a research facility.  Scientist are experimenting on sharks, looking for a cure to Alzheimer's, the sharks that are super intelligent strike back.  The facility is basically floating, and the sharks bust a window and the facility starts to flood and then starts to sink and the sharks get in.  Some good shark attacks follow...and you get to hear a very great speech by Samuel L. Jackson that is really inspiring.  Of course, if you have seen the movie you know what I am talking about.  In the end this isn't the type of movie you watch for the great acting, but for the wild action and shark attacks.  In this one we get I think it was three sharks, two rather little ones and one big one.  I loved Jaws so I had to go to this one, but it reminded me more of Alien they way they were in the facility, but you do get one shark attack on some teens in the open sea. "},{"Title":"Oh dear, oh dear, oh dear.....","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I suppose I should start out by saying that there are probable spoilers ahead. Although how you can spoil anything already this rancid is quite beyond me.The basic premise shark's brains contain a chemical which would seem to reverse the onset of Alzheimer' Disease. The bigger the brain, the more chemical produced. And so we get genetically engineered sharks. However, what the scientists didn't spot the bigger the brain, the more intelligent the animal.....OOoooo....Samuel L. Jackson obviously realised how much of a turkey this was when, part-way through, he gets turned into shark hors d'oeuvres. I'm sure he was grateful to get away from this piece of muck, and if he's got any sense, he'll wipe it from his resumé. He must have been half-asleep when he agreed to do this. Or maybe he did it as a favour. Or a joke. Who knows? One thing's for sure he made a biiiiig mistake taking this in the first place.The acting was wooden. The characters (with the possible exception of the cook/preacher) had no characterisation. The CGI - oh, please, don't get me started on the CGI. There were enough animal-fights-back clichés here to fill a good sized trailer. Originality was obviously just a word in the dictionary to these people, rather than a film-making concept.Within the first five minutes of the film, we were already guessing which ones would be left alive. I got two of the last three, and as we watched the film, we could predict which character was next for the nibble. At the end of the film, I couldn't actually believe I'd watched such an unadulterated piece of complete drivel. "}{"Title":"Deep Blue Sea was not deep enough!","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Here we go again!I'll tell you what...This movie - MAN! I've seen people get out of jams before, but this LL Cool J Character!!! This guy was in a SHARK'S MOUTH that has already claimed what, seven lives ALREADY? How he managed to get out of that will forever change my opinion on Hollywood movie writers! I mean C'MON!!!! I'll never look at him again the same way. I used to think he was one of us, y'know, a regular guy. Not after seeing this garbage!The plot had so much potential - why did it end like this? And then that Saffron Burrows comes along! With them fat, juicy slut-lips! I don't get what everyone was so crazy about - she was a scientist...a scientist who got ate up! What did you expect? At least they put that in the movie! If LL Cool J couldn't die, at least this character did!There was much better roles for her to play - she didn't have to break new ground. It's silly. I don't understand logic like that. Even Samuel Jackson bit the big one (or shall we say, the big one bit him)! These sharks look weak compared to JAWS. I bet that JAWS would kick Deep Blue's fins up and down the ocean! This movie had as much logic as The Island of Dr. Marleau had suspense!It's a shame I had to view this motion picture. Honestly, I think I could have done a better job directing than Renny Harlin did. But you know me - I can't complain! Please do not watch this movie, unless you like Hollywood-ish plots like Men In Black.Peace.Jim "},{"Title":"Perfect for those bad movie festivals","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is almost like someone tried to take 3 blockbusters Jaws, Jurassic Park and the Abyss, and mold them into a big heap of steaming poo.  Not only did it use every cliched situation such as a big storm to prevent rescue, most of the staff being gone for the weekend, and mad scientists trying to play god, but it even used phrases like Elvis has left the building.  And it took 3 writers to make this??? <spoiler> Overall, I gave it a 2 just because it made me laugh so hard when Samuel L Jackson got eaten mid-speech.  God that was hilarious!  It's a good movie to use at bad movie festivals, or just to torture people you don't like. "},{"Title":"Like a 50s B-movie, except really bad","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is the worst, most insulting film I've seen a long time. I don't particularly mind that no scientific advice whatsoever has been given to the scriptwriters, but I'm really appalled that the makers of this movie have such a low opinion of our intelligence. Even a dumb effects movie should have some respect for its audience. The dialogue is consistently pathetic, and every single character is one-dimensional and unlikeable. LL Cool J's character, in particular, is a disgraceful pander to the audience - a stereotype black guy who uses the word 'ass' in every other sentence and acts like some kind of evangelical lecher most of the time(crucifixes kill sharks, apparently - because sharks are the devil, you see. Because they eat other creatures. Unlike man, who of course doesn't). He explains physics through sexy woman analogies. Oh good, something our thick, penile brains can understand. Naturally, it's up to him to provide all the cheap laughs and atrocious oneliners (and even those are underdeveloped).One woman commits the double crime of being both a scientist AND British. I'll leave it to you to guess whether she survives to the end or not. The surly he-man anti-hero character does, of course. He's harpooned through the leg, slammed at turbo speed into a big metal gate, and then exploded. But he survives. What the hell, we're all idiots, right? We'll accept that. "},{"Title":"What a waste of Samuel L Jackson","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  And I don't mean what happened to him in the film. Boy, he must have been paid a fortune to have agreed to subject himself to this torment.You know that a film is going to be bad when even the sea is computer generated. After all, where on the planet earth can you find a choppy ocean? I've seen better effects in 1930's films.Even masochists will find this too painful. "},{"Title":"It May Be Blue But Is It Deep?","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The one word that came to mind after watching Deep Blue Sea was stupid. Every single time something was to happen in the movie, you knew it was going to happen, because the characters were ever so stupid to just stand there waiting for something bad to happen. So you see a few scenes with dummies (now I mean the dolls) torn in half by sharks and tons of water everywhere.This movie lacks the suspense and growing uneasiness Jaws offered, and, of course, one compares it to Jaws since it is a shark movie. Now I liked Die Hard 2, Cliffhanger, and Long Kiss Goodnight a lot, but Deep Blue Sea, nah, wasn't worth the time it took to see it. Renny Harlin can do better, at least he did before. "},{"Title":"Concept 10 - Execution 2. Brilliantly Awful.","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Every emotion and every line from actor Tom Jane is delivered the same way. A cool, monotone, boredom with a touch of Bikini acting- That's when an actor thinks looking good is the same thing as doing a good job. The film needed a hero. Mr. Jane is just a man without a sense of presence. Why didn't they cast more seasoned actors? Just look at Samuel Jackson's performance -- now there's someone who knows who he is, but not even he can save this sinking mess. Co-star Sapphron is from the school of Accent acting. I have an accent therefore, I act. But the real problem is the script. The sharks maybe sharp but the people are ridiculously stupid. A shark can smash a huge window using a dying character but can't find the good Doctor because she's standing on a coffee table. And that electrocution scene is as bad as the cook frying up one of the sharks. Too silly even for a die-hard B-grade movie fanatic like me. Can't Renny find better actors and a better script. "},{"Title":"Something you better not spend your bucks on","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I recently had the dubious luck to watch this film in a Sneak Preview and though I considered leaving the cinema throughout the movie I stayed 'cause there was still the hope that it has to get better - but it got even worse. The story itself is just nonsense that is justified by some wanna-be science. If there is an award for creative nonsense, then the idea of Alzheimer  in connection with the sharks, would definitely be the winner. Despite of that the CGI effects were really poor, because the proportions of the sharks changed during the whole film, not talking about the totally unbelievable movements of those creatures. Well using 14 special effects companies obviously does not make a good film. So if someone really has too much money & wants to spend it, then he better waits until this film's released on video.  "},{"Title":"Predictable & Pathetic","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This would have to be one of the most boring movies I have ever seen, not to mention totally pathetic I knew what was going to happen at every turn (except for one which was unexpected). It wasn't even the slightest bit scary or tense & sharks make my skin crawl so it tells you how good it is.Save you're money & wait for TV. "},{"Title":"No grasp of physics","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  One of the worst films this year.No grasp of physics (you can't close a door when a few tons of water push against it), shallow characters, badly rendered animations (dropped frames in shark animations).The two good laughs I had were not worth the money. "},{"Title":"I'd have pushed Saffron Burrows in the water in the first 10 minutes.","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was an absolutely atrocious movie about a bunch of incredibly stupid scientists getting eaten by smart sharks. If I had seen two hurricanes on the radar two (count 'em) days before they hit -and never mind that the genius cast doesn't notice until about fifteen minutes before they hit- I would have thrown Saffron Burrows into the water to make the sharks happy and moved to Kansas. And I like Sam Jackson better when he gets eaten by velociraptors. Deep Blue Sea takes the level of cinematic implausibility to new lows, and the characters are so stupid that they could have been killed by sea urchins. Ugh. "}{"Title":"Worst Movie of the Summer","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was by far, the worst movie I had seen this summer.  First of all, this was the most predictable movie I had ever seen.  You start out with 8 actors, and you know most of them will die.  But it is so obvious, who will survive.  In these kinds of movie, the comic relief never gets killed, and neither does the main character.  The comedian always comes very close to dying and somehow, always narrowly escapes. Besides being very predictable, this movie was a plain rip-off of Jurassic Park.  Just change the dinosaurs to smart sharks.  Just think about it.Jurassic Park Genetically created dinosaurs are being safely contained (yeah right) in their cages.  Then, after a small crew is left on the island, a hurricane hits, leading to a chain of events to the dinosaurs escaping and hunting the remaining people on the island.Deep Blue Sea Genetically engineered sharks are being safely contained (yeah right) in their cages.  Then, after a small crew is left on the submarine pin - turned Aquatic base, a hurricane hits, leading to a chain of events to the sharks escaping and hunting the remaining people on Aquatic. Sound a bit familiar?Well, this movie might be entertaining to some people.  If you are looking for a no brainer popcorn movie this summer, then I guess you would go see it.  But for me, it was a complete waste of time.  Save your $9 and go see Eyes Wide Shut.  Deep Blue Sea.............2 "},{"Title":"The writers should have been eaten.","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a bad movie.  I've seen better film on teeth.  Stupid premise.  Tres bad.  Awfully bad.  Incredibly bad, bad, bad.Deep Blue See it and kiss your cash goodbye.Nearly eighty percent of you twits gave it a 6 or better on a scale of ten. We are doomed. "},{"Title":"Deep Blue Sea is deeply disappointing","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is beyond horrible!!!  Where do I begin?  Let's start with this  Where did the idea that this movie is scarier than Jaws come from? There were not people actually screaming in the theater, as there were with Jaws.  The special effects were not believable, because you could tell when things were fake.  In Jaws you could not tell, and that movie was made long before this one.  Correct me if I'm wrong, but I thought that our special effects technology had improved over the years. The whole course that the movie took was wrong.  The basis behind the tests on the sharks were so Susan could make a medication to fight Alzheimers.  But then all of her data and information were destroyed, so all the work was useless.  The development of that medication was supposed to be her driving force.  And, not to give it away to people who have not seen the movie, what was the point at all to what happened at the end, especially since there was the idea of a possible romance to end the movie?  And it was almost laughable at the way some of the actors in this movie came to their ends. My advice  don't waste your money on seeing this movie.  It is not worth the time it fills.  You'll probably find that the previews you see before the movie are more entertaining than the actual movie itself.My only praise of the movie is that the actors and actresses played their parts as well as they could.  LL Cool J added much needed comic relief in his role, and he stole the show (granted, it didn't take much effort in this movie!) "},{"Title":"Category should be joke/farce...","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Give me a break! Even the shark in Jaws, which was after all created over 20 years ago, was more convincing - and the movie therefore more suspenseful - than these lame-looking creatures with way too many teeth. Considering the kind of computer technology that is available these days and how convincing things can be depicted with it (e.g. Deep Impact, Titanic, Jurassic Park), it is really a shame that this movie was done in such a sloppy fashion. The attack scenes look so fake that one is tempted to burst out in laughter - or leave the theater and ask for a refund. And, just because the sharks were created with computers, why do they all of the sudden have to move around in the water like a bunch of video game characters that are being maneuvered with the help of joysticks??The majority of the dialogue is worth ignoring and Samuel Jackson's character's preaching is totally corny. Why on earth did he choose to be part of such a movie? The part certainly wasn't challenging and it's not like the plot (uhm, what plot?) could have blown him away. Well, I guess with some actors you just have to question their judgment when it comes to their choice in roles.The only thing that's even remotely entertaining about that movie is LL Cool J's character - on account of LL Cool J's character and his redeeming qualities in the movie I refrained from giving the movie a 1 and gave it a 2 instead.The other good thing about this movie is that you don't have to worry about missing anything in case you need to take a break (if you know what I mean) - you can leave at any time and just pick up once you get back (if you decide to come back, that is). "},{"Title":"i think this film was  a load of ****","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie should be permanently banned from screens across the universe. I am a business man who takes pride in what is presented to him. I have never seen anything like this in the business world. I am disgusted with the creators they make me sick. Being a director i have endless knowledge about film making, this film is a disgrace to Howard Norton the first man to ever hold a camera. Thanks for this opportunity to voice my opinions. I love you guys. I hope you take my opinion graciously and avoid contact with deep blue sea. As samuel jackson once said, it takes a man to make a miracle, and a miracle to change a man. After jacksons disappointing decision to star in this movie, these words take on new meaning. peace to all my brothers xxx "},{"Title":"this movie sucks","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I can't believe how terrible this movie is...just can't and I can't believe I paid to see itbad acting, story, what have you... the sharks seem fake, they keep changing size, the story is not clear to why they can do some things impossible for sharks Samuel L. Jackson's character is not believable or has any real depthand just to make everything worse L.L. Cool J has a part and he keeps coming back, I think he's the lowest point of the movieI think the only think I liked and/ or believed it could work where the first 5 minutesWhen I went with a friend to the movies and we couldn't get into any other film, we entered to see this (so it would be my second time of torture). We walked out after half an hour, I just couldn't stand it for the second time...and for my friend it was the first time! "},{"Title":"Bland","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea is a clear knock off of the Speilberg hit, Jaws. Of course this film has a different story, but the concept is the same - you should be afraid of sharks. Samuel L. Jackson's role is simply one that was added to give the film movie star quality, because without him no one in the cast is anyone who's name is recognizable to the average, and even above average moviegoer. The effects in the film are digital, but do not blend well with the live action footage, in effect, things look highly unrealistic. The performances in the movie are bland and LL Cool J's character is one that borders on stupidity and religious immaturity. This film is not good at all and should not be watched. If you're looking for a shark movie, go the obvious, Jaws. "},{"Title":"seeing this movie is a waste of time","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Nothing much to comment. The movie is not worth viewing. Its special effects are terrible and leave a bad taste in your mouth. I don't know what those guys making this movie were thinking when incorporating such effects into the movie. My advice is to turn off TV and take a walk. "},{"Title":"Too flawed to be non-stop fun.","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  ** out of ****I'm being quite honest when I say I truly wanted to like Deep Blue Sea.  I went into the film with some fairly high expectations of pure summer action/suspense entertainment because of the mostly positive response it was getting from critics.  Plus, it's been a long time since we've had a fun shark movie so I was ready to embrace this with open arms.Alas, it was not to happen, and I should have known.  After all, even though Renny Harlin can prove himself skillful in directing action sequences, he fails to inject genuine suspense and often goes too far over-the-top in a movie that mostly takes itself seriously.  This is not Lake Placid (which is quite a good thing).  Deep Blue Sea isn't terrible by a long shot, but it's not the breakneck paced thriller I was hoping for.Dr. Susan McAlester (Saffron Burrows) is in the process of creating a cure for Alzheimer's Disease.  With the help of a crew working in an underwater habitat, they use the brain material of sharks to get this job accomplished. However, the side effect was that the sharks (3 of them) grew smarter as a result of the experimentation, and they break loose, creating hell as they begin to prey on the group of survivors, who are trying to find a way to get topside.Deep Blue Sea is a movie that should have been dripping with suspense and action from every corner.  Instead, what we get is the occasional jump-in-your-seat shark attack that only offers momentary jolts.  Oh, don't get me wrong, there are some exciting moments, but not enough to cover the entire running time of 105 or so minutes.This is director Renny Harlin we're talking about, who's made almost nothing but big-budget duds (Cutthroat Island, Cliffhanger, Die Hard 2). Considering the fact that Deep Blue Sea may very well be his best movie only goes to show he isn't that accomplished a director.  He's all about the action, and there are moments in Deep Blue Sea when it works.  L.L. Cool J.'s encounters with the sharks are often tense and surprisingly humorous, and there is a flooding scene with the characters trying to escape the sharks by climbing a ladder that remains a fairly memorable setpieceHowever, there are plenty of moments that don't work, either.  One of the main characters sudden departure feels quite obvious in the middle of his we will survive if we stay together speech, and the end result is not only bloody, but also quite cheesy.  The over-the-top finale is probably the worst, and the less description about it, the better.The special effects are sometimes effective, just like the action scenes (as I think of it now, a lot of things are sometimes effective and sometimes not).  The animatronic sharks are convincing and realistic, but CGI is far worse-looking than what you may have thought was dated in Jaws.  The sets are appropriately well-fashioned, and the constant scenes of flooding do give the film a little added tension.The performances are also a mixed bag.  Samuel L. Jackson as the man funding the whole operation is very good (as always) and it's a pity he isn't in this film more.  As I think of it, as soon as his presence is gone, that's when the film's true downslide began.  Saffron Burrows is also good as the scientist and heroine of the picture, but a stupid move on the filmmakers' part in the finale ruins any of her development (which isn't a whole lot to begin with, but is significantly more than anyone else).  Also decent are Stellen Skarsgard and Jacqueline Mckenzie.  LL Cool J is fun to watch when he's making fun of his situation, but is a bit irritating when he's preaching (he plays a religious cook, is this a case of miscasting?).The two performers that are not so good are Michael Rappaport and Thomas Jane.  Rappaport often goes so far over-the-top in his role you have to wonder who he thinks he's chewing the scenery from.  Now, as for Thomas Jane as the shark wrangler, did this guy graduate from the school of acting from Christopher Lambert?  For that matter, the two of them look so alike I was wondering if they were related.  But back to his performance; Jane is so wooden it's almost laughable.  There's even a moment when he pops out of the water and starts screaming in such an unconvincing manner, I found myself chuckling.  Jane is perhaps the worst thing about this film and he actually gets the second-most amount of screentime!The script is dumb, no doubt about it, with some cringe-inducing dialogue and laughably bad science.  But, to give all involved in the film credit, everybody seems to know that and doesn't take the story too seriously, which is actually a good balance.  If it had reached the campy levels of Lake Placid, this would have been a disaster so points must be awarded to the fact that the tone does usually maintain the same, that is until the over-the-top finale.There are also some other points in the film that hurt it.  Trevor Rabin's score is a little overwrought and fails to bring about the needed excitement.  There's also a scene that almost plays an ode to Alien, in which Burrows strips down to her underwear to electrocute a shark.  Sure, Burrows is a very good-looking woman, but it's a gratuitous moment.No one ever said Deep Blue Sea had to be masterful, but it's often too goofy, and thus prevents it from being the extremely entertaining action/thriller it could and should have been.  What we do get is still quite watchable and does offer some entertainment, but a quick fix isn't satisfying enough. "},{"Title":"It ain't too deep...","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie in 2001 and hated. Then I saw it again last night and I now hate it even more.So I tried to think of the absolute wackiest idea for a review, and I came up with thisA Conversation with the Shark from JAWS (1975).Not many people know this, but those sharks from the JAWS movies weren't real. Oh, no, they were actually animatronic machines--so when that Great White stood up on its tail in Jaws the Revenge, it wasn't real--it was a machine. Who would have guessed it? From such authentic realism, the first thing I said after watching that movie was, How'd they get the shark to do that?Yes, I was too foolish to realize that the animatronic puppet from JAWS was fake. I thought it was real. So, despite all my friends trying to persuade me from doing so, I laboriously researched hours on end, pouring over encyclopedias and the Internet, searching for ways to train a Great White Shark to stand on its dorsal fin and crash its stomach into a boat. Alas, there were no reasonable results--the closest I came to figuring out how they did it was this quote from Steven Spielberg I had nothing to do with this movie. Leave me alone.This led me into the dangerous underworld of stalking--first I stalked the director, then the writers and producers, then the chairman of Universal and all people that worked within fifty miles of the filming for Jaws the Revenge (I was only slapped with fifteen restraining orders!). My answers will still...uh...unanswered.And I was still haunted by the terrifying climactic showdown between Ellen Brody and the shark. I knew that my mind would not be clear unless I went straight to the person responsible for the stunt the shark himself. (This is when I found out for the first time that an animatronic puppet did it, and I cursed the world for tricking me once again. I raised my fist high into the air and shouted, It was fake! Curse them for making me believe otherwise!)But one of these sharks from the original JAWS was indeed a real fish, used in some underwater shots during the movie, particularly that of the Great White attacking Hooper's cage and various other faraway shots. I got to have a brief chat with this shark as part of his promotion for his new movie, Free Willy Goes to Hell The Final Willy, in which Gordo the Shark makes a brief cameo appearance during a scene where Free Willy and his new friend are eaten alive by a pack of hungry sharks.I was immediately taken aback by Gordo the Shark's giant size. He could barely fit in his water tank from where I sat fifty yards away with a jumbo-sized microphone equivalent to those giant Slurpee cups you get at 7-11. After the preliminary introductions we got straight to the point (note I had to interpret most of the clicking and clacking noises he made in response to my questions, but I translated as best as I could, and I honestly believe that this is what he said)JU How have you found your career so far?G Moonbesck.(I interpret this as shark talk for, Very good.)JU How was it working with Steven Spielberg on JAWS?G Moonbesck.(I interpret this as, He was an egotistical maniac.)JU What did you think of Renny Harlin's major knock-off, Deep Blue Sea?G Moonbesck. (I interpret this as, It sucked big time.)At this point in the interview, Gordo the Shark attempted to break free from his containment and devour the entire studio where the interview was being conducted. I managed to escape unscathed with only a few missing limbs.With blood pouring everywhere and major veins torn open, I decided to use the remaining moments of my life to write a review of Deep Blue Sea, one of the worst shark attack films of all time--perhaps even worse than Shark Attack itself (but that's pushing it). Forget the stupid stereotypical characters, exceedingly ridiculous dialogue, dumb ideas and idiotic in-joke references to Renny's other films (how many references to Die Hard 2 did I count? I wish I had written down all of them), this film just doesn't stay afloat. It's a big, boring B-movie with a large budget that still manages to have some of the worst special effects of all time. This stuff was done eight years prior in Terminator 2 Judgment Day.Take Gordo's advice and skip this one. It ain't too deep. "}{"Title":"Sharks presumably smarter than screenwriters in watery mess","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep Blue Sea is a shark-infested action pic that despite opening and closing scenes bearing remarkable similarities to Spielberg's legendary Jaws does everything in its power to avoid the inevitable comparisons.  One can almost hear the writers saying, These are makos not great whites.  See?  It's different.  Heavy on the lame-brained scientific exposition establishing premise of Alzheimer's research using sharks at a former U.S. Navy sub base, Deep Blue Sea includes plenty of disposable cast members ready-made for chomping as the film unspools.  The premise that the sharks have become super-intelligent and can swim backwards (!?) is as idiotic as many of the phony computer-generated effects, but people willing to check their brains at the ticket window may find themselves cheering for the sharks and having a good time anyway. "}]