[{"Title":"You ain't never been struck by lightning. You don't know what it's like.","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"63 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I don't think I will ever understand the disappointing backlash against this film. What I witnessed was not your typical western film full of passionate love and implausible events. Instead, what I saw was beautifully captured images, powerful acting by Damon and Thomas, a story that twisted further down a darkened rabbit hole than I was expecting, and this challenging character study that gave us a brief insight to a world that will never be seen by our eyes again. This was not the romantic film that it was marketed as, this was not the adventure that it was marketed as, but instead it was the story of one character and the tribulations that effect him on his journey into the real world. It is the story of a very compassionate man that sees the honest darkness of those around him and must face the consequences of his actions. It showcases amazing acting that may be a bit disturbing for the unfamiliar eye, but to me was nothing short of brilliant. Billy Bob successfully adapted the story from the page, but it was not the film that he wanted. Miramax butchered this film in the marketing aspect, which ultimately hurt it overall. I will never understand why this did not receive the praise it should have, but will never be ashamed to bring it out for friends and family to enjoy. This film was like finding a dollar in the couch, an unexpected surprise that keeps a smile on your face the rest of the day.I have read several reviews that just completely dismantle Damon's acting in this film. While his accent does fade in and out randomly, it is the way that he carries himself and reacts to the situations that unfold before him that really showcase the true acting ability of this star. While I do not think that Bennifer has made the best choices to challenge his career, Damon continually proves that he has the ability to be a force in Hollywood. This film alone proves it. He built this beautiful chemistry between him and Cruz that teetered on fear and sorrow. He showed his compassion towards Blevins and Lacey continually throughout the film showing that his idea of friendship was stronger than anyone expected. His strength and will shined brightly when he was ultimately faced with death. These are all moments where other actors would have cheapened it up and tried to fake the audience instead of showing the truth. I thought Damon showed us honesty, he showed us a part of him that I was not expecting. If you couldn't tell already, he really impressed me. But yet so did everyone else in this film. I honestly thought that the kid from Sling Blade, Lucas Black, would never work again, and I was skeptical of him in this film, but he was exceptional. He took us away from his character in Sling Blade and built a whole new name for himself. He took the challenges of this character and pushed them out of the television. The same can be said for Henry Thomas that continues to impress me with his ability to capture his moments and make them so real. Finally, Billy Bob did a great job of casting the rest of this film to bring the images and feelings of the time period to light. I could feel the dusty world of Texas and Mexico through the smaller characters that he cast.Speaking of Billy Bob, could we not agree that these actors wouldn't have been half as good if it were not for the amazing direction behind the camera. I wish that I could have seen his version of the film instead of the choppy Miramax version. He has a very gifted eye, and while sometimes he takes roles that I think blur that eye, he always seems to rebound with a very riveting performance. He is constantly experimenting with genres and styles, and this film shows that he can break traditional boundaries. The images that he captured on film help create this darkness that surrounded our main characters. The scene with the thunderstorm I thought was beautiful, as was the rolling Mexican landscape. He places us into the film as more than just observers, and that is a sign of a great director.Finally, I would like to pose the question of why Grady was so infatuated with Blevins? There were several moments during the film where he could have simply walked away from the boy, and Lacey even suggested it continually, but they always stayed with him. I realize that a main reason may be to develop the plot, but I think there was a more symbolic meaning. I feel that Damon connected with the boy because they had a kindred spirit. Damon was this passive, controlled character that never really understood himself until later on in the film, while Blevins was this wild-hair that never controlled himself or thought about his decisions. It was as if they were polar opposites, but yet they were perfectly matched. I think Damon liked him because it was what he aspired to be. I sometimes felt that the secondary characters were not real, and sometimes they were just imaginary images of what Damon wanted himself to be more like. This thought created a much darker picture for me that forced this film to go deeper into my mind and be more enjoyable than I thought.Overall, I really liked this film. While others will definitely disagree, I thought that the acting, story, and especially the direction deserved more attention that what was handed to it. Grade ***** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Unreleased Potential","Date":"3 November 2004","Score":"36 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Cormac McCarthy's novel, All The Pretty Horses, the first part of his breath-taking Border Trilogy, is one of the most perfect source materials ever written. Add to this the impressive line-up of talent (Ted Tally adapting, Thornton directing, Matt Damon, back when he was a hot property the first time around, starring) assembled for the film version and it's fair to say my expectations were raised sky high. When the film came out it was buried by the distributor. I managed to catch it in the one week it played at a single cinema in Edinburgh and I would be lying if I didn't admit that the whole experience was a crushing disappointment. It wasn't that the film makers had ballsed the whole thing up, no it was much more frustrating than that. You could tell that somewhere in that film there was a masterpiece straining to get out. Individual sequences impressed but the whole thing moved at such a frenzied pace that the main characters' journey, a true rite of passage in the novel, had become damagingly truncated. The result was underwhelming but at the same time as been annoyed at the film I could tell it wasn't the film makers' fault. It was all too apparent that this was a great film that had had it's guts, it's heart, it's very essence, chopped out of it by a greedy distributor trying to market the film as some kind of Titanic / Young Guns cross over. Guess what, this movie was never going to appeal to the teeny boppers. If only the studio could have realized that and been true to the property they acquired in the first place. My suspicions were confirmed recently when I read an article wherein Matt Damon, a fine actor despite the criticism, claimed that Billy Bob Thornton's integral cut of the movie is the best he's ever been involved in. I don't know about you but that makes me want to see it. Apparently the studio are willing to release this extended cut on DVD (all revenue streams reach the ocean eventually) but Thornton won't settle for anything less than a full cinematic re-release. I can't say I blame him, I get the impression his film deserves at least that much. So for now I can't recommend this film, check out the novel instead and then the rest of Cormac McCarthy's back catalogue. But let's hope that in the not too distant future this film finally gets the treatment I suspect it deserves. "},{"Title":"Crafted like a fine-tooled saddle","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"38 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This is a hard film to pin down...given the spoon-fed plots we've all been conditioned to follow.  It's sold as a love story, but that's one small bend in the film's long, dusty road.  If I had to classify it in conventional terms, I'd put it somewhere between coming of age and an american odyssey. It's spread out and slowly told--that's the nature of the subject. But to hell with all that.I love this film.  It's haunting.  It's like putting on your favorite old pair of dusty old boots with their third soles and fifth heels, and kicking your feet up onto a hitching rail while you're waiting for the day to cool off.  This is the story of John Grady Cole's serious loss of innocence. He is a stoic, simple, gentle, moral, responsible, sensible, well-mannered young Texan dropped into some extreme circumstances where his character is tested and proven. The crafting of the film appears to be a direct extension of his character. From Barry Markowitz' big-sky, muted-color, wide-open, slowly-moving cinematography, Clark Hunter's simple yet brilliant production design, to Sally Menke's minimalist editing, all elements of this film combine to reflect the purity, simplicity and grace of it's protagonist. The create a purely american western MOOD, and I love the way this film feels when I watch it.I love Matt Damon's Texas drawl.  Hell, I love EVERYONE'S Texas drawl in this film. I love the unspoken, little-expressed love between his character and Henry Thomas' character, Lacy Rawlins. I love Lucas Black's rough-edged teenager in big trouble, and how he desperately reverts to his recently-lost childhood when he's being dragged off to certain death. I love how Billy Bob Thornton takes his time telling this tale...that's the way his main characters approach everything...patiently. I love seeing two friends riding together toward who-knows-what in the middle of a vast wilderness. I love how even when John Grady Cole is enraged, he's still polite and rational. I just love the RICHNESS of this film--you can TASTE the cider when these guys pull over to buy a drink.  You can TASTE the beans they eat in prison. You can SMELL the dust and the sage everywhere.  You can FEEL how sore they are after 4 days of breaking horses. I even love the way John Grady Cole sounds when they say it.I'm trying to put my finger on it, but I can't...this film's like a glass of wonderful wine you weren't expecting.But I saved the best for last the most magnificent thing about All the Pretty Horses, the force that binds all the rich, disparate pleasures of watching this film together, and expresses the subdued, pure emotions of it's protagonist, is Marty Stuart's exquisite score.  It's warm like old wood and worn leather...it's part mariachi, part spanish, part classic western film score, part bluegrass, but it is PERFECT FOR THIS FILM. It's constructed entirely around a simple, graceful phrase on a spanish guitar (obviously a representation of the contents of John Grady Cole's pure Texas heart) I'm not even going to try to express any more about how great I think it is...I'll just get more frustrated than I already am.  Needless to say, I listen to it again and again and again.I just happen to love this movie.  I'm more surprised than anyone else. I guess you could say, I'm plum stuck on it--and I don't give too hoots in a holler what the rest of y'all might think about it neither. "},{"Title":"Excellent Storytelling, Beautifully Filmed","Date":"25 October 2006","Score":"32 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" This is an excellent, epic western saga about two Texans who wind up in Mexico and all the trials and tribulations they go through, most of which are fascinating. I've watched this film several times and it gets better and better with each viewing. The acting, storytelling and magnificent photography all made it a treasure of a film....and a very underrated movie. It's easy to get very involved in this haunting tale.Those two lead guys are played by Matt Damon (John Grady Cole) and Henry Thomas (Lacey Rawlins.) Along the way they are joined by the most interesting character of all of them Jimmy Blevins, played by Lucas Black. Jimmy is a nice kid but he's big-time trouble. His haunting face in his last scene is memorable.Penelope Cruz is the attractive love interest, surrounded by a protective Mexican family. That family, mainly a father and aunt, were really enjoyable to watch, too, and I wish they had bigger roles in here.Not only is the acting good and photography stunning, the soundtrack with Spanish music is outstanding. I've read they actually filmed this for a four- hour movie. Man, I'd love to see that.The only things I didn't care for were Thomas' blasphemous mouth and a couple of unpleasant scenes where the innocent lead characters are accused of things they didn't do and suffer because of it.This really isn't an action movie, but much more of a drama and it's excellent storytelling. It also has narration from Damon, who is good at that sort of thing. It's just a powerful movie with a lot of good things to offer. If you like good stories, don't pass this up. "},{"Title":"this lovely film hasn't been dumbed down to a simple formula","Date":"31 May 2005","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" What sets this lovely film apart is that it hasn't been dumbed down to a simple formula. I looked up a number of reviews for this picture and found many of them gave it mediocre ratings, complaining it wasn't a good western, adventure flick or romantic film. They are correct, it isn't; thankfully because it isn't suppose to be. These reviewers have become benumbed by Hollywood's usual coarse handling, and misunderstand the subtly of this picture, ironically their criticism is praise.The film isn't a Western, it uses the West as a setting to develop its two main themes, the first a celebration of being young and open to the vast possibilities of life, of diving in over your head. The second theme is commitment, what does it mean to be committed to the land, to a way of life, to family, to a buddy, to your word? How does commitment in one area effect your commitments in other areas? minor spoiler The film begins with two young men in west Texas laying on their backs, starring up at the stars and talking about the possibilities of life. John Grady Cole is about to head out for Mexico to look for work on a giant cattle spread, the kind that have largely faded from the American landscape, but still exist across the Rio Grande and he wants his buddy, Lacey Rawlins, to come along. Personal difficulties add impetis to their fantasy and the two young men head south on horseback, where they meet up with a younger boy on the trail, Jimmy Blevins, full of spit and vinegar, but not much sense. Lacey immediately suspects Blevins is trouble, the John Grady is more friendly and sympathetic than wise, and they invite this accident waiting to happen to join them, who eventually gets himself and them in far more trouble than any of them are able to handle.For those viewers who are looking for another quick action or romance fix, they will be seriously disappointed, but for someone, perhaps more literarily oriented, reflective about the meaning of life, this film is a delight. "},{"Title":"Passionate drama of life and death.","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Director Billy Bob Thornton fills the screen with awesome scenery and a hard hitting drama about two young cowboys from San Angelo, Texas meeting up with another young horseman and coming face to face with life altering situations in and out of a Mexican prison. Friendship stays strong to the bitter end. And love proves to be stronger than life itself. Matt Damon, Henry Thomas and Lucas Black are the hard luck cowpokes. Damon falls in love with Penelope Cruz and provides some steamy love scenes. There is more drama than action in this western, but you should find it very entertaining. Damon and Black are the most impressive characters in this well-made movie. "},{"Title":"Torn.","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I really wanted to love this film and from the opening scenes to the last third I really did like this film. I love surreal films as much as the next guy, but this film seems like it was made by Oliver Stone on Valium. The film is really slow, now that can be a good thing, but in this case the pace just keeps getting slower and slower. I heard that Thornton's original cut ran almost four hours, it seems that the film has a whole other film missing from it. I didn't read the novel and I'm guessing that I should have read the novel because I couldn't figure this film out for the life of me. When it was all over I felt empty. The performances are all great, I especially liked Lucas Black in the role of Blevins. Matt Damon and Henry Thomas are both very good in their roles and this is first movie Penelope Cruz has appeared in where I could see that she has real talent and isn't just another pretty face. I loved the cinematography, the outdoor landscapes were beautiful. The film has all the flavor and no real substance. I am torn with this film, I wanted to love it so bad. Even great film makers slip every now and then. "},{"Title":"The 35% movie that maybe originally was a minor classic?","Date":"9 January 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" All the Pretty Horses is directed by Billy Bob Thornton and adapted from Cormac McCarthy's novel of the name name by Ted Tally. It stars Matt Damon, Penélope Cruz, Henry Thomas & Lucas Black. Marty Stuart scores the music and Barry Markowitz photographs it. Plot finds Damon as John Grady Cole, a young cowboy who travels with his best friend, Lacey Rawlings, from Texas across the border into Mexico. It's a journey that sees acquaintances come and go, love blossom and the harshness of the world become all too real to such young eyes.A big financial disaster for Columbia Pictures and Miramax Films who lost nearly $40 million on the film. Serves them right I say, for Thornton's original cut was a long epic piece thought to be around three and a half hours in length. But good old Harvey Weinstein demanded drastic cuts to be made and Thornton had to trim it to just nearly two hours in running time. That's a lot of story gone astray, and boy does it show, no wonder Damon himself bitterly commented that to lose 35% of your movie ultimately leaves you with a completely different film. It's such a shame because although it's now a film chocked with flaws and flow problems, one can see that in its original cut there had to be at worst an involving rites-of-passage story.So what are we left with? Well it's certainly not a donkey. It drips with period atmosphere and comes resplendent with a poetic beauty thanks to Markowitz's photography. Stuart's score too has the tone absolutely right, blending the old feel of the West with evocative arrangements for the more tender moments involving the protagonists and there are tender moments, notably between Cole (Damon youthful but not really exuding a naivety for the age of the character) & Rawlings (Thomas effective and dominating his scenes). That the crucial relationship between Cole and Alejandra Villarreal (Cruz weak and lacking believability for the romantic strand) is barely formed can be laid at Weinstein's door. So too can the fact that a number of characters file in and out with blink and you miss them parts, sad when it's the likes of Robert Patrick and Sam Sheperd; and tragic in the case of Bruce Dern's judge; the latter of which is a crucial character in the final quarter but gets about three minutes screen time. Madness. Star of the movie is Black, who as young ruffian Blevins, manages to convey a deep sense of vulnerability. It's a critical role, one that affects the main character's lives, and thanks to Black's spirited performance we anxiously await what fate has in store for the lovable rogue.So much good to sample, then, even if it feels like going out for a three course dinner and finding the main course is no longer available. It's hoped that one day we may get a directors cut from Thornton, only then you feel will All the Pretty Horses be revealed as a potential thoroughbred. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Better Late Than Never","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" After seeing Matt Damon carrying The Rainmaker I sat up and became a real fan of the actor. In that movie he impressed me greatly. I decided to see what was he doing next. I read where he was slated to star in All the Pretty Hourses so I got a copy of the book to see what it was all about. I liked what I read and was looking forward to see Matt Damon in the effort. When I read where Billy Bob Thornton was to direct I became ecstatic, I remembered his acting and directing in Sling Blade. Later, I read where there was trouble with the length of All The Pretty Horses at the producer threatened to cut the movie. Mr Thornton's version ran almost 4 hours, the released version to theaters was 117 minutes. Of course I went to see the movie and could see that it should have been longer. Any movie buff could see that. What perplexes me is how studios and produces can contract certain directors and then butcher their completed work. Sergio Leone's Once Upon A Time in America suffered a humiliation when the studio decided to cut his film drastically; it lost it's meaning, and money. Later, the DVD restored version, 225 minutes, came out and was instantly received by customers. Thank God David O. Selznick stuck to his guns with Gone With The Wind. And look at how much money that! made. Like some others I hope that some one one day will be able to assemble the 4 hour version of All The Pretty Horses so that those of us who love movies can at least see what we've missed. I think we deserve to judge the movie for ourselves. Who knows, we might be missing a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Might have been a masterpiece","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  ALL THE PRETTY HORSES is quite effective, though there are some serious gaping holes in the story.  The story and characters insist that John Cole and Alejandra have fallen in love; we only get to see a swift montage of sex-making, which is not the same thing at all.  Damon made me believe that John was in love through the sheer force of his acting, but the audience needed to be courted along in this romance.  Also, Lacey Rawlins at one point crucially (suicidally?) antagonizes a fellow in prison, and we have no idea what bad blood has been brewing between these two.There are stories about how Thornton's film was first cut at four hours, then the director agreed to deliver a three hour version.  The financing studio balked at the length and sold it off to Miramax, who contractually required a cut no longer than two and a quarter hours.  What is left runs 117 minutes.  What happened?  Twenty minutes would have certainly helped smooth out the few rough spots, and a two-and-a-half hour or three hour movie might have been some sort of masterpiece.  As it is, some of the epic sweep is contained and the film remains remarkably moving, but may wind up ultimately not finding its commercial or artistic audience because of the compromises.  A shame. "}{"Title":"Newcomers trying for old-style Hollywood feel, and failing","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"20 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" From Cormac McCarthy's novel about young man in 1949 Texas leaving the family ranch for a life in Mexico, and winding up in hot water. Despite mystical undermining (which, presumably, is what director/co-producer Billy Bob Thornton brought to the table), film has a distracting 'formula' feel two-parts western, one-part forbidden romance, and one-part prison picture. None of it gels, simply because the screenwriter (Ted Tally, of all people) and Thornton are trying for the kind of heavy, romantic movie-western style popular 40 years ago, and yet they do not possess the subtle qualities to make this genre successful for them. Matt Damon frequently flashes his shy/self-conscious movie-star smile, but he's so clean and bland and laid-back, he's practically non-existent on the screen. Penelope Cruz, as his forbidden flame, is better, but the other performers are less charismatic, and the story has no center--it just rambles around. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Harvey Weinstein screwed it up","Date":"5 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" The book is great and Billy Bob was a good fit for it, but producer Harvey Weinstein screwed it all up. He wanted a two hour cut, even though from the offset it was clear the story needed a three hour epic sweep.So you really shouldn't watch this obviously truncated version (35% was cut). Scenes are rushed and a film that was supposed to capture the feel and romance of the landscape falls flat. Apparently Billy Bob has the correct edit on VHS in his home. Matt Damon says this cut is the best film he's ever been involved in. Eventually this film will be released, so you all should just wait for it. Billy Bob talks humorously about all this on cinemablend.The Weinsteins of this world are by no means villains, it takes a lot of hard work and guts to get where they have. But the same brute force that makes them successful can prove fatal where artistry is involved. Producers can be right - sometimes directors do need reigning in. Just not in this case. Harvey wasn't dealing with a wayward, self-indulgent director, and the story really did demand more time in its telling. "},{"Title":"Depth, meaning and simplicity","Date":"20 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" It's not True Grit but it has its own purpose that deserves far better ratings than some give it. Some people tend to take their mood of the day and enlist it in their otherwise bland perception. This movie deserves more. It's not high excitement, and action adventure, but its noteworthy.A simple story of three young riders that pursue a goal to travel to Mexico to take stock of a situation concerning legitimate horse trading and breeding, and how the ethnic differences and history divide and interrupt otherwise normal life sometimes to inevitable consequences.Tragedy, sickened personalities and lack of justice involve the audience into what one can't help but be pure genuine interest in the plot and storyline.Dull to some, but life wayn't chuck full of lightnin' fast draws and gun playin' nor overwrought with nothing other than second by second action scenes but more of an intrigue in personalty, honorable characterizations and simplicity of human nature and sometimes it's flaws fighting itself for virtuosity performed and carved out of the countryside between Mexico and the U.S.The eventual climax of the movie should leave the viewer with a satisfaction for watching a movie that didn't waste your time. "},{"Title":"READ THE BOOK!","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  All in all I thought this was a decent film. Unfortunatly the film we all saw in the theatre was two hours too short. Miramax, which five years was the major promoter of indie film, has now gone corporate. They forced Billy Bob to cut over half of the film to make it more marketable. Unfortunately this meant cutting character development and minor story elements. Everything people complained about was due to the film left on the cutting room floor.Again, read the book. It goes on my top ten list of conteporary literature. Then give the film another chance. It will make the midde third make a whole lot more sense. "},{"Title":"beautiful, lyrical, visually haunting","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  not without faults - the cuts that director billy bob thornton was rumored to have been required to make were obvious, especially if one read the novel - but a visually stunning masterpiece nevertheless.  the score was the perfect backdrop and, along with the setting, as much a character in the film as john grady, blevins, lacey and the rest.  and i don't know which damon and cruz the rest of the imdb users were watching, but i thought their chemistry set the screen alight - with one look, it was obvious that their passions ran deep.  lucas black was a wonder, completely inhabiting his character - at once endearingly, refreshingly funny, honest and heartbreaking.  a shame about the cuts thornton had to make as certain storylines should have been given the chance to further develop and unfold.  the film was luxuriously slow-paced, and though i was left at the end wanting more, i'm not convinced that that was a bad thing. "},{"Title":"A beautiful, interesting film..","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  A refreshing change from the insipid stuff that usually flows from hollywood.  A fine movie, good characters, beautiful scenery, a hot love story, really nasty villians. See it on the big screen if you can, but it will be excellent on video as well.   "},{"Title":"A beautiful, well crafted movie","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This is the best thing on the West since Unforgiven.  Great plot, superb acting and casting. I just really enjoyed the story, the nuances, the irony.  Billy Bob Thornton has outdone himself on this one.  When he takes you into a corral full of nervous, running mustangs, you feel you are really there. I recommend this movie highly to folks who prefer watching films to typical Hollywood burger fare. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece,highly recommended","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  One of the best movies I've seen in the past year.  The sweeping panoramic settings, the great writing and a subtle, great performance by Matt Damon make this a movie not to miss. I enjoyed everything about this movie, from the graphic, depressing prison scenes to the joyous romance between a young cowboy and his Mexican princess girlfriend. "},{"Title":"Solid, Old Fashioned, Melodrama with Brilliant Moments!!","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Boy, will this film separate the moviegoers from the movielovers!!I saw this with the unruliest audience in years!  Clearly half the audience hated it, while the other half, myself included, LOVED it!I was a fan of Billy Bob's since Sling Blade, and of Matt's since his wonderful performance in the overrated Good Will Hunting, but together, with brilliant contributions from Henry Thomas, Penelope Cruz, et al, they make this film come to life.This is a beautiful, old fashioned film.  The shots are beautiful, not because of the landscapes, but because of the care in composition.  I appreciate Billy Bob's use of the full screen, this film will obviously suffer on television.The dramatic storyline, while dealing with violence and sexual imagery, manages to convey both without being extreme.  And I for one am grateful!  I have absolutely nothing against screen violence, I just find it done so poorly in modern movies, that for once I appreciate a director that can do more with suggestion than with indulgence.Matt Damon has turned into the most interesting actor of his generation to watch!  His performance in the near perfect Talented Mr. Ripley convinced me that he indeed has the chops to pull off a real career, and this film cements those thoughts.  He is terrific.  Henry Thomas and Lukas Black offer strong support, along with such terrific actors as Ruben Blades, Sam Shepard, Bruce Dern and Penelope Cruz.This film will turn off many people, probably those people who enjoyed The Grinch, or Cast Away, or The Sixth Sense.  Those films were aimed at  audiences that required the filmmakers to HIT them over the head with their imagery, and lack of intelligence.  This film is smarter than that.  Not everything is spelled out for you.  All the Pretty Horses is a film that requires an audience to commit themselves to the experience.Is this film old-fashioned?  Yes, in many ways, but it is such an intelligent, beautiful, and emotional experience.  It was a joy to watch. "},{"Title":"Billy Bob's love letter to the Western....","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This was a beautiful film, (film, not movie), that calls to mind some of the best Westerns of the past. The cinematography reminded me of John Ford's work. This was not a film of easy answers, but the reality of the consequences of our choices; the innocence of the guilty and the unknown guilt of innocence. I highly recommend this film, as classic of understated performances which together create a totality of theme.  "}{"Title":"Absolutely amazing","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I thought this was one of the most well made movies I've seen in the past few years.  Billy Bob Thornton is one of the most incredible directors today.  The scenery is beautiful and some of the vignettes are amazing. Matt Damon definitely deserves a nomination for his performance here. However, the acting by all the stars, not just Damon, is exceptional. Lucas Black, who also played the young boy in Sling Blade, gives the standout performance of the movie as Jimmy Blevins.  Henry Thomas was the perfect choice for his role and hopefully will not be overlooked as much anymore. Penelope Cruz is just as good, and is going to be a mega star within the year.Critics have been tearing into this movie, but still give it good reviews. It is a lot shorter than the original cut was supposed to be, but I've heard that the DVD director's cut will be close to 3 hours long, whereas the theater version runs at 112 minutes.Definitely go and see this movie.  It's not a typical western.  "},{"Title":"Untamed Horses; Tamed Heart","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Warning Some spoilers.While, to some, the title may be somewhat depth-less, the movie itself is a wonderful mixture of love, hate, war, peace, adventure, comedy, drama, and, in the end, exposure of the true meaning of friendship. Billy Bob Thornton once again proves his talents exceed beyond the depth-less, cheesy flicks that so often paint the screen, and shows the deeper meaning of friendship -- the love that never forgets, and the binds that are formed in just days (whether it be with mischievous run-aways or elderly prison-mates) but will never be erased. This movie is amazing, thought-provoking, touching, and beautiful beyond words, and Billy Bob has once again turned a what-would-be simple concept and developed it into an absolute master-piece both for the eyes and the heart. He never ceases to touch me with his brilliance, and what he has to say to his audience speaks volumes in every one of his movies, especially, in this latest. From Sling Blade to All The Pretty Horses, this man can warm the most frigid heart, and captivate an audience long enough to take them on an amazing journey and bring them back, leaving them in awe and pure admiration. I'd recommend this movie to anyone, especially if you're open enough to experience it rather than just watch it. "},{"Title":"A beauty of a movie","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This is a beauty of a movie!  Very quite and understated.  If anything, it is that there's so much to take in.  It is true that some scenes feel truncated, especially for people who have not read the book.  The first viewing is like a preview - one will have to see it again to get the details right.There is class and artistry on display from the start.  Handsome sets. Handsome sceneries.  Handsome actors.Matt Damon is magnificent in it - he goes through the entire spectrum of emotions here.  There's crying, shouting in joy, nobility, lovesickness, the shock of witnessing brutality, the horror of a Mexican prison, - the whole range. In just about every frame, Damon is breathtaking in some scenes, and certainly looks every inch of a horseman.  Henry Thomas and Lucas Black are also outstanding - I think the trio's adventure may be the best part of the film, and some scenes there will stay with me for a long time.I don't know where the talk of lack of chemistry came from.  True, there's less about the romance than we would have liked, but what little time we do get to see of the lovers on screen is riveting.  When, at their sad reunion, John Grady whispered to Alejandra not to cry, this viewer's heart broke.I think the movie will be a hard sell in that it is perhaps too much to ask the average person to digest so much in a couple of hours - I can see where some may say it feels like they have sat through five movies.This is not an easy movie to appreciate.  In particular, there is no neat, all-American ending that some would prefer, which is the case with the book as well.  I think it was handled superbly  in the film, but the average movie-goer probably leaves the theater with some lingering doubts.Personally, I love it.  "},{"Title":"One of the most well-made movies I've ever seen!","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  On Oprah a couple days ago, I saw Matt Damon and Billy Bob Thornton.  They said that they are very content with how they made this movie, and that if only 10 people were touched by the movie, then the movie was made for only those 10.  I consider myself one of those 10.  Thornton directed this movie beautifully, while Damon, Black, and Cruz played their roles wonderfully. I wouldn't change a thing about All the Pretty Horses.  I was touched by the movie in ways that only movies from years ago have touched me.  Like a critic said recently, they don't make movies like this anymore.  It's true.  And if you see it, I strongly believe that you'll consider yourself among those 10, as I do. "},{"Title":"too many pretty horses","Date":"28 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" May contain mild spoilersAll the pretty horses is a movie based on a Cormack Mc Carthy novel by the same name. I read the novel after I had seen the movie because I wondered why the movie left me so empty inside after watching it. I couldn't say that it was bad but I couldn't' find the passion and depth I usually find in Mc Carthy's work. The funny thing is that even after having read the book I couldn't find an instant explanation why the movie didn't work. The director didn't leave anything out and yet, the magic of the book was lost in translation. I will try to name some possible reasons 1.The first thing that strikes me is the age difference. Matt Damon- though young looking-plays a teenager of 16,17 years. He can't hide the fact that he's over ten years older. Since one of the main themes of the movie is the coming of age, it doesn't work because the main protagonists are already grown up.2.A second problem is Mc Carthy's poetic language that is totally neglected in the visualization. A director should know how to transfer the poetry of words into pictures. It's not impossible &#x96; many have successfully done it. If he can't do it, he should pick another type of genre to direct where poetry isn't needed. 3.There are some recurrent motives in the book like the guilt (and responsibility) the main protagonist feels for the death of a young boy. A second important motive is his respect for parental figures because he never had a real one. Unfortunately in the movie everything is told with the same pace ignoring to underline important motives or set priorities. The director seems to have one universal stylistic device and that is showing horses in all possible variations. It is just not enough. "},{"Title":"Great but Too Short","Date":"5 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This is a Great Film, but its pacing is wrong.  I know the main reason for that is they never released the director's cut.  I know that would add a couple of extra hours on the film, but this film deserves the extra footage, and with it cut out, the film suffers from pacing mismatch.  Believe it or not, it feels way too rushed for the experience it is meant to invoke.  To anyone who can read this that can do something about it, please release the director's cut and ditch the original final cut.  The difference can be compared to that of Bladerunner or other great films after the director's cut was released that was much better than the original final cut.  "},{"Title":"Very fine coming of age film, but only for those who enjoy a good story over lots of action.","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I think the most accurate rating for All The Pretty Horses is 7.5 of 10, but I give it 8 since we can't do fractions on Imdb. I read some of the negative user reviews of this movie, and I must say those reviewers obviously don't know how to follow and appreciate a good story. That became more obvious when I read some of their other reviews. This is a story of two young men who knew nothing but 1940s Texas ranch life, and head out to Mexico for an adventure, to work as cowboys for a while. What they encounter is totally unpredictable, as well as how they handle their situations. Well-acted and beautifully filmed, this really is a fine movie. When appropriate, the actors pause, reflect, figure out what to do, as we would in real life. No rapid fire dialog here!I saw the DVD version at home. The film opens with great horses sounds all around you, making full use of the 5.1 channels of DD surround. As you would expect, the picture is flawless. However, I was disappointed in the very spartan extras on the DVD.CAUTION -- A SPOILER OR TWO FOLLOW --John (Matt Damon) is the main character. His grandfather had just died, his mother, aspiring stage actress, is the only heir to the ranch near San Angelo, Texas, and decides to sell it to an oil company who will pay 3 times what it is worth. So, without a family and a ranch, John decides to take off for Mexico, about 150 miles south. His best friend, Lacey (Henry Thomas of E.T. fame) goes with him. They cross the Rio Grande, and down the road meet up with a youngster, Blevins (Lucas Black) on a fine horse, and with a fine gun that he can use very nicely (Wallet now has a hole in it!). They suspect he is a runaway who might even have stolen the horse, but let him tag along. After a rainstorm, Blevins who is afraid of lightning, loses his clothes, his gun, and his horse. Approaching the next town, he sees his horse and gun and steals them back at night. Blevins goes his separate way.John and Lacey encounter a herd of cattle and join the cowboys, get accepted as hands, break 16 horses in 4 days, inpress the owner, who asks them if they rode all the way from Texas by themselves. John notices owner's daughter, Alejandra (Penelope Cruz), she notices him, they develop a secret love affair. Owner finds out, doesn't approve, knows about Blevins, calls police on John and Lacey, who end up in jail with Blevins who had been there since they split up some weeks earlier. On the way to the penitentiary, Blevins is taken out and shot.In prison, both John and Lacey, in separate incidents, get stabbed, John killing his attacker in the mess hall. Suddenly both of them are out, bought by Alejandra's father, in return she promises not to see John anymore. He gets her phone number, calls, meets at train station, they have a night together, John asks her to go to Texas where they will live happily ever after. Next morning she refuses, saying I gave my promise, and if I don't honor that then I will have no honor.John, in a daring move, retreives the 3 horses, gets shot in the leg, finds Lacey, and they head back to Texas. Over the border they are arrested without i.d., taken to the judge (Bruce Dern) who realizes John's story is real and orders them freed. At the end John's voice is heard, There must be a God watching over us, otherwise how could we survive even a single day? "},{"Title":"I had high expectations. They weren't realized.","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Having heard so many positive things about the book, I waseagerly anticipating the movie version of ' All the Pretty Horses.' Butfrom the opening montage of languid closeups, horse eyes andsuch, I feared the worst. Thornton's heavy-handed attempts atartistic profundity quickly became over-wrought and boring.While starting with promise, the film quickly descended into amorass of dullness. Half way through, I almost lost the will to live.The pacing was so slow, the events so un-involving, I couldn't waitfor the end credits to roll.   "},{"Title":"Highly under-rated","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I saw this film today and was very pleasantly surprised. I thought it was in the tradition of lyrical and elegiac films by terrence malick and mcCabe and mrs. miller (various 70s films in general). these types of films have recently really picked up thanks to some much needed bulood pumped in by filmmakers like David gordon green and lynne ramsay.hence I was very shocked to see that it only received 32% at rottentomatoes. i am clueless as to why. most people who seem to be bitching have read the book and think that the film doesn't meet the standard. i hate that argument. people seem to not understand that cinema is a completely different medium from the written word and comparisons are futile. if films started to become completely faithful to books we would have 8 hour movies. i haven't read the book but i seriously recommend the film.billy bob is a serious film-making talent to look out for. i always loved sling blade but this film is on completely another level. i'll certainly look out for his next project and this film's director's cut. "},{"Title":"A Politically Correct Movie With no Surprises","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" John Grady Cole (Matt Damon) is an American drifter, who moves to Mexico expecting to have a better life, but nothing works the way he has expected. All the Pretty Horses is a kind of predictable soap opera from Billy Bob Thorton. It is indeed a politically correct melodramatic story, with average performances and direction, although having an excellent cast with names such as Matt Dammon, Sam Shepard, Robert Patrick, Lucas Black, Rubén Blades, Bruce Dern and Penélope Cruz. For fans of Billy Bob Thorton, it is a very disappointing movie, but for lovers of linear romances, it is a beautiful movie, with wonderful landscapes and a message of loyalty and principles. All the Pretty Horses is a correct movie with no surprises. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Espírito Selvagem (Wild Spirit) "}{"Title":"All the Pretty Performances","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  A lovely, meandering story with some terrific acting -- unfortunately not from the two leads -- which takes us nowhere.Watch some really exhilarating cinematography, first of the great West, then of some marvelous horses. Admire some of the best acting you'll see all year. Wonder at the adventuresomeness of a story bold enough to leave many issues open and to resolve others against expectations. And shake your head as it all falls apart because of one mediocre and one horrid performance. Be vexed at the racism underlying nearly all the images. And then puzzle over why this was made in the first place.The mediocre performance is by Damon of course; I continue to be vexed by the success of ordinary actors. The truly horrid is Cruz and everything she touches. Heavy breathing isn't acting, as BillyBob knows, and her part is the only conventional element in an otherwise alternative plot.Sam Shepard, Bruce Dern, Ruben Blades, and Miriam Colon put in supersolid performances, each in small monologues. An unknown actor playing the constable and young Lucas Black have more sustained parts which scintillate. But these valued components fail to coalesce, and we especially need for them to because our expectations are so high. Just in terms of the story, when you are bold enough to buck expectations in plot turns, we cannot take ourselves anywhere so we trust that the filmmaker has a purpose, a specific place for us to go.That place could be the ordinary story of the resources an ordinary man marshalls when faced with a world actively conspired against him. It could have been a regular tragedy of small faults snowballing to a tipping point. It could have followed the automatic hero/buddy formula. It might have been a lost love story. It chose none of these, or rather all of them.Yet another example of what happens when you put an actor in charge all in the performance, none in the vision. If you think a great film should be important or at least interesting, this isn't for you despite its promise. "},{"Title":"All the crummy plot lines","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  In an afternoon of chick flicks, this was one of our unfortunate choices. This tries to be much like Legends of the Fall with the the scenic shots, forbidden lovers, and dramatic story. Unfortunately, it doesn't get beyond the scenic shots. It's really sad when you could remove a main character from the entire movie and the story would still continue. Penelope Cruz is a slutty, boring piece of eye-candy that professes honor then sleeps with Matt Damon the second time she sees him. Then she whines that she has no honor left....hhmmmm. An what exactly was their love based on? There was no friendship, no development, nothing. Just riding in pastures then rolling in the sheets.  After another hour of chases, beatings and lots of dialogue, we somehow end up back where the movie began and the credits roll. While the music is quite good and the cinematography is pretty, overall, it is a great disappointment. Maybe rent it if it's on the 49 cent rack.  "},{"Title":"Simplistic and dull.","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Though interestingly acted, the movie is ultimately disappointing.Billy Bob played up the romance--the least interesting part of thenovel--and left out the more complex ideas that make McCarthyworth reading. (Biggest crime cutting the Duena Alfonsa almostentirely out of the story.) I had high hopes, but found the moviesimplistic and dull.  "},{"Title":"All the Pretty Shots of Cruz.","Date":"21 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" All the Pretty Horses (2000) Dir Billy Bob Thornton / Cast Matt Damon, Penelope Cruz, Henry Thomas, Lucas Black, Ruben Blades Intriguing romance suggesting the many women in the world and the difficulties in obtaining trust. Matt Damon and Henry Thomas ride out to Mexico and are joined by a drunken reckless boy. They decide to help him steal back his belongings. They eventually end up taming wild horses. Damon has an affair before they land in prison. Both Damon and Thomas are met with the reality that connection to the boy was a mistake. Conversation about horses mating in different breeds regards Damon from Texas and Penelope Cruz from Mexico. One wonders why they would foolishly return to dangerous territory. Well directed by Billy Bob Thornton who previously made Sling Blade. Damon rides the fine line between love and danger but one wonders why anyone would decide to return to dangerous territory. Thomas is good but not necessary. It is as if the screenwriter couldn't find anything for him to do. Cruz is caught between love and family without much of a clear thought. Lucas Black plays a troubling drunken wretch who finds fatal consequences. Ruben Blades also brings strict reservations to the whole rule based community. Well made film with great symbolism and a theme regarding carefree risks where acting on impulse comes with a price. Score 6 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Unique, beautiful Western with excellent score, but gaping holes in the story","Date":"23 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Released in 2000, All the Pretty Horses stars Matt Damon and Henry Thomas as two West Texas cowboys, John Grady Cole and Lacey Rawlins, who are weary of all the fenced-in land in 1949 and so head to Mexico for freer pastures. There they meet up with a foolish, but likable juvenile (Lucas Black) before settling down on a huge ranch where Cole falls in love with the owner's daughter, Alejandra (Penelope Cruze). Unfortunately, unexpected problems with the law surface. Miriam Colon plays the girl's staunch aunt and ranch matriarch while Sam Shepard and Bruce Dern have (very) small roles.Billy Bob Thornton directed the movie based on Cormac McCarthy's novel and the original runtime was said to be around 3 hours and 12 minutes, but was cut at the insistence of distributer Harvey Weinstein to a mere 117 minutes (!). Similar circumstances forced Marlon Brando to cut his sole directed movie, 1961's One-Eyed Jacks, from 5 hours to half that time and it turned out to be a Western masterpiece, but All the Pretty Horses was cut TOO much. Even an additional 20 minutes would've helped immeasurably. As it is, there are gaping holes in the story. For instance, there is little build-up to Cole's love affair with Alejandra. The Horse Whisperer (1998), by contrast, is an excellent example of proper romantic build-up. Other questions abound What did Alejandra experience in her life that made her brazenly risk her honor? What (specifically) was the source of her deep contempt for her aunt, who seemed to be just looking out for her? Why does Alejandra's father stay on close terms with Cole even AFTER it's discovered he lied to him? What led up to Rawlins' suicidal confrontation with a prison heavy and the same with Cole's deadly tassel? Also, it's subtly revealed that Cole, Rawlins and Blevins (the kid) have very different views of the world, but they're never fleshed out.A director's cut has supposedly been looked into (or worked on), but the composer steadfastly refused to license his score (which, unusually, he owns) to any release of the film. I hope they can work it out because the score and soundtrack are outstanding.As far as locations go, it's great to have a Western actually shot in West Texas rather than supposedly taking place in Texas, but being shot in Arizona, etc. It was equally shot in New Mexico.Although All the Pretty Horses has a severely troubled post-production history, it's still very much worth catching DESPITE the holes in the story. It has magnificent cinematography and locations, formidable actors (Damon is perfect as the humble, respectable protagonist), a magnificent score/soundtrack, an epic tone and an unpredictable story. In short, it's a unique Western not everyone's going to like because uniqueness polarizes opinion. It's not great simply because it was butchered in post-production, but it's still a quality film and, in many ways, a pleasure to behold. Some criticize it as soporific and that's true in the sense that it's not a rollicking Western, like 2001's American Outlaws, which plays like Indiana Jones goes West. All the Pretty Horses is a realistic Western drama with the tone of the aforementioned Horse Whisperer, but with periodic actions sequences. It's a refreshing change from the typical in-your-face, loud, CGI-laden, foul-mouthed, unreal movies we have constantly rammed at us; and, again, the music's great. GRADE B "},{"Title":"Fantastic Cinema Billy Bob ! 2 Thumbs Up Bro !","Date":"31 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Billy Bob Thornton is a real director in my eyes. He really outdid himself on this one. The shots were great, the music was perfect, the actors did a great job and the story was very heartwarming. Thank you Billy Bob Thornton, Matt Damon ,Henry Thomas,Penelope Cruz and Ted Tally ! I'm sorry I didn't see it sooner! The Old West is an expensive and not an easy thing to recreate but this film flows right through to the end. Having a good book to start with is a major plus so hats off to Author Cormac McCarthy too ! This movie is a 10 ! I can't say enough so if your surfing around on Netflix, please check it out even though it's already 14 years old. "},{"Title":"Plain and Dishonest","Date":"26 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I had high hopes for this film, as it was based on a beautifully crafted, dry novel by Cormac McCarthy. Whose usual habit is to focus immensely on the harsh reality and depravity which often comes with human existence. I did not get the same enthralling sensation watching the film as I did when reading the novel. The film lacked in the quality which came with reading the novel and was utterly frustrating to view. Not to mention the fact that the novel was largely a coming of age text, as the two main protagonists were supposed to be 16 years old, however in the film they looked like they were in their mid thirties. In saying that, the film blatantly ignored that aspect of the original text. Don't watch the film if you've read the novel, it'll disappoint you. "},{"Title":"Nada as an actor; More Nada as a director (dvd)","Date":"7 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" BBT is member of my exclusive club of cinema jerks (that also includes Brad Pitt, Jamie Foxx, Nicole Kidman, Gwyneth Paltrow among others) and even if it was so painful, I'm totally happy to say that his movie is a total crap! Scenes after scenes, I waited the movie to wake up, to give a knee-jerk but it was flat as an horizon. There isn't any rhythm, no storytelling and even my sweet Penélope is unable to put fire as there's nothing to burn! Their passion is unbelievable, the prison break is dull as a nightmare. The stories are badly tied together and the dialog seems only to exist to avoid the mute movie. The Mexican landscapes aren't breathtaking. Casting the sluggish, too soft Damon was a sure kill also. The only good thing was to meet again Eliot (Henry Thomas) twenty years later, and he is still a terrific actor who was worthy of having the parts switched! Enough said&#x85; "},{"Title":"Very under-rated movie","Date":"25 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I work at a barber shop, and every time this movie has played, not only do I enjoy watching it, but so do all the customers. There is always someone asking for the title of this movie and how is it that they had never heard of it before. The musical score is fantastic and so is the entire scenery. As far as the story itself, nothing goes the way you think it's going to happen, which in my opinion makes it even better! This is definitely a sleeper, one that went under the radar. DO NOT pay attention to what the critics said about this movie. Yes the book was great & no movie ever compares to a great book, but this was a very good effort. I can only imagine how better it would have been if Billy Bob would had have his way. "},{"Title":"Leisurely but Powerful Story of Honor.","Date":"10 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" It's post-war Texas. Matt Damon and his buddy team up and ride across the Rio Grande to seek their fortunes. They meet, and lose, a sixteen-year-old companion along the way. They find a job at a Mexican horse ranch. The owner takes a shine to Damon, a buckaroo who knows his quarter horses.Then, alas, buscar a la mujer. The owner's daughter, the delicious Penelope Cruz, shows up. She and Damon throw a few winks at one another and the next thing you know they're rolling around in the sack like two coyotes in heat. It's a fast, unexplored, and improbable romance. And, mind you, she is the owner's daughter and not meant for the likes of a handsome young Yanqui who owns nothing but his horse and saddle. Cruz's father and aunt get wind of this. Damon is warned but he cares not.Pow -- Damon and his buddy are in a Mexican prison, charged with something or other. The sixteen-year-old wastrel they met on their way through the majestic mountains is also incarcerated, charged with the murder of two or three people, one of them a police officer. There is no capital punishment in Mexico, so after the corrections officers break the kids ankles they take him out in the desert and shoot him, while Damon and buddy watch helplessly.The two Americans are bailed out by the wise and honorable and candid aunt of Penelope Cruz. Damon, alone, decides to return to the rancho and get it on again with Cruz. But he's brought before the stern aunt who tells him candidly that it's impossible. She gives him money and a horse and tells him to leave. Damon protests that he loves Cruz. We all are cured of our sentiments, she tells him. If life doesn't cure us, death will. It's a pretty good exchange. I assume it was lifted intact from McCarthy's novel.The performances are pretty good too. Both Damon and his amigo, Henry Thomas, are convincing as polite but determined Texas youngsters, the kind who won't change my mind because it's made up, and I'm not the kind of guy who changes his mind once it's made up -- to quote another Texas youngster who became president. They're well brought up. Yes, sir. No, sir. I don't know how Cormac McCarthy, born in Rhode Island and raised in Appalachia, could have pinned down Southwestern character so well.Billy Bob Thornton's direction has it finer touches. He doesn't spell out the obvious for us. When the miscreant kid is taken out to be shot, the execution takes place off screen and we hear only two separate gunshots and we see only the expressions on the faces of Damon and Thomas.At the same time I wish Thornton had been able to avoid three common clichés, despite their pedigrees choker close ups (Sergio Leone), slow motion (Pekinpah), and freeze frames (Truffaut).It's a long and languid tale of an adventurer barking his shins against reality. It starts slowly but it picks up momentum as it moves along. And each time we think we've reached a climax, there's another one around the corner. The final one is a conversation between a remorseful Damon and a gentle judge, Bruce Dern, and it seems anti-climactic because heretofore Damon hasn't shown the slightest regret at the mayhem he now confesses to and appears to regret. "}{"Title":"A modern 'Western' that I really liked","Date":"17 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I sometimes check 'contains spoilers' to protect my standing at IMDb but I will try to not give away too much of the plot of All The Pretty Horses.I will admit two things right off... First, I tend to review movies I don't like, more than those I do. And second, I tend to dislike modern 'Western' type movies more than I like them. When I watched All The Pretty Horses though, I knew that it was a movie that I would have to post a review about here on IMDb - a positive review, and I was anxious to do so.This is a Western in that it takes place with characters who ride horses and wear cowboy hats, and in many ways it could be set in its own era (1949) or a hundred years earlier. It is however not a formula Western (nothing wrong with those BTW, I love 'em) as much as it is a human story that takes place in that setting.ATPH strikes some chords that always appeal to me. For one thing the characters are realistic and likable; you care about them. You get to know them and what happens to them matters enough that to a degree it also happens to you, like seeing someone belt your best buddy. It hurts you too. Well, that's how these characters are to me. You can't just sit by and watch what happens to them without feeling it. Additionally, it takes a simple story and makes it much more interesting by introducing an additional element - in this case, a brilliant element in the person of Jimmy Blevins, a free soul who claims to be sixteen years old. (Lucas Black who played the role was about seventeen at the time, so the role is credible. How many 25 year old teenagers have you seen in movies? I've seen plenty.)Disenchanted with their lives in Texas, sixteen-year-old John Grady Cole and his lifelong buddy Lacey Rawlins set out on horseback for Mexico, hoping to find work on a ranch just like in the 'old days'. En route they encounter the eccentric young Jimmy Blevins, and while outwardly they regard him with disdain, beneath the surface they do actually come to like him. But Blevins is a loose cannon who brings about the plot twists that drive the story. In the next couple of months the trio will face dangers and hardship and other problems in Mexico which they had never anticipated. There will be a brief love affair for one of them; there will be a hellish and dangerous time spent in prison; and while three young men cross the Rio Grande into Mexico, only two will survive to return. This is not a story of violence and killing though there is some of that in it. This is a human story about several people, most of all John Grady Cole. All the cast played their roles quite well. I think that Lucas Black, who played the 'loose cannon' Jimmy Blevins, had a couple of small advantages - the most eccentric role to play, and his own natural accent which made it possible for him to deliver all his lines in a totally believable way even when he is saying something barely above a mumble. Also, the veteran Western character actor Bruce Dern makes an appearance as a wise old judge and it may be one of the best roles he ever played. If I can say anything negative about this movie it is only that being a movie, it was not possible to include as much of the plot as the original book contains. If you enjoy the movie, you will like the book even more. I understand that there was a 'director's cut' which was substantially longer than the released version and I know I would enjoy seeing it, if it became available.I didn't see 'All The Pretty Horses' until it was a dozen years old, and that's too bad because I could have been enjoying it for a lot longer. It's an excellent story and a well-made movie which I recommend highly. "},{"Title":"Skeleton of a beautiful film","Date":"10 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Somewhere out there is Billy Bob Thornton's original cut of All the Pretty Horses, said to run over three hours in length. The only version currently available is the bare bones of said film, which is comprised of jumps from narrative sequence to narrative sequence, allowing little time for the audience to take stock of what is going on and with no respect for Thornton's artistic vision.I saw one reviewer said that this film 'takes us nowhere'. Obviously this is not strictly true, but I can understand what he is trying to get at. The fact that half the running time has been brutally slashed means that we can no longer be immersed in the wonders or brutal realities of the environments that our characters find themselves - such aspects being key to the novels of Cormac McCarthy, on whose fantastic work this film is based.Having read the book, I was thus still able to enjoy the film as I knew the characters and knew what was going on. It would be interesting to watch it again without knowledge of the novel. Yes, Damon and Cruz's relationship lacked a certain spark, but surely their chemistry would have been allowed more time to build up in Thornton's original cut? I still found their relationship to be just fine, although I wasn't exactly struck down with emotion in the moments when perhaps I should be. But the actors seem to have taken a lot of stick for these performances, which is incredibly harsh, on Damon especially.Damon does the little things so well, adjusting his eyes and body language or flashing a tiny smile at the perfect moments. Why some viewers are so intent on bashing him is beyond me... his performance here is realistic and down to earth, just like the character that he inhabits.In terms of filmmaking the cinematography is beautiful in parts, yet the inclusion of stunning vistas seems obligatory and rushed. We are allowed no time to dwell on these environments and, interspersed with the narrative sequences, the film runs like a checklist (even more noticeable if you have read the book). All the right boxes are ticked, but this movie could be so much more enjoyable if taken out of the hands of studio Nazis and allowed its freedom. "},{"Title":"Matt Damon in a classic style Western; why not.","Date":"19 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" The storyline sounded like a classic 'western' adventure; it turned out to be just that. Newer, 21st century westerns are expected to showcase the scenery with as much cinematographic style as can be mustered; in this movie, there could have been more resources dedicated to the cinematography, but it is still very beautiful to watch. Matt Damon has made just a few 'western' movies, his first with none other than Robert Duval and Gene Hackman as the co-starring leads (in Geronimo). The only other that comes to mind is 'True Grit (2010)'. Only in '&#x85;Pretty Horses' does he have the lead role; that role was a demanding one because he is in almost every scene and he has to ride bucking horses, rodeo style. It hurt just watching him be thrown off the horse (I'll assume some of the rides were done by stunt-men because no guy from Boston could take that kind of abuse). I liked the adventurous story, the beautiful Penélope Cruz and all I can think of to improve the movie would have been to throw in a cameo by Duval or Tommy Lee Jones perhaps. "},{"Title":"An overlooked gem of a movie","Date":"8 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" No, this did not have a made for TV movie ending. It did not tie everything up in a neat little package. It was a superb piece of film making. It felt real, and you cannot say that about many movies.There was a line in the movie, something like it is not about whether it is right. The movie is all about the characters discovering that -- some would say growing up. Everyone wants to stand up for what is right, all the time. The reality of life is that you have to pick your fights. I suspect those that did not like this film, did not want to hear that message.The photography was superb. Matt Damon looked like he grew up riding horses (I did). Yes, sometimes there was more Texas twang than others, but it was irrelevant. What mattered was that he made you believe his character. I do not think there was one weak portrayal in the whole film. The direction and all of the actors deserve credit for a real gem of a movie. "},{"Title":"They started three and ended up one by one.","Date":"17 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" A simple but effective film though the content is more folkloric than really deep and emotional. A simple ordinary boy from Texas decide to go to Mexico with his buddy, friend, or whatever to have some adventure, to sow their wild oats as the English used to say in Byron's times.On their way they meet with a young teenager who is running away from his stepfather. The child is unruly and uncontrollable, typical of a stepson manhandled or maybe even sexually abused. He goes his own way but he will bring them back into his own way soon enough. One of the two young men, both are working on a Mexican ranch, is noticed by the boss and he is encouraged into breaking mustangs and choosing breeding horses. But he falls in love with the daughter of that boss.The young man is told to stay away because the girl has to keep her honor, which is both virginity and reputation. No rumors must run about her. But she is a real temptress and he falls into the trap. Then hell opens its gates wide and swallows the two young men and they can meet the boy there waiting for his end, having been tortured and to be eventually shot somewhere in a desert or nearly.The two young men will be sent to the penitentiary and there you pay hefty sums or you die. Of the two the one who did not mess around with family girls will manage to go back home when the two are liberated thanks to some pull and money paid in the back of the system by the aunt of the girl who was seduced.The seducer or rather seduced young man will stay behind to recuperate their horses and he will after some dire difficulties and even more duress. But he won't recuperate the girl. So he goes back home with the horses and he goes to a judge as soon as he arrives in Texas to sort out his situation and the judge will be a fatherly understanding man and our young man will be able to ho back, first to his buddy's to bring his horse back and then &#x85; That's a simple line but the film is well built and there is no real suspense just the witnessing of hard life, the way it is when we decide to take some back roads. The details are the most interesting elements of this story and the details you don't have because I did not give them to you.Entertaining and slightly empathetic, but this world disappeared a long time ago, in fact at least fifty years ago if not sixty. But that's what westerns and country music are when American made, not Italian spaghettied nostalgic of a world vanishing so fast you can't even see its red back lights any more.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU "},{"Title":"Visually stunning, but a stunted version of the book","Date":"7 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" All the Pretty Horses had its entertaining moments with believable characters, but it failed to capture the book's nostalgic luster. For the most part, All the Pretty Horses followed the generally accepted rule that books are usually better than the movies that are made after them. While it at least followed the same general plot of the book, it also shortened nearly every major episode, which down played the depth and general tone of nearly every scene. Pivotal moments were built up to a crescendo in the book, whereas the movie tried to speed through John Grady's story in an limited amount of time. Sitting at just about 2 hours long, the movie could have(and should have) been made longer to give each epic moment some gravity. In my opinion Billy Bob Thorton may have gotten a better response if he had not punctuated the most dramatic, raw, and realistic moments that the story had to offer in order to keep the movie at a popular time length. However, it had a good western feel in relation to the scenery and landscape. The acting is good enough and does a decent job at character development. To someone who enjoys this genre and has not read the book, there is a good chance it will be enjoyed. This movie may not be entertaining to those who expect a realistic and rugged style of a western, such as McCarthy's No Country for Old Men. For others, the natural beauty and John Grady's character development makes All the Pretty Horses a memorable watch. Reading the book could make all the difference.I have enjoyed a lot more westerns than this one, a lot more, but I would also probably keep watching it if I came across it on T.V. Go ahead and give it a watch. 5.75/10 "},{"Title":"Mixed Bag For Me, Lots of Good Stuff, Some Unpleasant stuff","Date":"26 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" There are many moments in this film and some that did work at all for me. The great moments include, the thunder storm and the kid who takes off his clothes because he's afraid of lightning, the warning scene where the cowboys realize they're making a terrible decision, but find it necessary anyway, the scene where the Mexican Ranch Owner interrogates Matt Damon. He asks many questions, but in only one question does he suggest, ever so subtly, that he knows more than he is letting on. This is delicate, suggestive film-making. The love affair between Damon and Cruz is also beautifully acted and handled. It is one of Penelope's greater performances.The film also made some glaring mistakes in my opinion. First, there's the violent scenes in prison. It was quite out of the poetical spirit of the rest of the film. It makes the film inappropriate for younger audiences, children under 15, and that is a shame. Secondly, I couldn't understand why the hero returns for the horses. It just confused me that he would risk his life in that way and, to me, made him seem more idiotic than heroic. He does this just after reaffirming his love for Alejandra, which makes the action even more callous and incomprehensible. The lapses are really a shame, because without them, there is a 10 out of 10 movie here that could have been one of the beautiful Westerns ever. I understand that Billy Bob Thornton cut some two hours out of the original cut. Another 20 minutes of cutting and he would have had his masterpiece. I am a bit disappointed that the director's cut hasn't come out yet. If it ever does, I'll be in line for it. "},{"Title":"An Ambitious Decent Western","Date":"25 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" It's too bad that the basic premise of this Western wasn't a more authentic exploration of the cultural differences and respect of the diverse ethnic traditions which might have made this movie a great one. Nevertheless, this ambitious and extended movie populated with numerous subplots, presented its material clearly and decently with sometimes rather edgy seriousness. The performances and characters never went over the top, but the depth of the most importance relational features of the movie were underdeveloped. There was somewhat more quantity than quality and more edited to focus on the essence of the movie would have allowed the audience even greater appreciation of the substantive and memorable elements of this movie. Seven out of Ten Stars. "},{"Title":"Pretty good movie","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This movie was pretty good.  The acting by Matt Damon and Henry Thomas were the best out of all the actors.  The scenery was beautiful, but the story was as strong as it could have been. 6.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Terrific western with passion, romance, and friendship","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  As per usual, the hypercritics were out for this one.  The modern west as depicted in this movie was a sight to behold.  The scenes were breathtaking, especially for someone who has never been out west.  The passion, yet simplicity, of Matt Damon's character came across just as I feel the directors of this movie intended. The movie gave you an insight into Mexican family values as they clashed with our own American ones.  Penelope Cruz was wonderful.  Her Aunt in the movie was a very interesting too.  Their relationship was the heartbreak of the story. If you love old timey westerns, you will thoroughly enjoy this movie as I did.  The mysterious Mexican in the jail was one part of the movie I didn't figure out with just one viewing.  But his spirit moved me.  Also, to see Bruce Dern's character and his small relationship with Matt Damon's, made me proud to be an American.  Highly recommended! "}{"Title":"Lacked a good editor","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This film was a garden-variety coming-of-age film, complete with tragedy. It's not a movie I would watch again. In fact, I found myself looking at the VCR timer to see how much longer it could possibly drag on.I think it had promise. The stars did a great job delivering the script, considering what they had to work with. Not that the script was necessarily bad, but it REALLY needed to be pared down considerably.There were many scenes that were simply too long, to the point of excess. I won't give any examples (in case you haven't seen it yet), so I'll just say this. I reached the requisite emotion about half way through most of the 'heart-wrenching' or 'suspenseful' scenes. Therefore, by the time the climax happened on screen, I was just sort of tired.This film reminds me of Original Sin (except that I didn't enjoy it as much) in that it could have been a better film if it had been edited differently. It should have been about thirty minutes shorter (at least) and the emphasis could have been shifted, changing the focus of the film into a more poignant, touching story.  "},{"Title":"This is an odd movie, most notable for the beautiful scenery.","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Interesting how two people can view the same film and have such differing opinions.  The shooting technique of this movie had a touch of Oliver Stone...you know what I mean...odd camera angles and close-ups of nothing at all.  The love story is completely irrelevant to its surroundings.  There was absolutely nothing to make these two people fall in love.  It was nothing more than lust and animal attraction.  The story of the three young men who cross the Rio Grande in search of work and a better life is interesting enough...but it soon becomes diluted with the introduction of Penelope Cruz.  Let's face it; she's a terrible actress!  And, just when did Hollywood take on the role of making a movie for just 10 people?  Oh, wait a minute, I remember now! They have steadily been alienating half of their audience in order to teach us a social lesson and enlighten us with their values.  Well, I hate to tell you Billy Bob, but I missed your lesson and even had I gotten it, I'm sure I would have whole-heartedly rejected it!  "},{"Title":"Video version should have been letter-boxed","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I wish I'd seen this movie in the theater rather than on video.  Because letter-boxing is not employed, the video version cuts off the right and left sides of the image in a way that is at times extremely annoying--like getting half of each face when two people are looking at the camera but talking to each other. "},{"Title":"This story is like a time machine, dropping you into 1949 Texas and Mexico for an entirely believable adventure.","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  For me, this movie was like going back home again to the days of ranch living of my youth.  John Grady Cole(Matt Damon) is a young, carefree cowboy , suddenly cut adrift by the death of his guardian and grandfather and the subsequent sale of the ranch. Having lost his home, which is probably the only place he had ever lived, John recruits a friend to strike out for Mexico, where there are still some big spreads.  Thus begins a gripping adventure and an unforgettable love story with a Mexican rancher's lovely daughter, Alejandra de la Rocha(Penélope Cruz. My hat is off to Billy Bob Thornton.  "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I think what I liked most about this movie, was that it was just a story. It didn't seem to try to do anything above and beyond the telling of the tale, and for once it was kind of refreshing to see a movie that wasn't attempting to be something more than it was. It isn't perfect, admittedly it's a little long, and some of the symbolism seems a bit forced, but on the whole, not bad at all. Certainly worth renting, if nothing else, for the cinematography. "},{"Title":"All glitz but no glory.","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" This is an absolutely beautifully filmed movie. The only problem is, that's where it ends. Its beautiful and the acting is great, but what was the story about again? Man, what wasted emotion! It starts out with little promise and never builds to anything. What we didn't have is history with these characters. How are we expected to believe that there is real love between Matt's and Penelope's characters when they are only together for a few scenes? And then all the stuff with prison and poor Lucas Black's death. And they end up at the same place where they started. What an annoyance! And for what, some silly adventure that results in a boy being killed and two broken hearts? I just don't buy it. It would have been more believable as a travelogue. At least the plot wouldn't have annoyed the critters outta me! "},{"Title":"A pale skeleton of a good book","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Very disappointed in this movie; the book was so good.   Way too  much happens in the book...the movie tries to capture the entire story but ends up leaving every aspect of the plot shallow.  And I have seen better acting from Matt Damon.  The movie seemed to be more head shots of Matt and Penelope than anything else.   "},{"Title":"This wonderful movie dragged me right in","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I started to watch this movie one afternoon, and was carried away into a wonderful story of love, friendship, loyalty and mixed fortunes. I have a whole new respect for Matt Damon, who played the ups and downs of this drama with aplomb and noble, touching honesty. I really felt for him being tossed around by love, circumstance and the desire to 'do the right thing'. Thoroughly entertaining and satisfying, it was beautifully shot with passion for the southern scenery and the subject matter. A real movie about real possibilities, and a delight to watch. Mr Thornton definitely pulled a gem out of his cinematic hat.  "},{"Title":"uneven but great cinematography and some excellent performances","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Uneven in narrative speed but the photography...scenery and performances...especially Lucas Black are certainly worth viewing. The story line is thought provoking and about choices people make in an indifferent world. I guess there is still life left in the western film genre. "},{"Title":"Pretty good,Needed more RP","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I think this movie was good but I was a little disapointed cause  thought Robert Patrick would have a bigger part in it. Lucas Black and Matt Damon were good,Penelope Cruz was ok. And it also needed to focus more on the love story part. "}{"Title":"Aww, come on, it wasn't that bad!","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" For one thing, it did have a veneer of authenticity about it, which so many mainstreamm films just abdicate on and assume everyone is too stupid to notice. I thought Matt Damon was too goody-goody and cutesy for the role. I did not read the entire book, finding it to be far from my favorite McCarthy novel (Blood Meridian was), and I got bogged down in it quite early on.  The story line I saw in the film made me glad I didn't invest any more time in the book. All in all, a decent watch. "},{"Title":"Good movie, but like always...","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This is a great movie. There's no question. But...Well, this may sound snobbish. I like Penelope Cruz, especially in the Spanish movies she's been in. She makes a poor Mexican, though. She played a Brazillian woman in another movie. Please, cast people where they belong. She looks and sounds Spanish. You can argue looks, but you can't argue accent. She sounds Spanish, not Mexican. She tries to hide it, but I could do a better English accent (and I can't do a decent one) than she can do a Mexican accent.Okay, it's snobbish, and that's really my only complaint about the movie. But think about it, if you saw a movie with Sean Connery playing an American and speaking with his Scottish accent, how believable would it be to you.Sorry, but I lived in Mexico and it just bugged me to death. The rest of the movie was great. "},{"Title":"Pretty but thats all ......","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  All the pretty horses is just that ... pretty and its got a lot of horses in it. It's scenic, well-photographed but does not hold any sort of tension or viewer interest at all. There is a good role here for Lucas Black as a young tearaway bordering on the wrong side of the law and Black does his best with what's available. Matt Damon - as usual - is solid but the whole pace of the picture doesn't entrap the viewer. And quite frankly - the love affair between Damon and Cruz is so laughably juvenile - it is almost embarrassing. Billy Bob Thornton has ventured behind the camera before and I am sure he will do so again with better success. He will also probably get some pretty reviews for this movie - but I for one give him the thumbs down. 5/10.  "},{"Title":"Some Pretty fantastic perfomances here.","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This movie is has wonderful entertainment value for so many reasons.  The film moves at perfect pace - every single thing happens exactly when it's supposed to.  The cinematography made me ache for my 'Sweet Mother Texas'; it is flawless.  Mr. Thorton's direction can be felt from the toes up in every single scene - he never once drops the ball and leaves you hanging.  He is the best, 'nuff said. Matt Damon comes dangerously close to perfection in every role I've ever seen him play.  His portrayal of John Grady Cole is no exception.   What do you mean in real life Mr. Damon is a New England born Yankee?  Not possible.  No one could portray a native-born son of Texas that good.  I think he lying to us about his heritage.  That's O.K. though, we forgive him.   Henry Thomas' performance was altogether natural, believable and loveable.  He growed up good.  Lucas Black's portrayal of Jimmy was eerie and heartrending.   Penelope Cruz and Miriam Colon's performances were so believable that you wanted to smack both of them by the end of the film.  Is this a good thing?  Well, that depends on your definition of an entertaining film.  If you want to see a film that moves you to tears, stops your heart with terror a few times, and makes you royally ticked at others, then yes, it's a good thing.  To make a long story even longer - you gotta see this one.  Just do it, you'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"Who Was That Masked Man?","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This is a movie in search of itself; an idea that just ... doesn't ... quite... work.Is it a love story? Kind of. Sure a love interest develops half way through the movie, but does it go anywhere? Is it a horse movie. Yeah, to a point. But it misses the mark that Robert Redford hit when he whispered to horses. Is it an adventure flick? You bet! Almost. Most of it seemed to take place off camera. Is it the story of one man doing incredible things that end up changing him forever? Well, Matt D. seems to think so but as for the rest of us...This movie is beautifully shot and cinematography students should take note. As for the rest of us Wait for it to air on Saturday Night at the Movies. "},{"Title":"It started so well...","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed the first half of this movie.  The scenery was beautiful, and the story was interesting.  There was action and adventure, plus comedy and romance.  This movie had so much potential.However, mid-way through, the plot took an unexpected turn for the worse.  I kept asking myself what happened?  I actually despised the second half of this movie.  How could a story that started so well end so badly?Very few movies leave me literally frustrated, but this one did. "},{"Title":"One of the years best...","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  One of the most under rated movies of the year.  Great cinema. For anyone who gets nostalgic about the cowboy way, this movie is for you. Hot love story, great drama, some violence, but not out of line.  A great film and I would highly recommend it to someone who wants a big story line, but more depth than you normally get out of Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Still the best film I've ever seen!","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  CAUTION  The following review contains some spoilers.After seeing the movie version of the story, and then reading all of the negative reviews of it, I decided to read the novel.  I have news for all of you nay-sayers.  The movie follows the book almost to a T.  Of course, there are scenes that are cut, but what do you expect?  After reading the book, I don't think that the majority of the elements left out the movie were that critical to the story.  For example, in the novel, when John Grady goes back to the ranch owned by Alejandra's father to find out why they had bought him and Lacey out of prison, the aunt goes into some long drawn out tale about her own life and losses.  I guess this is some explanation of why she doesn't want John Grady to see Alejandra but it is boring and pointless. Whatever message she was trying to convey to John Grady was lost on me.  Be glad that things like this were left out.As for comments that this seems to be a made up Hollywood tale, IT CAME FROM A NOVEL.  IT WAS NOT SCRIPTED BY HOLLYWOOD AND IT STAYED TRUE TO THE DIALOG IN THE NOVEL.  So, yes, it is made up, by a novelist who makes his living writing this type of literature.Again, comments have been made that for a coming of age movie, this seems unrealistic and the decisions made by John Grady were not those that your typical 16 year old boy would make.  Well, maybe not today, but we're talking about a story set back about 70 years ago.  Boys back then were more noble and did have to grow up sooner.  They had a better code of honor than 16 year old boys do today.  What was the point of going back to get the horses even after losing the girl?  Well, after all that John Grady had lost during the course of the story (the girl, his horse, innocence, etc.), I think he meant to prove that he wouldn't let them beat him.  Mexico had taken enough from him and he wasn't going to stand and let them keep his horse.  AGAIN, THINK OF THE TIME PERIOD.I guess maybe you have to be from the South to appreciate the situations these characters are in.  I loved the story, the characters, the scenery, everything.  I don't need to be spoon fed every little detail by Hollywood to appreciate a good story.   "},{"Title":"heart stopping","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This film brought tears to my eyes.  Some would argue that I am just a sucker for sentiment but I can live with that.  Like the gorgeous country where it was shot this movie is grand and moving with a surreal quality that borders on magical.  Often times I am annoyed at all the hollywood crap that floats across our screens made only to satisfy the simple tastes of the mediocre and fatten the wallets of some studio executives.  But every once and a while a film, like this one, comes along and I fall in love with movies again.  Billy Bob Thornton and John Sayles are both cut from the same cloth and we are better for it that they make films.  I have fallen in love with Penelope Cruz and Matt Damon just consistently makes good films. OK OK enough blubbering this is just in my opinion, one damn good film. "},{"Title":"Would have been really bad without Penelope","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This is the type of movie which makes you think couldn't the smart people who put this film together have figured out the obvious problems with it before finishing and releasing it?.  I'm not sure whether the problem is with the screenplay (or book if there was one) or the editing of the movie. A movie which has a lot going for it, like good actors, beautiful settings and a number of interesting themes shouldn't leave this much to be desired. In fact, if it weren't for the delectable Penelope Cruz, who could make any man's heart melt, and the charismatic Matt Damon, this would have been a really mediocre movie.  Unfortunately, the Cruz character is so shallow, and her motivations largely unexplained, that it is difficult to really feel for her.  I found the other characters to be sufficiently fleshed out, and the story line was OK, but when so much of the focus is on Cruz as the co-star, and her relationship with Damon is really the focal point of the movie, it was crucial that they are really fleshed out as characters.  This wasn't done.  In short, it's an OK movie, that could have been really good. "}{"Title":"started off good, then got worse","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The beginning of this movie is good and a long time, I thought I was gonna see a great movie. The part were John (Matt Damon), Lacey (Henry Thomas)and Blevins (Lucas Black) ride to Mexico is funny and charming. But as soon as they get there, everything starts going downwards. It all becomes too much Hollywood for me. And as soon as Blevins is out of the picture, all lot of the charm disappear with him.  But the actors do a good job. I mean, can Matt Damon be anything but good? Fun to see Henry Thomas as a grown up too. For all of you who doesn't know it, he played Elliot in E.T. back in 1982.  But the best actor is 19-year old Lucas Black. He's funny and one of the few persons you care about in this movie. If you want to see more of him, check out Sling blade from 1996. Billy Bob Thorton, the director of All the pretty horses, both directed,wrote and acted in Sling blade.But All the pretty horses is a very beautiful movie and worth a watch for the actors and the horses if you happen to like those animals. I give it a 2,5 out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Stunning but lost in content.","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This film is just so beautifully shot and acted that it is a complete and utter dissapointment to think that there was no consideration of dramatic or plotting structure that could possibly hold the thing together and prevent it from being, almost, unwatchable. The trailer for the movie led us to believe that it would be all about Horses and a love story between two attractive leads. That is the first big mistake for it is nothing of the sort. It is instead, a mini-rites of passage, cum one mans adventure in the new Wild West (i.e. Mexico). It starts off promisingly enough with a chance encounter leading to a spot of the old male bonding, this particularly becomes appealing and had the movie continued this path then there would have been a half decent movie in the making since Billy Bob is very capable of handling male character interplay. At this point there begins to be turns and twists which become far too frequent and come along far too quickly for there to be any emotional travel with the central protagonist.It all ends up in one big mess which becomes part prison movie, part love story, part horse obsession and mostly a story whose surface is simply brushed and then left alone to re-gather itself. Damon gives an accomplished performance, but once again Cruz is in-capable of building character or accent. Lucas Black is as ever great and he and Thornton have obviously got a great connection, and as mentioned before the whole look of the movie is stunning but all this counts for precious little if all you are left with is a continual frash frame of someones life. A little like a family photo album detailing different times, it eventually leads you to question what has happened in between the years of your life and it becomes pleasing only as eye candy. "},{"Title":"Well...........","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"   (possible spoilers)  I thought that this movie would be really good judging by the previews.  But they were misleading.  I thought it was going to be more of a romance between Matt Damon and Penelope Cruz.  I was wrong.  The scenery was beautiful, but the acting sure wasn't.  Hard as they may have tried, Damon and Cruz didn't have any chemistry.  The only acting I was really impressed with was that of Lucas Black as Blevins.  When they took him out and shot him, I cried.  But throughout most of the rest of the movie, I was bored, confused, and wondering why I wasted $3.75 at Blockbuster when I could have rented something good and worth my time.  All in all, a 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Yuck!","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I thought the story was boring and pointless (kind of the same, I guess). The acting was fine - parts were really moving, however, no real story so that acting was for naught. I thought the music was the best part. It was awesome. It the story had been good the music would have really moved the story well.  So buy the album but don't bother with the film.   "},{"Title":"Better than what critics say.","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  ALL THE PRETTY HORSES is a pretty good film that could have been awesome with a little touching up.The direction was very good, the cinematography first rate and Henry Thomas gave an outstanding performance.But...Penelope Cruz was terrible. I like her- but... ugh! Also, less of her and Damon's romance should've been cut out.The very beginning didn't at all capture my attention, with the black fade out crap.This is a very good movie, but it doesn't measure up to such gems from this year as Traffic, Tigerland, Wonder Boys, Cast Away, Snatch, Gladiator, and especially Quills. "},{"Title":"an old-fashioned movie","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The best reason to see this movie is Lucas Black's performance - period.  Matt Damon and Henry Thomas were excellent, but did not touch Black's authentic embodiment of a doomed hayseed kid on the run in 1940's Texas.  The cinematography is also absolutely appropriate to this low-key, slow-paced tale.  Yes, it is over-long but all in all, well worth the watching.  Keep an eye out for more Lucas Black! "},{"Title":"Leaves you with a sense of sadness but a beautiful piece of work","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Matt Damon has done it again. He manages to give another amazing performance as he always does , he is without a doubt the best actor of his generation. It's the story of John Grady Cole leaving post WW2 Texas looking for a better life in Mexico and finding the love of his life but paying a massive price for being with her. As the story goes on it becomes more interesting what happens to John Grady Cole and his friend but in the end it left with me a real sense of sadness but in a good way, it just seemed like a fitting ending for all that had happened to him. Also a really well done soundtrack provided by Marty Stuart. "},{"Title":"*****  Beautiful western","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Billy Bob Thornton continues his promise of filmmaking excellence after Sling Blade with this hauntingly beautiful adaptation of Cormac McCarthy's celebrated novel. Finding himself without a home after his Hollywood-bound mother sells the family's Texas ranch, Matt Damon travels down to Mexico with best friend Henry Thomas to find work and a place to stay. The vistas are gorgeous and the poetry that is created by Thornton's excellent mix of musical score, photography and subtle editing make it one of the very best films this year. Damon's performance is unforgettable, while Penelope Cruz as the love interest is unfortunately not (which is okay because she makes up for it in Woman On Top).  "},{"Title":"Liked It - But Read The Book Which Filled The Holes For Me","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  So many wonderful aspects of this movie. The book was excellent but this is another case where the film falls short.  For me it seemed that the  impact of the story was watered down in the film due to the cutting back of the Mexican culture/tradition  that is revealed through conversations with the Don and the Great Aunt an important part of the book.  These very powerful figures where cut to nothing in the film and the power/influence of the Mexican traditions with them.  I didn't care for Cruz either.  She's kinda mousey to play the part of the magnificent firey beauty that was to forge the boy Cole into manhood.  Now if Catherine Zeta Jones was 17 - there would have been our Alejandra! And my God Jimmy Blevins what a great role played by a magnificent young actor.  He made the film for me. "},{"Title":"Once again Matt Damon proves himself as a great actor...","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This movie was beautiful shot, as was the music perfect for this movie. The story is a slice out of mans life(Mat Damon) back in 1949 Texas. I'm not going to comment the movie itself, because its very special and should be judged without any pre-information. I can only say that it was really worth watching and I can recomand it to anyone who likes a good story as very professional camera handling. Great actors in this movie makes it even better. This is a movie that gets a high grade from me. (8/10) "}{"Title":"A lyrical film, visually stunning, with powerfully understated acting","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  All The Pretty Horses is a moving, beautiful, haunting film with wonderfully understated acting, unexpected humor and ravishing cinematography. A memorable soundtrack accents the film.This is a timeless coming of age story of two friends longing for adventure while at the same time trying to hold onto a disappearing way of life. The larger than life theme of Pretty Horses is subtly rendered, at once poignant, elegant and simple.Screenwriter Ted Tally does an exceptional job honing down Cormac McCarthy's difficult and award winning novel, and the cast - Matt Damon, Lucas Black, Henry Thomas, Ruben Blades, Penelope Cruz, Sam Shepard, Miriam Colon and Bruce Dern - bring the characters to life. The acting is unselfconscious and appealingly economical.Inspired, graceful moviemaking from director Billy Bob Thornton, the likes of which we see far too little of from Hollywood. Thornton pays homage to the past without romanticizing it, evoking an earlier age and simpler sensibility by letting the film's story unfold at a languid pace.Evocative and beautifully wrought. A+ "},{"Title":"sweet entertainment","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  A very pleasant way to spend a couple of hours. This is a movie for the big screen, because the big sky and countryside deserves all the sweeping detail you can see. The acting was believable and touching, and the story at once tragic and romantic. I'd like to know where our protagonists are now.  "},{"Title":"Worth seeing","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Some real good acting and directing. Also the scenery was beautiful.It takes more than half a brain to understand. I don't think things have changed that much in Mexico. It's still a beautiful and brutal place to visit,if not go and see the movie "},{"Title":"Pleasing to the eye but I didn't buy the story","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Beautifully shot, it was like a travel-log.  Two young horsemen from Texas go down to Mexico to be real cowboys (Matt Damon and Henry Thomas).  One falls in love with the boss's daughter, the other one doesn't.  Yes, I'm leaving everything out but you get the idea.  The relationship between Damon and Thomas was interesting.  I wanted to spend more time with them, watching them interact with each other and getting to know their characters. Character development got lost in the shuffle here.  The rest of the movie just seemed whiney and empty.  Oh, well.  I will say that I did want to go to the dusty plains of Mexico and frolic with horses.  It was also good to see Henry Thomas again.  I think his talent has been under-used and overlooked in the film industry.  "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  All the Pretty Horses was a beautiful novel, and the film directed by Billy Bob Thornton almost captures the essence that Cormac McCarthy wrote of. It is indeed a beautiful story about a young boy at the brink of an adventure, finding there is a cost to happiness and a weight to manhood.  The scenery was beautiful and Matt Daman fit the role of a cowboy very well.  What disappointed me was the lack of chemistry between Cruz and Daman; they didn't seem in love.  But love was just a small aspect in this film about loyalty, adventure, and growing up.  Even though other critics have viewed the plot to this story as slow, I thought it was a very philosophical and moving script, one where its not spelled out for you, but you have to read between the lines.  "},{"Title":"A beautiful, well crafted movie","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This is the best thing on the West since Unforgiven.  Great plot, superb acting and casting. I just really enjoyed the story, the nuances, the irony.  Billy Bob Thornton has outdone himself on this one.  When he takes you into a corral full of nervous, running mustangs, you feel you are really there. I recommend this movie highly to folks who prefer watching films to typical Hollywood burger fare. "},{"Title":"Guy flick = guy schlick","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  ** 1/2 - I do not go much for chick flicks, apparently I don't go much for guy flicks either, as this film is being touted as a guy film. Directed by Billy Bob Thornton the film is about a couple of young men (Matt Damon as John Cole and Henry Thomas as Lacey Rawlins) who decide that life MUST be better on the other side of the border. They meet up with a young trouble maker, Cole has an affair, they get stuck in a Mexican prison, and, well, that's basically it. BORING! The scenery was nice. Though, not much different from my view outside my window (one hour from the border). Especially bothersome was missing dialogue. Spanish is spoken here and there throughout the film with English subtitles. What bothered me was that nothing would be said in Spanish, and then the subtitle would appear. Did we view an unfinished edit? Or was it supposed to be funny? Very bad decision and editing as far as I can see. The acting was fine, especially Henry Thomas. And though young Lucas Black always seems to play a character with that same recognizable drawl, he was quite good. Question  What was the purpose of this film other than to show people that the Rio Grande is actually a very shallow river. Two and one half stars out of five for the countryside and acting ONLY. "},{"Title":"Billy Bob Thornton looks like me.","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  That's just one of the reasons I like to see his work. All the Pretty Horses deserves praise from those who don't resemble Billy Bob, too.  The film has some peaks and valleys.  It was at times riveting, while slow moving other times.  Lucas Black, as usual, steals the show and he should receive a best supporting nomination.  Thank goodness the commercials on TV didn't give away the plot. It was indeed a beautifully shot film.   "},{"Title":"A film that's handsome, decent, deliberate, quietly graceful, and slightly inarticulate - just like a classic cowboy in a 30's Western.","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Despite luke-warm press, I attended this film because of Billy Bob Thornton's direction of Sling Blade, and I was pleasantly surprised.  Not the greatest film but an honest and beautiful attempt to make a realistic Western, even if it does take place in 1949 and not in the 1800's.  Its deliberate pace and laconic dialogue matched the personalities of its characters perfectly.  Good performances from everyone, the best being Miriam Colon's Dona Alfonsa (I was surprised that no one else mentioned her).  If you're looking for an action film or a shoot-'em-up, this isn't for you, but if you don't mind some dark poetry in a Western and characters and relationships that slowly reveal themselves to you rather than proclaiming themselves loud and fast, you will like this.I want to respond to objections in other comments about the surreal moment when a Mexican tap dances during the end of John Grady Cole's phone call to Alejandra - it seemed obvious to me that this was a fantasy, a projection of Cole's feelings when Alejandra tells him she will meet him again.  The sequence ends with a cut to Cole still holding the phone and the man in the background standing still as though he had never moved; I read this as an indication that the tap dance was Cole's fantasy or waking dream sequence, making visible his combined elation and uneasiness at what he had just heard. "},{"Title":"Unexpected Gem","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  A great if underrated movie, made with love and respect for the cowboy genre.Nicely cast, with Henry Thomas as a very believable cowboy, Lucas Black slightly stretching it as a young tough kid, Rubén Blades pretty convincing as a wealthy landowner, Penélope Cruz with a terrible accent (she speaks as a Spaniard -she is-, instead of sounding Mexican), and Matt Damon looking too soft for a cowboy, but he is supposed to be a Boy becoming a Man, thing is, he still looks too soft as a Man.Some other outstanding actors; Robert Patrick as Damon's father, subtle and understated, Bruce Dern very nice playing an old coot in a most restrained fashion, no chewing the scenery here and it certainly works.The music is great, I was surprised to see three persons credited with the music for this movie, and expected a mess, I was most pleasantly surprised, the sound is quite authentic.Beautiful cinematography, images that are breathtaking in their simplicity and very honest, they just let the natural beauty carry the scene, no gimmicks or artsy camera moves, certainly Mr. Thornton has a way of knowing how to present nice images to the viewer.The urban locations were quite well chosen even if the last ones (Damon and Thomas having lunch) were too modern, these guys have a very good location scout.As for the chemistry, well, do not expect too much, even if both Cruz and Damon are very attractive something seems to be missing, they cry and hug, but somehow they failed to make me feel they were in love.If Mr. Thornton keeps making good choices about material and collaborators I wouldn't be surprised to see him getting an Academy Award in some years from now, I predicted it for Clint Eastwood and it came to happen (with Unforgiven), I believe it can happen for Mr. Thorton too.P.S. As far as I know no mexican jail has food as good as the one shown in the movie. "}{"Title":"More than a western, more than a romance","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The reviews of this film that I read prior to seeing this movie led me to believe that it was just another forbidden romance movie between two people from opposite sides of the track. I was pleasantly surprised to find out that there was more to it. Matt Damon delivers a great performance, and Penelope Cruz convincingly develops her character into something more than a typical spoiled, poor little rich girl. This is a good movie--no generic plot traps here. "},{"Title":"An instant classic","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Although the ads and trailers insinuate this is a love story, it is not. It is a guy film, a film of 3 young masculine cowboys leaving America to Mexico on an adventure, running away to escape the sorrow of their memories. The wide open plains of the lands are so big you feel your at an Imax theatre, this is an emotional film of friendship in which Matt Damon and his sidekick prove themselves to be able ranchers in Mexico while Matt falls in love with Penelope Cruz, the daughter of the owner of the ranch. I don't do Matt Damon films, I only saw this film because Penelope Cruz is in it, but I felt disappointed in her performance, her love scenes were not realistic, her eyes were somewhere else when expressing her love, but she is so beautiful it makes one weep. Matt is a credible cowboy and a fearless lover, he inspires a feeling of love to ones friends, one remembers old best friends and how important loyalty and love goes hand in hand in good times and bad. In Mexico they run into trouble because of the 3rd young cowboy and they end up in the state prison, I enjoyed this part of the movie the most, I don't know why they didn't promote this film to attract more male viewers, this is a man film not a chick flick in my opinion. Penelope Cruz struggles with her honor and her father. I loved this film, I can say it was beautiful and an instant classic, this is a must see for the year 2000.  "},{"Title":"A fine film.","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I enjoy Billy Bob's directing style, it's the sole reason I went to see this film.  I haven't read the book and didn't know the story before watching the movie.  Billy Bob's ability to capture character is incredible. The cowboys, Matt Damon, Henry Thomas and Lucas Black, are true to any number of real cowboys I know.  I believe I was standing in line with one of them at Bosco's Bar-B-Q, just yesterday.  Thornton must have some magic in his bag that draws out the honest personality of his actor's characters. Just as Dwight Yoakam nailed the violent, self-absorbed drunk in Sling Blade these guys personified the cowboy spirit.  Dedicated, polite and honest to a fault, able to commit their lives to a friend or cause, but these were still boys when it came to some decisions.The story was intriguing as it progressed with plenty of twists and tension to keep me involved.  Even during the slower romantic parts I knew Black's character's business was looming, unfinished.  The cinematography was excellent.  The vastness of the area was captured and drew me into the cowboy's desire to continue in a life of serving the land.The 'feathers' thing was kind of strange, as was the tap dancing man. I wondered if the father (Blades) would have just had Damon's character killed after seeking out his daughter a second time.  The meeting and her decision served well, however.  A favorite part??  Finally, someone gave Bruce Dern an opportunity to absolve himself after that heinous crime of killing the Duke back in 1972. Billy Bob did, in a cowboy movie no less. Thirty years later I can rest easy.  All the Pretty Horses is a fine film. I saw it twice and imagine I will again.  "},{"Title":"Pretty disappointing","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" This film is eye candy, but not much more. I didn¹t read the book, but I can¹t imagine that it¹s that much different from this movie. The story is good. The problem is that it isn't very cinematic. The filmmakers don't take the steps necessary to tell this story within the framework of film narrative. Whoever obtained the book's film rights must have visualized many of the book's scenes and thought they just had to see it on the big screen.In a way, I wish they¹d left well enough alone if this was going to be the best they could do. If you break it up into its various parts; the writing of individual scenes, the photography, the performances of the actors; everything is great--as good as it gets. The problem is that the script never finds a way to make sense of the thing as a whole. At any given time, we¹re never quite sure why we have to continue watching the movie. There isn't that one clear objective of the protagonist that we¹re looking for. Once we think he's achieved it, the story keeps going, finding another objective.This is fine within the framework of a novel, but doesn¹t make good cinema, no matter how nice it is to look at.Grade C-  "},{"Title":"Great scenery, out of place accent","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Even though I liked the scenery in this film, Penelope Cruz's strong Spaniard accent was out of place. When she spoke, you could tell right away that she was a Spaniard. The director should have chosen a Mexican actress to play the role of the Mexican beauty. It makes sense right? How would the audience react if the director had chosen an English actor to play the role of Matt Damon's Texan cowboy? "},{"Title":"Western Myth of Romanticism expelled","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Thorton, Damon, and the beautiful Cruz  complete a fantastic rendition of  the exceptional book by cormac mccarthy.   The movie is fantastic. "},{"Title":"A Beautifully Done Film","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Some have complained that the plot develops slowly. Time was needed to make us care about the characters and I did care! There was nothing far-fetched in the behavior of the two young heroes. No super-human escapes here, the only remarkable thing is that these men are so honest and so genuine in their willingness to do the right thing!Matt Damon, Henry Thomas,Penelope Cruz and Reuben Blades all turned in beautiful performances that never seemed like acting.They were all people we'd like to know. Lucas Black played the sort of teenager we hope to never have in our family, yet under his rage we can see a boy we'd want to help.My  nomination for Best Supporting Player would go to him. See this film at a theatre to appreciate the gorgeous photography!  "},{"Title":"A Perfect Movie Ruined By the Studio-System","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  All the Pretty Horses is a most beautiful movie.  A simple story told in the most simple story-telling technique.  Directed masterfully by Billy Bob Thornton.  The photography is stunning and the score is one of the best I've heard in a motion picture this year.  Where the movie fails is in its underdevelopment in character and plot.  But please understand where this fault lies.  Not on its director or actors or screenwriter...but on a studio that wouldn't allow for the story to unfold in its original 4 hour running time.  At 2 hours, this movie was good.  What is keeping All the Pretty Horses from being a masterpiece is the 2 hours of footage lying on the cutting room floor!  See this movie--it's good.  Let's just hope the Director's Cut will be released on DVD.     "},{"Title":"Too long and a lack of story continuity.....","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I saw this movie last night and all I could think was OK is it over yet? I found that the movie lacked any type of continuity that would keep that audience interested.  I do think that the cinematography was very well done and I wouldn't mind watching the movie again but this time without the sound.  Matt Damon is a great actor, it's a shame that movie doesn't do him justice. "},{"Title":"Setting Things Right","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  All the Pretty Horses has the gentleness and manners of a Horton Foote story and the violent tinge of a Sam Peckinpaugh film that gives it a realistic portrayal of a heroic Western figure.  Set in 1949, this movie version of Cormac McCarthy's novel treats us to a time when a person's word and honor meant everything.  The nostalgia is also there with the untamed, barren landscapes, the sleepy Mexican villages, the folksy Texans, and a Rio Grande River without barriers nor armed guards.  The main story aside, it is the characters that make this film rewarding.  A couple of 'good old boys' (John 'Bud' Cole and Lacey Rawlins) decide to pull up their Texas roots for an adventure in Mexico.  You could not have found two better actors, Matt Damon and Henry Thomas, to project both the innocence and the boldness of what they are about to do.  As they stargaze at the night skies, they decide that if there is a heaven, there must also be a hell - a telling prophecy about what they will experience.  The strange boy that follows them, Jimmy Blevins (Lucas Black III) is the most arresting of all the characters - a figure with a childish mindset (his fear of lightning surpasses any common sense) a childish temperament (he will not give up his horse and his revolver), and yet the cunning and tenacity of any adult.  Penelope Cruz is the fitting damsel in distress, Mexican-style, who maintains the wild spirit of untamed horses with the guarded dignity of a woman in her class and culture.  With excellent direction from Billy Bob Thornton, All the Pretty Horses is a film to savor for that Southwestern blend of gentlemanly behavior, cowboy work ethic, and courage to set things right. "}{"Title":"Warm, good looking effort; cut way too much.","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"      Truly the kind of movie 'they don't make anymore'.  Great scenery, good acting, a story with likeable characters that starts out having us believe it will take its time in its wonderful time and place.  Several people here have commented that there was a four hour version that got cut in half - and I would like to add my wishes to theirs to see the long version when it comes out on video.  The story gets rushed along; there's a definate feeling that some key scenes are missing.       In spite of that, I enjoyed the movie and fell into its moods and emotions.  Lets hope that we get to see the whole thing someday.    Matt Damon did his usual good job disappearing into his character.  Young Lucas Black benefiting from having the most interesting character took over the scenes he was in.       This one's worth a look - especially on the big screen.   "},{"Title":"Maybe not ALL the pretty horses, but ENOUGH of them!","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The thing I loved most about this movie was that it was full of surprises. Just at the point when it would appear to be predictable, there would be a sudden turn.  Unexpected twists in the plot, different photographic styles, dark humor, and even changes in the soundtrack kept the pace moving along and thus kept me very interested.  The photography was so outstanding that I find myself wondering where Barry Markowitz has been hiding, and I sure hope to see much more of his work.  I have not read the book, so I found myself wondering about some parts of the plot that must have ended up on the editing floor.  But the overall effect was good enough that I would not mind seeing it a second time.  The acting was excellent, and only the editing appeared to be a problem.  I found that I enjoyed it most by viewing it more as a tone poem and just floated along on a kind of stream of consciousness that it evoked in me.  My viewing partner found the movie bizarre, and even that was a surprise also!  We usually agree.    "},{"Title":"What?","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Okay, I was not aware that this movie was originally 4 hours long because I was getting very confused.  I had enjoyed Lucas Black's role in the movie and felt that he did a great job, whereas the other characters did not.  I didn't see a relationship with either Matt or Penelope's characters.  There were times that I had expect their character to behave one way, but they behave another way.  If they release the uncut version on video, I am going to have to rent it.  There were so many things that this movie lacked.  I didn't know what the old man in the jail had to do with the story.  I found some of the lines mumbled that I couldn't understand what they were saying, too. "},{"Title":"Great Scenery, Adventure, and Emotionally drawn-in.","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I really liked this movie.  Directed by Billy Bob Thornton ('Sling Blade'), it has all the composition of a great western adventure, horses, cattle, a river, acts of theft, acts of heroism, and of course, a quest for the hand of a beautiful princess.  This movie stars well-known Matt Damon ('Private Ryan', 'The Client', many more to come), Henry Thomas (from E.T. fame), Penelope Cruz (a relative newcomer from Madrid, known in some circles as the 'Spanish enchantress' and a real head turner), and Lucas Black ('Sling Blade', 'Crazy in Alabama'). The 3 men are from Texas and cross the Rio Grande into Mexico looking for adventure on a huge ranch in Mexico.This movie besides being really good has some really great western scenery. Believable. A must see for western fans.   "},{"Title":"Pretty to look at, good acting, but story too rushed","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The film should have been longer. It starts out well with three boys heading to Mexico but when you get into Act 2 things get too rushed, the relationship between Matt and Penelope does not get a chance to develop. They share a few flirting glances from atop their horses and the next thing you know she is knocking on his door to go skinny dipping, are madly in love, and ready to die for the other.  If pushed to a three-hour film then their passion may have been just as intimate for the audience as it was for them. Otherwise, the acting was good, I liked Matt, Penelope did not have much to work with, Lucas Black was excellent, and Henry Thomas did well as a sidekick except in one scene where he inexplicably gets up in a dazed death wish. If you want to see the film definitely check it out on the big screen because the scenery is spectacular, don't do video. I recommend for lovers of outdoors, Westerns, horses etc. Otherwise, it is only just okay.   "},{"Title":"On the whole, All the Pretty Horses was a flop!","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Let's just say that when I left the theater I was totally relieved that the movie was over.  Had I known how bored I'd be watching this movie, I would have waited for it to come out on video;  maybe not even that.  All the Pretty Horses was a lack-luster film that left me disappointed, and wondering what was the purpose of the story.  Had I read the novel, I'm sure that I would have been even more disillusioned with the film.  In any case, had All the Pretty Horses been another two hours, I would have walked out!!! "},{"Title":"Not much action but a good story","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This movie didn't have the most action in it.  But the story it told I thought was wonderful.  The setting of the movie I thought was beautiful also.  All together a pretty decent movie, and one of the better ones released this year. "},{"Title":"A valuable and entertaining movie","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  For me, this movie artfully depicted & captured the essence of ranch life during post W.W.II.  The A+ cinematography is fascinating and spurred me intimately into the beauty of wide open spaces and not only let me taste the experience of ranching, but, let me feast on the true bravery required to ride horseback hundreds of miles over wild terrain.  You will feel the emotional pain of being uprooted by developers and the loss of continuity between generations. Thus, an increasingly rare occurrence, that of working the same land as one's forebears, is illuminated for everyone to experience and appreciate. The story weaves the joys and sorrows of daily ranch life in late '40's Mexico Hard work; love; murder; Mexican prisons, etc., all combined for the movie participant to consume, reflect and enjoy.  This is a valuable and entertaining movie. "},{"Title":"Two Hoofs Down","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  (Obliged to say this contains some of what y'all might refer to as SPOILERS, if you're of a mind to.)Two young guys who've seen too many Westerns head down to Mexico to find a big ranch they can work at. En route they encounter a younger guy on a stolen horse who joins up with them because they need another American. The three of them then get into a contest to see who can speak in the thickest twang and use the most rustic phraseology. I haven't heard this many fixin's and reckonin's and recollects since the heyday of the Beverly Hillbillies.When they get to Mexico (and in this movie, you have to accept the idea that someone actually would WANT to go to Mexico), the young idiot loses his horse and his gun and clothes. (And apparently, his feathers--don't ask)The one young feller falls in love with the ranch's daughter. This is inevitable because she is the only one in the cast prettier than him.Oh, yeah, there's horses, too. Lots and lots of purdy horses. Apparently they're supposed to represent sexuality or the purity of one's dreams or living life to the fullest. But they might just be horses.They all get thrown in jail because of the young feller fooling around with the senorita and because the younger moron killed some people and stole some horses. He ends up getting shot because that's the way things are done down in Mexico. At this point you're supposed to respect the simple justice of the Mexicans and simultaneously be horrified by their cruelty without seeming like a racist. This combination of emotions is a tall order for our hero, which results in a pained expression he wears throughout the balance of the film.He ends up killing a guy who'd slashed up his buddy. Then the pretty senorita's aunt bails him out on the condition that he never sees the girl again. Then the aunt gives him the girl's phone number. He sees her, but she refuses to run off with him because she gave her word to her daddy. By the way, the feller can speak Spanish as well as the Mexican girl, but they both speak English so the audience can understand. Thanks for nothing, you two.Then the young guy tells his story to a judge whose sole purpose in the movie is to make you lean over and whisper to the person next to you, Hey, isn't that Bruce Dern?This movie was based on a classic book which goes to show, I reckon, that you're better off readin'. "},{"Title":"Sweeping epic ends up under the rug...","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  All the Pretty Horses starts off calmly, confidently plodding into a western road trip, only to end up in a mud pit of mixed signals.  It almost seems as if director Billy Bob Thornton, in his first directorial attempt since the critically acclaimed Sling Blade, began making one movie, and ended up making another.The first act is strongly anchored with great dialogue, and impressive acting from Matt Damon and Henry Thomas (can anyone see anything with Henry Thomas and not spontaneously break into 'E.T. Phone Home!).  However, their efforts are quickly lost in a convoluted love story, in an inept prison drama, and ends on a note of false hope that, when finally completed, seems to have no bearing on the movie at all.This is a good film, awash in a convoluted story.  Too bad, it wasn't for lack of effort. "}{"Title":"Peaceful and interesting, but no real emotion..","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Overall this is a good movie if you want a relaxing film and one that captures your attention throughout. It is however lacking in in emotion. When the movie's emotions climax, yours do not as much. War epics and powerful love stories can't help but involve us in moments that are both exciting and aggravating. All The Pretty Horses has great cinematography, and a good story that doesn't over-do itself. A relaxing, good movie, but not one that will remain with you forever. "},{"Title":"One of the more tedious films of 2000","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I had high hopes given the director and cast but I have to say this was one of the slowest moving American movies I've ever seen and I confess I had trouble staying awake during parts of it, something I never thought I'd write about a movie featuring Penelope Cruz.I agree with the comment that the editing may be a factor in terms of a lack of drive or momentum, but the story was problematic as well as any significant plot or meaningful conflict was slow to emerge.The performances were generally satisfactory although the actor playing the youngest of the three travelers was very good.  It was fun to see Bruce Dern on screen again (and playing a good guy!).  Nice of Billy Bob to give Laura's Dad a part.There were a couple of memorable scenes but overall this was a big disappointment -- a sleeper in the literal sense. "},{"Title":"Uh-Oh...This movie's FABULOUS!!!!!","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Matt Damon is the creator of his own genre of movies.  They aren't instantly gratifying in most cases, however, an emotional impacts does strike as you allow the film to paralell the life YOU are leading.  This is an incredible film.  I know most aren't going to the movies now looking for thought provoking images, so this movie will get a mild reception.  Its a shame...this is such a good movie.  I recommend it to anyone who like The Talented Mr. Ripley or Good Will Hunting. "},{"Title":"An interesting story obfuscated.","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  What happens to an interesting story when mediocre performances and poor telling get in the way? Well, this film is an excellent example. The escapist odyssey of young Texans through rural Mexico in the 1950s is fascinating as a concept. The film, however, manages to turn the story into a heartless hybrid of part Gary Cooper, part James Dean and part basic Damon. The only performance with any guts was delivered by Lucas Black, as a charming sociopath. Matt Damon, a brilliant monologist, seemed ill equipped to deal with the stunning and very talented Penelope Cruz. Henry Thomas looks like a candidate for Metamucil during most of the film. Ruben Blades delivers an all too brief performance with great style. The continuity was jagged. There was little pacing. The use of camera effects seemed sorely out of place in such a dusty and potentially hearty tale. The locations were well chosen and fabulously shot. Otherwise, the cinematography was uneven in quality and effect. All the horses were pretty.     "},{"Title":"Beautiful to the eyes, but that's about it","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  A beautifully shot movie, great cast but what a long drawn out story! The movie seemed to be endless. I enjoyed the first half, it was a simple story and slowly drew me in. But by the 2nd half I was just waiting for the story to be tied up and somehow see closure. I can see how someone can completely disagree with me, but in my opinion and my family's, we thought it was too long, lacked strong elements of a plot and dragged, dragged, DRAGGED. "},{"Title":"impressive adaptation","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  For those of you who have read this book and enjoyed it half as much as I did, will be more than pleased with sling blade director Billy Bob Thornton's film using the silence of the lambs writer Ted Tally's adaptation.  It follows the book very closely to my recollection and in general is one my top ten films of the year.  However, to those who have not read the book, it may be hard to get a real feel for the characters and really get into the movie.  Aside from the previously mentioned, praise should go to Damon who gives the performance of his career, and if not for one of the more competitive years for lead actor, would be a sure in for an oscar nod.  I also have to rave about the cinematography. Unfortunately, early reviews of the film forced there to be some serious cuts here, but it still holds its own nicely.  I can't wait until the director's cut DVD comes out.  The supporting cast, Thomas, Black, and Blades, were quite good as well, with Penelope Cruz, who I was skeptical about at first, but for the most part held her own quite well, stole every scene she was in with her exceptional beauty.  Anyway, if you haven't read the book, which I highly recommend, and care to take the time, it will greatly improve the movie experience.  Don't miss it!          "},{"Title":"A Challenge Well Met","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  For those who have not read Cormac McCarthy's book by the same name, it is easy to say that this film was boring or this film had no point. McCarthy is considered the best living writer there is, and this is his style--strung out with no particular climax, but still very readable... just as this movie is extremely watchable.  Thornton has created an outstanding cinematic rendition of the book; in fact, the continuity between the book and the film was amazing, far closer than any film-based-on-a-book I think I've ever seen.Knowing that this film was so amazingly close to the book, I have to admit that I was first a little skeptical that Damon could pull off the role of an 18-year old cowboy.  He hit it dead on... you couldn't ask for any more realism, and I also think this is probably the first film of his where he actually cries.  If this wasn't an Oscar-caliber performance, I don't know what one is.Do yourself a favor and read the book before you see this film.  Otherwise there will be no way that you will either understand it or what the director was trying to pull off.  Also consider that this film has been completed for almost a year now--when it was first printed to film it was over four hours long.  Trimmed down to two hours and seven minutes, the film is the ideal length--not too long and not too short, and hardly a dull moment in between. If you appreciate good literature and good film, then this is the film for you. "},{"Title":"Visually stunning, but went nowhere","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Matt Damon plays the all-around, well-read, compassionate cowboy who falls in love w/ the boss's coddled daughter. During that portion of the film, I was engaged and interested, but it went nowhere after that. I understand that it was originally 4 hours long. Perhaps that explains the lack of continuity and explanations for rest of the film. In any event, it was beautifully filmed, but basically vacant. Don't bother. Wait til video.  "},{"Title":"A reasonably faithful rendition of the classic novel","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This coming-of-age story makes a fairly good transition from novel to screen. I was most pleased with the cast, as the actors looked the same as the characters had looked to me when I first read the book. Lucas Black as Jimmy Blevins truly shines, as does Henry Thomas as Lacey Rawlins. For fans of the book all the core, essential scenes are there, but some of the heart and some of the spirit are trimmed for the sake of brevity. Bonus points to Thornton for trying to maintain a sense of the mystical in John Grady Cole's transition to manhood. My only complaint is that it ended too soon - the final scene should not have been cut.  "},{"Title":"just what it should have been","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I've read this book and while its difficult to translate books to movies often times i think that this one was done very well. It excluded some things and added in a few things to make it flow better for the screen, but it stayed true to what i believe the author was trying to convey. Some of the shots of the vast scenery were breathtaking. Though the previews showed many of the scenes about the love story the movie stayed true to the book, keeping this subplot somewhat behind the focus of the movie. It didn't take the tempting Hollywood way out and put the romance ahead of the focus. (Though I personally enjoy the hollywood romance every once in awhile...) All and all,I was very impressed with this movie.  "}{"Title":"Makes Autumn in New York look decent","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  In All the Pretty Horses, Matt Damon spends the entire film searching for the meaning of life. I don't know about him, but I was too busy searching for the meaning of this movie.What the heck were they thinking cutting the movie down from four hours to two? The result is a mucked-up version of the book that has its meaning entirely lost because there's so much going on, you'll easily lose track of what's happening and who it's happening to. I think something is going on between Damon and Penelope Cruz, or at least is for about 1/9 of the movie. Something is happening to a teen Damon and pal Henry Thomas meet along their journey into the Texas outback. Something is happening between Damon and the law, which is darn proud to admit just how corrupt they are. And something is happening between the audience and the filmmakers, which is a jolting realization that somebody thought trimming All the Pretty Horses down a few hours would not affect the way it plays out in the end. Fat chance.The problem is that there is too much going on for such a short amount of time. The romance between Damon and Cruz happens so fast that you never believe for a second they fall in love, the subplot involving the troubled teen is so uninteresting that you hate the movie for going back to it as often as it does. And the way the people speak is so irritating -- I know this is the South, but did everyone have to employ Jem Finch of To Kill a Mockingbird as their dialect coach?All in all, All the Pretty Horses is a pretty obvious example of why some movies ought to be longer, no matter how involving or uninvolving they are. Then again, it is always nice to see that lovely Texan countryside in the background.... "},{"Title":"South Of The Border, Trouble and Romance","Date":"17 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Just as Matt Damon was able to cast aside his New England accent for a Tennessee one in The Rainmaker and use it to great affect in Good Will Hunting, he cast aside again for the Texas tones needed for All The Pretty Horses. The man's got a good ear for speech idiom, he could be a worthy successor to Robert Mitchum in that department.From a novel by Cormac McCarthy and directed by Billy Bob Thornton who also has a good ear and feel for idiom and mores of the Southwest, All The Pretty Horses is about a couple of friends who go across the border into Mexico for work. Damon's been cheated out of a ranch he was expecting to inherit and he and friend Henry Thomas go south. They find both work and trouble and Damon finds romance. How they all intertwine is the story of All The Pretty Horses.Damon's romance is with Penelope Cruz, the daughter of Ruben Blades the owner of the ranch they find work on, breaking mustangs. The two come up against both Latino culture and Texas culture and how they really clash. Trouble starts for Damon and Thomas though when they pick up young runaway kid Lucius Black who's got some real issues with authority and a bad upbringing. His actions start the trouble for everyone involved.But Black in fact steals the film from the more well known stars. I'm surprised he wasn't considered Oscar material for Best Supporting Actor. His performances succeeds on so many levels as likable, goofy, but definitely trouble riding a horse.All The Pretty Horses is a good film where director Billy Bob Thornton does a great job with his cast and with capturing the mood and ambiance of that Rio Grande border country on both sides. "},{"Title":"Magnificent ode to the open range","Date":"9 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Billy Bob Thornton, who directed this masterpiece, knows all about authenticity, as he is the real thing himself. A good ole boy from Arkansas, he has seen the real world and knows that it ain't got palm trees along its drives. Nor does he hobnob with the phonies, and he correctly wonders why he isn't thrown out of Hollywood. This brave, albeit highly neurotic, man (who ever heard of a phobia about antiques before??!) has turned to some real folks to film a story about real folks. His greatest inspiration was to use the amazing Lucas Black to pay the young Devins. Despite the fact that Black has the deepest country-style Alabamba accent you could ever find these days (how well I remember it from the days when I used to know fellows like him), and it is a joy to hear (if you have your Alabamba accent decoding machine handy), so that he does not really belong in Texas, the equally brilliant inspiration of using Henry Thomas compensates, as he is a down-home Texan of just the right type. Matt Damon as the lead modifies his previously learned Tennessee accent and brings it slightly to the West, which is an incredible feat for a Bostonian! The performances in this powerful and gripping saga are intense and convincing, and everybody wins. Bruce Dern and Sam Shepard have terrific cameos, and Miriam Colon provides a wonderful performance in a key supporting role. Finally, the story ultimately works because of the superb acting of Penelope Cruz. She is perfectly in her element here as a sizzling Mexican beauty, and the intensity of her passion gives the film the final thing it needed. The dialogue in this film has a wonderful sensitivity to dialect, and there are dozens of touches of phraseology which only a practiced ear could have mastered, - genuine ways of saying things down South which no one from outside the region could possibly know and appreciate. I only wish that more viewers of this film could appreciate just how authentic it really is in terms of the characters, the action, and the dialogue. People these days are all wrapped in bubble-wrap, and have no contact with reality because they live in sanitized suburbs and go to those sterile places called malls (which have destroyed America). Some of the people who have written bad reviews of this film have clearly never met anybody like the people in this film and think the whole thing is made up. It sho' nuff ain't. It may all have died out now (the story is set in 1949), but it was real once, that kind of thing and those kind of folks, and get your heads round that, you spoilt and out of touch softies with your computer games and Ipods. This passionate, desperate story may 'only' be a story, but it is grounded in real types and it says more than any hundred Hollywood movies. It is ironical that Matt Damon, so genuine and moving in his performance here, has been turned into Jason Bourne who has no personality, and that Penelope strayed for a while into the clutches of that arch-phoney of all time, Tom Cruise. He never deserved her! If you want to know about 'the real thing' watch this. "},{"Title":"A perfect & great cowboy movie.","Date":"7 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I really love it. I watched this movie twice. My opinion is in contrast to others. This is a perfect real cowboy film. Everything a good cowboy should possess are perfectly depicted in this movie. It is an example to show that, for a man with fully ethical awareness, a relationship between closed friends does not have to be as a producer tried to show in Broke Back Mountain. It is also an example that, for producers, who want to create movies for people to view this world in a better way and aware of social responsibilities, they should make the movie like this.This movie is not for people who like western movies just to satisfy their basic instinct and never understand the real cowboy life and the cowboy code. It is not for people who wants to enjoy nonsense violent and killing as one can expect from Italian cowboy movies. It is not a movie in the kind of The Good, The Bad and the Ugly that made Clint Eastwood famous. It is a movie about how a real man in reality should be. For this world, trying to avoid violence, keep your promises, protect a man's and woman's honor when ever necessary, are what we are dreaming for in our society today.You have to prepare that this is not an action western movie but a sensitive western drama for people who care about being someone in his/her society. It shows that people can not ignore culture and tradition of their community. This is a good movie that I want today's teenagers to see and to learn how good men and women should be.Many people may not like it because it does not satisfy their dark side instincts but I watch movie not because of that reason. The hero John Grady Cole in this movie is the best role model for a real cowboy as I've ever seen. I watched more than 100 western titles, to me, all those heroes as played by John Wayne, Clint Eastwood, Charles Bronsons, Alan Ladd, Gregory Peck, Gene Autry, Roy Rogers can not match John Grady Cole in this movie. You have to have a delicate feeling about moral and social responsibilities to get in to this movie. It's pretty that it got poor reviews from many people. "},{"Title":"Nothing to get excited about","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Not all movies are supposed to reach the magnificence of ben hur. This one is a very fine subtle romantic tale , with the performance of the actors reaching the point where you are simply confident that this is not a B-movie. But if you are looking for higher meanings of life in every movie, you will be greatly disappointed.Though I personally believe that a pretty good representation of several truths is displayed through these adventures of Damon, for life is mostly not experienced with the glamour of the characters of the bold and the beautiful, but with the disappointments of the characters of this movie right here. "},{"Title":"A beautiful, passionate movie; a rarity of our time...","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  All The Pretty Friends, this is what i call this heartfelt, splendid movie; I watched this movie about a few minutes ago and had an immeasurable joy. Damon, Thomas, Black and Cruz all shine in their key roles and they had me relieved like hell... The gorgeous, breathtaking locations and Thornton's faultless direction add to the flavor. A real treat this movie is. "},{"Title":"Excellent, emotional, gripping","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This movie made me laugh, cry, cheer, and yell. It is superbly well made and extremely well filmed. I have never gotten the same effect of a gunshot or the words I'm gonna love you til the day I die, then I did in this film. The cinematography is excellent and the acting astounding. A great story with great actors only means one thing, a great movie. "},{"Title":"This movie's got it all","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Cowboys, Mexico, love, murder, rebellion, betrayal, knife fights. One of the best movies I've ever seen, and because of its diversity of emotion, it's a couples movie (that even a guy can enjoy! Penelope Cruz is at her best. "},{"Title":"A complete waste of time","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I had high hopes for this movie.  I like Matt Damon and had seen Henry Thomas in Legends of the Fall and was looking forward to a beautifully filmed jaunt on horseback.But there are gaping holes in this movie. After the first 30 minutes, I kept waiting to care about these characters. But it never happened.  After nearly two hours, I walked away, not caring how it ended.    "},{"Title":"Why this film is a flawed masterpiece","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Any film based on a book makes compromises, the degree of success relies on the talents of those entrusted to move the story from one medium to another.Sadly, All the Pretty Horses is flawed by one crucial omission, and one only. The aunt's story of the revolution and counter revolution in Mexico is essential to the context of the entire proposition. Without it the film is open to accusations of simplicity, of showing good and evil almost in comic book cliche.This omission allows much of the film to be viewed as simply proposing that Mexicans are bad (unjust, murderers, manipulative, place little worth in human dignity) and Americans good (just, humane, companionable, reliable, true, loving and romantic). The dividing line between heaven and hell is the Rio Grande.But, in the novel, John Grady Cole learning from aunt Doña Alfonsa about the death of innocence in counter revolutionary Mexican, puts into context not only all the ills they encounter but also the prevalent naivety from which they have travelled and into which both John and Lacey choose to return.Of course, having said all the that, I loved the film. It captures the sense of space, tempo and humour of Cormac McCarthy's novel.Matt Damon and Henry Thomas overcome the minefield of presenting the transition from youth to adulthood in a way I would not have believed possible on-screen. Penelope Cruz, as Alejandra de la Rocha, is equally believable as a young girl becoming a young woman.For me, though, Lucas Black steals the show. The few moments he is on screen are rich with life and humanity.Oh damn it! Never mind the aunt's speech, watch the goddam film, its beautiful. "}{"Title":"One of the worst movies I've seen","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The title says it all. If you want to see a movie about horses, you made the right choice. Otherwise, the movie has a weak plot. It's too long, too slow and too boring. All you see is horses and nothing but horses. I was surprised to see Matt Damon in this movie, considering all the other movies he has played in. What a pity! "},{"Title":"The dullest film I've ever seen.","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I've never written a comment before, but I feel so compelled to because I don't want anyone else to waste 2+ hours of their life like I did. Although very beautiful (great landscapes, beautiful cast), this film has nothing in the way of plot.Another reviewer (mcd2002) wrote that Matt Damon and Billy Bob Thornton said that if only 10 people were touched by the movie, then the movie was made for only those 10.  If you haven't already seen the film, take your chances that you're not 1 of those 10 people & save yourself.Please don't see this film; I'm warning you. "},{"Title":"A big let down","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  We saw this movie, and were quite disappointed by it. The plot was insipid, and did for the Mexican people what The Patriot did for Englishmen, made them look like evil cretins!There were no likeable or even sympathetic characters in the movie. The female lead was supposed to be moral, but instead demonstrated a complete lack of believability.It might have been more tolerable if it were about 90 minutes shorter.It was disappointing, because of all the hype, and the excellent actors in the film.  "},{"Title":"Western Soap Opera with Overblown background and Music Score.Racist Too!","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Golden American Texas boy comes to Mexico to show ignorant backward Mexicans how to be cowboys.  How I loved the scene where the ignorant Mexican bunk hand does a shuffle dance for Matt Damon!!!!  Racism hasn't gone out of style, it has just moved south!!!!!  I had to walk out of the movie due to its cliche soap opera bad acted script.  The only thing good about the movie was the scenery!  Avoid at all costs! "},{"Title":"You people are clueless","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Unfortunately for Billy Bob, this movie is really only understood by those who have an idea of what being a real cowboy is like. No offense to England, Iowa, or anywhere else you all hail from, but you just don't get it.Why did they go to Mexico? Because the life Cole would have had was in San Antonio, a big city, and nothing to do with horses.Why did his friend go? Because it is his friend.The love story is great....it isn't often that we see how love works for real people.....sometimes it isn't possible, and never is it storybook. This was even more true (from what I understand, mind you, I wasn't there obviously) in 1949 Mexico, when being a woman was slightly better than being a slave.The important aspects of this movie lie in the simple things. A friend who is willing to get into whatever necessary with you because he is your friend....Love doesn't always work out, no matter how strong....help your fellow man, have a good heart, and trust in God. SIMPLICITY. If you get stuck on the accents (which actually are not that bad, we Texans do not all sound the same, I know people who sound just like each character), the quality of the horseflesh, etc. you miss the point.Well done Mr. Thornton, thanks for showing us a bit of reality in a western, rather than the canned hero/love story that flows out of LALA land oh so often. "},{"Title":"Inspiring, beautiful and untamed","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Beautiful, beautiful work of Billy Bob Thornton expressing the journey in life of a passionated, loyal and true young man. Thornton is obviously a man with wild stories and he chose a very pleasant scenario to tell this one. Matt Damon suits perfectly as John Cole a young adventurous man, more of intelligent than a high-profile hero, who searches for honorable work and love in company of a trusted buddy. Not only the love story is captivating but difficulties and adversities found by the two buddies. The company of a boy that possibly does not have feathers that take them to a prison and then both friends having to deal with the shadow of being inside a prison is something that give density and some bitterness to the sweet characters - as well as happens in life. The good thing is that the characters overcome this shadows, they tame them, and life with dignity after those events. The final dialog, with the judge, crowns the hero and is inspiring for every young man who also seeks for his own way and, as in the movie, find love and shadows on it. Thank you Billy Bob, you're a very sensitive guy; thank you Columbia for contributing with such a constructive movie and thank you Matt, thank you Matt for representing John Cole and your other characters - they help me on the way. This movie really inspired me and it is a beautiful story of untamed spirits, courage and goals with the strong scent of the country side, horses and green acres. Thank you for that. "},{"Title":" I made a promise","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Matt Damon is guarded as John in this sly romance film. The following cast is free-spirited. The costumes are lovely. One of the fair flicks in the genre, All The Pretty Horses hurls seldom romances. 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Matt Damon the only good point","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Should cow boy movies be artsy? Maybe. There is potential. Did this particular movie successfully pull off the artsy cowboy flick? No. What's worse, this movie got so bogged down in whatever artistic endeavor the director was attempting that all semblance of story or plot was lost. The movie simply rambles aimlessly on, like an old cowboy who has nowhere to go. I'm a big fan of Matt Damon, but, unfortunately, even he couldn't redeem this sorry excuse for a film.  "},{"Title":"It shows a denigrating face of Mexico and its bad.","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  When I saw this film I expected a pretty good movie considering its actors and its director, I got really disappointed. This film is really slow and long ( a very bad combination).It shows an unreal Mexico with  very bad acting especialy by Penelope Cruz. No one with a little bit of culture can believe this plot they didn't even bother in looking for real mexicann indians instead they used native americans, the prison part is especialy bad and unreal. I was really disappointed  by Penelope Cruz since I seen recently Vanilla Sky, and Abre los Ojos. In wich  she  acts decently( she could learn how to speak  english, though). "},{"Title":"A meandering story with no umphh.","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This movie could have been great. The characters could have been strong, the love story could have been intense and the relationship between the two men could have been very complex and interesting. Do you see where I'm going here. A lot of potentially interesting developments just don't go anywhere. If the writers focused on just one of the many themes it could have been great. Very disappointing film... "}{"Title":"lovely scenery,pretty good movie","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This was a decent movie. As I watched it, I found myself watching Lonesome Dove, Forrest Gump, and The Shawshank Redemption all rolled into one. The story was good, and I was impressed by Matt Damon's performance. However, it tended to drag at times and got a bit boring in a few others. Still, I found it to be good, and the scenery was shot very well.** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Left me totally lost!","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This movie left me in the dust.  At first I thought it was good with good scenery and beautiful horses but as I got into the movie I also got out of it. The flash back scenes were horribly confusing and you never knew whether someone was dead or if they would bring the person back in.  I found myself constantly lost  with no explinations as to what was happening, if your looking for a brain teaser or something to figure out definately watch this it will satisfy those needs.  Or are looking for some disgusting scenes with confusion go for it.  "},{"Title":"a really bad 30 sec marlboro commercial","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  No matter if this film would run for 4 hours or only two - every minute of it is a waste of time. Pretentious camera movements, the dullest editing since a long. long time,  crappy, sugary music poured over really lame performances of all the actors involved. It doesn't matter if the dialog was lifted word by word from the book - it's supposed to be a movie. I'm having no trouble watching 'slow' movies if there is any kind of actual content  tickeling my brain. Not so here where every clichee in the world seems to have found it's place. The person responsible for this is unfortunately Billy Bob Thornton,  the director. Big, big waste of time (and money). "},{"Title":"Not THAT bad, but not good either.","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This is a very long love letter to the old western, but without some ofthe things that make old westerns so great. By that I mean Ben Johnson,or John Wayne, actors with faces and lives that were compelling enoughto hold our attention. Maybe if Billy Bob Thornton had been IN this filmwe'd care more, but the way they made it was with the pretty youngthings who seem to be preening rather than acting. Penelope Cruz is,here's a surprise, very beautiful. The music is good. The photography isexcellent. But it's too long and not engaging. Too bad, I wish it wasbetter.  "},{"Title":"Great Trailer At Least","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I had the misfortune of sitting through this snoozer the other night.  It plays much longer than the two hour TRT would suggest - but what a great feeling afterwards when you think you just wasted four hours, to realize it was only two.  Having seen the trailer, I was excited at the potential for subtle plot changes intertwined with a good romantic thriller of good versus evil and the redemption which follows.  Instead, I quickly found out that this is just an overall boring picture that plays like a TV movie at best.The critics, rather, amateurs that assume this is an 'masterpiece' need to realize that the occasional random slow motion shot does not indeed make a picture artistic.  Aesthetically I could go on but I'll just address the plot for Joe Audience.  The plot has a decent set-up but no follow-through.  The cuts and pacing are too slow.  I do not necessarily think that films need to follow the MTV captive audience rule of not having a shot for more than five seconds, but thirty second two shots seem too much... as well as XCU shots of exchanges.  It comes off looking like a beautifully shot amateur film.  I wish it could have reached its potential, instead this sleeper should stay locked in the barn. "},{"Title":"One of the most boring movies ever","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  All the pretty horses was one of the most boring movies I've ever seen.  I was very surprising to see Matt Damon and Penelope Cruz in this movie, because they are both very talented actors.  The movie was extremely boring and had no plot.  If it did have a plot, it must have been written in horses language or something.  I kept watching the movie hoping for something good to happen.  It was very disappointing. "},{"Title":"Another film ruined by directorial stylizing","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  `All the Pretty Horses' is a director-centric piece.  It is more about Billy Bob Thornton's desire to show what a great director he is than it is about telling the story.  As is frequently the case when a director puts his creativity in the foreground, the film is diminished.  Unquestionably, the film has numerous beautiful location shots including lovely sunsets, stunning panoramas and splendid backdrops.  The digital sound on the DVD is exceptionally good.  However, it is also burdened by excessive jump cuts, annoying wide angle close ups that distort the actors' faces, and poor editing that jumps to a new scene before the previous scene is really finished.  This is all done to stylize the film, but while Thornton was busy `styling', the story is being shredded into a passel of tediously disconnected fragments that loses the audience.Unlike `Sling Blade', where Thornton was focused on the character study and stayed locked on the storyline, here he meanders around, using characters and scenes as excuses to show off his technique.  The romance, which is the strongest element of the story, is rushed and minimized.  Cole's (Matt Damon) relationship with Rocha (Ruben Blades) is glossed over.  Disjointed events whiz by.  Before the viewer has an opportunity to become acclimated to one set of circumstances, the story takes a major shift somewhere else.  There are gaps everywhere.  When Thornton reaches the logical end of the film, the final scene between John Grady Cole and Alejandra (Penelope Cruz), rather than roll credits he wanders aimlessly for another twenty minutes sending Cole on a suicide mission back to Mexico to retrieve some horses.The effect of this discontinuity is to disengage the viewer, which is why there is so much criticism of this film being lovely but boring.  I must agree with this sentiment.  While I can appreciate the beauty of the photography, the story is rendered uninteresting by too much directorial meddling.The acting is very good.  Matt Damon continues to show his versatility and strength as an actor with a solid performance in a different genre.  Henry Thomas continues to prove that he is more than just the kid from `E.T. The Extraterrestrial' by giving another strong supporting presentation.  Penelope Cruz also gives a compellingly emotional performance despite limited screen time.  Lucas Black (also from `Sling Blade') makes another strong showing as Blevins.This film could have been much better.  I rated it a 6/10.  Despite some gorgeous photography, it loses the viewer with its disjointed editing and poor storytelling.  It is worth seeing for the acting, but don't expect to be enthralled. "},{"Title":"Wow.....","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I can't believe that I gave up 2 hours of my life for this movie. Theacting was fine and the scenery was beautiful but something waslacking. The movie wasn't silly or poorly done it was just boring.I mean boring to the point of humorous. 2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Tedious rubbish.","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This is the worst film I have seen this year. It is very boring, tedious in the extreme with virtually no redeeming features. I would avoid it at all costs. The acting, photography and plot are all third rate - if it was handed in at film school I would expect the student to fail. "},{"Title":"Yup, I almost went to sleep; nope, it's not a good flik","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Two Texas cowboy-hero wannabes head for Mexico. They reach their destination; unfortunately, the movie never does.  This film contains elements of Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid;Unforgiven;Treasure of the Sierra Madre; any John Wayne movie; prison movies; and The Days of Our Lives.  Talk about multiple personalities!  There is a scene with an unidentified old man who does a tap dance after hearing one half of a phone conversation between Matt Damon and Penelope Cruz; what was that about?!?! As talented as Damon and Cruz are, their relationship is sans salsa.  Maybe their best scenes are on the cutting room floor.  I'd critique some of the plot elements, only, there is no plot!  This film takes a long time to get nowhere; though it does it with beautiful and haunting cinematography. Lucas Black's performance as a loose cannon runaway is strong and believable.  As the catalyst for much of what goes wrong for John Grady Cole(Damon) and Lacey Rawlins(Thomas) he is the most interesting character on the screen. Go see Castaway, instead.  "}{"Title":"Good movie, if you like these type of movies","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  William Robert (though often called Billy Bob) Thornton's All the Pretty Horses doesn't match up to his first direct hit Sling Blade, but it does have some good acting and directing, and some good scenery work, despite some corny romance themes.  The tale has Matt Damon and Henry Thomas as two guys wandering the west and Mexico looking for work, they find some, and Damon falls in love with the woman who resides there (Penelope Cruz who has some good charm).  A little twisting of a plot adds to this film, and it's good, but not great.  B+ "},{"Title":"Not a good film","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  A thumb down. The film is based upon quite a promising novel, and the very plot does not miss a base for producing something that could appeal much, much more to a film viewer. Unfortunately, it seems as if it was done in a rush, without much attention to plausibility of either specific scenes or the plot flow altogether. It is so weakly motivated. The acting is bad, including Mat Damon's. His cowboy pal seems to have just jumped downstairs for lunch from one of those Manhattan Wall Street offices. Always so well shaved, never tired (even after taming 16 horses in two days), or simply putting in some bad acting in the role assigned. The love scenes are weak and unmotivated. The bright parts are the unmistakable beauty of the Mexican land and people's faces (which even bad directing couldn't spoil) and the charming role played by the young Lucas Black. Summe summarum not worth $9.50. Actually, had I paid $2.00 I would feel as barely breaking even. "},{"Title":"A TOTAL DISASTER","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Is it a film or a soap-opera? At the beginning it seems  you are gonnna see a nice drama-adventure film but as the plot goes on the story changes so much that you don't know which is the sequence or what does one scene have to do the do with the others. The performances are bad even when Matt Damon is cute, Penelope Cruz is a terrible actress, someone should teach her to speak understandable English, it lasts so much that it tires you. I don't know what was Matt Damon thinkin' when he accepted that role. I strongly recommend it if you have problems with sleeping and if you are the kinda person that doesn't like complicated stories.  "},{"Title":"OK when there's nothing else to do","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Matt Damon is just OK as a cowboy wannabe in this post WWII Western, but this contrived and predictable film goes on far too long and comes to a meaningless (and frankly unbelievable) conclusion. Henry Thomas and Lucas Black are along for the ride, but neither makes much of an impression. The film briefly springs to life when the boys encounter a bad police lieutenant played by character actor Fred Lopez. You may safely pass on this one. A $5 purchase at WalMart, which should give you some indication of its quality.  "},{"Title":"Unoriginal","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Derivative and not as good as the Australian film (starring Kirk Douglas) The Man from Snowy River.In a couple of scenes this does have good sound effects though, with the sound of horses all around you. "},{"Title":"Nothing but garbage clutter the land where these horses roam","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  There is nothing pretty about All the Pretty Horses, a film touted by the critics as the best of 2000 starring an academy award winner and directed by a very talented director.With four of the most talented actors and director, one would think that a recipe for success is in hand; however, poor execution and sub-par performances wasn't enough to convince me that the criticsâ?T assessment was correct.Matt Damon, Henry Thomas, Penelope Cruz and Lucas Black are the ingredients for a great film; however, there is a problem with this recipe, it was made. I should have listened to my inner voice when it told to stay away from All the Pretty Horses because it is the most boring film of the year; my inner voice was correct. There is no reason to for any movie fan to be subjected to an awful film.Continuous horseback riding through scenic settings, endless moments of senseless dialogue and poor execution of the script should make everyone think twice before renting All The Pretty Horses. Damon's charm and charisma, Thomas' fresh look and Cruz' beauty and style were not enough to overcome the mountain of horrible writing and poor execution.All The Pretty Horses earned my nomination vote to win the razzie award for the worst film of 2000 alongside Battlefield Earth and The Cell. I had to ask myself how Damon could go from success in films such as Saving Private Ryan, Good Will Hunting and The Rainmaker to failures such as â?oThe Talented Mr. Ripley and now All The Pretty Horses.Though I still think he is a talented actor, I must say if he continues to choose roles like John Grady Cole in All The Pretty Horses and Tom Ripley in The Talented Mr. Ripley, Damonâ?Ts acting future will be unsuccessful and not match the success he had with Saving Private Ryan, Good Will Hunting, The Rainmaker and The Legend Of Bagger Vance.Every actor deserves to have a bad movie once in a while, I just hope this is the only one Damon has for awhile. I am huge fan of Matt Damon, but I didn't understand why he chose to make a movie with a stilted script.With the talent of Damon, Thornton, Cruz and Thomas; I expected All the Pretty Horses to be competent in the presentation of the film. I spent most of the movie wandering why it was made and the purpose of the journey Damon and Thomas were taking.Thornton has never been one of my favorite actors or directors, but Iâ?Tm always willing to give second chances. Thornton's directorial effort of All the Pretty Horses failed to change my opinion of him. I had to force myself to stay awake because I caught myself dozing off throughout the movie.All The Pretty Horses is a film that belongs to be euthanized with a dose of extreme disgust and placed in a dark graveyard located alongside other horrible excuses disguised as films such as Battlefield Earth and The Cell. Also, I would put in my book of movies to stay away from under all circumstances. I nominate this film to go in the category of failures alongsideWhen the movie ended, I couldn't help but ask myself how a film touted as the best film of 2000 ride off into the sunset successfully with so many faults. Neither the beautiful scenery nor all the pretty horses were able to save this film from disaster. All the Pretty Horses was a complete waste of everybody's time, talent and creativity. I know this is only going to be an isolated incident because the cast is too talented to be associated with failures.  "},{"Title":"Unpainful time-killer","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Apart from the magnificent photography and some beautiful horses, this film has not much going for it. The film serves ultimately as a vehicle for the cute boy, Matt Damon, as we have had before as heart-string pullers for females of all ages &#150; Robert Redford, Tom Cruise, Brad Pitt, even Richard Gere &#133;&#133;&#133;usually counterbalanced by beautiful examples of the female species. In this case, Penélope Cruz was not allowed to fill up very much screen time (about 40 minutes into the film she first appears fleetingly), but when she is on she fills it wonderfully, the camera just loves her; there is something so sensually photogenic about her. And that is that apart from a few loving tears and ardently reproachful looks from those bewitchingly beautiful eyes, she did not have to act much. Henry Thomas tags along, so as to give the story some raison d'etre, I suppose. The surprise is Lucas Black who turned in quite a convincing performance.Then there is the problem of all those supposed Mexican accents, which just did not come off at all. Salma Hayek might have been a better choice in this one. And North American Indians in Mexico? Or what about the Kentucky Shorthorn steers &#133;&#133;&#133;?Obviously Billy Bob Thornton did not do his homework very well the resulting pastiche is slapstick to say the least, replete with misfired meanderings verging on incoherence. However, for those of you who are satisfied with a simple story with very nice-looking actors, this film is not a painful way of filling up a couple of hours.   "},{"Title":"I never get up and walk out of a movie, but I wanted to with this one.","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This movie wasn't terrible, it just was.  I could sit at home and watch a boring nature show about the landscape of the southwest if I wanted to see horses and pretty country side.  If you are looking for a good movie about horses, or a good movie with good actors, you are in the wrong place.  Save yourself the pain, don't watch this movie. "},{"Title":"And the point is...?","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Thornton has made a movie that's not just dull, but fatalistically dull - so inevitably dull we forget it might have been otherwise.  When we watch Cruz and Damon talk conventionally and awkwardly at one another it takes an effort of will to recall that the boy meets girl moment can be and often is interesting, touching, or some such.The film makes goes to such long and weary effort to do anything I wonder why it bothers.  It sets up camp every twenty minutes for just long enough to let us fall asleep, then wakes us up to tell us it's setting out in a randomly chosen new direction - once it's bought provisions, saddled the horses, consulted the guide books, thought about the weather...  While all along we don't care where it's going, just so long as it gets there, or gives some indication that someday it will.The tag-along character whose name sounds a bit like blithering has the most god-awful Texan accent you will ever hear.  He's an infuriating character.  I don't know why Cole and Lacey put up with him (although the greater mystery is HOW they put up with him).  All I know is that they shouldn't have.  They would have been better off; WE would have been better off.The photography is pretty (when there are no humans in the frame), but not pretty enough. "},{"Title":"Pure rubbish!!!","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  No redeeming value. The feel bad movie of the year. I have yet to meet anyone that was not disappointed by this one. You want to like the characters in this one at the start. However, things turn sour in an instant. Save your money and send a message to Hollywood not to make garbage like this anymore. "}{"Title":"a total snooze","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  If a movie could ever be used to prove the existence of entropy, `All the Pretty Horses' would definitely be it.  Here is a film so devoid of energy and momentum that it seems to be not a movie at all but a succession of still images fading in and out of each other at an enervating pace.  Put simply, as director, Billy Bob Thornton has made a world-class snorer out of Cormac McCarthy's best selling novel, for, indeed, rarely has an adventure story seemed so lackluster in its pacing, so inert in its narrative momentum.  The characters even seem to talk in muted whispers, as if they were afraid to violate the atmosphere of profundity that surrounds the project.All that would be fine if the film actually had something profound to say.  Unfortunately, this is a pretty shallow story filled with deeper meanings hinted at but never explored and characters who are never given the screen time to grow into fully developed people in their own right.  Matt Damon and Henry Thomas star as two Texas cowboys who head to Mexico looking for adventure and en route end up befriending a disturbed teenager, working as horse wranglers on a tycoon's ranch and even spending time in a Mexican penitentiary.  In its bare boned outlining, this plot seems rife with possibilities.  However, it is difficult to overestimate just how tediously it all plays out on screen.   For one thing, the motives for many of the characters' actions remain murky at best, partly, I feel, because the authors rarely seem to know where to best concentrate their focus for maximum clarity and effect.  The quirky and enigmatic teen, for instance, who has the potential to be the most interesting character in the story, disappears through large chunks of the film, so that poor-as-dirt Damon, in one of the oldest plot devices known to man, can play footsy with the tycoon's beautiful, dark-haired daughter.   The movie tries to imply that the rich man feels hurt and betrayed by Damon's romancing of his daughter because he has grown so fond and trusting of the young man.  Yet, we never really see that bond developing.  We are simply told it exists and are expected to react accordingly.   This is the case with much of the film.  Despite the movie's near-two hour running time, we never feel like we get to know or understand any of these characters.  The landscapes are pretty, but the deadly pacing of the film destroys our interest even in THEM.  Ultimately, the film feels unformed, as if it were nothing more than a series of unrelated incidents arbitrarily strung together in a pointless slow-moving jumble.  Maybe the pretty pictures (and even the `pretty horses') and the charisma of Matt Damon will be enough to keep your interest at peak levels for the duration of the film.  Just be forewarned, though  movies don't get much more soporific than `All the Pretty Horses.'  My advice is to keep a pillow handy.  "},{"Title":"Rings falsely--Merely a little-boy's fantasy of what being a man might be like","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" I ALMOST loved the movie when I saw it in the theater last year, but something held me back. Seeing it tonight on DVD a year later, it suddenly came to me. This movie feels like romantic, made-up, b.s. I'd bet serious money that neither Thornton, nor any of the other folks involved in the creative processes of this movie have EVER actual done any of the things depicted in the film. I don't mean they never lived in 1949 Texas or Mexico-- I mean they never made the kinds of decisions the characters of All the Pretty Horses so theatrically make every 5 minutes on the screen.Many of the brave and manly speeches made during the screenplay could sound noble within the mind of an arrogant, drunk 17 year-old. I'm guessing that Billy Bob had these kinds of thoughts at that age, and they are what fueled this particular movie.I know I had similar thoughts back then; I just don't have the chance to put those old stories on film (thank god!). Real life dudes DO indeed talk the way Thornton's characters talked. I've seen them in the service (military), and in real life.Boys, all of us in some way or another, did (do?) swagger and fantasize about how noble we'd be, and how we'd live out our own fantasy of John Wayne machismo. But for 95% of us, it's all talk.Fortunately, perhaps, most boys are never put in life threatening situations anymore, at least here in the U.S., so we never have to test our theories about how serious we'd be about living our code out to the death.Thornton's movie--and I truly admire many things about Thornton's movie work--smells of beer and barbecue sauce. That is, it looks and feels like the kind of b.s. story a boy would tell HIMSELF about what kind of manly and exciting adventure he would have, and how he would handle it. These kinds of bragging sessions and often take place, for some reason, when there is lots of beer and barbecue around.All the Pretty Horses doesn't have that subtle and almost indefinable special element that would accompany it if Thornton had actually lived any of it. It's a little boy's drunken tale, told to himself. Sorry! Damon and Thomas and Black were GREAT-- as were many of the others. It just didn't add up to a convincing tale.But PLEASE try again!!! "},{"Title":"Disappointing beyond belief.","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  The list of what is wrong with this flick is too long to go into here...and the quality of the movie doesn't warrant the time spent. Suffice it to say it's an over-wrought dog. Nothing works...the romance is underdone and overstated, the characters wander within themselves, the film doddles and sprints capriciously, etc...blaa, blaaa. One can only wonder what Thornton was thinking...or drinking. Pure crap! "},{"Title":"There's absolutely nothing pretty here.","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  After seeing this film I was left with a feeling of awe. This reaction came mostly because of the $6.75 I spent to get in to see this boring and poorly thought out movie. I consider myself to be a very objective movie critic, but I had a hard time swallowing this one. The one thing I did like was the conversations that went on between the three as they traveled down to Mexico. In a movie as long as this one that's not saying a whole lot. I would avoid this one completely. ** Stars "},{"Title":"Dull, boring and impersonal","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Ill admit I wasnt exactly keen on seeing this in the first place, so I wasnt that surprised by the end of the second hour, I was ready to die in my seat.Not only does this movie force meaning into itself (art for arts sake), but it was about an hour too long. As the totally unbelievable and dull romance storyline (which in itself was the focus of trailers and in the movie was only about 25 minutes) run out of steam by the middle of the movie, the two leads, Penelope Cruz (with a boyish and gross waif figure) and Matt Damon exude no sexual heat or chemistry. Then, the audience found themselves thrown a completley different storyline, with a heavy eyebrowed grandmother sitting down and in a huge, long boring conversation, telling Matt Damon why he has to go back to Texas. In a story such as this (a wannabee Legends of the Fall), typically the audience is supposed to care about the main characters, but this fails too. The romance can be boiled down(at least how it was presented here) as just sex, no real love or romance. I was horrified to learn that the studio actually was pushing this in the Oscar race (although I dont find that a great measurement of greatness), and not surprised when it wasnt even considered. Stay away, stay far far away from this dull movie.  "},{"Title":"What was the point?","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I must remember that just because it has an acadamy award does not mean it will be a good movie.  Don't get me wrong I think it totally deserved it's award, every shot was as if a painting it was absolutly beautifull.  But for me i do like a little bit more then just to look at the movie i want to be entertained by the movie at some level.  The story was a good story,  it was just ruined by the apparent lack of dialoge within the movie.  I guess now days people only speak about fifteen words to each other before knowing they are in love and then sleeping with each other well i guess that's what all the stareing at each other was for.  Maybe i'm old fashioned in my nineteen years of being on this earth but i can't seem to get past the fact that throughout the whole movie i was wondering how we got to the next scene. So my comment is as follows if you like beautifull landscapes then you'll like this movie but if you want something more then just a dry western, without alot of point to it don't get this movie.            "},{"Title":"Awful....... a complete waste","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" There is nothing pretty about a film that contains so many positives, which turn out to be complete waste of time. Matt Damon, Henry Thomas, Penelope Cruz and Lucas Black are the ingredients for a great film; however, there is a problem with this recipe; the script.I should have listened to my inner voice when it told me not to rent All The Pretty Horses because it was boring and pointless. There is no reason for any movie fan to be subjected to an awful film such as All The Pretty Horses, but I give them a lot of credit to sit through this pointless film and suffer so painfully.All The Pretty Horses was a stagnant, one dimensional film that went nowhere. I should have been aware to stay away from this film because it barely got a chance to promote itself. All The Pretty Horses took the cake as being the worst film of 2000. I had to ask myself how Matt Damon could go from success in films such as Saving Private Ryan, Good Will Hunting and The Rainmaker to failures such as All The Pretty Horses. He is one of the most talented actors in Hollywood, but nobody would know from his performance in All The Pretty Horses. Everybody deserves to have a bad movie once in a while, All The Pretty Horses was this movie for Matt Damon. I am huge fan of Matt Damon, but I didn't understand why he chose to make a movie with a stilted script. With the talent of Damon, Billy Bob Thornton, Penelope Cruz and Henry Thomas; I expected All The Pretty Horses to be competent in the presentation of the film. I spent most of the movie wandering why it was made and the purpose of the journey Damon and Thomas were taking.All The Pretty Horses has no charm and nearly put me to sleep with the uninteresting story it had and characters it introduced. I have never been a Billy Bob Thornton fan as an actor or director. His making of All The Pretty Horses has not persuaded me otherwise.I had to force myself to stay awake throughout the movie and keep watching to see if it would get better, but it didn't. I kept asking myself what the true point of this movie was since it was unclear. There is more chemistry between Damon and Thomas than there is between Damon and Cruz.It was a bad decision to cut the running length of the film by two hours because it took away from the explanation of the whole movie. All The Pretty Horses takes too long to get the point across. When it finally gets to the point it is too late and 10 minutes later the film is over.Neither the beautiful scenery nor all the pretty horses can save this film from disaster. All The Pretty Horses is just one entry I would put in my book of movies to stay away from under all circumstances. This film deserves to be in the same category of failures such as Battlefield Earth and The Cell. All The Pretty Horses was a complete waste of my time, their talent and creativity. "},{"Title":"Fake Mexico and fake Mexicans","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":" Despite the presence of many fine actors I found this film most unconvincing I like Penelope Cruz well enough but why oh why do they have to use a Spaniard instead of a real Mexican beauty? (They did the same thing in Spanglish which, by the way, has a trailer giving no indication whatsoever of the reason for the title).The plot was plain stupid and didn't make sense. Mexican aunts who live on a ranch would never wear so much make-up for one thing and girls don't use high heels except in big cities. The Hollywood typecasting was plain awful and whoever was in charge of wardrobe should visit the real Mexico some time and see how people really dress. "},{"Title":"Mish Mash Of Different Styles..","Date":"8 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I went in watching 'All The Pretty Horses' not knowing what to expect, and I finished watching it shrugging my shoulders and saying 'Meh' mostly, as this is a movie which totally doesn't know what it wants to be. Action movie? Romantic Drama? Prison Drama? I was confused for the most part, and I was surprised at the uneven direction and acting here. Matt Damon stars with Henry Thomas as two buddies who hightail it to Mexico for a better life among the horses. But then a sexy girl, and a stupid boy get in the way. During all of this, Both of them get thrown in jail for some odd reason which is not made totally clear, face the hard knock life there, and it just goes on and on. I was disappointed in the film, it just didn't know when to let up with it's half confusing story and characters.  "},{"Title":"Avoid at all costs","Date":"26 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  There is nothing pretty about a film that contains so many positives, which turn out to be complete wastes of time. Matt Damon, Henry Thomas, Penelope Cruz and Lucas Black are the ingredients for a great film; however, there is a problem with this recipe; it was made. I should have listened to my inner voice when it told me not to rent All The Pretty Horses because it was boring and pointless. There is no reason for any movie fan to be subjected to an awful film such as All The Pretty Horses, but I give them a lot of credit to sit through this pointless film and suffer so painfully.All The Pretty Horses was a stagnant, one dimensional that went nowhere fast. I should have been aware to stay away from this film because it barely got a chance to promote itself. All The Pretty Horses took the cake as being the worst film of 2000. I had to ask myself how Matt Damon could go from success in films such as Saving Private Ryan, Good Will Hunting and The Rainmaker to failures such as The Talented Mr. Ripley. He is one of the most talented actors in Hollywood, but nobody would know from his performance in All The Pretty Horses. Everybody deserves to have a bad movie once in a while, All The Pretty Horses was this movie for Matt Damon. I am huge fan of Matt Damon, but I didn't understand why he chose to make a movie with a stilted script. With the talent of Damon, Billy Bob Thornton, Penelope Cruz and Henry Thomas; I expected All The Pretty Horses to be competent in the presentation of the film. I spent most of the movie wandering why it was made and the purpose of the journey Damon and Thomas were taking. All The Pretty Horses has no charm and nearly put me to sleep with the uninteresting story it had and characters it introduced. I have never been a Billy Bob Thornton fan as an actor or director. His directorial effort of All The Pretty Horses has not changed my opinion. I had to force myself to stay awake throughout the movie and keep watching to see if it would get better, but it didn't. I kept asking myself what the true point of this movie was since it was unclear. There is more chemistry between Damon and Thomas than there is between Damon and Cruz. It was a mistake to classify this film as a romance because there is none.It was a bad decision to cut the running length of the film by two hours because it took away from the explanation of the whole movie. All The Pretty Horses takes too long to get the point across. When it finally gets to the point it is too late and 10 minutes later the film is over.Neither the beautiful scenery nor all the pretty horses can save this film from disaster. All The Pretty Horses is just one entry I would put in my book of movies to stay away from under all circumstances. I nominate this film to go in the category of failures alongside Battlefield Earth and The Cell.All The Pretty Horses was a complete waste of my time, their talent and creativity. I know this was only going to be an isolated incident because the cast is too talented to be associated with failures.  "}{"Title":"Nothing pretty about this film","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  There is nothing pretty about a film that contains so many positives, which turn out to be complete wastes of time. Matt Damon, Henry Thomas, Penelope Cruz and Lucas Black are the ingredients for a great film; however, there is a problem with this recipe; it was made. I should have listened to my inner voice when it told me not to rent All The Pretty Horses because it was boring and pointless. There is no reason for any movie fan to be subjected to an awful film such as All The Pretty Horses, but I give them a lot of credit to sit through this pointless film and suffer so painfully.All The Pretty Horses was a stagnant, one dimensional that went nowhere fast. I should have been aware to stay away from this film because it barely got a chance to promote itself. All The Pretty Horses took the cake as being the worst film of 2000. I had to ask myself how Matt Damon could go from success in films such as Saving Private Ryan, Good Will Hunting and The Rainmaker to failures such as The Talented Mr. Ripley. He is one of the most talented actors in Hollywood, but nobody would know from his performance in All The Pretty Horses. Everybody deserves to have a bad movie once in a while, All The Pretty Horses was this movie for Matt Damon. I am huge fan of Matt Damon, but I didn't understand why he chose to make a movie with a stilted script. With the talent of Damon, Billy Bob Thornton, Penelope Cruz and Henry Thomas; I expected All The Pretty Horses to be competent in the presentation of the film. I spent most of the movie wandering why it was made and the purpose of the journey Damon and Thomas were taking. All The Pretty Horses has no charm and nearly put me to sleep with the uninteresting story it had and characters it introduced. I have never been a Billy Bob Thornton fan as an actor or director. His directorial effort of All The Pretty Horses has not changed my opinion. I had to force myself to stay awake throughout the movie and keep watching to see if it would get better, but it didn't. I kept asking myself what the true point of this movie was since it was unclear. There is more chemistry between Damon and Thomas than there is between Damon and Cruz. It was a mistake to classify this film as a romance because there is none.It was a bad decision to cut the running length of the film by two hours because it took away from the explanation of the whole movie. All The Pretty Horses takes too long to get the point across. When it finally gets to the point it is too late and 10 minutes later the film is over.Neither the beautiful scenery nor all the pretty horses can save this film from disaster. All The Pretty Horses is just one entry I would put in my book of movies to stay away from under all circumstances. I nominate this film to go in the category of failures alongside Battlefield Earth and The Cell.All The Pretty Horses was a complete waste of my time, their talent and creativity. I know this was only going to be an isolated incident because the cast is too talented to be associated with failures. "},{"Title":"Was it a sleeper hit or just sleepy?","Date":"23 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  For the viewers of All the Pretty Horses that is the question. Billy Bob Thorton's film was excellently shot and looks well made. The length kills the movie. I was watching it with a group of people and some stopped caring about 45 minutes into it. There is nothing really that keep the viewer's attention throughout the movie. Matt Damon does a good job but when does he not? The length becomes almost unbearable for some and the ending does not reward the viewer for staying with this film. A great Sunday afternoon rental but not Friday night stuff unless you want to go to bed early. This film seems like it was made to be an Oscar wannabe with more emphasis on that angle than actually pleasing the crowd. "},{"Title":"Poor horseflesh, even poorer movie","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Most of this film hinges on the quality of the horseflesh in it, and sadly, no one on this film had the slightest clew what prime horseflesh looks like! Even a well brushed old nag would have been more believable than the creature they used. The actors were not very adept riders and Damon's accent was terrible! All of this blew the film's credibility at a profound level.I simply cannot recommend this clunker at all. "},{"Title":"Pacing problems","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  I agree with a recent comment that the pacing was wrong in this film.  It would have benefited from an epic length, more plot development, and less superficiality.  It is a beautiful film, but empty.  I did not care at all about the characters and their lives.  It seemed to have no point.  But, it doesn't seem like a waste of time to have watched it.  I found myself picking up reading material while it was on, going out of the room without stopping the film, etc. "},{"Title":"such an ordinary story","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"       Even after I finished watching the whole film, I still wasn't able to figure out why the main character and his buddy have to go to Mexico. And I am totally confused as when that happened, because they didn't encounter any policeperson or any border control personals when they crossed the border.     The story is just quite ordinary. a man met a woman, and fall in love, then she can't marry him, etc. I think that the best actress is the Aunt. She is very good, very authentic.  "},{"Title":"All the ugly boredom","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Henry Thomas, who captured audiences hearts back in 1982 with his performance as Elliot in E.T. The Extra-Terrestrial is the only person amid an all star cast who offers anything remotely of any value in this blatant rip off of various genres that loses focus of exactly where it's going quite a few times. When it comes to the lovely Penelope Cruz, I only see some of her films mainly because she's in them and the plot shouldn't really matter but when it comes to a film that was advertised to the extent that this one was, you can tell that she (as well as everybody else) deserved better for it all. Billy Bob Thornton's direction is uneven and Matt Damon is beyond miscast in the leading role! Leave this one in the stables. "},{"Title":"Nothing pretty about these horses","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  There is nothing pretty about a film that contains so many positives, which turn out to be complete wastes of time.  Matt Damon, Henry Thomas, Penelope Cruz and Lucas Black are the ingredients for a great film; however, there is a problem with this recipe, it was made. I knew I should have listened to my inner voice when it told to stay away from All The Pretty Horses because it would be the most boring film of the year; my inner voice was correct. There is no reason to for any movie fan to be subjected to an awful film, but I give them a lot of credit to sit through this pointless film and suffer so painfully.All The Pretty Horses was a stagnant, one dimensional that went nowhere fast. I should have been aware to stay away from this film because it barely got a chance to promote itself. This took the cake as being one of the worst films in the past year including The Cell. I had to ask myself how Matt Damon could go from success in films such as Saving Private Ryan, Good Will Hunting and The Rainmaker to failures such as The Talented Mr. Ripley so quickly with two films back to back. I still think he is talented but the bottom line is Matt Damon ended the year on the sour note. He could not match the success of The Legend Of Bagger Vance with All The Pretty Horses when it opened.Everybody deserves to have a bad movie once in a while, I just hope this is the only one Matt has for awhile. I am huge fan of Matt Damon, but I didn't understand why he chose to make a movie with a stilted script. With the talent of Damon, Billy Bob Thornton, Penelope Cruz and Henry Thomas; I expected All The Pretty Horses to be competent in the presentation of the film. I spent most of the movie wandering why it was made and the purpose of the journey Damon and Thomas were taking. All The Pretty Horses has no charm and nearly put me to sleep with the uninteresting story it had and characters it introduced.I have never been a Billy Bob Thornton fan as an actor or director. His directorial effort of All The Pretty Horses has not changed my opinion. I had to force myself to stay awake throughout the movie and keep watching to see if it would get better, but it didn't. I kept asking myself what the true point of this movie was since it was unclear. There is more chemistry between Damon and Thomas than there is between Damon and Cruz. It was a mistake to classify this film as a romance because there is none.It was a bad decision to cut the running length of the film by two hours because it took away from the explanation of the whole movie. All The Pretty Horses takes too long to get the point across. When it finally gets to the point it is too late and 10 minutes later the film is over.Neither the beautiful scenery nor all the pretty horses can save this film from disaster. All The Pretty Horses is just one entry I would put in my book of movies to stay away from under all circumstances. I nominate this film to go in the category of failures alongside Battlefield Earth and The Cell.All The Pretty Horses was a complete waste of everybody's time, talent and creativity. I know this is only going to be an isolated incident because the cast is too talented to be associated with failures.  "},{"Title":"Boring two hours","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  All I could think through this was who cares? or so what?. I had no sympathy for the characters - they caused their own trouble -and even if they did not there was not much to make me care about what was happening.  Not worth the effort to watch. "},{"Title":"all the dead horses","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  apparently the movie was 4 hours long and had been drastically cut down, this explains why the movie in its released state is meandering and meaningless. this is one of the most boring clueless movies ive ever seen. the plot doesnt seem to go anywhere. no doubt many artful movies are slow, but a slow movie alone does not make it artful.penelope cruz is just horrible and has to be one of the worst actresses to have ever made it this big. no wonder then that every movie she stars in bombs big time.the redeeming features in this otherwise boring movie are the excellent sweeping photography & marty stuart's jangly guitar. i hear that the book is quite good, but after the disasterous experience with the movie, i think ill stay away. thank you very much.a miserable 1! "},{"Title":"All the pretty little camera moves-","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  -can't save this dull and plodding mess. This is another instance of an actor directing and no one saying 'PLEASE CUT OUT THE BORING STUFF'. This was long and felt like one big weepy hallmark card that you can't send back. The plot is from the book, but all the smoldering looks are from a serious lack of reality. If they had cast this movie with unknown actors and let Clint Eastwood direct it it might have been interesting, because we wouldn't know everything that was going to happen 10 minutes before it actually happened. But they didn't, so we're stuck with this movie that is supposed to be heartbreaking and romantic. Thank God for Penelope Cruz, she is someone to watch, and sometimes it felt like she was a real person too.          "}{"Title":"Worst movie ever!","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  Just to be on the safe side, this MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS!I have to say that was the worst movie I have ever seen in my life!  I agree that the movie was beautifully shot.  Apparently, it was also pretty well acted.  I rarely pay attention to either of those aspects when I watch a movie.  What I did notice (and it's hard not to) was that the story itself is pointless and frustrating.  John Grady Cole seemed to be more infatuated with the horses than he was with Alejandra.  Because of this, the love story didn't work.  As far as a coming of age story, which was all that was left to the movie, that didn't work either.  He didn't alter his life in any way, and he didn't have some obstacle that all young men have to overcome as we usually see in a coming of age story.  It was more like a facing middle-age story.  He fell in love with a girl and then went to more trouble for a horse than he did to keep Alejandra.  When he came back to Texas, what did he have?  The same horse he left with and no girl.  Once the credits started rolling I couldn't believe that I had been suckered like that.  I decided to add up all of the losses throughout the story, here's what I came up with 1 boy is executed, at least 2 men are killed in self defense(?), 1 steamy romance is squashed (even though it was neither steamy, nor a romance), Lacey is stabbed, John is shot, an apparent criminal is busted out of jail to join a group of bandits, and we are left with our own ideas about this backwards country called Mexico.  All of this could have been avoided if John never left Texas for Mexico.  Ah, Mexico - the place where boys are robbed and executed and there is no such thing as justice.  Be warned - aunt's rule with an iron fist south of the border, and they don't look too kindly on young people in love.  I have to think that everyone involved - including the viewer - would have been better off if John stayed home.This movie was even worse than Saving Silverman! "},{"Title":"JUST AWFUL","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  This is just awful. It's dull. It drags. Damon is awful. Cruz is non-existent. Thornton has always been overrated, and this piece of tosh proves it.Catch The Hi-Lo Country. Same story, Cruz is even there but it's beautiful and poetic.  "},{"Title":"The film had no point.","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Western","Review":"  One of ten worst films I have ever seen. The film was full of profanity. It had little to do with horses which the title led you to believe would be the story line.  It was slow moving.  Made you not want to go to Mexico.  Lets just rename it Dumb & mean.  "}]