[{"Title":"Glad to be HERE","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"29 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Anywhere But HereThe mother-daughter genre of film is one that is usually laced with caustic wit (POSTCARDS FROM THE EDGE) or draining melodrama (TERMS OF ENDEARMENT). ANYWHERE BUT HERE is the latest entry into this undernourished genre. Falling somewhere in between the two examples above, ANYWHERE is a passable, but strangely distant film. One that for every unsuitable move it makes, it has Natalie Portman and Susan Sarandon to make the wrongs seem so very right.Abruptly leaving her husband and family behind in Wisconsin, Adele August (Sarandon) takes her teenage daughter Ann (Portman) across the country to live the good and free life in Los Angeles. Having freshly minted a tumultuous relationship with this sudden move, the two find themselves in the strange position of having to rely on themselves and each other in the big bad city. Adele is flighty, irresponsible, and refuses to settle into her role as the parent. Ann is lonesome, homesick, and not sure about the love she has within for her mother. Over the years we watch as struggle after struggle continually opposes the family, with each battle reinforcing the love the two share. Told from Ann's perspective, ANYWHERE is essentially a film about trying to understand the people related to us. The bonds we share with our parents, and how those bonds always seem to work against us.Based on a novel by Mona Simpson and a screenplay by crisis legend Alvin Sargent (ORDINARY PEOPLE), ANYWHERE is the kind of tragic-comic filmmaking that I usually crave. Unfortunately, ANYWHERE is far from touching. Directed by Wayne Wang, the film isn't nearly as resonate as Wang's earlier multigenerational epic THE JOY LUCK CLUB. Watching Adele and Ann struggle with their growing relationship is more tiring than emotionally satisfying. The flow of the drama fluctuates so much, by the end you're just glad the filmmakers didn't throw in one last argument for good measure. At 120 minutes, ANYWHERE is about six crisis over the limit. It's the acting in ANYWHERE that takes the film to another level. We all know Susan Sarandon can spin gold with her acting, yet each new film she's been involved with recently (save the September vanity project ILLUMINATA) has shown more and more how commanding an actress she truly is. In ANYWHERE, only Sarandon could give Adele the most annoying characteristics yet ground the performance in love and warmth. Adele really does care for her daughter, she just desperately wants to maintain her own identity for once in her life. Bursting out onto the screen like some kind of Southern California Pokemon, her performance is grand and inviting. But where does that leave Natalie Portman? After shimmying up into films with should-be-legend performances in THE PROFESSIONAL and the locally shot BEAUTIFUL GIRLS, Portman is like no other teenage actress working today. It's a testament to her sensibilities that we haven't seen her in the latest SCREAM variation or this next wave of AMERICAN PIE type comedies. Portman carries ANYWHERE with grace and dignity. Director Wang should be given the Oscar alone for his choice to just linger on Portman's face for extended times. As expressive as her acting can be, Portman can live a million lives in one glance. With Sarandon, the two create a complex and agreeable mother-daughter relationship for their characters. They share overwhelming chemistry and I hope this won't be the last time the two decide to work together.Shot with a sparkling color palette by Roger Deakins, Wang captures both the frail beauty of Los Angeles and it's hard realities. I also give Wang credit for properly using dim-bulb actor Shawn Hatosy(OUTSIDE PROVIDENCE). In a small role as Ann's beloved cousin, Hatosy finally shows some talent and charisma. Unfortunately, the film is scored on autopilot by the self-looting Danny Elfman and features the second most aggressive soundtrack push of the year. The songs rarely fit in with the drama and scream Buy me on sale at Sam Goody! too blatantly. Just like the characters in the film, it's hard to hate ANYWHERE BUT HERE as much as it is hard to love. Had Wang left open the emotion door a little more the film might have made a lasting impact. Too many scenes do not pay off the way they should and not enough texture is given to the characters. I would recommend ANYWHERE BUT HERE, only for the opportunity to bask in the glow of two actresses on the top of their game. -----7/10  "},{"Title":"Excellent performance by two stellar actresses","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Anywhere But Here is the story of a mother who is a bit flighty and adventurous, and her daughter who is more down to earth and practical.First off, I'd like to say that Natalie Portman gets better and better every movie I see her in.  She is an enormous talent, and continues to get better as the years go on.  She really held her own and managed to shine brightly, even against a talent as large as Susan Sarandon.Ms. Sarandon is still no slouch either.  She portrays Adelle August, a mother who desires more for her daughter than small town life in Wisconsin.  She suddenly packs up one day and leaves it all behind, dragging her unwilling daughter (Ann) with her to Beverly Hills.  She plays this role with a pure passion, making you believe that she is indeed, in spite of all her flaws and errors in judgement (the electric is repeatedly turned off due to forgotten bills) that she really is trying the best she can for her daughter.Natalie Portman, as I stated earlier, is phenomenal.  Her character of Ann is believable, even though we first meet her at 14 (Ms. Portman is 17) She plays the uprooted, resentful, but loving and loyal child to the fullest extent, without ever feeling forced.While there is a good supporting cast, they are overshadowed by the presence of Susan and Natalie, and while they are all good, well crafted characters, the focus is clearly on the two stars. Notice a role put in by Ashley Johnson, as Ann's friend in California.  Those of you who remember the show Growing Pains will remember her as the youngest Seaver child before that show was (mercifully) cancelled.  If I have to have one complaint about this movie, it's that it was a bit too long.  At 113 minutes, it tends to drag a bit and has a couple scenes that are either overlong or could have been edited out.  But those really are few and far between.Anywhere But Here is a very strong, believable look at mothers and daughters, as well as the complexity of all family relationships.  It is a skillful and subtile tearjerker (as evidenced by my friend and an entire theater full of teen girls and adult women crying during two pivital scenes).  It avoids the trap of coming off heavy handed.  To loosly quote the old saying, you will laugh, you will cry.  Often in the same scene.4 out of 5 "},{"Title":"A difficult, but great, film.","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wayne Wang's direction may be the ingredient which made this film much more impressive to me than Slums of Beverly Hills, which covers remarkably similar ground. The interplay between Susan Sarandon and Natalie Portman is riveting. Real chemistry there. This film succeeded in bringing me inside the dysfunctional life of these two women without dragging me down into depressed frustration. Susan Sarandon's character hammers at all the nerves which a narcissistic parent is capable of touching in an insecure adolescent. She amazingly manages to do this without coming across as floridly insane or intentionally sadistic. And, Natalie Portman deflects each attack on her character's ego with the resigned grace of an intelligent codependent child, untainted by the smug cynicism of the Natasha Lyonne character in Slums of Beverly Hills. Portman's character is an adolescent with dignity under stress, an unusual creature in modern films. The film reaches a very satisfying resolution without trying too hard. I highly recommend this film to the viewer who wants to be challenged and entertained.      "},{"Title":"Susan and Natalie A Great Team","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie wasn't anything extraordinarily special. Although it was something to warm people's hearts.The story starts off with Susan Sarandon (Adele August), the kooky mom, and Natalie Portman (Ann August) getting away from their old life in their old town in Boringsville, USA. When you see the expression on Natalie's face when the camera just goes on her, you know that for the rest of the movie you will not be disappointed at any time with her performance. You can see everything in her eyes. As for Susan, she's amazing as well, with so much experience inside herself, she embodies wisdom, and never forgets to have fun with her character. Anyway, they're driving off to start a new life. That's from when they start the story. It's a story of ups and downs between a smart girl and her... well, mom that is a bit... crazy. Mothers and daughters everywhere should see this movie together. I think the best thing in this picture is the acting, but when you walk out of that theatre after the movie, you will get that Sunday afternoon good feel of cinematic warmness. "},{"Title":"Good movie takes you on journey of discovery for a mother and daughter...","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film was a new direction for Natalie Portman.  A much more adult role, though she comes to it from the traces of a child in the movie itself.  Ann,(Portman) and Susan Sarandon, who plays her newly divorced mother, Adele, travel from a small town in the middle of nowhere to Beverly Hills.  There these tortured souls try to come to terms with their new life and their new relationship as Portman's character grows up.  Unknowingly at first to Adele, she grows up and becomes a better mother for it.Ann sees her mother telling her she wants to be an actress, or so she thinks.  Adele uses that crutch every time there are problems in their lives.  We see their struggle as mother and daughter come to terms between themselves and with being alone, having left their old lives behind.The acting is top notch from both of them.  They seemingly become mother and daughter before your eyes.  You can almost feel there is a bond there beyond the actual movie.Though this movie really doesn't take us to any new ground in these types of films, the fact that the acting is well done, and the story isn't too flawed, let's me recommend it.I will say however, it will probably go away soon, I don't believe it can have the staying power needed for a huge Christmas season of movies starting in a week or so.  See it now before this happens if you like either of these actresses.    "},{"Title":"Brilliant performances by Sarandon and Portman","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" (Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon.)The mother-daughter bond, especially with an only child, is one of the strongest human bonds there is. Some say it's stronger than husband and wife. It tends to be intense and it almost always develops into a situation where neither side has the clear upper hand because both are vulnerable.And they fight. Tooth and nail. And they love each other intensely. For the mother it is scary because everything is in the daughter and for the daughter, especially when the mother is divorced or single, as is the case here. For the daughter it can be a nightmare because the mother is the adult and has the power and is a total embarrassment. This is especially true when the mother is delusional or dysfunctional as is Adele August (Susan Sarandon).The story from Mona Simpson's novel is familiar in plot and theme although the details here are unique and especially well done. Adele's judgment is more than suspect and she's careless with other people's feelings, and she's shallow and dresses funny. And she isn't completely aware of, nor has she sufficient respect for the needs and wants of her daughter, Ann (Natalie Portman). She, the mother, wants to leave behind the small town, Midwestern existence and embrace Hollywood and all things glamorous. Ann would rather stay in Bay City, Wisconsin with her friends and family. Mom buys a Mercedes and forces Ann to go with her to make a new life in Beverly Hills.I thought Wayne Wang's direction was excellent. He used visual clues to introduce the scenes shots of an still apartment, shots of part of a person, shots of the beach or the highway, etc., and then a focus on--almost always--Sarandon or Portman. And then at sometime, the camera backs away and we see the larger scene the desert sand and scrub, the ocean and the sunrise, the other diners at the restaurant, the mourners at the funeral, the crossway over the freeway, and so on. The scene in which Adele is hiding under the covers from heartbreak, and Ann pulls them off, is shot from above because such an angle so beautifully reveals Adele's limbs pulled in close to her body as though in catatonia or in a return to the safety of the womb. Sometimes the sounds precede the shot as when Adele is in Bay City trying desperately to get in touch with the dentist in California who doesn't want her, and we hear her desperation before we see it in her face.I also liked the way the film was cut. As soon as the point of the scene was made, we moved on to another scene, which is again introduced visually with just the right kind of lighting, giving us a moment or two to imagine what transpired in-between. However the real strength of the film is in the brilliant work by Sarandon and Portman.Sarandon is deliberately annoying, flighty, self-delusive, and deeply vulnerable while Portman is powerful, sensitive, and one step ahead of us. Indeed Natalie Portman is one of the most gifted young talents in all of cinema. She absolutely commands the camera, and, as it stays on her face, she reveals to us a full set of emotions and responses, layered like things very deep. If she wants to she can become one of the great stars of the screen. She has the talent. I understand however that she is pursuing a career as a doctor. Whatever she does, one has the sense that she will do it very well.A couple of irreverent questions for director Wayne WangHow did Ann's audition go? Did her projection of her mother's personality win her the part?And, what is it that the man does in bed only with a woman he feels special about? Inquiring minds want to know (rather than make stupid guesses).Anywhere But Here can be compared with some other dysfunctional mom and wise-beyond-her-years daughter films, for example, Mermaids (1990) with Cher and Winona Ryder, Postcards from the Edge (1990) with Shirley MacLaine and Meryl Streep, Mommie Dearest (1981) with Fay Dunaway and Diana Scarwid, Terms of Endearment (1983) with Shirley MacLaine and Debra Winger, and some others I have forgotten.For the record I would rate these in this orderTerms of Endearment, Postcards from the Edge, Anywhere But Here, Mermaids, Mommie DearestHere at IMDb they are rated in the same order but with Anywhere But Here at the bottom. Too bad, but that allows me to say that this is very much an underrated film.See it for both Susan Sarandon, who is as good or even better than she ever was--and that is very good indeed--and for Natalie Portman, who is stunning, and as an actress, mature beyond her years. "},{"Title":"Sarandon again exhibits her talent to touch your heart even when see is playing someone you don't like.","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Natile Portman and Susan Sarandon play off of each other like a symphony in this coming of age story about a young girl, who is sentenced to life as the daughter of one of the nuttest women you will ever encounter. Sarandon has this ability, call it talent if you will, to play some of the most off-beat characters and bring their humanity to forefront of any film she makes.  As the mother of this obviously brilliant and muture beyond her years young girl, Sarandon alternates between being the mom and being the child with the ease of a ballet dancer.  More importantly she does it with strength and flare without stomping all over Portman's portrayal of the daughter.   The question is always asked when we deconstruct the film plot, who changes?  This film is certainly about the daughter, but if you look close at the dreams and sacrifices that Mom makes you come to understand that she changes in step with her daughter.  I am willing to bet this makes all of us in the audience change also.  The hallmark of fine drama "},{"Title":"Anywhere and Everywhere","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I picked this movie up because I was curious to see Natalie Portman in something that was pre Star Wars. I liked this movie. Natalie and Susan were wonderful as mother and daughter. Susan Sarandon is such an outstanding actor. Better and better with every movie she does.  "},{"Title":"A family coming to age","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Being a freshman in college, this movie reminded me of my relationship with my mom.  Of course, my situation doesn't parrallel with Natalie Portman and Surandon's situation; but my mom and I have grown up with the typical mother and daughter fights.  There is always the mother telling you what to do, or not being the kind of mother you want to be.  I was balling my eyes at the end of this movie.  Surandon's reaction of her daughter going to the East coast, miles away, after all they've been through reminded me of how I felt, being from a small city in the West coast, going to New York. The movie is meant for women who have children that are now all grown up.  It is very touching, I was moved by the movie.  Every feeling out of the characters in this movie was utterly real, you didn't get any phony sentimentality.  I was sitting through the credits at the screening of this movie, alone, wishing my mother was sitting next to me so I could hug her and thank her for everything.  This movie is a bit corny of course, but everything is trully momentous.  Its all about what a mom can learn from her child; and what a child learns from her mother.       8/10  "},{"Title":"fine pairing; discreet directing","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Susan Sarandon has amply shown that she is capable of turning her hand to most kinds of rôles and is especially adept at teaming up with youngsters. This is no less so in this film with the prodigious Natalie Portman the two keep the film interesting when almost everything else is a rather blasé prêt-a-porté production, mostly due to Wayne Wang's rather uninspired directing, as well as a music score that has very little to do with the proceedings and did nothing to fill in any stop-gaps.The film is saved precisely by the Sarandon-Portman tandem providing an energetic display of a mother, divorced, skidding along frenetically almost hysterically, and her adolescent daughter trying to keep her young head on her shoulders and pointing in the right direction. The result is an interesting clash of personalities, veering from the dramatic to the humorous in a style which is not far from being a `road-movie'. Indeed, frequently, reminiscences of `Thelma and Louis' come to mind as the film unfurls, though `Anywhere but Here' is several rungs lower down on the ladder. Even so, my vote is slightly higher than the IMDb average. Hopefully we shall be able to enjoy a true drama with these two ladies in the future, but with a more exiguous director &#150; Stephen Daldry, perhaps?  "}{"Title":"Anywhere But Here (Natalie Portman & Susan Sarandon)","Date":"1 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Anywhere But Here is so good, solely propelled with powered performances by A-listers Susan Sarandon and Natalie Portman. I really like this movie, it's really nice. Susan and Natalie are 2 of film's all-time greatest actresses, especially Portman who's like top 5 pure actress, easily top 10 of all-time. Sarandon is nearly as strong. But more so than their talented acting skills these 2 together possess even brighter starpowers. It's very gratifying seeing Sarandon with Portman coupling for one of the better dual-performance driven movies. Susan Sarandon is in her 50s, and from head to toe she looks hotter than ever, I mean that. Natalie's pretty too, ughhhhh. Anywhere But Here is a smart, well-made coming to age story filled with touchy, affectionate drama. Mother and daughter Adele and Ann August are the primary focus for the duration of this pleasant and authentic feeling film. The mother Adele is overambitious and overbearing, and too lost in her own world. The daughter Ann is astute and searching for affection from Adele but feeling rejection from her mother. Ann and Adele are experiencing varying outlooks towards life. I love this movie. I love both actresses. This is a 7, but one of the best 7s. It has the makeup and presence of an 8, but barely blunders without having enough eventful occurrences, no impacting unfolding story lines. It's really a homely movie. Anywhere But Here is really good, I love it, did I say that already? "},{"Title":"Excellent coming of age Mother - Daughter  Story","Date":"27 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Anywhere But Here is every inch an classic coming of age story from the female perspective. Sarandon and Portman are astounding in their perspective roles. They work beautifully together playing characters that are not easy to like yet very believable and people you care about. I am a daughter and now a mother of a grown up daughter and I loved this film in a way only someone who has been there on both fronts can appreciate, their heartfelt performances. It had a strong script, direction and acting&#x85;I know Portman was nominated for a golden globe award. A very perceptive Beverly Hills cop who gives the best advice any parent could ever have Watch the signs. You've got to be right here &#x97; not anywhere but here &#x97; in the present moment to see what is going on with those you love. In conclusion Sarandon and Portman hit all the right notes in their stormy but loving relationship. "},{"Title":"Truly wonderful!","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well, I have not much to say about this film except that it was a truly wonderful film. Natalie Portman is absolutely fantastic as the daughter in this lovely mother-daughter relationship film. Beautiful film. "},{"Title":"A great movie with good acting and a great look into relationships.","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The interaction between Portman and Sarandon was quite interesting, and I was really sold on the mother-daughter relationship.  It is a family story that isn't dulled down by frills and special effects; a story of how it really is.  I couldn't help but give of a sigh at the end of this movie for alas it is a well told bittersweet tale of growing up and relating with family and friends.  The acting was quite exquisite and I hope we'll be seeing both Portman and Sarandon in familiar roles down the road... "},{"Title":"Less Than the Sum of Its Parts","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My one-line summary hints that this is not a good film, but this is not true.  I did enjoy the movie, but was probably expecting too much.Adele, who is solidly portrayed by Susan Sarandon, did not come off as a very likable character.  She is flighty and irresponsible to what would be an unforgivable degree were it not for the tremendous love she has for her daughter.  This is the one thing she knows how to do without fail. Adele's daughter, Anna, is a sad girl who is so busy making up for her mother's shortcomings that she does not seem to be only 14-17 years old. This, of course, makes Natalie Portman the perfect choice to play Anna since she never seems to be 14- 17 years old either.  Portman pulls this role off with such ease that you almost forget that she has not been making movies for 20 years. Yet, even with the two solid leads, Wayne Wang never seems to quite draw the audience in as he did with The Joy Luck Luck and even more so with Smoke. Though I have not read the book, the film feels as if it has made necessary changes to the story to bring it to the big screen, changes which may drain the emotional pungency of the story. I enjoyed the film for the fun of watching two wonderful actresses do their work, but I never got lost in the experience and I never related to their plight.    "},{"Title":"What a fantastic move!","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was able to see Anywhere But Here last night as a free sneak preview. I absolutely LOVED the film! I was drawn to it because of the realistic portrayal of a mother/daughter relationship...there was definitely a connection between Adele a and Ann. I think that speaks volumes of the outstanding performances of both Susan Sarandon and Natalie Portman. Sarandon was just the right actress to portray Adele and after leaving the theater I could not think of another actress in the role. Portman was also excellent as Ann. She brought a sense of maturity and intelligence to the role that I don't think any other teenage actress could. I think it would the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences should give credit where it is due and nominate both Sarandon and Portman for Awards in the Actress and Supporting Actress categories. It would be a shame if they were overlooked.  "},{"Title":"Anywhere But Here...Daughter Knows Best ***","Date":"27 January 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ideal part for Susan Sarandon here. She is basically a free spirit. She has had 2 unsuccessful marriages. She flees with her unhappy daughter, Natalie Portman, to the L.A. scene. She secures a teaching job there, but with her problems and social hangups, teaching is not exactly for her and her resignation soon occurs.This is a film dealing with a mother-daughter relationship gone completely awry. There is family tragedy and the two women desperately struggle to cope with life, each one wanting independence.The telephone scene with her father is so memorable. That's what happens after years of separation and another family.The ending is an attempt for the two women to get the independence they have both sought. "},{"Title":"Painfully Familiar","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  From the moment the trailer for Anywhere But Here flashed across my television set, I knew that I had to see this film. It was one of those irrepressible urges that leads you to brave the wildest roller coaster at the amusement park or kiss your best friend on a whim. So I doled out my hard-earned $8 and prayed that I wouldn't be disappointed. On the contrary, Anywhere But Here shattered the boundaries of my expectations and left me wanting more. Natalie Portman is a phenomenal actress. When she stood in front of the Beverly Hills Diner with tears welling up in her eyes and nearly evoked tears from my eyes without saying a single word,  I knew that I was in the presence of greatness. One stony look at her love interest spoke volumes. The vision of Ann gazing out the window while the blinds cast alternating shadows and light onto her face was sheer brilliance on the part of director Wayne Wang. Yet what makes Ann such a heartbreaking character is that she resembles everyone. We have all felt the tremors and unexpected tragedies of growing up. Ann has an especially difficult life with her outrageous mother Adele August (Susan Sarandon). Yet she handles all of her problems with phenomenal self-control and patience. It is almost ironic that Adele's daughter Ann is the first to notice that her mother engaged in a one night stand and the man didn't want to hear from her anymore.	We watch Ann progress from slouching teenager in baseball cap and baggy jeans to a self-assured, beautiful young woman. She undergoes the change that all of us must undertake to reach adulthood, and emerges relatively unscathed. (ha) Even Adele undergoes a change. At the beginning of the film, Susan Sarandon runs around in leggings and off the shoulder sweaters, telling fictionalized life accounts to strangers. We get the impression that she is merely a fun-loving, psycho mom who enjoys lugging her daughter from state to state. But through Wayne Wang's careful care with the film, we see that what is in her heart is a different story. She may be an outrageous mother, but she is a loving woman nonetheless. It is clear that Ann is the number one priority in her life. 	Wayne Wang has painstakingly created a film that captures those moments that cannot be described. They are written in Natalie Portman's eyes as she watches for her mother out the window, or Susan Sarandon's 2nd  run-in with (spoiler!)  the kind policeman. They are etched in the fabric of our memory. I sincerely hope that everyone will go and watch this film, because it is PHENOMENAL. "},{"Title":"Brilliant movie","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Anywhere But here is a great movie.It has comedy and drama and stars two amazing actresses (Susan Sarandon and Natalie Portman). I wasn't too sure about this movie when  i saw it at the video store as i had never heard of it before, but i liked natalie portman's movies so i thought it should be worth seeing and I'm very happy i saw it.It's definitely worth seeing, i give it a 9/10. "},{"Title":"It's alright","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is powerful in the sense that it successfully employs the mother-daughter relationship in a not so stereotypical situation. However I wouldn't recommend it as a let's rush to see it at the movies movie, it's more a video movie. Susan Sarandon is brilliant as Adele August as she adds all the characteristics of a mother who wants to pursue her dreams and protect her daughter at the same time. Natalie Portman does a great job as Ann August showing the maturity her character possess, however I think there were too many tears on her part as in practically every scene that was shown she's be crying !! But I thought it was a fine movie "}{"Title":"Two great actresses but story doesn't move","Date":"8 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Adele August (Susan Sarandon) is the flighty mother to exasperated 14 year old Ann (Natalie Portman). Ann actually like her stepfather Ted but Adele leaves her boring husband in Wisconsin for the bright sunshine of Beverly Hills. Adele gets a job at a rundown school and spends their money frivolously. Ann can't wait to leave her mother. There's also a cop who has two pivotal scenes where he comes in with just the right advice.Sarandon is playing a manic mother character. Portman is lovely and a frustrated teenager. These are good building blocks for some family drama. However the movie doesn't really build anything compelling with these amazing pieces. The plot, it there is one, is a random series of aimless snippets. Their story goes nowhere for a long stretches of this movie. It's the same situation over and over again. Nevertheless, there are those two beautiful building blocks at the end of the day. It probably needs a third and some dramatic construction. "},{"Title":"Amazing Ms Sarandon","Date":"7 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If it wasn't apparent before it should be clear now Susan Sarandon as an actress is Meryl Streep's equal. She is a commanding actress in an inimitable way. Through the medium of the movies, audience get to part take in what makes Meryl Streep, what empowers Tom Hanks, what captivates a Susan Sarandon. For the older generation, that would be a Jimmy Stewart, a Burt Lancaster, a Katherine Hepburn. This sets apart legends from merely good actors. As good as she is, whether Natalie Portman would reach this plateau is anyone's guess. But for now lets just celebrate the lady who is already there - the inimitable Susan Sarandon ! "},{"Title":"A family experience.","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Most families will recognise similarities between their own family and that created through brilliant acting by Natalie Portman and Susan Sarandon. Natalie creates an on screen image that justifies her as one of the best actresses in America and one worthy of a Golden Globe Nomination. The control of her emotions are so in tact that at any point in the movie she can tap into them and release an unforgettable scene. Susan is also amazing in this movie as yet again she chose a role that is so different to any other and carries it through with true professionalism.Any Natalie fan would've seen the film based on her past successes, but you should also see it for the emotions that are released during the film. It is a truly humbling experience.  "},{"Title":"Best movie in 2000.","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Its the best movie I have seen in 2000, it has the beautiful and talented Natalie Portman in it. It has a great storyline, cast and soundtrack. I enjoyed it very much. 10 out of 10   "},{"Title":"Outstanding Flick!!","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Being 15 myself I enjoyed this flick thouroughly!! I related to the character Ann August more than most would. My Mother isnt AS eccentric as Adele, but the feelings of lonliness is the same. This movie is perfect in the ating aspects, and Natalie's, and Susan's performances are so linked together that it's the best onscreen dual i have seen in years. Their chemistry brings the characters to life, they become real people! I would recommend this flick to anyone who is hoping to get away. Because there is genually alot of people out there who would wish to be Anywhere But Here including me! and if you can, see this movie with your best friend or your mother. Its the tears that blend everyone around you together more!! "},{"Title":"Best drama I've ever seen","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Adam Sandler's movies are my favorite comedies. The Silence of the Lambs is my favorite horror movie. The Matrix is my favorite sci-fi movie. Anywhere But Here is my favorite drama.Perhaps the single most valuable asset that this movie has is it's acting.Susan Sarandon is absolutely amazing. By the end of this movie I felt as if I knew her character better than I knew myself. She did a simply amazing job.Natalie Portman also did a great job. I recently rented her first movie, Leon (1994), in which she played a 12 year old girl. I believe that she is a contradiction in terms; she was a good kid actress. Well, 5 years later she is still just as good an actress. In fact, she's much better.Not only did Sarandon and Portman portray their characters well, but they also worked perfectly together. I mean, even now I can hardly believe that they are not actually mother and daughter in real life as well as in this movie.This movie is about a 14 year old girl (Portman) and her restless mother (Sarandon) that leave their home town in Wisconsin for Beverly Hills.At first Portman hates her mother for taking her away from her cousin and friends, and the two begin a very tumultuous relationship that goes up and down over the course of a couple years (usually down, might I add).Although this explanation is a little vague, the plot can only be summarized vaguely. But when you see this movie you will see that the plot really is not so vague or weak, for it is actually very deep. What I am saying is that the plot is outlined weakly, but then they focus in on it to make it strong.And it is very strong, but also the plot sequencing is great. And there are a few brilliant scenes that I hope will someday be seen as classic.I loved this movie. I laughed. I cried. And although, admittedly, there are a few loopholes, it's still a stellar movie and it really comes together in the end. "},{"Title":"Natalie Portman is the cutest!","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm sorry, but Star Wars Episode 1 did not do any justice to Natalie Portman's talent (and undeniable cuteness).  She was entirely underused as Queen Amidala, and when she was used, her makeup was frighteningly terrible. For Anywhere But Here, she sheds her god-awful makeup and she acts normally.  And not only can she act good, she looks good doing it.  I'm a bit older than she (she's only 18), and I have little or no chance of meeting her, but hey, a guy is allowed to dream, right?Even though Susan Sarandon does take a good turn in this movie, the film belongs entirely to Portman.  I've been a watcher of Portman's since Beautiful Girls (where she was younger, but just as cute).  There's big things for her in the future - I can see it. "},{"Title":"Greatest Natalie Portman Movie I've ever seen","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just came back from seeing this awesome movie!! I can relate to it so much...It reminded me when my sister had to go to college, we had to move from place to place, and my mom acts like Adele August! Boys might not like this movie since it brings tears to your eyes. One of the best real-life movies I've ever seen!! and Natalie Portman rules!! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Great feel-good movie/Great Actors","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just saw this movie tonight.  Coming into it I thought it would be good because I like Natalie Portman alot and Susan Sarandon is a great actor too, but it was way better than I could have imagined.  You come out of the movie feeling great.  The acting was excellent, which is something that can be hard to come by lately.  Natalie Portman is destined for great things and me being a college student at NYU, think that it is great that she is going to school instead of just being an actor.  Anyways, back on subject, the movie keeps you interested the entire way through and I definitely think that everyone should go see it.  I would give more details, but I don't want to give away the movie. "},{"Title":"What went wrong","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Id have to agree with a previous user comments.Too many scenes dont pay off at the end and youd thnk there would be some change in the two characters for them to connect emotionally  at the end but they just bicker the whole movie and they dont really evolve enough to come to some kind of consensus. Maybe a lot of scenes were cut? What happened to the Hunk at the Beach that Sarandons character was dating.In the commercials she pours water over his head.Not in the actual film.Nothing really happens with the relationship between the girl and young boy either. It goes nowhere. I left wanting more. "}{"Title":"Amazingly wonderful movie!","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I absolutely LOVED this movie! Since I don't want to give much away, it's basically about about a mother and a daughter and the life they have together. It's very heartwarming story, between the struggles they have. I also think Natalie and Susan have perfect chemistry throughout the entire film! This is definitely worth seeing! Two thumbs up, way up! "},{"Title":"Awesome movie!","Date":"20 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is about a mother, Adele (Susan Sarandon)and a daughter , Ann (Natalie Portman)who move to Beverly Hills because Adele wants to feel important and she wants Ann to change her name to Heather and become an actress.Natalie Portman was excellent as usual! I loved the story!I was crying at the part where Benny dies. I own this movie and I love it. There wasn't a single thing I didn't like that is why I gave it a 10 out of 10. Susan Sarandon was also incredible! Sarandon and Portman are actually like a real mother and a real daughter.I think it would be hard to pretend that another actress was my mother/daughter.I love the scenes in the car especially the one where they are driving to relax and they go inside a house (and Adele lies the whole time!)So yeah!! "},{"Title":"Natalie Forlorn","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I happened upon this film,  I couldn't help but compare Natalie Portman's character here with her character in Heat.  Both are struggling with the vagaries of life.  The fathers for both are jerks.  The mothers pose challenges from the opposite ends of the spectrum.  In Heat, Mom is on her last nerve and not there for the daughter.  In Anywhere But Here, Mom (Susan Sarandon) is all nerves and constantly there for the daughter, much to the daughter's annoyance.  Mom leaves small town Bay City Wisconsin for the bright lights of L.A. to pursue the dream of Daughter's acting career of which Daughter wants no part.The big difference between the two roles in the daughter's level of maturity.  Natalie was but a girl in Heat while she is a young lady in Anywhere But Here, more mature than her mother.  Ms. Portman does a fine job of portraying a character undergoing changes as she takes on more responsibility.One surprise for me was this movie came out after Ms. Portman portrayed Padme in the Star Wars episode.  Anywhere But Here seemed that much of a segue for the evolution of Natalie Portman's characters' battle with life. "},{"Title":"A Touching and Beautiful Movie.","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Anywhere But Here is a great movie that has everything on offer, you just have to love it. Susan Sarandon and Natalie Portman play mother and daughter in the movie and they are both great, especially Natalie. (An amazing actress.) I'd recommend Anywhere But Here to anyone. It's just a brilliant film which I give a 10/10.   "},{"Title":"Lackluster.","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There's not much impact here. Portman was very good; Sarandon, as usual, energetic.Unless a film impacts me on one of several levels (psychological, emotional or 'brain food'), I wouldn't recommend this movie to a friend. It was one way to pass an evening. Did I get a benefit from this film? No. Did it impact me? No. Did I learn anything? No. Was it another teenage vs single mother conflict? Yes.There are a dozen other movies more worth the time. Although I really like Susan Sarandon, she (and her character) filled no void and did nothing to surprise me. Portman evoked memories of my teenage rebel feelings but not deeply enough. Sorry, girls. "},{"Title":"Not just worse than Tumbleweeds, but one of the worst movies of 1999","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm glad I waited to see this on cable. I had heard it was not as good as Tumbleweeds, which essentially tells the same story. I rented Tumbleweeds last year and loved it. Anywhere But Here is too long, lacks a direct plot, and not even the good acting can save it. Halfway through I picked up a magazine and periodically glanced at the movie between pages - and I didn't miss anything.The bad points - the plot was meandering and overall the movie was too long- the use of flashbacks to transition scenes instead of to give us new information (example - after telling us that Adele bought the Mercedes for the trip, we flashback to.... you guessed it, Adele buying the Mercedes... for the trip!)- Bonnie Bedelia is totally wasted in her miniscule roleThe good points - Natalie Portman perfectly underplays her role and thereby gives it much emotional depth- Susan Sarandon does the best she can (I am a big fan of hers) with a terribly-written role.So, my advice is.... SEE TUMBLEWEEDS! "},{"Title":"I Want to be Anywhere but Any Place Screening This Film.","Date":"6 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Anywhere but Here (1999) Dir Wayne Wang / Cast Natalie Portman, Susan Sarandon, Hart Bochner, Shawn Hatosy, Eileen Ryan Undemanding tripe suggesting one's place in life, and hopefully that place isn't anywhere where this film can be seen. It is about a mother and daughter with different dreams and desires. Susan Sarandon packs up her daughter and moves to Beverly Hills California where she hopes to begin teaching and establish her daughter as an actress. Her daughter resents this and feels pressured. The premise isn't much and the conclusion leaves much to be desired but director Wayne Wang gives a detailed description of relationships that threaten to tear apart at the seams because the thread is too strong, much like the screenplay does, ever so rapidly. Story is sidetracked with unnecessary subplots such as the new man in Sarandon's life or the cousin back home that dies. Sarandon plays the mother who is seeking new direction and wishes not to travel it alone. Natalie Portman struggles to adjust to her mother's demands. Both actresses are far too talent for such predictable roles with little depth. Lame supporting roles by Hart Bochner and Shawn Hatosy that do little if anything to enhance this drivel. Themes regards trusting others and growth and responsibility but viewers will likely wish to be anywhere but here. Score 4 / 10 "},{"Title":"Such a pleasant surprise! Absolutely beautiful.","Date":"14 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I started watching this movie randomly without much expectation and was immediately enraptured. The plot was fantastic and unique and all of the directing, production etc. superb as well. What really made the film especially stand out though, I believe, was the acting. Wow Susan Sarandan and Natalie Portman. This movie is a work of art. You will laugh and cry and be left with the desire to make an IMDb account specifically to tell people how moved you were. Life is complex and hard and knowing/doing what is best for others and yourself isn't always easy. Relationships, especially familial, are precious gifts that, although sometimes difficult, are the core of life. Work hard and find what you love to do. Nothing can hold you back from your dreams but yourself. "},{"Title":"Great lead performances lift an otherwise unremarkable story","Date":"19 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Natalie Portman and Susan Sarandon play off each other beautifully in this easy going mother/ daughter drama that pulls a switcheroo on the traditional roles.Sarandon stars as Adele, a fairly wild, out of control dreamer, who decides to leave Bay City, Wisconsin with her daughter Anne, a grounded realist, in order to try and get a teaching job in Beverly Hills.If one was to summarize the script to this film in one word, it would be under developed. I mean, it's all there, a mother-daughter relationship with a role reversal, a love interest for both, a struggle between the two with a resolution, but this film just seems to happen and then end.You'll find yourself wondering what any of the side characters are doing in this story apart from making up numbers. The big strength is the performances from Sarandon and Portman and the way they relate to each other. The two play off each other beautifully, with Sarandon giving a fearless performance as an irresponsible, out of control, immature mother that allows Portman to make the most of her role as a responsible, careful young woman growing up and maturing with considerable dignity. This film earned Portman her first Golden Globe nomination, and is an interesting watch for any of her fans. The highlight in the film of the two together is the scene where Portman has to comfort her mother after a painful break-up with the realization written all over her face that this is an absurd reversal of the natural order.Most of the supporting cast are wasted, with Hart Bochner a particularly grievous waste. So big is Sarandon's performance and so arresting is Portman these characters would have dissolved into the background anyway, but it is frustrating that the script doesn't put the time into developing the side characters. While the film explores sex, death and small town boredom, we don't really know any of the characters these issues are effecting.Anywhere but Here is worth watching for the excellent performances from the leads, and its easy going tone. Probably not one to go out of your way to track down, but certainly worth watching on cable. "},{"Title":"The Great Escape","Date":"17 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Directed by Wayne Wang, Anywhere But Here stars Susan Sarandon as Adele August, a delusional woman who leaves small-town Wisconsin for the fancy suburbs of Beverly Hills. Tired of a loveless marriage, and the inanities of small-town America, Adele hopes to find wealth, fame and love. Joining Adele is Ann (Natalie Portman), Adele's teenage daughter. Ann thinks Adele is nuts.Anywhere But Here contrasts the mopey Ann with the relentlessly upbeat Adele. One wants to be in Beverly Hills, the other doesn't. One believes that fortunes are around the corner, the other just wants to return to Wisconsin. As the film progresses Adele's neuroses become more pronounced, become a form of abusive parenting, though we're always aware that Adele &#x96; at least on some level &#x96; intends for her actions to benefit poor Ann. Adele may be a narcissistic train-wreck, but a part of her genuinely believes that she is acting in her daughter's best interests.That summer I turned seventeen, and started planning my escape, Ann tells us early in the film. This notion of escape becomes the film's chief motif. Both mother and daughter are desperate to find greener pastures, but whether or not these pastures exist is left unresolved.Wang, incidentally, typically alternates between personal projects and anonymously directed, Hollywood trash. Anywhere But Here is one of his better mainstream pictures, thanks largely to Portman and Sarandon, who convey well a difficult blend of fragility and strength.8/10 &#x96; See Scarecrow (1973) and Margaret (2011). "}{"Title":"One of my favourites","Date":"11 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've seen this a couple times over the years now and I always really enjoy it even if it is a bit on the melodramatic side. Susan Sarandon and Natalie Portman are fantastic and I think that's what makes it so watchable as nothing much (really) happens plot wise, its just more of a character study.Susan Sarandon is 'Adel,' a flighty, dreamer of a woman who leaves her small town behind and moves to Beverly Hills with her teenage daughter in the hopes of... more. 'Ann'(Natalie Portman) resents both her mother and the move and they spend most of the 4 year time span covered in the movie arguing and in a role reversal as Ann is the responsible one in the mother/daughter relationship. 04.27.14 "},{"Title":"Whatever it Takes","Date":"22 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie has surprised me in so many good ways that I feel just awkward after I realized how unknown this is. Adele and Ann have an unique mother-and-daughter relationship-- by the way, which family doesn't? Whilst the mother is optimist, adventurer and spontaneous, the daughter is pessimist, grouchy and never tries to be agreeable with her mother. Having that in mind, you can imagine how many arguments there must be in the whole story-- most of them caused by the irritating daughter, in my point of view. There is a lot for spectator to understand with this kind of film; people are different, and when you have a kid, you should know that occasionally he will pursuit his own conceptions and dreams. However, the movie also shows that if you are the kid, you should reflect on whether you're possibly abandoning the one who helped you grew up for a long time. In my opinion, Ann acted a little selfish in most of the bad situations they faced, while Adele always thought about Ann's well-being before her own, which is beautiful-- and REAL, since that's what most parents do. Anywhere But Here gives us this sensible story filled out with good professionals, with big congratulations for director and the whole cast, who did their best to make this film THIS good! PS I wanted Ann to drop dead for the whole time, which probably is a sign that I'm not ready to become a father yet. "},{"Title":"Natalie Portman","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I absolutely love Natalie Portman in this film.  She's so subtle, and when the film calls for emotion, like the cathartic moment in the black dress and the new necklace, she is pitch perfect.  I think I can confidently say that she is one of those actresses that will win an Oscar before her career is done; she has the talent, style, grace, beauty, and sophistication of Audrey Hepburn. "},{"Title":"Electrifying Chemistry Saves Cliche-Ridden Story.","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Regarded as another one of the recent over-the-top drama's brought upon us by Hollywood, this movie excels where others have totally failed(especially considering the most underrated performance in recent dramatic character portrayal by that of Natalie Portman),  this film is almost unanimously driven by the chemistry that both Susan and Natalie share. They seem to be so natural during the movie that you would mistake them for a real family. They go through so many mother-daughter conflicts in the story its kind of hard not to pick up on their acting abilities. I feel that these two actress' talented performances picked up where the story was lacking and almost too familiar (full of cliche's) and really saved the suffering plot. I would recommend this movie mainly to those who like either of the two actresses or such over-the-top drama's. "},{"Title":"Perfect Performances - Don't be so hard on this movie","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Chick Flick?  Of course.... Been done before?  Many times.... Predictable?  Yes.....  Worth watching?  You bet!  I was delighted with Sarandon and Portman's portrayals of otherwise stock characters in a familiar story line.  I am a great fan of mother/daughter stories.  What makes the difference between the good ones and the weak ones ARE the performances and the character development.  Although this is not the BEST of its genre, I will buy it and watch it again.  I felt the characters were believable and the acting was superior. "},{"Title":"You'll see it on Lifetime","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I liked the actors, thought behind the plot but this movie was a chick flick with good actors.   Natalie Portman and Susan Sarandon did great job showing the real interactions between mothers and teenage daughters.  Some scenes were a little long though.  I give it a 5/10.  "},{"Title":"A teenage daughter strives to break free from a controlling mother.","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was impressed with this film because of the quality of the acting and the powerful message in the script.  Susan Sarandon plays the part of a flighty, irrational and possessive mother, who constantly gives her daughter the message that they must stick together.  She removes her daughter from a dysfunctional but loving family in Indiana to pursue an exciting acting career in Hollywood.  The daughter is dubious, but at first she has no choice--- the bond with mother is pathologically strong.In time the girl sees that the mother is off into flights of fantasy and does not have her feet on the ground.  She sees her mother go head over heels for a handsome, seductive guy who loves 'em and leaves 'em.  She sees that the mother doesn't get it.  So how can she look to her mother for guidance?The mother directs the girl to a drama try-out and sees the daughter act out the part of the mother in such a way that a shockingly painful mirror is held up to the fly-by-night mother.  This causes a period of depression and the girl is horrified at the impact on the mother and is apologetic, but the lesson takes hold.There is character-growth as the mother realizes her selfish claim on the daughter and eventually is persuaded to let the girl go.  It is a touching scene and a valuable lesson, that parents, however emotionally dependent, have to let the child go and become her own separate person. "},{"Title":"Why did I like this movie?","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was laying in bed, flicking through the channels... and boy do I have channels... 500 of them. With over 70 movie channels, I probably watch a movie on cable, once or twice a month... DVD has spolied me.Anyway, I'm flicking through and I come to this movie and because I see Natilie Portman, I take interest. 110 minutes later I am still interested. How could this be? When I first saw the previews to this movie in the theater I remember making fun of it. I never thought I'd watch it... nevermind like it.The story is based on a book, and you can tell. The movie is very episodic, andit's not like the movie has a great plot, it just sucks you in. May-be its that performances that do it. I'm pretty sure in must have been.This movie was good for no reason...Peter's Movie Rating (out of 10) 7 "},{"Title":"i liked it","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I admit, it was a long drawn out movie, but I haven't seen one that touched me in so long like this one did. It was seriously depressing and sad. I know how it feels to have everything fall apart on you and your mother breathing down your back about everything you want to do. Natalie (ann) played this character so well, I cried almost the entire time. The look on her face was just so sad, it tore me apart. I wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone who's never had it all fall apart or can't stand to watch a slow movie. I see all these people saying how horrible it was (yeah, everyone does have their own opinions) but I have to disagree completely. I intend to buy this movie.  "},{"Title":"Susan Sarandon","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Susan Sarandon.  She made this movie for me.  I've never appreciated her acting more than as I did in this movie.  She really acted as though she were Adele August.  I can appreciate actors and actresses who leave their individual persona and create a character who's truly believable. Natalie Portman as Ann August helped create the ideal antagonist as their characters developed through the movie.  The movie was about them so the other characters were peripheral.I gave this movie an eight rating, but Susan received a ten from me because of her performance.  As far as relationship movies go, Beaches and Terms of Endearment had a greater impact on me than this movie, but I highly recommend it. "}{"Title":"A Touching Film Experience.","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Anywhere But Here does not come close to been an exciting, or even masterful movie, but it is a touching film experience following tragic true-life consequences. Natalie Portman is simply amazing as Ann August, a young girl who has been taken through her life with her cherry but annoying mother, who is played well by Susan Sarandon. Anywhere But Here is the Terms of Endearment of 1999, and it is underrated and lovely to watch, but that doesn't mean it is flawless. Sometimes the parts of the story are pointless, and Sarandon gets annoying, but those are the only faults I could pick out of this chicken!Rating 8 "},{"Title":"In the spirit of Tumbleweeds, a true chick flick","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Like the film, Tumbleweeds, a mother drags her daughter around in search of a better life.  Like Tumbleweeds, I found this movie to be a work of brilliance.  Sarandon and Portman should reunite at some point, that is, if Portman doesn't stop acting first.  The main reason I liked this film is the fact that someone had the good sense to cast Shawn Hatosy in the role of Benny, a role that suited him perfectly.  Like Tumbleweeds, this is a quality film that can be shared with whomever, whenever, wherever. "},{"Title":"Masochists 'R Us","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was the WORST film I have seen since The House of Yes.  I thought nothing could be worse than that horror, but this film comes close.  Sarandon plays an immature, psychotic, irresponsible, manipulating mother that in real life would have been incarcerated by Children's Protective Services before her daughter even reached her teens.  Portman's character would have run off or committed suicide rather than endure years of emotional torture at the hands of her mother.  It was actually embarrassing to watch Sarandon's character, especially the scene the day after a one-night stand with a guy she picked up at the beach, which caused me to leave the theatre and take refuge in the Pokemon film.The scene in which Portman's character is seduced by (or seduces) one of her classmates added nothing to the plot;  one wonders why it was even included in the movie.For a more cheerful film I recommend Sleepy Hollow.  "},{"Title":"Adequate, but nothing special","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film as a fan of Wayne Wang's more than anything else, and I also admire the work that Susan Sarandon has done in the past, and Natalie Portman is more deserving of the title sometimes bestowed upon Jennifer Love Hewitt (ie the new Audrey Hepburn), but, overall, the movie left me cold.Basically the story of a Mother and Daughter,and their difficulty in relating to one another, the film is all over the place, and it appears that there has been a lot of editting done on it prior to its release, since I recall seeing trailers where the Sarandon character douses the heal character played by Hart Bochner with some kind of liquid that isn't in the film.I'm getting a bit tired of hearing singer/songwriter music used to further the plot, and there is too much of that here, although there is a sublime use of Sarah Maclachlan's I Will Remember You that I really admired.Natalie Portman is a lovely young lady, and she is wonderful in the film, but I got tired of seeing her frowning and teared up constantly, but she delivers a staggering scene where she improvises for some casting people and uses her Mom as a model.More of that kind of honesty would have made the film better, in my opinion.Thora Birch is in a few scenes as Mary, and she is as effective as she is in American Beauty (where she is spectacular), but, for reasons unknown to me, she is uncredited.Another stand-out scene for me features the guy who played the husband of Marge in Fargo, as a sad carpet salesman who takes Sarandon on a date accompanied by Portman.The scene is very out of place, but it works.Overall, I would say that the film is worth the cost of a matinee (about $5 locally), but I'd venture that most will feel gypped if they pay the big bucks to see this.On a final note, Sarandon is shot in a very unpleasant fashion, and her bizarre eye-makeup was very distracting for me. "},{"Title":"See this with someone you love.","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film made its world premier at the Toronto Film Festival.  It was a great mother-daughter story.  The themes of innocence and death and love were so prominant in every line of dialogue. Susan Surnandon turned in another oscar worthy performance. Natalie Portman was incredibly believeable as the daughter who hates the changes that are going on in her life.  The mother-daughter duo are at their strongest when they stop fighting with each other and take on the world together. "},{"Title":"Very funny and heart warming movie that doesn't go overboard sentimentally.","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw Anywhere But Here at The Toronto International Film Festival and I went in expecting a good movie and that's what I got.Susan Sarandon and Natalie Portman are amazing in this movie and they have a very noticeable connection.  The movie is filled with humour, sadness, and much more.Anywhere But Here starts out with Susan Sarandon and Natalie Portman on a road trip from Wisconsin to Beverly Hills.  It then follows the lives of the two women trying to fit in to the elegant life style of Beverly Hills through three years.  This film is one of Wayne Wang's best and the performances by the two actresses are incredible.  I recommend this film greatly. "},{"Title":"Overlong but very well-played film.","Date":"15 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The main attraction of Anywhere but Here is the superb performance of Natalie Portman. She gave her rather thankless character a lot of much-appreciated emotional depth. Susan Sarandon, a fine actress, is suitably sincere as the mother figure. I thought the chemistry between the two stars was believable, a chemistry that could have been developed more with a more involving script. I am not saying the script was bad in any way, I am just saying it seemed underdeveloped at times. I don't think it was the script writer's fault. The film did suffer from being overlong, and became sometimes unfocused in the longer scenes. The film does look beautiful, with some good direction and excellent performances. All in all, watchable certainly, but maybe more for an older audience. 7/10 Bethany Cox. "},{"Title":"If anything, avoid at all costs!","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"     Anywhere But Here is an extremely unrealistic movie.  Susan Sarandon plays this dillusional mother who has crazy dreams for her daughter played by Natalie Portman who has other plans to go to an Ivy League school.  What I found inane about this movie was how in the world could a mother and daughter just move from Wisconsin to California at the drop of a hat?  What about how much money that would cost?  As I recall, they didn't even sell their house!  Also, the sickening conversation between Ann and her cousin Benny when he came to visit made me want to gag!   Another thing is Natalie Portman's character Ann.  All she does in this movie is lament about how much she hates California and wants to get away from her mom Adele and not to mention her unprecedented snobbery.  Natalie Portman is a talented actress who needs better roles besides a mature teenager, or else she'll be left out in the typecast abyss.  If you want to see a good movie about a mother and daughter going on a cross-country trip, Tumbleweeds is the movie to see.  Avoid this trash known as Anywhere But Here as much as possible!  I give it no stars! "},{"Title":"This movie didn't impress me, but Natalie Portman's portrayal did","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was not very fond of this movie at first, but after watching Natalie Portman's portrayal of a young girl who had a floozy for a mother, and no father around, it affected me. As someone who did not have her own father around (at that same age) and had a mother who was too busy with friends (at that same age as well), I related rather well to her character. When she calls her father to talk to him, I could feel her pain when he rejected her. When she reached out to her boyfriend sexually and broke down in tears, I cried and felt the twinges of loneliness that she expressed. Never has a movie affected me so deeply.10/10 "},{"Title":"Interesting study of mother/daughter relationship.","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As happens more often than we like to think, an immature mother with a mature teenage daughter makes for interesting character study. Sarandon and Portman play their roles perfectly and the ending is resolved in a nice way.The mother leaves her husband and takes her daughter to Hollywood for the hopes of an acting career. But all the daughter wants to do is be free of her mother and start her own life. A good see, I rate it 7 of 10. "}{"Title":"This was done better by Cher in Mermaids","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The trouble with consistently doing good work is people expect it of you, consistently. Unfortunately, this piece of work does not measure up to the standard of what I have come to expect from Susan Sarandon. Quite formulaic. However, Natalie Portman does a wonderful job of using understatement to project her character's feeling of loneliness and frustration with her mother. Two more things, if you're going to write about Wisconsin, know about Wisconsin. In the summer, we also have beaches to go to (it gets above 50 here occasionally), and we do do that special thing you can do to a woman to let her know how much you care - and we're quite good at it. (What else do we have to do during the long cold winters here?) - M "},{"Title":"Natalie Portman is the reason to see it","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The good news about this movie is that the acting is outstanding. The bad news is that you have to sit through the story to see the acting. Note There may be a few mild spoilers in this review.The story in this movie was on the level of a typical television family drama. Aside from some moments of inspiration, it was mostly a series of scenes of a family -- in this case, a precocious teenage girl and her immature mother -- struggling through life. In this case, the struggling is all because the mother kept doing dumb things with her life.The mother Adele (Sarandon) failed, again and again, to live a grown-up life. Rather than provide for her daughter Ann (Portman), she kept making bad choices that made life difficult for both of them. And rather than emotionally supporting Ann, she chased her own fantasy life, and tried to get Ann to live a fantasy life too.First, Adele ran out on a decent, responsible, gainfully-employed husband because he wasn't glamorous enough. Then she bought a car she couldn't afford, ate restaurant meals she couldn't afford, and failed to pay utility bills. She bounced between apartments, skipping out on the leases of some because they were dumps, and on others because she got behind on the rent. She quit a decent teaching job during a strike -- not because the strike pay was too little, but because she didn't want to bother walking the picket line. She ran stop signs and parked illegally, and didn't pay the tickets. She pursued dead-end romances, and ignored promising ones.Adele was just as lost when it came to taking care of Ann's emotional needs. Rather than helping Ann through problems by talking, she took her out for ice cream. When Ann's friends were over to study, Adele made an embarrassing scene, driving the friends away. She fantasized about Ann becoming an actress, and pressured her into auditions even though Ann wasn't interested. She tried to defeat Ann's ambitions of going away to college, because she didn't want to face Ann's eventual departure. Sure, she loved her daughter, but mostly in a clingy, unsupportive way.The one good thing I could say about Adele At least she wasn't an alcoholic or a drug addict. Her sensible behavior at the end of the movie was too out-of-character to count in her favor.Although kids like Ann occasionally thrive in spite of such an unstable, unsupportive environment, her ability to do so made her a somewhat unlikely character. The best way I can explain it is teenage rebellion Where ordinary kids might rebel by taking risks and behaving irresponsibly, Ann rebelled against Adele's irresponsibility by throwing herself into her school work and her after-school job, wishing for a normal life. Adele gave her almost every possible reason to fail, and Ann rejected them all.Enough about the story. The good news about this movie was wonderful acting.Natalie Portman's performance is so good the only way she can miss an Oscar is if Academy voters count the movie's script against her. She made Ann real. I could feel her determination to overcome each problem her mother caused. I could see her anger when her mother tried to smooth over each indignity with an ice cream bribe. I felt her hope when she applied for admission to a university, and her despair when that hope failed.The highlight of the entire movie (including the story) was when Ann finally gave in to Adele's fantasy of Ann as an actress, and went to an audition. She was so good that the casting people should have hired her on the spot, promising to pay off Adele's bad debts, pay her way through the university of her dreams, even if it was just a bit part.Portman has been wonderful in all three of the movies where I've seen her. She's now three for three in movies I've seen. She was the most memorable actress in Beautiful Girls, where she turned a smallish supporting role into one of the highlights of the movie. Then she was the queen in the latest Star Wars movie, where she was the only one who really managed to make the corny dialogue sound real. Here she has the starring role, and shows she can maintain her great talent through an entire feature.Susan Sarandon acted very well too, but the script didn't give her a great deal of opportunity to show off her talent. She didn't manage to make Adele likable in any way, although maybe no one could have accomplished that. (Or maybe we weren't supposed to like her.) Sarandon did the important job, which was to carry Portman from one wonderfully acted scene to another.The supporting roles were well-acted too, particularly the dam photographer.This movie wastes outstanding acting on a mediocre story. "},{"Title":"Anything But Here -- or There","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My suggestion (my wife concurs) Watch the come-ons a couple of times.  You will see the best parts of the movie, and you won't be disappointed.  This could have been a good movie, but there just wasn't much there (gee, sounds like Random Hearts!).Not that the acting was bad.  Sarandon & Portman did well.  They just didn't have much to work with.  The plot was thin and there were huge holes in the story line.Example  Portman is embarrassed by her mother, but sees nothing wrong with bringing friends &#150; and what part of the movie did she make friends? &#150; home to their crappy apartment that is in, supposedly, a cheap part of Beverly Hills.  It leaves you wondering how much of this movie was left on the cutting room floor.Three out of ten.  Check it out on video if desperate. "},{"Title":"The bond between them works, but the conflict falls flat.","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a pleasant little movie with excellent actresses that meanders around various crises and doesn't make a lot of sense.  The book spent much more time covering Adele and Ann's struggles to make ends meet than the film did.  You see the lights go out and hear that they have very little money, but do not really see many sacrifices in the film.  Even the loss of electricity is explained as a forgotten bill rather than as an inability to pay.  It is never clear how they make it when Adele is between jobs.  The one-time sale of a prized possession doesn't come near to rectifying the financial obligations at the end of the picture.  Why not allow Ann to earn money as a television actress as she did it the book rather than make her a grocery store employee who would be able to save very little?  The one-night stand with Dr. Spritzer and Adele's unrealistic hopes about it do not make sense to me except in their desperate need for steady income.  All the film allows is that Ann needed braces.  How can you have Natalie Portman play Ann and expect anyone to buy that one? The emotional traumas and the bond between Adele and Ann do work except in the end where it is hard to tell who is more devastated.  At best they have a codependent relationship where Ann has at least as hard a time functioning without Adele as Adele does functioning without Ann.  It is Adele who plays the unforgivable trump card of abandonment on occasion and risks her relationship with Ann by her life choices.  Ann can't get 50 feet from her Mother without caving in.   I found it hard buying that the Ann shown in the first two-thirds of the film really wanted what she got in the end.  The most affecting performances for me were when they interacted with other people and when they comforted each other.  The carpet salesman, the dam painter, Peter, and Benny added a little life to the picture.  The whole scene in the restaurant where Adele finds the first workable apartment and Ann falls apart with the finality of it was beautifully played.  The casting audition and the phone call to Ann's Father were heartbreaking as were Adele's fears of being shut out of Ann's life. Every time Ann and Adele made connections the film took off.  The personality conflicts along the way felt like sitcom window-dressing.The promos talked about how Ann was practical and Adele was irresponsible, but the film didn't show Ann taking care of anything that Adele missed.  She groused about her Mother's lame attempts at levity when things were bad but never came up with better answers.  The only thing Adele did that made me angry was her abandonment of Ann when she couldn't handle the criticism.  Otherwise, the film gave her a full-blooded understandable existence.  Ann, on the other hand, was a cipher.  What did she want besides friends, escape from her Mother, and an understanding of why her Father left her?  You never learn what makes her tick or what she possesses that draws Peter to her in the first place.  I wish the film had enlivened her role with actions, thoughts, or desires separate from grousing about her Mother or laughing at Peter's lame jokes.  "},{"Title":"The Dentist's Screenplay","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This film got made because they had two boxoffice draws. Since that was the only reason, they played safe with everything else, in particular employing a formulaic script. I can imagine the pitch `Alice Doesn't Live Here Anymore' meets `Mermaids' meets `Terms of Endearment,' (which is mentioned in the action) but without the edge of any.Wang does not equal Woo + Ang; everything is rote with him here, and too much. He focuses on faces, which is fine with these faces, but forgets the rest of the world. What's up? His last film was the exciting `Chinese Box.' Complex. Nuanced, Environmental. Guess he got burned on that project so decided to go plain.Sarandon seems distracted here, and I suppose it is because the character isn't very real. Her acting style is old school method, where you have to find the real person and then let her behave. There is no real person here, only a series of neurotic episodes.Which brings us to Portman. She is an emotional prodigy. Was just right in `The Professional,' and really shined in `Beautiful Girls,' which was her best. (Funny, it was Uma Thurman's best too.) But since then, she has been stymied by a reserve. She is smart enough to look like she is a fine actor, without committing her soul. This still places her high on the roster, but well below say Kate Winslet or Cate Capshaw. This film and the Walmart mom bit that followed were disappointing in terms of the growing maturity we expect. The `Star Wars' episodes could further mar her skills, with all that distracting bumf.Thora Birch has an uncredited small role here, where she outacts Natalie! Just because she was there and not thinking but acting. Thora was making `American Beauty' at this time I think, which is roughly the same story with several enriching folds and a more cinematic vision.Shawn Hatosy also has a small role. He is someone to watch, to judge not from the vapid `Providence' but from the pretty engaging `Sympatico.'Pretty bad when everyone involved in a project has very much better work elsewhere. "},{"Title":"Anywhere but Here has something to offer in spite of itself.","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The main premise of Anywhere but Here is a parent's love for his child is a potent antidote against his own faults.  In raising our children the key to success is that we have a genuine love for them.  The best schools, discipline program, and diet will be to no avail without love.  The corollary to this truism is just as beneficial.  And if I should have prophecy and should know all mysteries, and all knowledge, and if I should have all faith, so that I could remove mountains, and have not love, I am nothing (1Cor 132.)When it comes to flawed parents, Adele August (Susan Sarandon) is the poster mom.  The film opens with Adele dragging her daughter Ann (Natalie Portman) across the country in her new Mercedes.  They are traveling from Bay City, Wisconsin to Beverly Hills California with Adele's dream of beginning a more fulfilling life by upping the ante of her bourgeois lifestyle. Edele's personality is so endemic of the baby boomers of a previous generation.  She is completely absorbed in her own fantasy world, self centered and seeking her own fulfillment, while almost completely clueless regarding the suffering of those she leaves in her wake.  To her credit, she still loves her daughter as much as she is capable in her injured moral condition.Her relationship to her daughter is not unlike our relationship to God. The daughter being God and Adele representing mankind.  An interesting game to play, while watching this film, would be to pretend you are God and imagine that this may be the way God sees us.  We all do love God and yet we can't stop pursuing our own will.  True, if we love Him we will do His will but we are never completely successful at doing His will.  Yet, it is my contention that we still love Him.  If a person has no control of his passions he is still capable of loving God.  It is an orientation we have towards our beloved even while in great sin.  I'll not tread the theological implication of this concept since this is only a film review.  I'll phrase it this way, the image of God can still be seen even in a narcissistic baby boomer like Adele.Ann is really the one in which we place our hopes.  We do this because she represents the lost generation after the excesses of the boomers.  The generation X, if you will.  This is where the art of film has the ability to open your eyes to see things from another's vantage point.  One can truly empathize with Ann.   Being totally dependent on her mother she is trapped and forced to endure all kinds of agonies.  She is the Christ figure in this film because she is the one to bare the cross of her mother's ignorance and self-love.  Still Ann loves her mother through thick and thin.I doubt the director intended to be so insightful but one of the most moving parts of the film is when Ann attempts to contact her father by phone.  He is yet another boomer who is seeking self-actualization while at the same time destroying the hope in his own daughter.  He cruelly puts off his daughter in a disdainful way so characteristic of man at the close of the twentieth century.  You want to scream out at him she is your daughter! Soon afterwards Ann begins having a sexual relationship with her admiring boyfriend.  The talented Natalie Portman convincingly shows you that sex is not what she is truly interested in.  It is so obvious she is looking for her father's love.  She has mistakenly projected her desire for the love of a caring masculine father onto her boyfriend.  When she embraces her boyfriend it is truly a heart-wrenching scene.  That embrace was really meant for her father.It was originally intended for Ms. Portman to undress in the scene that presents Ann's first sexual encounter.  To her credit, Ms. Portman felt uncomfortable doing a nude scene and it had to be re-scripted at her insistence.  Because of Ms. Portman's stance this is now a film I can recommend.I believe that Ms. Portman was the only one who truly understood her character.  Like so many post boomers the Ann character has rejected her mother's lack of values but hasn't rejected her mother.  She understands that something went dreadfully wrong in her life but because of her lack of proper formation, she has no idea what values she wants to adopt.  All she needs is Christ and this films shows the great evangelical opportunity that awaits all Christians.  Her life is almost completely devoid of religion. Granted, her sad formation has most likely produced the fruits of skepticism and distrust of authority.  She, representing the majority of generation X-ers, will not be an easy egg to crack.I highly recommend this film especially for teenagers because it teaches not by telling us the right way but by showing the consequences of the wide or wrong path.  The film also scores a point for the baby boomers by restating their mantra all you need is love.  As parents, we will make many mistakes, but if our children know that we love them very much this could be the ointment that will heal many wounds.  Just as Mary Magdalene poured ointment over the feet that would be pierced by a spike.  Though her sins were great and many it was her love for her savior that healed her. "},{"Title":"Soppy Melodrama with Schlocky Music","Date":"10 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" For a library check-out, Anywhere But Here is about par. It might be worth a viewing to kill time if it's bad weather outside - might be. The acting and directing in it is not particularly remarkable, nor is the story which seems more like writing and scenes splashed together. I fell asleep during the first watch which during a well-made movie, I never do. Upon re-watch to catch the parts I missed, I didn't think the movie was horrible, just soppy, syrupy melodrama. I didn't really care for any of the characters or their predicaments, and don't particularly enjoy watching mother/daughter Portman/Sarandon's arguments and make-ups repeating over and over. I thought the whole family background and in-fighting was terribly overcooked and was thrown together. The music was schlock. On second thought, give this a pass if you're trying to decide to watch. "},{"Title":"Irritating and repetitive","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  *Minor SPOILERS*I felt like everything kept repeating itself in different locations. It got a little boring. Natalie Portman kept the same facial expressions throughout the film, and really lacked the emotion needed.The characters were a bit too distant as well. I know everything revolved around Susan Sarandon and Natalie Portman, but the other people just kept popping in and out of the story. Especially the almost too nice guy. He looked as if he would have a relevant part in the plot, but he just said he'd love to take Natalie Portman out to see some fish spawning thing, and we eventually find out later that he invited Susan Sarandon to Vegas. That was it. He wasn't mentioned at all in the rest of the film.I think that just with those two things, the fact that the acting was just okay (even Sarandon - who is usually phenomenal), and the feel-good ending made into a mediocre movie that isn't really worth much higher than a 3. (In my opinion at least, whatever that's worth.) ;o) "},{"Title":"Phony star-driven vehicle...","Date":"28 July 2007","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Talented screenwriter Alvin Sargent sadly cannot get any engaging ideas cooking in this artificial trifle about a wayward mother and her mature teenage daughter trying to make their lives work in Los Angeles despite mom's flighty behavior. Apart from several good sequences, I didn't quite buy Susan Sarandon as a flake (she's too intrinsically smart and focused to be passed off as this devil-may-care lady), and her naturally grounded personality is a bad fit for the role of an irresponsible parent. Natalie Portman fares much better as her kid, and yet there's a creepy aloofness to her work (and some of her scenes, such as the one where she asks a boy to strip, are misguided and uncomfortable to watch). Certainly not an incompetent piece, Anywhere But Here does have moments that work, but it isn't an embraceable film, nor has it proved to be an important one. ** from **** "},{"Title":"A captivating emotional journey","Date":"5 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is about a single mother who is happy go lucky to the point that she is almost irresponsible, and her sensible teenage daughter who is undergoing adolescent turmoils.Anywhere But Here is an engaging film from beginning to the end. Both Ann and Adele are described well right at the start, so we get to know how different their personalities are. Clashes inevitably ensue, and they are engagingly presented. I find myself so drawn to their state of minds and their circumstances. it is as if I am living their lives, feeling what they are feeling.Susan Sarandon gives another excellent performance in Anywhere But Here. She is charismatic, happy go lucky, hedonistic, warm and loving all at once. I have always liked Susan Sarandon, and I think she is grossly underrated.Anywhere But Here is a captivating emotional journey. "}{"Title":"Ashley at 15ish","Date":"25 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I purchased this because it is an Ashley Johnson, her around age 15, the year before What Women Want. She only has a small part in this, a friend of the lead teen, but is on screen maybe four times. Those bits are nice, to me. A big plus is that Heather DeLoach, Ermengarde in A Little Princess 1995, is also in that group of friends. For me, this DVD is essential. * Spoiler * Further than that I have problems. The lead actress, Susan Saradon as Adele, plays someone tied up in knots to be at near baby level, the more obvious main story as how disastrous that is for her teenage daughter and for herself and for society. My DVD sleeve calls this funny and touching but I find that PR blurb to be missing the point and doing down Adele and Ann both, by that. This is a comedy to the extent that Brazil - 1985 or 28 Days &#150; 2000 are. Of recent dvds I have seen, I find The Quiet and The Chumscrubber to be much more approachable in how they deal with this sort of thing. I can watch them more than once. Except there is still a need for some to follow the approach of this particular feature. There are other, less blatant, story lines and the photo shown early on is just as relevant as the mum's chains. * So. For me this is an essential DVD. But it only has ten minutes that I will want to watch often and this is scattered through the feature. The parts with the friends and parts that can give that some context. "},{"Title":"passing","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Anywhere But Here is a movie that could have worked a lot better if the mother and daughter had stopped fighting with another earlier and developed more of friendship to give it a better lead up to the end.I must say the acting in Anywhere But Here was good from Susan Sarandon and Natalie Portman. After all, they couldn't help that the writer skipped a few important steps while writing the screenplay.I'm glad to have been witness to a movie that had a believable plot, which surrounded the struggles a mother and daughter go through. I think this was unique because it has been awhile since I've seen this type of plot on screen as long as I have gone to the movies.I would be hesitant to recommend this movie based on anything other than plot.  "},{"Title":"Sentimental","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My mother and I saw this movie together and we both loved it. I found the tagline quite humorous, A mother that knows best, but a daughter that knows better. Natalie Portman is a great actress and Susan Sarandon's role was beyond exceptional. I liked that the movie took place in L.A., because that's my hometown and it made me grateful that I live here. "},{"Title":"A likable teen reflects on growing up with her dysfunctional and self-absorbed mom.","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There was a time that was young and cool, when the young and cool listened to the music of the Beach Boys, thought of themselves as more smart and modern than their parents because they were hip to the popular trends, sexually active, and in on whatever their friends were up on.  The mom of this story was of that generation, and like her baby-boomer brothers and sisters elsewhere, continues to cling to her adolescence by snapping her fingers to the music and all that was cool in her youth, even though, to her 14 year old daughter, she is hopelessly immature.  Although the borderline mom theme might seem somewhat tiresome, the daughter's attempts to rebel against, and rise above, the near sociopathic tendencies of her mom are both encouraging and hopeful.  We come to understand the mom through the daughter's eyes as a tragic figure, clinging to adolescent narcissism in open denial of her adult responsibilities, but we also come to appreciate the daughter, and from that there is much hope. "},{"Title":"Weak performances and an overacted story","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Susan Sarandon and Natalie Portman make a fine mother and daughter pairing but that's where the praise for this 1999 20th Century Fox release ends. The drama is too syrupy when it's not being too predictable and vice versa in this tale of a woman named Adele August (Sarandon) and her teenaged daughter, Ann (Portman) who move to California from Wisconsin. Ann hates it every step of the way and wants to be back with her friends in Wisconsin but Adele wants no part of it choosing instead to focus solely on her own priorities which include trying to get Ann into an acting career (which Ann doesn't even especially want). Ann attempts to show her possessive mother that she's not a child anymore and in the process bores the viewer with a plot that's been filmed many times before and more successfully in made for TV films with mostly unknown casts rather than major studio theatrical Hollywood productions with popular casts. The film could've been something more but it chose not to be and that's where its most major flaws stand.    "},{"Title":"Susan Sarandon and Natalie Portman saved this movie.","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Anywhere But Here is not exactly anything new, but the excellent performances by both of the main actresses made it worth watching. Sarandon and Portman are a mother and daughter who move from rural Wisconsin to sunny Beverly Hills, California, in search of a better life. The main conflict comes from the fact that Natalie would much rather have stayed in Wisconsin with all of her friends and family, and she felt that she was forced to go to California with her overbearing mother. (spoilers) While it's true that the film as a whole is disappointingly predictable, Susan Sarandon and especially Natalie Portman give performances that are so good that they almost make the material seem new. Anywhere But Here doesn't cover any new ground, but it does have the rare quality of being able to take overused subject matter and make it fairly interesting again. Also seen in this movie is the most heartbreaking facial expression seen in years, seen on Natalie Portman's face when her mother drops her off on the side of the road and she watches the car fade into the distance. Particularly noteworthy is the ironic subplot about Natalie's mother pressing her to become an actress, as well as a very convincing performance from Shawn Hatosy as one of Natalie's very close cousins from back home. His death is a tragic cliché almost always seen in movies like this one, but the rest of the film makes up for numerous weaknesses like this. Not great, but Anywhere But Here is definitely worth a look.  "},{"Title":"Chick flick","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  But I knew that when I rented it. I thought it was one of the weaker performances of Susan. She seemed distracted during most of her scenes and Natalie, although easy to look at, was not nearly as disturbing as her character seemed to be written. I would have given 3 of 10, but I did like the story and don't want to be too much of a chauvinist so I gave it a 6. Hmmmmph. "},{"Title":"Pretty good movie, but it drags a little","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Everybody did a good job in this movie.  The storyline was very nice and it teaches many lessons.  The only weakness is that it drags a little a some points.  They could have sped it up a lot and it would have been better.The plot is nothing original.  It's been done dozens of times, so it's very hard to make it seem unique.  This movie does have a uniqueness, mostly in the contrasting personalities of the two stars.A twice-divorced, flamboyant, middle-aged mother (Susan Sarandon) moves with her unwilling teenage daughter (Natalie Portman) from small-town Wisconsin to Beverly Hills, apparently to fulfill some life-long dream of the mother's to live it up in California and for her daughter to become an actress.  The daughter leaves behind a very close friend and a cousin and complains every step of the way.The mother makes one financial mistake after another and they constantly have their electricity and telephone shut off because she doesn't pay the bills.  They move from apartment to apartment which only makes things worse.  They get into repeated arguments about finances and the mother's failed love life.  The entire movie is a battle of wills between the mother and daughter.  Only after the daughter learns to accept her mother's ways is there peace.I gave it 7 of 10. "},{"Title":"a good movie but not great","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  it´s a movie to see on tv and only once.. i mean, it´s good, but it´s a little too lengthy and the plot is so well-known, it isn´t very original but it isn´t boring. the best thing of the movie are the performances, natalie portman and susan sarandon are great actress and in this movie they have done a great job. i give it a 7. "},{"Title":"Well performed, well directed, poorly written","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Sarandon is good. Portman is close to marvelous. The most important force in this film tough is Wayne Wang. He clearly got that it are not the cry-and-hug or the emotional-shouting scènes that give us the best drama but the simple, quiet moments his characters experience every day. But then there is the script, apart from not being very original, the biggest problem with it is that the mother-daughter relationship, that is central in this movie, isn't difficult enough. So it are the small side-stories that move and hurt you. "}{"Title":"A chic flick that made ordinary life somewhat interesting","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was a story about the relationship between daughter and mother. It was about real life...therefore the plot was kinda boring...it just kept going...la la la la la, though it kept my interest because the characters were fairly interesting. What struck me was how messed up the mom was...how many of her decisions were desperate selfish attempts to get happiness, though she didn't really get any joy until...(see the end of the movie)By the way, the acting was superb by both stars, and the content of the movie certainly won't hurt anybody. Not bad for a chic flick.  "},{"Title":"Sorry kids, nothing to see here","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's not that this was a bad film, the acting was good, the execution of the story was carried out well.  The problem?  This could have been an above average movie of the week.  The film never seemed to come to a peak, so little or no resolution to finish up the story.  By the end of this snoozer I was wishing I was anywhere but here. "},{"Title":"Not my favorite, but it is still good","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Anywhere But Here is a movie that could have worked a lot better if the mother and daughter had stopped fighting with another earlier and developed more of friendship to give it a better lead up to the end.Having said this, I must say the acting in Anywhere But Here was good from Susan Sarandon and Natalie Portman. I mean they couldn't help that the writer skipped a few important steps while writing the screenplay.I'm glad to have been witness to a movie that had a plot, which surrounded the struggles a mother and daughter go through. I think this is unique because I haven't seen this type of plot on screen as long as I have gone to the movies.I would be hesitate to recommend this movie based on anything other than plot.    "},{"Title":"A very enjoyable film.","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Since I am a fan of Natalie Portman, I had to see the movie. I enjoyed every minute of it. It plays out in a very sincere way. Throughout the whole movie at seemed as if Natalie was the mother and Susan was the mother. Susan's character kept making bad decisions and kept getting burned because of it.I heard that there was supposed to be a love scene involving Natalie and some-guy (he's in Outside Providence) but Natalie would only accept the script if that scene was removed. And I think that is great. I think that a love scene would have ruined the tone of the film.Natalie must have a knack for picking good movies to be in because I haven't seen her in a bad film yet. So, any movie that has Natalie Portman will no doubt be seen by me.A good film. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Great acting, slow movie","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm a big fan of Susan Sarandon and Natalie Portman.  They are great actress's and both played their roles great!  The beginning was good, but the movie just kept dragging on.  The plot could have used a little more excitement!  There were a couple of scenes I really liked, but the movie was slow.  I rate it a 5 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"Great for the gals","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The problem with the movie lies in the fact I found it could not be seemingly classed under drama. A few temperament outbursts and tears isn't my idea of dramatic acting, and there were too few laughs to classify it as comedy. After a slow start, the movie picks up better paces to establish itself.Although the obvious intent of the screenwriter for Anywhere But Here was for it to be a plot driven movie, much of the film has the supporting actress, Natalie Portman, to be thankful for. Her portrayal of the confused teenager Ann August is essentially vital in pushing forward the story line. While not entirely show stealing, she remains the stronger actress in the movie over Susan Sarandon. Portman is the only teenage actress of her kind in the industry and is thankfully not queueing up for a role in the next Jennifer Love Hewitt type horror flick. But I found the problems lay in the disjointed set up of events in the film. The coverage of approximately four years of Californian life between Mother and daughter is not the problem, but rather the short film establishment time of events. Much of the fault in the Susan Sarandon character, and everyone other than Portman, as a result of a lack of developing the characters. Ann's poignant point of view allows for maximum strong characterisation, but other supporting characters remain hollow like planks of wood. The lack of direction for fear of intrusion may be the problem.Still, nonetheless, there are plenty of heartwarming and light moments. It is overall, an enjoyable farce. Mothers and their daughters will like it, for everyone else, think carefully before entering the cinema if you are looking for a movie which demands an engrossing screenplay.Rating 7/10 "},{"Title":"boring and drawn-out with one exceptional exception","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is bad though not horrible.Mild spoilers may be contained.The relationship between the mother and daughter just seems to have a lot of conflict but I really couldn't see consistency or any real motivation.  So for me, It was an hour or two of showing me that the mother and daughter don't get along very well but with no dramatic effect to keep me interested as they drew out this situation.Because of this, the movie basically bored me.  However there was one great part in this movie.  The acting and emotion was superb.  I really wish the scene could have been cut and inserted into a good movie because one scene can't make a movie.  When the daughter goes for the casting call and chooses to use her mother as a model for a sleazy promiscuous female role, not knowing her mother is watching, you could really feel the embarrassment shame each of them suddenly experienced.This is a bad film that will leave you wondering how they could draw the story out so long with so little needed information for the plot.  One scene will really deliver.  Then it drags on to a very disappointing finale.4 out of 10 stars.  "},{"Title":"Not two thumbs up","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was hoping for some kind of wisdom here. Unfortunately, it is a story of a wacko woman who's conversion to wisdom and maturity in the last five minutes of the film is unbelievable. Natalie Portman is very very good. I wonder why Susan Sarandon would want her role so badly. The idea that her character really, deep down, is doing it all for her baby is fine in theory, but the script just doesn't make that at all believable. The fairy tale ending is just that - make believe.   "},{"Title":"Performances help movie","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The performances were pretty good. The movie, however, didn't seem to add up to much. Highlights Natalie Portman in a bikini. Funniest line (Sarandon talking about her boyfriend) Not only is he a dentist, he's writing a screenplay. (For you who don't get the joke, everyone in Los Angeles writes a script, although nobody has a chance of selling them. They have a better chance of winning the lotto.)  "},{"Title":"Great performances make a flawed film enjoyable","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The best part about the film is the chemistry between Sarandon and Portman, and the exceptional performances they both give. The film seems episodic and uneventful, the moments that have been left in seem to be unimportant. But the performances make the film completely watchable, and the film cements Portman's status as an actress of very high regard. "}{"Title":"Anyone but Sarandon (dvd)","Date":"28 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm honest Sarandon irritates me. So she's the perfect choice here to play a exasperating mother. What's funny is that her daughter is one of my favorite actress, Natalie. I'm always amazed how Natalie can express her feelings so well and since such young age. Here, she has a heavy part because she cries more than she laughs. In fact, a bit like in BTF III, the roles are reversed because the daughter is serious, hard-working (so acts like a mother) while the mother is playful, careless (so acts like a teen).No matter how problems pile up, it's good to see that the red line is never crossed between them because they always share their eternal bond of love. They shout together but they never split. I guess that's what love is about. Another funny thing came nearly at the end of the movie because it's only there that I realized that their story was a bit mine too indeed, I quit also my familial dead end in the country to come to a city of light. As Nathalie and Sarandon, I hear about my roots more than I am with them but unlike them, my departure was smooth.Finally, if the movie begins like Mulholland drive (same shots of palm trees and scene at a coffee), it's really about the relationships. Unfortunately, the rhythm drags a lot and of all thousand of cities in America, they had to choose LA! "},{"Title":"A hesitant thumbs up","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Anywhere But Here is a movie that could have worked a lot better if the mother and daughter had stopped fighting with another earlier and developed more of friendship to give it a better lead up to the end.I must say the acting in Anywhere But Here was good from Susan Sarandon and Natalie Portman. After all, they couldn't help that the writer skipped a few important steps while writing the screenplay.I'm glad to have been witness to a movie that had a believable plot, which surrounded the struggles a mother and daughter go through. I think this was unique because it has been awhile since I've seen this type of plot on screen as long as I have gone to the movies.I would be hesitant to recommend this movie based on anything other than plot.  "},{"Title":"Sounds so familiar.....","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie sounds so familiar....my mom & I are exactly like Natalie & Susan in this movie. It really touched home for me & my mother and we enjoyed it very much...there were times where the movie dragged on but in the end it was well worth the watch. "},{"Title":"A Touching, Funny, and Sometimes Sad Film That Is Brillaint.","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"     This film is a masterpiece. The story great. Susan Sarandon and Natalie Portman are brillaint. This is a very touching, yet funny, and great film. This is one of the best films ever. Susan Sarandon is great! Also Natalie Portman is perfect as her daughter. This is a funny, sometimes sad story that is completely superb. I give this film a 10 out of 10!!!!!  ;)  "},{"Title":"Made me wanna grab my mom...","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie was a great one. Their relationship was a bit rocky, but in the end, Ann realized what greatness her mother really had. Susan Sarandon and Natalie Portman were the right actresses for the job. ) They really portrayed a real family. Not this fairy-tale wish that was my family kind of family. They were actually like today's families...with extreme relativity with the moving and mother-daughter struggles and diversity. I loved it...especially the ending when they realized how much both of them meant to each other. It made me wanna grab my mom!!! (who was sitting right beside me at the time...so i actually did...haha!) "},{"Title":"Nagging Women All Around","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Talk about neuroses, selfishness, and whining! This movie has it all! If you love listening to a crazy middle-aged woman babbling and bragging words of nonsense, and the diatribes of an angry and unhappy teenager, this movie is for you! the only thing that kept me going was Natalie Portman, who is a great actress.  I kept hoping that the story would pick up, but it never did.  "},{"Title":"Tedious and pointless film","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Natalie Portman and Susan Sarandon are both  terrific actresses and deliver fine performances. But the script and directing are weak. Plot can be summarized as Immature single mom moves with  daughter to L.A. They fight sometimes. Mom likes glamour, daughter is studious. Daughter eventually leaves to go to Brown.  Where is the character development? Sure, Portman realizes that her hometown isn't quite as idyllic as she once imagined, but I would think that moving to L.A. would result in interesting, visible transformations in these women, and it really doesn't. And what about teaching in L.A.? Shouldn't we have seen Sarandon in the classroom? How does she control a classroom that is much rowdier that in some small town in Wisconsin? And what's the point of having the cousin back home die anyway?  Out of frustration with the tedious plot, I wound up fast-forwarding bits of the last hour of this film.  "},{"Title":"On the road with mum and kid.","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Mother and daughter hit the road to get away from the past. But daughter has had enough of mother's immature behaviour even thou she means well. An emotionally fluffy film and there are plenty out there who like it that way. Unfortunately, I'm not one of them but it was because of the director that I sat through this one with my daughter - and Wang handles this with a sensitive touch. Only other saving grace is Saradon's performance, and Portman doesn't do so bad either.  "},{"Title":"Tedious overlong character study","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a tedious, overlong character study about the dysfunctional relationship between an irresponsible and self centered mother and her pouty teenage daughter.  Adele August (Susan Sarandon) leaves her home in Wisconsin and drags her 14 year old daughter (Natalie Portman) to a new life in the bright lights of Los Angeles.  The problem is it is the same old hopeless life in a brand new place.There is really no story here, just a series of situations for mother and daughter to bicker over so we can be convinced how intense a love-hate relationship they have with one another.  The characters spent the entire movie trying to confuse us as to which of them was more immature.This is a classic example of how good acting cannot save a bad screenplay.  Both Sarandon and Portman did an outstanding job of playing their characters.  But each of them were playing characters that were so repellent that there was no where to turn for relief.  Of the two, Portman evoked a sense of pity for poor Ann, who had to be stuck with such an obnoxious and putrid mother.  Admittedly, I have to give Sarandon credit for doing such a fine job of making Adele so distasteful.I rated this film a 3/10, despite fine performances by both leads.  I just don't feel it is entertaining to spend two hours watching two puerile characters snipe at one another.  I would only recommend this movie to women who had bad relationships with their mothers (probably a large demographic now that I think of it) for the obvious identification factor.  Perhaps this film will make them feel a little better that they are not alone in their frustration and anger.  For all others,  I would suggest pushing bamboo under your fingernails as an attractive alternative to this torturous film. "},{"Title":"What a waste of my time and money","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I enjoy a chick flick if it's going somewhere, but this movie started nowhere and ended up as it started.  The Sarandon character was such a frustrating example of humanity, I had hardly any sympathy for her.  The acting by Natalie Portman was the only thing that held any of my interest, and that was just overwhelmed by the oppressive mood of the work. "}{"Title":"No plot.","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Adele takes her daughter to Beverly Hills to start a new life. From that point on, the movie drags and drags and drags about the feelings and emotions both of them go through, especially poor Ann, who hates her mother. Other than Mother and Daughter's day, what point is there to seeing this? There is no plot, even four fifths through the movie does some type of causative incident occur (though it is supposed to be the climax). Too many flash backs and dull moments make this something for the rental stores to collect dust. "},{"Title":"Meandering mother and daughter melodrama","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Anywhere But Here was decent, but could have been a lot better. It gets bogged down with melodramatic moments that pop up randomly from time to time. The struggles of the mother and daughter could have been dramatic enough without these things. I liked the premise. Perhaps the biggest reason the film fails, though, is Susan Surandon. Am I the only person on Earth who sees that she is a terrible actress? She overacts even the simplest scenes. So Natalie Portman has the job of holding the entire film together, and she just can't do it. I love her. She is the reason that I endured this film. But there're  just too many things going wrong with it for her to be able to save it with her understated, realistic style. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Aptly titled - At the theater I wished I was anywhere but there","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" OK, maybe it's because I'm a guy and the only reason I saw this movie was because I went with my wife, but this was the most boring movie I've seen in a long, long time. I don't hate chick flicks as long as there's a good plot, but this one needs a lot of work to make it interesting. About 15 minutes into the movie all I could think about was how uncomfortable the theater seats were. The only redeeming value of this movie is that Natalie Portman is hot... but this alone doesn't make a 2 hour movie worth sitting through if it's lame & boring. Perhaps it's a good mother/daughter flick but if you're a guy you'll hate it. "}]