[{"Title":"fascinating slice of history","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"49 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Although ultraconservatives will undoubtedly dismiss `The Cradle Will Rock' as blatant leftwing propaganda, the rest of us will see it as a fascinating rumination on the intricate relationship that has always existed between politics and art.  Writer/director Tim Robbins, whose left-leaning sympathies are common knowledge in the film industry, has managed to create a screenplay of amazing complexity and depth, functioning on an enormous number of levels - political, historical, aesthetic, personal - without ever losing clarity and focus.  He has set up a dizzying array of characters, yet each one is fleshed out with enough depth and particularity to make him or her a vital part of the overall tapestry.Set in the turbulent 1930's, Robbins' tale focuses on the National Theatre Company, an organization set up by Roosevelt during the Depression to provide out-of-work artists a vehicle through which to ply their trade and culture-starved audiences a chance to revel in the glories of live theatrical performances.  Unfortunately, it was also a time of great civil and political upheaval, with Communism and Fascism battling for supremacy abroad and many Americans divided along similar lines in their loyalties. With passions running deep, it was only a matter of time before many in the United States Congress began suspecting the NTC of Communist sympathizing - and it was a short road from there to the eventual dismemberment of the organization.  The film centers on the production of a controversial musical play called `The Cradle Will Rock' that portrays the glorious coming of unionism to a steel factory, a scenario that parallels the events in the lives of several of the characters in the film.Given this fascinating historical background, Robbins has filled his film with a rich assortment of characters, from Orson Welles, as a fledgling young actor who sees unions as the ruination of artistic purity, to Nelson Rockefeller, as a well-meaning art patron who balks at the mural Diego Rivera has painted for him only after Rivera refuses to remove the image of Lenin from Rockefeller's monument-to-capitalism lobby.  In fact, the cast of characters is so enormous, with each one taking a crucial part in the narrative proceedings, that it is quite impossible to mention them all here. Suffice it to say that Robbins covers the social spectrum from industrialists and capitalists to union workers and the unemployed, from sympathetic patrons and patronesses to the little people eager to root out the seeds of Communism even at the expense of their own ostracism.  And not a one is uninteresting.Robbins has assembled an all-star cast that reads like a who's who of contemporary movie acting (albeit of a non-blockbuster variety). Although at the beginning of the film, the casting of such familiar faces seems a bit disconcerting - leading to what critic Judith Crist refers to as the `hey there' syndrome, i.e. destroying the verisimilitude of a work by parading too many recognizable people before the camera - this technique actually helps the audience to differentiate the many characters who might otherwise pass by in a confusing and disorienting blur.  Hank Azaria, Ruben Blades, John Cusack, Joan Cusack, Cary Elwes, Bill Murray, Vanessa Redgrave, Susan Sarandon, John Turturro and Emily Watson comprise this truly fine cast.Liberal as his leanings might be, Robbins is able to focus on the bitter ironies that abound on both sides of the political spectrum.  For instance, while Susan Sarandon portrays a Jewish ally of Mussolini, abandoning her pro-worker principles to act as his capitalist representative in the States, Ruben Blades plays a Diego Rivera who has subordinated - if only temporarily - his own revolutionary ethos to the power of the almighty buck.  Also, there is a certain paradox to the fact that, when the government has decreed the theater closed and thereby forbidden the premiere performance of the play, it is the actors' UNION that threatens the performers with firing if they carry out their plan to stage it furtively.  Robbins is even somewhat evenhanded in his treatment of the `enemy' - the rich capitalists and the anti-communist members of the theatre organization - portraying them with good-natured humor and pathos.  Joan Cusack, as a clerk at the employment office and Bill Murray, as a vaudeville ventriloquist, seem like decent people, only hopelessly misguided and lonely.  (Unfortunately, Murray's sudden change of heart at the end seems inexplicable and unmotivated).  As for the elite in the story, Robbins does a lovely job of spoofery at the end of the film; as the play is finally being performed at a nearby theatre - representing the triumph both on stage and in the world at large of the common man over the oppressive tyrants of industry - the tycoons, dressed in masquerade ball costumes of the 18th Century aristocracy and Catholic hierarchy, mull over their plans to retain control of the art world by bankrolling only those paintings depicting the scenes of utmost blandness and banality.  Thus, these men of corporate power are portrayed more as amusingly quaint pests than malevolent or malicious despots.There is certainly no denying that `The Cradle Will Rock' is, at heart, a bit of a leftwing diatribe.  However, it is not a cruel or unreasonable one. And Tim Robbins' extraordinary skills as both a storyteller and filmmaker make this clearly one of the most interesting and impressive films of 1999. "},{"Title":"This Rocks","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"37 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Tim Robbins is a good actor. Not great, but it is clear in his acting that he has a passion for the theater. Now he has written and directed something that elevates him to world class.The simple first Tim has learned from Altman how to make a camera move in such a way that the viewer becomes part of the action. Some of his long, multithreaded action shots are breathtaking. More, this is used to tie together dual threads and multiple stories. Altman again, but even Altman is inconsistent in this.But Tim can do something Altman cannot. He tunes this ensemble so tightly it seems that they are siblings. Many individual performances deeply charm, reach high.That alone makes this a must see. But there's more. This is yet another play about a play, a common enough genre that has a very specific set of pitfalls. Robbins the writer cleverly avoids this with a facile trick. Uncareful viewers will see this as a simple, left-leaning story about artistic McCarthyism (Jesse Helms anyone?). But that is a ruse. The story is just the excuse.Watch it again and look for why the play couldn't be put on. It was the unions, as much coopted by the system as Rockefeller that was the real threat and who the players defy at the end. This ahistorical fact was inserted for a reason. Also watch for how the whole thing is nested in Faust, with a deeper recursive level with the players as the puppets in Faust. The puppet thing is worked a few other ways with Murray of course, but also so many others until we feel that the only non-puppets are the actors.I think this is one of those cases where Robbins exceeded his own intellect, but it still works as a deeply recursive self examination, even of itself, because he trusted his instincts as dramatist (and presumably the actors' instincts as well).I rate this high for intelligence. It achieves what Altman has not. Some seem to object that some of the characters are silly Wells and Houseman and the Countess. But this is deliberate. They are playing players IN A PLAY. That's the point. Perhaps it would have been better to not use historical names since it confuses people who might look for accuracy.Some misgivings though. Sarandon's performance was the weakest. Cinematically, the crushing of the mural during the performance was blunt editing. The pacing was off -- it should have been better integrated with the pacing of the play's action. The transposition of the dummy to modern Broadway was radically less subtle than the dummy theme's life in the rest of the play. If you didn't tease it out early, you'd be confused. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful, Intelligent Film","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"30 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Cradle Will Rock has everything I like in a movie - great characters, humor, suspense, depth, and music.  The many subplots are woven together in perfect balance, leaving you wanting more of everything at the end, even though the film is over two hours.The acting is excellent all around, especially Cherry Jones' portrayal of Hallie Flanagan, the head of the Federal Theater.  Ruben Blades and Angus MacFadyen give us Diego Rivera and Orson Welles, respectively, and do not disappoint.  It's rare to see so many charismatic, likeable people in a movie with a real story.  There is no one star of the film - everyone is sharing the spotlight equally.  Tim Robbins has really done a magnificent job of putting all the pieces in the right places.And perhaps best of all, this is a film with real controversy - one that will get you thinking about art and politics and unions and the influence of money on everything.  Cradle Will Rock is such an ambitious piece of work, it could have failed in so many different ways, and yet it succeeds on every level.  Check it out. "},{"Title":"Deserves more praise than it gets","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"26 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This may suffer from having a few too many plot lines and characters (Emily Watson, for example, is a role too far), but most of what's there is excellent. Bill Murray is as good as he has been recently in Rushmore and Lost in Translation, and the Cusacks are at their best. This is a film that lingers with you after you've seen it, and gives a fascinating insight into a turbulent time.  "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Depiction of the Universal Struggle of Artists","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Tim Robbins creates a brilliant social commentary in the same in-your-face style as Bob Roberts. I adore the statements Robbins makes about social politics, as well as the problems with the idea of art for art's sake. He lyrically tells the story of the struggle of performing and visual artists around the Depression era, choosing between their art and their livelihood--a struggle that is universal for artists through the expanse of time. The concept of this film is a breakthrough for the big screen, since Hollywood seems to be the capital of selling out. The comments on artistic integrity are strong and literally moving in the acting of an amazing cast, as well as the way in which the story is edited to David Robbins' beautiful score. The entire film is simply poetic. This film is truly a masterpiece to any artist, or to anyone who knows what it like to compromise your values to survive.     "},{"Title":"Artsy, elegant manifesto with fascinating sub-plots and details.","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Based on the events that occurred in post Depression era New York in 1936, `The Cradle Will Rock' is a spectacular extravaganza of people, places, and most of all, cultures. Truly an exemplary take on the battle of radicals and corporates, art and politics when they could be united in a common bond. Thus, it is only suiting that such a film be directed by uber-liberalist Tim Robbins. This picture simply wouldn't have worked without him.From an overhead point of view, this is the cinematic equivalent of a protest- a real bite on shady politics. But in actuality it is something far deeper, focusing on numerous interesting sub-plots and taking in everyone's point of view. The backdrop is the closing down of a theatrical play when it is accused of being communist. Throughout the 135 minutes, we take in all of the different `isms'- fascism, capitalism, communism, Nazism, Catholicism and Judaism. Not only does this require a passing knowledge on these people and events; one must have an interest in the proceedings to get the most out of it.One reason why there have been some negative reviews is because people are confused as to why Diego Riviera, Margherreta Sarfatti etc. are in the story. I can explain. Rather like `Magnolia (which followed on totally dissimilar outlines), you have to read the sub-text. This is a movie about passion for art and music. Marc Blitzein, Hazel Huffman and Diego Riviera (and all connected) had a deep passion for their work that the authorities would soon destroy because of rules and regulations.Interesting is the fact that all the characters are based on true life people, and Robbins has assembled a fine cast who give noteworthy performances all across the board. One of the hardest to portray has to be Orson Welles. It's a true fact that 21-year-olds from the 1930's look much older than those from the 90's. No one wanted to see James Van Der Beek/ Casper Van Dien in the role. Thus, Angus MacFadyen was a superb choice, portraying Welles as an egotistical, self-centred man. Equally impressive is Susan Sarandon (with an impeccable exotic accent) as a Jewish Fascist art dealer.  She knows exactly what she's doing and highlights some of the best scenes. Other standouts include John Cusack's aristocratic Nelson Rockafeller and Cary Elwes' interpretation of flamboyant producer/ soon-to-be Oscar winner (`The Paper Chase'- 1973) John Houseman.If there were a flaw, it would have to be the last 15-20 minutes. What, for the most part, is an illustrious, brilliant character study later dissipates into a shiny-smiley low glitz `Singin In the Rain' effort. Such a shame, because the film was doing so tremendously up until that point. Then of course, it is 135 minutes long so much of that final sequence could and should have been excised.Nevertheless, if you can forgive that, you have a remarkable, audacious film on hand. `The Cradle Will Rock' truly is an overseen landmark in ensembles, biopics and interweaving. By far Robbins best movie yet, the sub-plots are equally impressive from Blitzstein's paranoid delusions to Constance La Grange's over-the-top characteristics. If you are in any way interested in fascism, communism etc. then don't miss this polished, spirited picture. My IMDb rating 7.6/10.  "},{"Title":"Smart history","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is definately Tim Robbins best (directed) film yet.  He brings a number of characters together to tell the story of the 1930's.  In particular, Orson Wells and his broadway production that caused a controversy and some other things.  Though it take liberties in history (that sounds weird), it comes out in the end as good entertainment from an exceptional actor/writer/director/producer.  All star cast includes John and Joan Cusack, Ruben Blades, Hank Azaria, Tim Robbins (uncredited), Emily Watson, Susan Sarandon, Paul Giamatti, Angus MacFaden as Orson Wells (in a breakthrough performance) and Bill Murray in a wonderful role as a puppeteer.  A+ "},{"Title":"A film that will change your life.","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"21 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Tim Robbins has created a masterpiece. A film that stands up in the face of adversity and squashed freedom.Robbin's telling of the legendary events surrounding the Orson Welles production of Marc Blitztien's Labor Opers, THE CRADLE WILL ROCK, not only puts forth the events but he masterfully presents his film in the style of a Brecht theatre piece. The emotional level in the theatre when I saw this film was high,Applause rang out during the films climax. But this film is not only about artistic freedom, it is about freedom as a whole,about standing up for your freedom of belief and expression,could you imagine that there was actually a time in this free nation of ours when armed guards actually locked the doors of a theatre ,trying to prevent a show from being mounted.This film is an important one,and what Robbins accomplishes is  to present it as entertainment as well,this is not a history lesson but a well executed work of art. As perfomances go everyone was splendid. Hank Azaria wins best honors as Blitztien,Cary Elwes and Angus McFadden as Houseman and Welles are also brilliant in their stellar portrayals.Vanessa Redgrave,Susan Sarandon and Bill Murray also lend their imense talents. John Turrturo deserves special mention for his touching portrait of actor Howard DaSilva.  Some critics have pointed out what they felt was a lack of character development in the film. These critics have greatly missed the point. the film is presented as a Brecht (or Blitztein ) style play. Blitztein's CRADLE included characters named for their role in society,or personality, Jimmy Forman,Mister Mister,Reverend Salvation etc. it is this type of acting Robbins successfully evokes from his actors.  This film is more than a movie,it is an emotional experience that will change the way you look at society.It is an inspiration,telling us to fight for what you believe in. "},{"Title":"What is YOUR price?","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a classically written piece about the corruptability and compromises of politicians, businessmen and yes even artists. Tim Robbins is quickly becoming one of my favorite writers. I'll admit I had a hard time trying not to misinterpret the dialog, but at least the movie made me think. I also commend Robbins for tackling the hypocrisy involved in being an artist. It's slow, but give it a chance. By the end of this movie the levels and themes he's hitting on tie together very, very well.  "},{"Title":"An American Masterpiece","Date":"16 April 2009","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Tim and Susan have been on the forefront of our political and artistic landscape for many years, regardless of the personal or artistic costs. They are Hollywood players, and as such, I do not always stand and cheer when I see one of their films. It's taken some time for me to recognize their excellent aspirations. Not to say I haven't embraced their intentions in a general way. With this film, Cradle Will Rock, however, I embrace them unconditionally.I have deep theatrical roots, and was simply enchanted by the frame of this story inside Roosevelt's WPA theatre project of the early '30s. As deeply embedded in the theatre as I am, I had no idea, I blush to admit, that I owed so much to the extraordinary legacy of the artists and managers from that era. So, for this alone, I am grateful to the filmmakers.Within my personal history in the theatre, I have long struggled with the zeal in needing to produce theatre in defense of civil and human liberties, and reconciling that with the ongoing pressures of making a buck. Not that I insist all artistic need be liberty oriented. But I am uneasy in choosing a work to produce or to witness, if I cannot find a pillar of social justice within it. The earth is far too fragile, and the threats to her and her inhabitants are far too imminent, to waste time otherwise.Back to the film Not only was I unaware of the WPA theatre project, I was unaware there was a McCarthy-Era-like-witch hunt to dismember the artists and producers and administrators. I kept thinking as I watched the Senate interrogations, Is that Senator McCarthy? That can't be--that doesn't happen for 30 years! The parallel is unmistakable (uncanny), and one can't help but ponder its legacy The McCarthy Era; Senator Jesse Helms' vicious, relentless attacks on public funded arts, media and humanities; the Bush Doctrine, and so on. And as I watched, there was this small voice telling me what we all know Those who don't learn from history are doomed to repeat it. I was shocked to learn that this hideous bureaucracy has been using every weapon at hand to demolish the arts in the US for at least 80 years. For this revelation alone, I honor these filmmakers.The history and political science are presented excellently here, and might be subjects for good documentaries. Believe it or not, I do like entertainment, and it's likely I would've missed the lessons had they been presented as documentaries. Instead, Tim has written one of the most compelling screenplays with very diverse human stories interwoven in what must've been a pitch to studio execs that was unwieldy and impossible to track. Not so in the execution. I write screenplays, and I am many times undone by the weight of my convictions. Not so with Cradle. The writing here is superb.To climax with a performance of the musical Cradle Will Rock booked in a vaudeville house in a last ditch effort after the Feds close down the original venue is divinely inspired. The show-must-go-on mentality produced with a pianist and piano on an empty stage, before a standing room only crowd of recently fired performers and technicians, their families, friends, and supporters is just bloody brilliant. When the performers stand up in the house to join the performance--Equity Union rules they cannot step on stage--when these performers step into their roles, rising up from the audience itself, and in spite of very real threats of being black balled--the effect is sublime. It's as though the observers become the observed--that alchemical magic every sincere performer strives to achieve. To accomplish this on film is rare. Sure, you often identify with a character in a film, but you often do it in a kind of hypnotic escapist state. This film achieves something more particular, more active in the way of audience/performer union.Cradle Will Rock is one of the best film arts arguments for democracy. It is a gift to all of us. Let us honor and treasure the filmmakers. "}{"Title":"Long on Agit Prop, But Well Captures Passionate Arts as Politics Times","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" While it was fun seeing Cradle Will Rock with my mother-in-law who had some memories of the time period, I also did a huge paper on the WPA Arts Projects in graduate school (I recommend Jerry Mangione's book on the Federal Writer's Project as a good introduction) and am quite familiar with the personalities and facts involved so was curious to see it as a docudrama. But we plus my parents felt the film was too agit-prop and the 20% of it that's over-the-top (aw come on, Hearst -- Citizen Kane foreshadowing, Rockefeller and a steel magnate at a Versailles costume party at the climax?) weakens the historical telling of a confluence of happenings -- the strangulation of the Federal Theater Project as a precursor victim to McCarthyism through the Dies Committee (including actual testimony wherein Christopher Marlowe was accused of being a Commie, as were the classic Greek dramatists) and Nelson Rockefeller's benighted sponsorship and then destruction of the Diego Rivera murals at Rockefeller Center. Effectively written and directed by Tim Robbins is how passionately political the artists were, not as card carrying Communists per se, but as committed anti-Fascists and unionists in every aspect of their personal lives--as equally committed as they were to the magic of the theater as a communication device. It does go over the top (including Susan Sarandon as an elegant Jewish courier to Mussolini selling stolen Old Masters), it is effective to show how TPTB were sympathetic to and profited from alliances with the fascists and how much they hated That Cripple in the White House.Amidst the politics, the art for art's sake oversize egos of John Houseman and Orson Welles are also well portrayed, if a shade as buffoons compared to the grimness of everyone else around them, most of whom needed these WPA jobs to keep from starving (there's a toss away line that barely explains that FDR had to throw the Theater Project to the wolves in order to save his whole alphabet soup of programs for the vast majority). It's also a bit over the top in painting those who testified at the Committee as probably crazy, but who knows. The Vanessa Redgrave character is silly but I guess it's making a point that Radical Chic is not new.The climax of the factual occurrence, the one and only original performance of Marc Blitzstein's ThreePenny Opera-inspired political musical Cradle Will Rock is a delightful recreation, and from what I've read, true to the real story. This is definitely a very un-1990's story. (Additional recommended background reading Cultural Front The Laboring of American Culture in the Twentieth Century by Michael Denning (Verso, 1998, 556 pages)(originally written 1/2/2000) "},{"Title":"Not Worth Renting......","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I do not know where the problem in this movies lies.  There must have been something in the script to get people like John & Joan Cusack, Reuben Blades, Bob Balaban and the rest involved in the project like this. However, from watching the final project I have no idea what it was.The movie was poorly written.   The characters were buffoonish stereotypes. The plot was a hodge-podge of storylines that lacked Robert Atlman's unifying touches.  The direction was over the top.  Was Tim Robbins trying to distract the audience from the weaknesses in the film?In short, I would not recommend this movie to anyone.  I can not believe I wasted money renting this.I expected so much more.  The subject matter and the historical characters deserve much better treatment. "},{"Title":"Robbins' homage to Altman","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is another example of Tim Robbins pushing his version of reality on the movie going audience. He paints the 1930's as an era where the rich and powerful attempt to squash the downtrodden.Orson Welles was a giant not only in his film work but also on the stage. Robbins effectively reduces Welles to an alcoholic homophobic buffoon with zero tolerance for an actor's personal needs.I never heard of this film until reading about it on an Orson Welles web site. The audience apparently stayed away in droves. It is not surprising to learn that the film recaptured less than ten percent of its budget at the box office. The film's commercial failure it seems has ended Robbins career as a writer/director.The film contains dozen of characters and numerous plot lines none of which generate any degree of sympathy for the audience to create an engaging story. Robbins' homage (or plagiarism) of Robert Altman's ensemble format fails badly as he tries to push his spin on historical fact. At least he posts a disclaimer, during the opening credits, that the film is mostly true. His message seems to be that those on the left are oppressed holders of the truth while those on the right are corrupt censors of artistic freedom.Another weak spot of the film is that the musical play itself is of dubious quality in both words and music. Robbins, to his credit, shows very little of the play's weak content.The cinematography in the film is very good as is the production design. But if Robbins ever gets the chance to write another film he should study up on screenplay structure and read Lajos Egri on character development. "},{"Title":"Lots of fun and educational, up to a point","Date":"11 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" An all-star production, CRADLE WILL ROCK chronicles the events leading up to the debut of Mark Blitzstein's The Cradle Will Rock, a labor-oriented drama with music, written in the turbulent 1930s. It is to be performed at the WPA Federal Theater, but the government gets cold feet at the last minute and closes the theater. So the players take their production to a private theater and perform before an SRO crowd. Oddly enough, the performance turns out to be the least interesting part of the film, done up in a Let's fix up the old barn and put on a show routine seen in countless Andy Hardy and Little Rascals films. It is what happens before that is fascinating, as we shift back and forth between New York and Washington and are exposed to the isms of this post Depression/pre-WWII time communism and fascism. One supposes most of what writer/director Tim Robbins portrays here is real enough, but keep in mind Robbins is an avowed leftist and so the film is probably best taken with a large dose of salt. But what a cast John and Joan Cusack, Susan (Mrs. Tim Robbins) Sarandon, Cary Elwes, John Turturro, Jack Black, Bill Murray, Vanessa Redgrave, Ruben Blades and Hank Azaria. All play real-life figures of the era, including Orson Welles and John Rockefeller. A must-see for art-house film lovers and those interested in the period. All others, beware. "},{"Title":"Too long, too dull . . .","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Considering the cast, as well as Tim Robbins' direction and writing, this is a movie that you really want to like, and I wish I did!  At least forty minutes too long, and despite the rapid-fire dialogue, far too dull in many spots.And a couple of pet peeves  I'm amazed that everyone had a new car in 1937, and kept it spotlessly clean  -- at least, they do in this movie!  Also, does EVERY movie that is set in depression-era America have to be tinted the color version of sepia? "},{"Title":"I support your art, but that does not mean that I must support your revolution","Date":"2 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Cradle Will Rock is not a very exciting title for a film, and my eye would most certainly have slid past its listing in the TV guide if it were not for the one-sentence plot synopsis below Orson Welles attempts to stage a controversial play in Depression-era America. My attention was immediately captured, and even more so during the very impressive one-take opening shot, which also boasts a lengthy line-up of casting credits that features everybody from Hank Azaria to Emily Watson, with no less than two Cusacks to seal the deal &#150; if there's one thing to be said about actors-turned-directors, it's that they can certainly bring in the big names. 'Cradle Will Rock (1999)' was Tim Robbins' third directorial effort, and he courageously tackles a wide assortment of political and social issues from 1930s America, as well as providing a commentary on the importance of art and culture as a means of expressing one's personal beliefs. It is only fitting that a film about the role of art be directed by a man who is obviously very passionate about his craft, and Robbins has produced a mature and intelligent comedy/drama.The film, based on the true story of Marc Blitzstein's 1937 musical The Cradle Will Rock, was originally planned as Orson Welles' final project, and pre-production commenced in 1983. However, not unusually for the great director, financial support was withdrawn shortly afterwards, and Welles passed away in 1985. Marc Blitzstein (Hank Azaria), a delusional playwright, pens a leftist labour musical based on his experiences with poverty-stricken households and the emerging union powers. Hallie Flanagan (Cherry Jones) of the Federal Theatre Project recognises the dramatic brilliance of the play and agrees to finance it, much to the consternation of the House Committee on Un-American Activities, which is attempting to wheedle out anything that might possibly be construed as Communism. The dramatic prodigy Orson Welles (Angus Macfadyen) is hired to direct the play, and he impulsively decides to cast a homeless stagehand (Emily Watson) in the lead role, even though she can't sing. Meanwhile, Nelson Rockefeller (John Cusack) commissions artist Diego Rivera (Ruben Blades) to paint a mural in his lobby, but is dismayed at the final result.Though Orson Welles merely plays a supporting role in the proceedings, he is played with delicious verve by relative unknown Angus Macfadyen. His portrayal is completely overplayed, presenting the director and performer as a flamboyant caricature, probably the only approach if one is to capture a personality as outrageous as that of Orson Welles. Though the film itself lacks some narrative focus in that it attempts to cover too many themes and characters, all the loose-ends satisfactorily come together for the climax, the incredibly-energetic opening performance of The Cradle Will Rock. I was once again reminded of the considerable talents of John Turturro, who brilliantly and convincingly evolves from the shy, humble Italian family man off-stage to his character of the strong, assertive union leader. Robbins also intercuts the play performance with the heartless desecration of Diego Rivera's politically-charged artwork mural, ironically contrasting the presentation of great art with its inevitable destruction by those who could never appreciate its importance to human culture. "},{"Title":"Robbins/Sarandon Manifesto","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a romantic look at 1930's liberalism, with a ham-handed script that pits the evil fascists against the enlightened intellectuals.It tries to be a little of everything, and doesn't quite pull it off. It alternates from a comedy, to poignant vignettes of depression era poverty, to a musical, to farce, to political drama. I just felt Robbins couldn't make up his mind as what this film was supposed to be. I am guessing that most of it wound up on the cutting room floor, and maybe a longer film would have allowed some of these themes to develop more completely.It has one of the largest casts I've ever seen. It seems everyone in Hollywood wanted to get in on this one. The biggest problem I had with the film was that if you weren't one of the warmly-portrayed socialists, then you were either a simple minded right wing alarmist, or a big businessman in bed with the fascists.One thing is clear - Robbins and Sarandon yearn for the days when being part of the far, far left was fashionable.  "},{"Title":"Altmanesque tapestry at its best","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was fortunate enough to attend a special screening of Cradle Will Rock with producer/assistant director Allan F. Nicholls, a man of remarkable resume (he worked with Robert Altman several times and therefore, knows what makes a great ensemble drama). Tim Robbins' ode to theater, the passion for arts (acting, in particular), freedom of speech and the price you have to pay for believing and living for it (art vs. politics), is an underrated mosaic of some very exquisite personalities (Orson Welles, Nelson Rockefeller, Diego Rivera, Frida Kahlo, John Houseman, Hazel Huffman, among others) that are, one way or another, involved with a musical play that's about to be closed down for being communist, in 1936's New York. Nicholls (who has a cameo as George Zorn) said that most of the actors worked almost for free, out of friendship for Robbins and love for theater, and that Cradle Will Rock's poor reception at the box-office/critics, is the main reason why Robbins hasn't directed another movie since then. That's a shame, since this is even better than his previous directorial efforts (Bob Roberts and Dead Man Walking), which were much easier films. It's true you have to know at least a little bit about the people portrayed here in order to fully appreciate/understand the film, and movies like this don't usually become blockbusters, but the fact that Cradle Will Rock was ignored altogether and seems quite forgotten is really sad. The ensemble cast is one of the best I've ever seen - Emily Watson, Bill Murray, Vanessa Redgrave, Joan Cusack, Cherry Jones, John Turturro, Susan Sarandon, John Cusack, Cary Elwes, Angus Macfadyen, Paul Giamatti, Bob Balaban, Hank Azaria, Jack Black, Philip Baker Hall, among others - and the screenplay is Altmanesque tapestry at its best. Hopefully, this film will be discovered in a not so distant future, and get the acclaim it deserves. 10/10. "},{"Title":"This is what theater should be all about!","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film reminds you of how class, politics, war and censorship influences culture in a very well made and inspiring way. Orson Welles says that if you leave the theater without passion and the will to fight and challenge society and instead discuss the play's connotations over a cup of coffee theater has failed. Good point! Despite a very famous cast and a fascinating and relevant story it got a very limited release. Perhaps it is symptomatic of the topic of the film, cultural censorship, and the R-rating - please! Jim Murray is great as the miserable and contradictory puppeteer and the debate between Diego Rivera and Nelson Rockefeller over Lenin is not to be missed. As the previous viewer said, stick it out - it is worth it! "},{"Title":"An unbelieveable achievement","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie proved to be a bit ahead of its time, as several films have recently come out that follow a similar structure--that of many important characters, but no main character (Magnolia and Traffic).  The film is fact-based, but admittedly takes liberties.  The main arc of the film is the story of Orson Welles' production of the play of the same name.The cast is excellent  Hank Azaria, John Turturro, Bill murray, Joan and John Cusack, the guys from tenacious D, etc. all give brilliant performances.  The stroy's characters are mostly upper-class snobs and down and out actors looking for theater work during the depression.  This film also hints at the future of film, as Orson Welles and William Randolph Hearst are characters in the film, moving in similar circles, seemingly on a collision course that happens later when Welles depicts Hearst in Citizen Kane. Robbins wrote and directed the film, and he should be applauded for meticulously weaving in so many interesting characters and powerful themes into a film.  This is unheard of for this media, and many good writers would be hard pressed to communicate this much text in a 500 page novel.  This film has been overlooked. "}{"Title":"This Film Belongs to Emily Watson","Date":"8 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" From the initial scene as she rises before the camera, Emily Watson takes possession of this film and brings it life, heart, and soul. She creates here a character of depth and realism so profound that one can never take there eyes off of her. Ms. Watson is acknowledged to be an actor's actor and that is never more apparent and clearly proved than among this outstanding cast. Her stunning artistic gift and screen presence causes her to tower over her fellow actors and she is able to reach out to them and help them deliver performances that would otherwise never have graced this film. Watson also reveals heretofore unrevealed talents as a singer who can deliver a song in a way that is both riveting and heart breaking. The camera indeed loves Emily Watson as much as audiences and in this film she once again presents viewers with a priceless gift of a performance, ripping bare her soul to put all her being into the character she assays. What she achieves here would stand alone as the performance of a lifetime, but Emily Watson does it in film after film, whether as star or in a featured part, it is she that stands out and captures us forever with her magnetic genius, graceful beauty, and profound spirituality. "},{"Title":"Doesn't do the troupe justice!","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Despite noble ambitions to shed light on a forgotten sequence in theatre history, Tim Robbins' depiction of the censoring of a 1930's play fails. The play in question fell under suspicion of having hidden Communist, or at least left-wing, messages.  Perhaps the only  characters which are fleshed out beyond a single dimension are those played by Cherry Jones (a feisty and eloquent woman managing the federal theatre program) and John Turturro, an Italian-American actor with a large family to support.  Surprisingly, this movie extends mercilessly beyond two hours without any real indication of tension or conflict.  Unfortunately, both the advocates of censorship and the play's valiant supporters are depicted as silly and innocent- as if Robbins was too distracted by the quaintness of the period- which robs the story of any real impact.  Rockefeller, the personification of censorship based upon ignorance, is written as being at worst a mere fool who flirts with artists without understanding art. Certainly drama was inherent within this fascinating episode in history, but it was nowhere to be seen within Cradle Will Rock.   "},{"Title":"More depth and less scope would have helped","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Cradle Will Rock(**) is an overbaked stew into which writer/director Tim Robbins lavishly mixes such real-life figures as Orson Welles, Nelson Rockefeller, Diego Rivera and Marc Blitzstein together along with many other assorted fictional characters from every walk of life, social strata and political persuasion from the far right to the far left (it's pretty clear where arch-liberal Robbins' sympathies lie).  A big and (usually) talented cast was apparently instructed by their director to go for the broad and the obvious whenever possible in playing these caricatures.  I'm not sure where the audience for this movie might be.  Those who are familiar with the people and events of the 30s depicted here will probably be offended by the offensively cartoonish portrayals.  (Angus MacFadyen's tipsy, lightweight performance as Orson Welles vies for the worst and whoever told Emily Watson she could sing should be forced to listen to her tone-deaf vocalizing in a locked room for 24 hours straight.)  The hectic intercutting from one storyline to another and the careening, show-offy camera work leave the viewer more exhausted than exhilarated from trying to keep up with what's going on.  The final 20 minutes culminate in a ramshackle audience-participation performance of excerpts from Marc Blitzstein's dated musical play (nobody was allowed on the stage) that seems almost unendurable due to a lack of vocal talent and Robbin's aggressive insistence on eliciting viewer cheers by going to frequent closeups of people onscreen cheering.  Cradle would have benefited from considerable cutting and focusing on one or two subjects instead of trying to cram so much into one film.  As it stands now, Tim Robbins overreaches himself.  Orson Welles he's not.  "},{"Title":"too many historical inaccuracies","Date":"28 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" too many historical inaccuracies. the movie is set in 19371. fascism wasn't anti-semitic until the mid thirties, and the first racial laws were passed in 1938 on account of the pressing ideological pull of the dominant ally, Nazi Germany. Hitler needed the Italians to get on par with the racial discrimination, otherwise he couldn't justify to the Aryan German people being allied with an inferior people, and all the propaganda efforts put into making the Germans feel as a unite comradeship against their many inferior enemies would promptly fail its purpose. Mussolini obediently submitted to his requests and promulgated the race manifesto, despite counting many Jews among his friends and acquaintances himself, like his ex lover the writer Margherita Sarfatti2. Margherita Sarfatti was a strong supporter of Mussolini, but that changed when the racial laws were passed. She soon left the fascist party and went to Argentina. So if she ever went to the USA to promote Mussolini, this was surely before the regime turned anti-semitic.3. Italy and Germany did not attack Spain. They aided and military and politically supported the nationalist rebels leaded by Franco, who tried a coup during the civil war to restore a conservative regime which had been subverted by the late socialist government and numerous anarchist riots. IE Spain was already a mess. Many Italian Marxists, communists and socialists also went and fought in Spain alongside the republican forces - which were aided by the URSS - against the falangistas and the fascist regular troops. 4. Rivera painted that mural in 1933, so all dates and facts happening in the movie mismatch.5. In my understanding there was wide sympathy and support for Italian fascism in the American parlors, which isn't as apparent watching the movie. They favored fascism in juxtaposition to communism, as the latter was founded on class conflict, and the first on induced/enforced social peace and corporatism - which was already part of the American culture and economy, although in a more liberal form (and it still is). The fascist ideology found ground in the frightened middle and upper classes in all of the world, as the unions were getting stronger and the rich were scared of a Marxist revolution. "},{"Title":"Perhaps the Most Overlooked Film of 1999","Date":"30 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Cradle Will Rock got no love at the time of its release. I can only hope people discover it all these years later on home video, because it's a triumphant ode to the power art has to enact change and unite people in a common cause.Set in the world of Depression-era protest theatre, it brings together a collection of narrative threads that explore the collision between art and commerce. The robust cast is full of terrific actors, all doing terrific work, but Cherry Jones and Vanessa Redgrave are standouts.This film has an energy and irresistible narrative drive that get me excited every time I see it.Grade A+ "},{"Title":"In the top all-time 5!","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of the best films I've ever seen. It has the idealism of Casablanca mixed with a much needed capitalist critique, among many other things.If you're a political activist--or just a citizen who is worried about the direction the world is going in--this movie is a must-see. You may agree or disagree with the political perspective, but you must see it anyway. Try to look upon the characters as allegorical. People who criticize them as 'cardboard figures' are missing the point, I think. Robbins is trying to distill reality into a 2 hour film. In my opinion, it is not far from the truth to say that there is a battle in the world between people who love wealth and power and people who love truth and justice.It's one of the rare cases of a film that is strongly critical of the establishment. Indeed, it surprises me that Tim Robbins is able to get any work at all after doing a film like this. But maybe Hollywood, since it is sort of a bastion of liberalism, is willing to put up with Tim's 'cute politics'.But it's not just a political film, it also has artistic depth and the acting is quite good. You'll laugh. You'll cry. Etc. ;) Suspend your disbelief and your joy will know no bounds... "},{"Title":"Underrated Movie watch it and learn a little","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've seen this movie three times now, and each time it leaves me in complete awe. This movie examines freedom of speech, workers rights, art, politics and war in Depression Era America. It focuses on a union sympathizing play, 'Cradle Will Rock', directed by the infamous Orson Welles. The play is being funded by Federal Theater, which itself is being investigated by congress for being infested with communists.At the same time, a wealthy steel magnate meets an ambassador from Mussilini and Nelson Rockafeller (played by John Cusack) asks Diego Rivera to paint a mural inside the newly completed Rockafeller center.Tim Robbins, who directed the movie, does a brilliant job, weaving all the stories together flawlessly and painting a picture of the Depression and pre-war era. John Cusack, Joan Cusack, Bill Murray, Susan Sarandon, Cherry Jones, and Emily Watson all contribute to make this one of the most underrated movies out there. By the end, not only will you be blown away, but you'll be smarter as well. "},{"Title":"Woefully overlooked","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A beautiful movie that can make the simplest scenes incredibly powerful. No, it's not subtle filmmaking. Instead, it's passionate and exciting and touching.  I'll remember so many moments from this movie--John Turturro standing up in the audience, Emily Watson standing up for herself, the destruction of the masterpiece mural, Bill Murray's onstage breakdown. A wonderfully crafted movie that actually captures what it means to celebrate art. "},{"Title":"too many cooks (& Orson Welles looked like an idiot)","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie had too many cooks. Too much of something going on. Too many things going on but what was the most imporant? What was the core? Was there even a core?Tim Robbins wrote it pretty well, till the bleeding heart on his sleeve began to show. Especially during the scenes right after the McCarthy-esque trial. The characters who'd been on trial for being communists spoke to one another as if Tim Robbins were tossing words into their mouths like fish to trained seals. These were everything Robbins wished he could've said, but alas - he is cursed to be succesful in this life, where the leftwing opinion is no longer the underdog. Robbins, like most artists, strive to be the underdog. The REAL stuff comes out then. But let's be real folks - there hasnt been a movie that showed a Republican as anything but an overbearing slobby tryant in a very long time. Tim and his gang rule over hollywood. Manipulation is a two way street.And Orson Welles looked like a complete boob. Mozart in AMADEUS was played this way, but only in the beginning part of the film. Then we see the genius shining through. Never in this film do we see Orson as anything but a very arrogent, nasty stooge. As if all his genius was just some sort of passionate accident. We saw the means to an end, but not the end, only the MEANS. The tantrums during, but not the finished process. Robbins wrote this movie really about the guy who wrote the play that it's named after. Welles (and John Houseman) were simply uptight geeks who hired him - and acted as if they didnt even understand his vision.Robbins seems like the type of guy who has a lot of friends, all of them agreeing with everything he says. This movie was interesting at first... then drowned like a baby turkey reaching up for rain... which is exactly how I felt when it was over... soaking wet yet still needing a shower... "},{"Title":"A Film That's 130 Minutes Too Long","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I walk out of a movie approximately once every 15 years.  Today I was glad to make that decision 50 minutes into this monumentally boring, unemotional, simplistic, self-indulgent, self-deluded diatribe.  I am really sorry that I missed watching Mildred Pierce on TCM for the 80th time to go see this, though.I am a liberal and, as such, always enjoy a good story about the plight of the oppressed.  What I hate with a passion is when a film resorts to Eisenstein-era stereotypes like the good homeless person and the bad cop and the free-thinking artist and the bad tycoon and... you get the picture, to make its point.You can tell this movie has the potential to be a complete bomb in the first 10 minutes, when the camera self-importantly tracks one character uninterruptedly a la Orson Welles and the rest throw away unintelligible expositional dialogue to let us know whether they are good (i.e., poor) or bad (i.e., rich).  Welles, like Hitchcock and many others in this age of Steadicams, did the uncut tracking shot masterfully, suspensefully, infusing almost every frame with some kind of significance and moving the story forward at the same time.  Tim Robbins' shot is empty.  Oh, sure, you could make something out of it if you wanted but, ultimately, the shot is just there to say, Neat, hah?  It doesn't mean a thing.Neither does much of what follows, and I'm glad I didn't stay to find out if anything would.  It's like, going into it, the makers figured they were going to make the kind of film that people made in the sixties where it was accepted who the good and the bad guys were, so you just needed to get to the payoff scene where a) the workers are massacred or b) the workers rise together and triumph.  So Robbins plunges forth without taking any time to connect us with his characters or with the complexities beneath their surface, to make us participate in what makes them tick.  They are just assigned a function, and off they go into the plot.Susan Sarandon and Vanessa Redgrave as a fascist and a decadent aristocrat respectively are ridiculous pieces of obvious casting against type.  But since the whole film is so firmly planted in stereotypes, when it tries to go against them, as with the casting of these two characters, it is transparent and self-evident.If you miss movies like Sacco e Vanzetti or They Don't Wear Black Tie, you'll probably eat this up.  I can't imagine why anyone without a leftist leaning would care at all about the story, much less enjoy the way it's told. "}{"Title":"One of the best ensemble pieces I've ever seen","Date":"13 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film depicts the true story of a communist play staged by Orson Welles and Jon Houseman (anyone familiar with the Mercury Theater, Citizen Kane, or the Oscar-winning Paper Chase performance will know of these two historic figures) that ran afoul of the government for its Communist leanings. Stories about Diego Rivera's controversial mural at New York's Rockefeller Center (home of Saturday Night Live/The Today Show) and a ventriloquist played by Bill Murray are juxtaposed alongside the main storyline though they don't exactly intersect. It's kind of curious.The film's main accomplishments are it's frenetic pace and it's juggling of multiple story lines. There's a lot of energy from scene to scene even as the focus jumps. As (what I presume is) a homage to Orson Welles himself, Robbins introduces characters with long and graceful tracking shots and never lets the camera get bored. His film covers a wide tapestry of struggling artists in the Great Depression (even moving history a little to allow Rivera and Welles/Houseman to collide) and shines a light on the forces that drive them. Some are hungry to make a statement, some are hungry to be creative, some are hungry for social standing and many are literally hungry.The film boasts a great number of top-name actors including the Tenacious (Kyle Gass and Jack Black) before they were famous, both Cusack siblings, great character actors Philip Baker Hall and Paul Giamatti, Susan Sarandon, Bill Murray, Hank Azaria, Cary Elwes and Emily Watson.Emily Watson, in particular, is a diamond in the rough here. Oozing pathos and emotion, she's a modern-day Ruby Keillor in 42nd Street. She's at the center of the movie's most impressive tracking shot A woman in poverty who squats in a movie theater wakes up in the morning as the newsreel runs through a projecter and runs out of the theater before she gets in trouble. Similar, Hank Azaria as the songwriter behind the play displays a lot of nuance. Bill Murray does a typical deadpan Bill Murray but it feels oddly appropriate. If anything, Tim Robbis deserves credit for catering to his star's strengths. "},{"Title":"Audacious, Ambitious, & Amazing Exuberance&#x85;Art vs Capitalism","Date":"15 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Uber-Liberal Tim Robbins (wrote and directed) This Energetic Ensemble of America in the Deep Depression Era and the Clash of Art and Industrial Right Wing Politics. Robbins Never Shy of His Heart Bleeding On His Sleeve, is Commanding with His Vision of Real Life Strife in Any Era Concerning Itself Completely in the Way it Uses Art to Compel the Vision of Real People and the Effect Top Down Intimidation and Downright Oppression of Thought can be So Devastating.The All-Star Cast Takes Turns with the Limited but Engaging Portrayals and Robbins Over the Top and Interwoven Story Reminds of Robert Altman. It's All So Much Pageantry and Playful Exuberance that the Viewer Can't Help but be Entertained and Enlightened.A Colorful and Broad Artistic Landscape with Real Life Characters Who Are Interestingly Villainous and Various Artistic Types Caught in the Hurricane of Hubris from the Culturally Challenged. A Daddy Warbucks Display of Unhinged Capitalism with No Regard for Individual Suffering Cannot be Overstated.The Movie has Been Criticized for Being Flamboyant and Disjointed, but the Story Takes on Quite a Bit in Historical and Social Concerns that it Might be Given a Pass as Exclamatory but Exciting Nonetheless.Overall, it is an Overlooked and Dismissed Propaganda Piece that is So Artfully Rendered it will Stand the Test of Time with it's Unapologetic Display of a World Gone Mad, Corruptible On All Fronts. It Takes a Stand and Defies Dissent Despite its Easy Target as Left-Wing Nonsense that in the Last Analysis that Criticism Doesn't Hold Up Because the Film's Thesis is Undeniably True. "},{"Title":"Underrated Magnificence","Date":"30 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A fascinating, highly entertaining historical epic that borders on the brilliant. Tim Robbins directs with flair and imagination from an absolutely fantastic script that brings characters that are part of the very fabric of America to life in wonderful ways. The cast is just great but one standout is Emily Watson in the role of a homeless, jobless young woman during the Depression who longs for stardom. It is simply a superb performance and Watson will break your heart while inspiring you at the same time. Her simple beauty and gentle singing voice are perfect for this film and the image of her rising from sleeping behind a theater movie screen will haunt audiences with its power. After watching work her magic in this film, it becomes quite obvious why Emily Watson is considered the greatest actress of our time. "},{"Title":"Highly Artistic","Date":"13 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" From the beginning I wasn't too sure I was going to watch the entire movie because it seemed a bit scattered, and sort of an almost musical, but not committed enough to be a full fledged musical. But the longer I watched the more I became fascinated with the many layers going on in the production. This is definitely one of those movies that you could watch a few times and come away with different information and perspectives than previously.The casting was totally a power house line up. I'm guessing the script along with Tim Robins fame probably got these powerful actors and actresses to work on this for lower than their usual price because this just wasn't a script that would make mega millions at the box office so there must have been some sacrificing to get that many great performers on here. I wont go over all the big stars because others on here already have done a good job of that. But the actor who played the young Orson Wells (From around the Citizen Kane era) was practically a ringer for Wells. So much that it was almost like they imported him back in time from the Citizen Kane movie.The only disappointment I actually had here was that in the beginning of the film this is listed as a Mostly True Story, but then at the end there wasn't some post script that sort of tied up the loose ends to let us know what finally happened to the individual primary characters and the play production after the opening night. It would have been nice to have some mention....Otherwise this was a very interesting and thought provoking movie. "},{"Title":"Good, but could have been so much more...","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Don't get me wrong; it's not that I didn't enjoy the movie - I did (in spite of being hungry at the screening I saw)...  but Tim Robbins, who I have all the respect in the world for, spent eight years working on this and honestly I expected more from him.The primary objection I have to this film is that it had Robbins managed to pull together the all bricks, cement, steel, and workers necessary to produce a skyscraper - but ended up throwing together a thoroughly less astounding strip of housing projects.  It's frustrating for me to watch because I saw all this potential that didn't so much go to waste as it did go to the wrong task.Case in point the movie starts out with an impressive shot of Olive Stanton (Emily Watson) waking up behind the screen of a blaring newsreel which gives us all the Depression-era history needed to understand the plot.  Without pulling any tricks, the shot holds on her as she ties her shoes and walks slowly out of the building onto the street.  The whole thing takes maybe three minutes or so, and at no point are there any cuts or changes in angle, so at this point I was already thinking Great, this is going to be a really focused film!It wasn't.  After those first three minutes I don't recall there being a scene (let alone a shot) that lasted for more than a minute and a half. Very quickly we're introduced to approximately four interwoven story lines (some of the weaving is mighty loose) and for the next two hours we're treated to nonstop bouncing from plot to plot to plot - all of them intriguing, but none of them invested enough to give any real sense of payoff by the end.  Even during the final sequences when I felt what may have been goosebumps festering along my arms there was such an excess of change-ups I grew impatient.  I wanted to shout Make up your mind!The cinematography is excellent nevertheless, and the performances are all perfectly on-key (Angus Macfadyen's depiction of Orson Welles alone is enough to redeem any faults, and any opportunity to watch Bill Murray further prove his genius is not to be missed).  Robbins played many scenes off comically in homage to the over-the-top vaudevillian style of the 30s, yet balances this effect of gracefully with touches of humanity and pristinely-crafted drama.  Still, I often found myself wondering how much more would have been brought to a historical (though admittedly tampered) movie such as this by making it more grainy and real as opposed to polished and pampered.Even so, to its credit Cradle Will Rock is still a quality piece of entertainment and I do in fact recommend it.  The major underlying problem that ultimately pushed the movie down from its promising golden pedestal was that the viewer comes away feeling that Tim Robbins wasn't quite sure what he wanted to come of his efforts - or, rather, he knew what he wanted us to reap emotionally in the end, but he couldn't decide what needed to be sown in order to get there.  Extending the metaphor to painful extremes he planted every seed he could get his hands on and ended up with acre upon acre of stunted crops.I'm going to just shut up now and give it seven stars (but it could have been nine...) "},{"Title":"Interesting historically-based realism","Date":"11 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Tim Robbins' Cradle Will Rock is an interesting movie about real-life social issues, politics, the arts, and events during the Great Depression era. This movie chronicles an important time in 20th century United States history when the collapse of the Stock Market lead to a high unemployment rate that affected the lives of many families. People faced desperation through starvation, homelessness, and intense competition during the shortage of jobs. In addition to economic and employment woes, this was a climate that increasingly bred uncertainty about the future, suspicions about outside threats to capitalism and democracy (specifically, the movie addresses communism and fascism), and concerns regarding censorship of artistic expression and freedom of speech. This movie cleverly examines all of these matters while primarily following the creation of the actual Cradle Will Rock musical production during the era. Sponsored by the Federal Theatre Project (FTA) under the Works Progress Administration (WPA) in the United States, the film focuses on a rich ensemble of characters (involved in the arts, theatre, and otherwise). According to this web site (http//memory.loc.gov/ammem/fedtp/ftwpa.html), the FTP was responsible for bringing theatre to millions of citizens throughout the United States, financially supported the growth of theatres, and provided opportunities for theatre professionals. In the real Cradle Will Rock, the playwright Marc Blitzstein wrote about the social and political issues of the era, especially surrounding labor and unions. The political nature of this lead to the controversy touched upon by the film. During the political climate that fostered growing suspicions about perceived threats to the American way of life, Robbins' brings to the screen a historically-based account about how the arts were specifically challenged and alleged as a medium to spread what were considered dangerous messages against American ideals. In particular, the motives and agendas of artists were questioned and suppressed under intense scrutiny. Robbins' Cradle Will Rock presents the realities of this era blended with just the right balance of exposition, drama, and comedic elements. The humor lightens the mood but does not distract from the seriousness of the situations faced by people during this era. The characters are presented with realism that transports you into the struggles and triumphs of their lives. Although the ensemble of characters was interesting, there could have been more depth in some instances. For instance, there were many great sub-plots that were only briefly touched upon. However, to be fair, the goal of this film was probably not to cram an in-depth examination of their lives, so much as it was to utilize the spectrum of characters to showcase diversity in their experiences. In this, we are exposed to a variety of ideals and values, individual and family experiences, and contrasts between the struggling working class and the elite. Center stage is the question surrounding the definitions of American values, ideals, as well as the boundaries of artistic expression. This is definitely one of those movies where some may gain a greater appreciation if they can view it a second time. There is a lot going on with the variety of characters and issues this film examines. This is not a dry, dull historical account, but rather a surface inspection of the Depression era and a country with challenging social and political issues. Viewers may want to enhance their understanding of the events touched upon by the film by learning more about the real, historical events. For instance, we only receive a few, although effective, examples of what people experienced during the climate of the Red Scare. Finally, Robbins' Cradle Will Rock will probably challenge many to think about the potential pros and cons of government response during social and political issues. For instance, the WPA and FTP improved the lives of millions of United States citizens; however, the paranoia surrounding the suspected infiltration of anti-American principles shadowed these accomplishments. "},{"Title":"Fantastic historical document performed by a great ensemble cast","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Cradle Will Rock is a big movie. Not big in terms of blockbuster big, but big in terms of the stories and history portrayed in the film. Robbins has the undertaking of telling several stories tying them all together with the accusation of the chief characters' participation in anti-American activities. Organizing unions and communism are at the center of the conflict portrayed in this film, set in depression-era New York. Chief among the stories are pro-Union play Cradle Will Rock, the Diego Rivera painting Lenin in Rockefeller Center, and accusations of communism being represented in plays funded by the Federal Government.Robbins brings to life the attitudes of the day through the eyes of several fictional and non fictional participants in these events. Toturro and Watson portray actors in the eponymous play, who risk not being able to work in theater again if they act in the play, shut down by the federal government. Bill Murray (in a great, but ignored performance) and Joan Cusack work for the federal theater, and are vocal about there thoughts about communism. Stealing the show, however, are Cherry Jones, as Hallie Flannagan, brilliantly testifying her case before the government denying being a communist, and Hank Azaria, who subtly plays out the role of Cradle Will Rock's writer Marc Blitzstein with great passion.There are some liberties with the history. These events occurred at different times, but Robbins has them occur at the same time, to illustrate their historical significance and similarities. And while the event regarding the much fabled first performance of Cradle Will Rock is heavily dramatized, it's beautifully played out.Of course, Robbins has his hands in politics and this film is an example of that, but, politics aside, this is a brilliantly acted piece illustrating events in history long forgotten. One of the highlights of this film is the music from Cradle Will Rock, which before viewing this film, I wasn't familiar with. As one watches the film, they will realize that the play has some Brecht/Weil (Threepenny Opera) influences. This film is so passionate about its material, that encourages one to dig deeper, and read more about the play and its creator and the history presented here. "},{"Title":"the plot thickens...","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is more the story of an era rather than the story of a play. The WPA was one of Franklin Roosevelts greatest achievements in an era when not too many people felt great. The federal theatre project was one arm of the WPA. Welle's Mercury theater was part of the FTA. This movie was extremely well researched. Angus McFayden does a great job as Welles. Countering him is Cary Elwes as John Houseman. We recently had this theatre treasure come to us as Professor Kingsfield in The Paper Chase film and TV series. Will Geer, part of Welles's group was the grandfather in The Waltons. Viewers will get a wonderful rendering of a largely forgotten Musical by Marc Blitztein and Bertholt Brecht. The cradle will rock is a pro-worker anti-big business piece that rocked the theatre going world in an era where Big Business was largely responsible for the working man's woes. Interwoven within the basic plot of the composition and production of this play are subplots dealing with Mexican painter Diego Rivera (some of whose murals are visible even today) and art dealings by Musolini's mistress.This is a very compelling film well directed and acted. A must see for musical theater students, and just about everyone else. "},{"Title":"clever, underrated and under viewed","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is the only movie that I have seen which SUCCESSFULLY threads together so many plots into one cohesive whole. The scope of this film is immense and yet it manages to be personal and moving.Each performance in Cradle hits right on the mark, despite much being made about Susan Sarandon's lack of performance or Emily Watson's lack of singing ability. Forgive my tangent, but her lack of singing ability is the point. Need we recall Orson Welles ranting, She's terrible, why did we cast her? Particularly notable are Bill Murray and Hank Azaria.As a director, Tim Robbins has done some marvelous work here, adding a certain theatricality which adds to the theme of the film. It feels like a live performance, particularly in a scene backstage where the camera meanders around the theatre picking up bits of conversation as it goes in a remarkably staged scene that must have taken hours to rehearse just to get the timing. The juxtapositions of high society's artistic discussions with rehearsals of Cradle Will Rock, and the performance of Cradle with the demolition of the Rivera piece are stunning.And then of course there is the social commentary. Tim Robbins is clearly left-leaning (but so am I), but the movie is relatively fairly balanced. Ironically, it is the unions, not the government, which keep cradle from being performed in its original venue.The reason I rate this a 9 instead of a 10 is because of the film's accessibility. To a person unfamiliar with art or the depression or the red scare, this movie would not have much meaning. But if you meet the viewing criteria, this is one of the best. "},{"Title":"Important piece of theater history","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The previous comment by jhclues is a thoughtful one. While I accept that some viewers may not be informed enough of that historical period to pick up all the references in the film, I nevertheless think this is a very important film, which successfully dramatizes the thought police phenomenon as well as the power of art to transcend the ordinary. Also, as one who has studied that period in American theater history, I appreciated the story as wonderfully redemptive and satisfying. It's essential to dramatize artfully the crucial issues that confront us, especially in hard times when citizens are so caught up in basic survival, and vulnerable to official scare tactics that we neglect to maintain our fight for civil liberties and artistic freedom. The present is one of those times, and so was the Depression. Tim Robbins did his best here, within his craft, to make the important interesting. I was very pleased with this effort. "}{"Title":"Farraginous chronicle","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I really wanted to like this because Tim Robbins, besides being a decent actor, has a nice ironic sense of humor, because the period was interesting, and because Orson Welles, during his Shakespeare for the Millions period, was getting ready to make his move from Broadway to Hollywood.  The production design was grand, the cast couldn't be better known, and the story had potential.  Sadly I had the same trouble with it that I do with Robert Altman's movies there's an enormous amount of energy on display but it's unfocused.  Plot lines come and go.  Individual scenes can be fascinating and some of the one liners are amusing.  Here is a drunken Nelson Rockefeller with his shirt tails hanging out doing an impromptu dance with Diego Rivera's girl friend, a well-known artist in her own right.  A hypomanic Welles stuffing himself at 21, guzzling wine, and dealing contemptuously with John Houseman's homosexual snits.  Rivera insisting that Lenin STAYS! in his mural at Rockefeller Center.  (He doesn't.)  The movie itself has no center to speak of.  Characters wander around as in Ragtime but they bump into one another glancingly, if at all, and if anything Cradle Will Rock is more fragmented than Ragtime.  A good deal of attention is paid to a spontaneous march up the street from a theater that has been locked up in order to keep out the Communists in the WPA's theater project, to another one, at least as large, which turns out to be packed for a performance of The Cradle Will Rock.  The last 20 minutes or so shows us Marc Blitzstein's musical play, which must have been innovative in its time.  The characters in the play are not well established -- things must have been left out -- and the music is not Gershwin or Kern.  It's a chronicle of the times, true, although a confusing one.  I couldn't always tell when Blitzstein's fantasies began and reality left off, if the mixed narrative threads weren't enough.  It's not a bad movie.  And it certainly doesn't insult the viewer as so many movies currently do.  The smiles that this one elicits come from an appreciation of the ironies involved. Don't expect too much and you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Exquisite piece of work...","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Kudos to Tim Robbins for this remarkable account. There are a few stories here, all revolving around the years of the Red Scare blacklisting in the arts and entertainment industry. The characters who stood out brilliantly (for me) are Ruben Blades as Diego Rivera, and Cary Elwes and Angus MacFadyen as Houseman and Welles. These two provide comic relief as well, and have a perfect chemistry that rivets you to the screen when they appear. Bill Murray's turn as a pathetic ventriloquist is heartbreaking, and John Tuturro's Italian-American actor (in the title musical Houseman and Welles are trying to sneak onstage) brings 'the everyman' aspect into the movie nicely. This is a film worth owning!  "},{"Title":"This is one of the most perfect films ever made.","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film has something for everyone, humor, drama, big-name actors, a fabulous plot, and historical sets and costumes.  This has to be one of the greatest movies ever.  It combines the story of a real musical, Cradle Will Rock (which was produced by the Federal Theatre Project of the Works Progress Administration in the 30s) with historical figures of the time to create a wild and fun journey through New York life in the 30s.  An especially stellar performance for John Turturro, it is a film you cannot miss. "},{"Title":"Great movie, but be careful...","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Cradle Will Rock is a credit to Tim Robbins, as he has created a brilliant, beautiful, moving picture. The direction and cinematography are near perfect, and the cast is one of the best as a whole I have ever seen. Robbins uses a specific play as a reflection of life within the movie, and the process to do so must have been painstaking.However, it would be dangerous to take this movie as a historical recreation of actual events. There are many factual elements in this film, but it is not an attempt to tell the story of the production of The Cradle Will Rock, but an attempt to make social and political points, which is does very well. Robbins takes liberties with timing of events and the characters of historical persons; this is perfectly acceptable for an artist. However, with all of the reality-based programs and movies we have today, viewers should remember that they are seeing a piece of art.This movie is a must-see, and if the historical story interests you, visit your local library. "},{"Title":"Hopefully, a catalyst for revival!","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There are many aspects to this film that excite me.  At first, I only knew of it because I'm an ardent Bill Murray fan, but after seeing it and seeing it again (again, again, again...), there is so much more to praise.  The depression era of American history is rarely viewed from the perspective that Cradle Will Rock offers, so on one hand, it is important to watch it just for that.  Many people may be acquainted with McCarthy and his efforts to stamp out communism but that battle pre-dated him by decades and was waged with more fervor by our government in general during a period when the working poor suffered everytime they tried to unite.  Similar themes of corruption, monopoly and oppression exist now, but it rarely noticed. Jumping into the Cradle Will Rock could bring revival of that old fight.Another revival is of the centerpiece musical itself.  I was blessed to recently see the Cradle Will Rock performed by the excellent Jean Cocteau Repertory in New York City.  At a synposium afterward, the director (who also crafted this year's lineup) admitted that he was pleased at the timing of the Tim Robbins' film, but that he planned to do the Marc Blitzstein piece regardless.  Others aren't as tied to the musical as is this director, but perhaps the film will bring a revival for this wonderful and still timely social commentary.   "},{"Title":"Tim Robbins is a Genius","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Tim Robbins has done it again- he's crafted a masterpiece that defeats all expectations and delivers a strong performance from each member of the ensemble. It is amazing to note that Tim Robbins has written, directed and produced this movie, building on each actor's performance to put together the whole movie. This is one of the reasons this film was so powerful- it was well balanced and left me grinning at the end. The end was pure genius- if you haven't had the chance to see Cradle Will Rock, go out and buy it! The ending is that good! Congratulations are in order for Tim Robbins- he's pulled it off yet again! "},{"Title":"This is an unusual and thoughtful movie","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Tim Robbins is a first class writer and director but better yet, he knows how to cast talent and then let the actors work. It is amazing that so many actors, playing real life people, doing a historical piece could be so funny and sad and exciting.  "},{"Title":"Overly ambitious film by a man with a mission","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Poor Tim Robbins.  An anachronism born 50 years too late, he endures as a passionate liberal crusader in an age of capitalistic dominance.  &#145;The Cradle Will Rock',  written and directed by Robbins, is a pining for the glory days of the socialist and labor movements in the United States.  It is a nostalgic piece with leftist sensitivities, written by one who wishes he had been there.This is a well assembled but bloated ensemble piece, based on fact, that centers on the federal theater program of the mid 1930's.  This program was an outgrowth of the WPA from the depression years that gave federal funding to the arts to give employment to out of work actors, with the thinking that good theater would be good to boost the moral of the masses.  Unfortunately, Robbins was overly ambitious in this collage, attempting to weave together no less than four virtually unrelated stories.  The result is a whirlwind of disjointed jump cuts that distracts the viewer from the only engaging storyline, namely the production of Marc Blitzstein's play.  The disparate barrage of stories, assembled carefully to wax nostalgic about the leftist movement, had little appeal to anyone but those with a predilection to such waxing.  For everyone else, it just diluted the effectiveness of the main storyline, which is a pity because it was a good human interest story.That story shows a young Orson Welles directing a new play sympathetic to the labor movement.  The play and the federal theater program come under scrutiny of the U.S. Government.  The play is closed down on opening night and federal troops sent to barricade the doors of the theater, because the play is believed to have a communist message.  In a defiant act, Welles finds another theater and herds the audience from the front door of the garrisoned theater to the new one where the play is to be performed as a one man show by the author, the only man not in the union.  All the other actors are under orders not to perform lest they lose their jobs, a daunting thought in depression times.  The play goes on with a dramatic and uplifting twist at the end. The whole ensemble did a terrific job.  All the actors gave wonderful performances, though they needed to find someone with a voice better than Emily Watson's for the singing role.  Though I have been critical of John Turturro in the past (&#145;Illuminata' for instance) his was a standout performance in a very talented ensemble.  Ruben Blades was also terrific as the eccentric Diego Rivera.Overall, it was a decent effort at tackling a subject that simply no longer has an audience.  Robbins did a good job on the period props and sets, and the scenes brought forth frankly many of the real issues of the day (with a decidedly leftward slant).  But the film dissipates itself on irrelevant scenes designed to serve as a catharsis for every injustice Robbins saw in the times.  That jihad annuls some good performances by rendering the film a mediocre hodgepodge.I rated the film a 6/10.  It had greater potential but flubbed it.  If you are a staunch conservative capitalist type, don't waste your time with this film.  It will just aggravate you.  If you long for the days of passionate liberal activism, you will love it, but if you are just looking for entertainment, you will probably be disappointed. "},{"Title":"It just all depends on whose ox is gettin' gored.","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you (a)share Tim Robbins leftest philosophy and politics (b)somehow fail to see same in this film or (c)judge it in a sterile environment disconnected from any real time reality, then you will love this movie. It is a fine tailored suit. Freshly cleaned, pressed, and lightly perfumed, ready for a big night on the town. It just doesn't have a hole for the head. Tim Robbins is a very talented actor/director and probably a good and decent man. The problem(my problem)is this film is made with a tacit mind set of ideas, values, and principles which I do not share. Moreover, I believe that left unchecked they will one day result in the destruction of this country. A little to heavy analysis for a comical romp thru the thirties?? This film is much more than a comical romp thru the thirties. Tim Robbins knows that and so do I. How about a whimsical, witty, clever and funny look at life in Stalins gulags? Firings squads are inherently funny. Slaughtering 20-60 million of your own citizens as Mother Russia did since 1917, what a hoot. No, really this could be funny stuff. O.K. not as funny as old people dying for lack of medicine or kids killing each other with all those guns(God, I love those guns)but still someone with Tim Robbins insight could show(I really want to say teach)us the human and amusing side of starvation, enslavement, torture and death. In short I'm not buying this snake oil but I'm sure that tens of millions of others will.  "},{"Title":"Just fantastic","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As an aspiring theater and film professional myself, I was somewhat surprised at how much more my passion for the performing arts could be roused from where it was.  The film served as a big reminder that theater and film are IMPORTANT as well as entertaining.  They accomplish things, over and above simply carrying a message.  Art is an act, a deed in itself and can change the world a little.  That is the ultimate message of the film.  Not politics.  While it is undoubtedly leftist, it is certainly not communist propaganda.  The film does not follow any specific political agenda, except inasmuch as politics and capitalism are limiting factors of artistic development.I'd also like to add that I do not understand the heated objection to Angus MacFadyen's performance as Orson Welles.  Can't he be an arrogant drunk as well as a genius?  His personality does not need reverence and worship just because he was a great filmmaker.But that's a side point in what has to be one of the best films I've seen this year. "}{"Title":"One of the best films I've ever seen","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was incredibly moved by this film and the performances by all of the stars.  Hank Azaria does a marvelous job, as always.  The rest of the cast is also amazing.  Tim Robbins has some wonderful long takes and weaves important social commentary into the film, especially with his last shot. I would recommend this film to everyone -- you don't need to understand all of the history to enjoy the film, though it does make it even more enjoyable! "},{"Title":"A moving, historical carousel of character and politics!","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What a treat! I've known of the story behind Cradle for a long while and never thought it could be translated to the screen with such color, character and effectiveness. Robbins has elicited some wonderful performances and his adept, flowing editing and the film's cinematography lift this story from what could have been dry didacticism to an enjoyable, literate and moving panorama of art, politics and the human spirit. Cherry Jones as Hallie Flanagan, the head of the Federal Theater Project is wonderful! Another story of 40+ women being relegated to TV movieland? Probably. Joan Cusack, Bill Murray, Emily Watson, John Turturro, god, the list goes on....this is a literate, fun treat ...Bravo! "},{"Title":"Finally... a superbly crafted film!","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Finally, a witty and mesmerising film that keeps you leaning forward in you seat as each plot line develops.  Not the least impressive is the lyrical camera-work... the film deserves an Oscar for framing alone in the Bill Murry/Joan Cusack dressing room scene.  Acting moments from this film are still with me weeks later - a superb cast...kudos to them all.Thank you Tim Robbins for enduring the process and for crafting this film! "},{"Title":"Gripping, emotional new movie by Tim Robbins","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This new release, written and directed by Tim Robbins, is a must-see! Based on a mostly true story of the W.P.A. Federal Theatre Project in the early thirties, the beginnings of Congressional anti-communist hysteria, and the production of Marc Blitzstein's musical, The Cradle Will Rock, the movie chronicles a turbulent moment in American history.  It is uplifted by superb performances by Hank Azariah, Ruben Blades, Joan Cusack, John Cusack, Cary Elwes, Angus MacFadyen, Bill Murray, Vanessa Redgrave, Susan Sarandon, John Turturro, Emily Watson, and others; it very effectively uses some of Blitzstein's original songs; while intensely serious, it is, at times, very funny; and it is masterfully directed. The ending is grippingly emotional and moving. "},{"Title":"Great film with one big problem.","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Cradle Will Rock is, without a doubt, a great piece of filmaking.  It is Tim Robbins most technically ambitious and skilled production, and the script is filled with intelligence, complexities, and comedy.  Hank Azaria, the Cusack siblings, and especially Bill Murray are excellent, as are Emily Watson, Phillip Baker Hall, and Ruben Blade.  That said, I absolutely hated the film's treatment of John Houseman and, especially, Orson Welles.  If you're a fan of Welles, you won't like Angus Macfadyn's portrayel.  It is utterly impossible to catch even a glimpse, in this film, of the genius that would give the world Citizen kane, The Magnificent Ambersons, and Touch of Evil. Welles himself went on record as saying that he was arrogant and belligerent in his younger days, especially in the theater, but this is not a realistic portrayel.  It is a mean spirited caricature that jabs its thumb violently into Welles legacy and joins the ranks of those that are still trying to drag down the genius.As hard as it may be to believe after this harangue of mine, the film really is extremely good, with Bill Murray's storyline ranking as the most effective and emotionally touching of the bunch.  The final four way cross cutting finale is extremely well done, and has great power.  The final shot of the film, which I won't describe, packs a punch.  This is a film with great artistic and social merit, and is a great achievement in both senses. Except for everything having to do with Orson Welles.  That all sucks. "},{"Title":"The Cradle is certainly rocking.","Date":"25 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In 1992, Tim Robbins played the lead role in a Robert Altman film called 'The Player', a film about an egotistical film producer in contemporary Hollywood; a man who was forced to face a reality check as a somewhat disgruntled situation closed in on him. With 1999's Cradle Will Rock, Robbins returns to the territory that sees people in the entertainment business struggling to lead the lives they would desperately like to. Only this time, he is directing a film about a group of people that do not so much need a reality check and to go through a blender of facing the repercussions one brings upon one's self, as much as he directs a bunch of characters trying to survive as the Great Depression consumes everything around it and desperation threatens creeps in.Like The Player, Cradle Will Rock opens up with a wonderful long take in a theatre, detailing the necessary surroundings; the sorts of people the film will be spending time with and gets across a general feel for the era in which it's set by having a news reel play in the background. It's a slow and deliberate opening, hovering and focusing on one individual as they lie there, back stage; capturing what will follow a hovering and a focusing on people within an industry the stereotypical image of which might be glitz, glamour and riches. These people are just trying to get by.Cradle Will Rock is set amongst those in the theatrical business in 1930s America, as opposed to the film industry in the 1990s. While systematically looking at art-forms and the want for some to censor art within this world, director Robbins paints a wonderful canvas of the class system within this time and how different struggles affect each and every one of the different layers of life. The film is often quite funny, even surrealistic in its gags, but it never trivialises the bigger picture of the situation and nor does it exploit those struggling for means of entertainment even though they are working within the boundaries of an entertainment medium.Amongst the all star cast is Marc Blitzstein (Azaria), a deep thinking and spiritual piano player desperately looking for inspiration and a tune to nail to his upcoming musical entitled Cradle Will Rock, the very piece everyone will come together and find solace with. We also get a steady turn from Bill Murray, as he plays Tommy Crickshaw, an ageing puppeteer who is tied to two young protgs. Then there is Angus Macfadyen's wonderfully eccentric portrayal of Orson Welles, as a young and energetic director so desperately trying to succeed in completing a play with his producer John Houseman (Elwes). On another equilibrium, John Cusak's Nelson Rockefeller gets into all sorts of bother with a Mexican artist that paints a wonderful mosaic on the wall of Rockefeller's theatre only to refuse removing Lenin's face he has included. Robbins effortlessly taps into the growing fears of Communism at the time but additionally finds time to present an argument on censorship without taking sides.Cradle Will Rock is essentially a feel-good piece. Its title suggests potential disaster, an ominous event about to occur, particularly if we think back to what follows 'cradle will rock' in the popular rhyme. To give away whether things come crashing down or not is a spoiler of sorts if you're not familiar with how the real 1937 events eventually transpired. Each character is given enough time for us to be able to resonate with them. The film is concerned with different aspects of certain artists and their fields. Blitzstein's face and hands as he plays the piano are given more attention than anything else as he goes through all the emotions in trying to write his musical. This is accompanied by the very sporadic and energetic Welles, whose body language and hand all-over-the-place-hand-gestures gets across most of the urgency in regards to his respective situation. Further still, the Mexican artist that paints Rockefeller's wall, as well as Tommy Crickshaw, use their tired and experienced hands to carve a living out of what are, essentially, art forms in themselves; those being painting and ventriloquy.The Mexican artist's painting forces the film to raise some interesting issues. Rockefeller wishes to censor the inclusion of Lenin so as not to confuse onlookers; so as not to force contextual analysis of why the head might be there. It is a tampering of art, something that echoes what drives the final third which is a cancellation of the show and the stopping of an art-form from playing out in its true form. This oppositional reading idea is hit upon a second time in the film when a newspaper reads what seems to be a harmless children's play about beavers, in an entirely different fashion. Thankfully, common sense prevails and something transpires; an event that the old phrase 'the show must go on' could well have derived from.Cradle Will Rock is a brilliantly acted and wonderfully directed film, with a distinct energy and applied assurance on Tim Robbins' behalf &#x96; it is a shame he has only very few directing credits following this project. The film is an homage, of sorts, to theatre; set at a time when it was becoming second-fiddle to cinema barely years after the introduction of sound on screen. The rousing and affirming finale rounds off what is, essentially, a rousing and affirming film about a play depicting harsh realities of life, but never underplaying them. "},{"Title":"A refined movie!","Date":"24 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Never thought I'd be interested in a socio-political musical drama!! Somehow Time Robbins managed to make his cause common, and his theme universal. This is the first Robbins-directed movie that I see, but it's VERY enough to prove that he's such a brilliant director! He manages to keep actors perfectly attached to their roles and characters. Seriously, I've never seen such vivid direction, as if each shot speaks for itself and the underlying thematic meaning. When I first read this movie's synopsis, I thought that I'd be completely detached! But somehow, after watching it, I realized that art is a universal call that matters each and every one of us. "},{"Title":"Piece of history given life by Tim Robbins","Date":"12 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A wonderful, large cast recreates the story behind The Cradle Will Rock in this 1999 film, written and directed by Tim Robbins and starring Hank Azaria, Ruben Blades, Joan Cusack, John Cusack, Bill Murray, Cherry Jones, John Turturro, Vanessa Redgrave, Susan Sarandon, Jamey Sheridan, Gretchen Mol, Emily Watson, Bob Balaban - etc.Before the Depression and the turbulence of the 1930s, plays focused on the upper class. Everyone talked like Katharine Hepburn and people wore beautiful clothes. In the 1930s, the working man began to have a voice with the works of William Sarayoan, Clifford Odets, and Maxwell Anderson, among others. During the Depression, FDR started the WPA, and the Federal Theatre Project was one of its programs. The Cradle Will Rock is a leftist labor musical by Marc Blitzstein that is chosen by Hallie Flanagan, head of the FTP, to premiere at the Maxine Elliott Theater in New York. The politics of the FTP come under question, the theater is locked, and the actors are forbidden to appear on stage.Orson Welles finds another theater for the production, and the story of the opening night performance, spontaneously performed by the cast from the audience as Blitzstein sat up on stage and played, was thought to be one of the most exciting moments in theater history by those who were there.Robbins focuses on the controversy surrounding the musical but also on several other important events. Maybe, in the end, it is too much content, but fascinating nonetheless. Diego Rivera, an avowed Communist, played by Ruben Blades, is hired by Nelson Rockefeller (John Cusak) to paint a mural at Rockefeller Center. Rockefeller, however, doesn't like the revolutionary tone of the mural. One of the actors, played by John Turturro, has to deal with a family that supports Mussolini's Black Shirts.Marc Blitzstein, in focusing on a prostitute in The Cradle Will Rock, asks us who the real prostitutes are, and Robbins shows us in his depictions of Rockefeller, Hearst, and the Senate committee before which Hallie Flanagan testifies, the thin and sometimes nonexistent line between art and politics.The performances are terrific. Just about everyone is a standout, with John Turturro in an especially showy role as a man who wants to demonstrate principles and ethics to his children. Ruben Blades and Corina Katt Ayala could have been Rivera and Frida Kahlo, the resemblance is so strong. Vanessa Redgrave is excellent as Countess LaGrange, a wealthy woman who gets caught up in the proceedings. The gifted Broadway star Cherry Jones gives another strong performance as Hallie Flanagan, and Emily Watson is marvelous as Olive Stanton. The minute I heard the vocal rhythm of Angus Macfadyen, I knew he was playing Orson Welles. He does a beautiful job, as does Susan Sarandon as Margherita Sarfatti, Mussolini's ex-mistress who came to the U.S. to sell Mussolini to the American people via William Randolph Hearst's newspapers.Well worth seeing, and the period is well worth reading about. "},{"Title":"Tim Robbins fails to impress","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What was Tim Robbins thinking when he decided to direct Cradle Will Rock because it is a movie that was flawed from the beginning. In fact, it was so awful that it doesn't deserve to be reviewed. There is only one positive thing that came from watching this movie; telling other prospective viewers that Cradle Will Rock is a waste of time and money.There were many things about Cradle Will Rock in this film that I found to be terrible. However, there were two that stood out as the worst parts of the film. The first was the pointless storyline the writers came up with. The second were the performances of every actor involved with the making of this movie. I can hope that viewers will stay away from Cradle Will Rock.  "},{"Title":"The very best part","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I don't care for Bill Murray. I don't find him terribly funny. But I don't think it is giving too much away to state that his role as a complicated (if you need a label, call him 'neurotic') ventriloquist is possibly the best thing about Cradle Will Rock. His character walks us away from the chaos, and our cuts to him working through his own psychodrama make this a far better film than it would have been without the part, and without Murray the actor. Professionally, his character is passe. The new guys, rank amateurs he's been dispatched to train, are stealing his old act whole, and don't see anything wrong with that. He finds himself being treated like the help by the WPA. Personally, he has seen happier days. And he doesn't really like the Reds he has fallen in with by signing onto the dole. --But why, if they are extending a helping hand to him and other likewise down-on-their-luck people? This is part of his intriguing story. Maybe the ventriloquist's story alone wouldn't support a feature film, but tucked away as a character sub-plot, it enriches and lends gravity to a movie that is often a bit much.It's by far the best part. "}{"Title":"Cradle will Fall Apart","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have admired Tim Robbin's work as a director and actor.  Yet Cradle Will Rock was fell far short of what Tim Robbins is capable of.  The acting and energetic performances in this film was enough to keep me watching, but I could not help but wonder how such a disorganized film came to be made.  First of all, it very loosely connects so many events that you are left unsatisfied with all of them--not one is completely explored.  The most interesting plotline of the film--the political feud between the federal theater project and representative Dies.  Next, Robbins makes a blunder that I cannot accept from any filmmaker--he tells the audience what to think.  In Dead Man Walking he had the ability to present a very poignant view both for and against capital punishment.  Here, there is no such attempt.  What is even more baffling, is this shallow view of the situation.  It was not just about art and politics as this story would suggest.  Economic factors came into play also.  By the end of this film, it has disintegrated into a goofy exercise in politics and poor story-telling despite outstanding performances from the cast. "},{"Title":"a must see for theater lovers!","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm not going to say what was already said. Anyway, I loved Cradle Will Rock for it's subject matter. In a world of Scream, teen movies, and other junk, Cradle Will Rock had very refreshing subject matter. Although I didn't know much about the Federal Theater project, I enjoyed this movie. The musical numbers in this film were wonderful as well as the acting of the Cusacks, Vanessa Redgrave and Bill Murray.I think that a person who likes theater will really be into this play. There's a lot of scenes that have us seeing them work up to opening night. I was very inspired that their hard work didn't go to waste despite it being shut down due to the communist paranoia. (You must see the movie to find out how they managed to hold the production.) But basically it was a great film. Made me appreciate the process of theater so much more, and made me sing the entire way!  "},{"Title":"completely overrated","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Cradle Will Rock's problem is that it tries way too hard to 'teach' us a lesson, and falls flat on its face.  John Cusack, Susan Sarandon, and Vanessa Redgraves' characters were horribly one-dimensional characters that didn't resemble anything like human beings.  If only Mr. Robbins had used some subtlety in telling this story, it wouldn't have ended up a lame, melodramatic propaganda film.  I actually felt embarassed for the couple of people in the theater audience who clapped after seeing the final scene.  The movie uses cheap, obvious tactics to sway the audience -- kind of like a Spielberg movie.  Bill Murray's ventriloquist character was its only saving grace. "},{"Title":"Hello? Antonio Gramsci, anyone?","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As evidenced by many of the other comments in this index, American movie audiences have the attention span of a gnat and tolerate ambitious filmmaking to very little extent. It is little wonder that Hollywood tries to do very little that doesn't come pre-packaged in a little product tie-in marketing campaign.What is the role of the artist in a capitalist society?It was a question that the Italian Marxist Antonio Gramsci dedicated himself to asking and exploring (wait, wasn't he a character in the film? ^) ). This film made me pick up and read Gramsci again and I saw many similarities of ideas and themes.Is the film great? No. But at the dawn of a new century and in the shadow of WTO protesting and worldwide distrust of relentless globalization the film asks questions that rarely make it to mainstream audiences through any other medium. The film suggests, like WTO in Seattle, that there is historical precedence for the belief that there are cracks in the consensus and not everyone is on board with what is going on in the new global economy. And great art CAN come from those who are consciously political and creating from their everyday life experience.(BTW, Cherry Jones is quite a find.)  "},{"Title":"CRADLE WILL ROCK (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Before Orson Welles made movies he was a director in theatres and this is the story of the musical he directed ('Cradle will rock') in the 30's. There's a big crisis, a big unemployment and the rise of Mussolini and Hitler are felt and of course there is the beginning of the McCarthism as everything that is art is the subject of investigation if there is any red message included. Robbins directs the silliness of it all, some musical for children about beavers is stamped as communist for example. Everything is under control but it doesn't withdrawn Welles to make a musical in where there is a link to communism and the unions. Robbins gives us lot of different stories that clash at the end and it's somewhere unbelievable that for such an intelligent (but failed at advance) movie he could have such a great cast, they all play perfect with Bill Murray performing the best thing I have ever seen from him (you can't think that this man once did stupid stuff like the Ghostbusters). It's definitely not an easy movie and you have to love a lot political history to enjoy it completely but Robbins made a superb movie that perhaps drifts away a bit from reality but gives a perfect example from what ideology can do with art, destroying it. "},{"Title":"An unholy mess","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's almost impossible to believe that the director behind Bob Roberts and Dead Man Walking could give us this overstuffed atrocity.Apparently shooting for an Altman feel, writer/director Robbins juggles various subplots and many, many characters in telling his story of left vs. right, artist vs. plutocrat in 1930's New York.  Now, I'm a left-winger myself, but this is the kind of smug and self-satisfied movie that clues you in as to why it's so easy to pick on liberals these days.There's a great deal of heavy-handedness in this movie, so I'll just mention one example -- while the Mercury Theatre is locked out of their performance hall and Nelson Rockefeller's goons are destroying Diego Rivera's mural (this is history, folks, not a spoiler), we see Rockefeller, W.R. Hearst and other bigwigs at a costume ball, dressed as -- you guessed it -- pre-Revolutionary French aristocrats.  (That shuffling you heard behind the screen is Robbins with a sandwich board that reads, Get it? Get it?)With the exception of Joan Cusack, Bill Murray and Cherry Jones, the performances are either negligible or downright awful.  I can only hope that Susan Sarandon's laughable daughter-of-Dracula turn as a Mussolini cohort will be the worst performance she ever gives.  (Poor Vanessa Redgrave carries on like she's doing My Man Godfrey in summer stock.)If you want to relive the last era of American anti-capitalism, rent Salt of the Earth and Force of Evil and give this well-meaning mishmash a pass. "},{"Title":"Shorter is sometimes better.","Date":"27 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I had heard a lot about this movie and I wanted to like it but I could not get in to it. Mostly it was because there was too much going on. He tried to do too many stories at once. There was the story of the play, and of the ventriloquist, of Rockefeller and the mural, of the down and out singer, of Hearst and his fortunes. It just went on and on. He switched back and forth so much that I could not keep the stories straight. One or two minutes on a story then quickly to another and then back to another to I got dizzy trying to keep up. If he had cut out about a third of the plot and cut down the time it would have been much better. "},{"Title":"Cradle Will Rock Stands Out","Date":"14 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Cradle Will Rock is a drama that chronicles the process and events that surrounded the production of the original 1937 musical The Cradle Will Rock by Marc Blitzstein.It has an ensemble cast that includes Hank Azaria,Ruben Blades,Joan Cusack,John Cusack,Cary Elwes,Angus Macfadyen, Bill Murray,Vanessa Redgrave,Susan Sarandon,John Turturro and Emily Watson .Tim Robbins,in his third film as director, adapts history to create this fictionalized account of the original production, bringing in other stories of the time to produce this commentary on the role of art and power in the 1930s, particularly amidst the struggles of the 1930s labor movement and the corresponding appeal of socialism and communism among many intellectuals and working class people of that time.Orson Welles and John Houseman are working with Marc Bliztstein to stage the latter's leftist musical The Cradle Will Rock for the WPA-funded Federal Theater Project. After Congress cuts funding for the embattled Federal Theater over the perceived leftist slant of their presentations, the project is canceled on the day of its premier. Welles and his cast respond by marching 21 blocks from the theater where the show was to open to another venue where, in deference to Actors Equity regulations, they perform the entire show from the audience. A member of Welles' cast, Aldo Silvano, is a dedicated actor from Italy who is trying to resolve his attitudes about his family, who loyally support Mussolini, to Silvano's disgust. Meanwhile, El Duce's former mistress, Margherita Sarfatti, is consorting with industrial tycoon Gray Mathers,whose wife, Contesse LaGrange is a friend and supporter of Welles' project. Elsewhere, Nelson Rockefeller has hired ex-patriot Mexican artist Diego Rivera to create a mural for his projected Rockefeller Center, but the two are soon locking horns over their different views on art, politics and the work at hand. And a ventriloquist fallen on hard times, Tommy Crickshaw, finds himself trying to teach both comedy and speaking without lip movements to a pair of would-be performers at a WPA-backed vaudeville house. Art and politics collide in Tim Robbins' ambitious but not entirely successful effort to recreate a unique moment in American culture circa 1937.It presents good entertainment with superior acting performances and a stellar cast.Also,as a mixture of drama, humor and history, a mlange of seriousness and slapstick, real people and imagined characters, it definitely stands out. "},{"Title":"One of the best Theatre movies ever made","Date":"11 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ...a really smart, well-constructed script by Tim Robbins (who also directed) that links the Depression 30s, performing arts, visual arts, commerce, politics, business and the culture (whew!). Robert Altman would be proud at how all these strands came together with great force. The performances are great (Redgrave, the Cusacks, Bill Murray, Cary Elwes, McFadyen, Blades, Cherry Jones, Azaria) all lovingly presented. The art direction and cinematography are impeccable, and the re-creation of the first performance of the runaway opera is astonishingly accurate - at least in line with the way Houseman tells it in his memoir, Run-Through. CRADLE's blend of real and fictional characters and historical fact and fiction makes for a piece of stirring, funny, thoughtful storytelling of an important moment in American history. "},{"Title":"Confusing and slow","Date":"27 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is about a pro-union play being blocked by the American government from being played.Maybe I am not familiar with the history and the background of these events, I find Cradle Will Rock incredibly confusing. I suppose there are many metaphors in the film too, but unfortunately I did not get them, so a lot of the story is lost for me. I did not understand the Bill Murray's abandonment of the puppet and the subsequent funeral. I am sure there is a lot of significance but I have no idea what it is. In addition, I find the several subplots (Bill Murray's puppets, Joan Cusack's hearing, John Cusack having his building lobby decorated) unconnected and poorly intertwined. If Cradle Will Rock is just about the play being suppressed and the fight to continue it, I guess I may understand and enjoy it. "}{"Title":"A wonderful film.  If only we could have a film version of the musical itself","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I suppose I loved this film because I was in the first British production Of The Cradle Will Rock at London's Unity Theatre in 1951 and the film brought back poignant memories of my salad days. Our production was brought about by a phonograph record which described the events in the film, the theatre lock out and the success of John Houseman and Orson Wells in getting it on stage. We loved the music and Bill Owen directed it for a very successful production. It's so rare these days to get an adult film in cinemas that this was a rare treat. My only regret is that so much of the wonderful music and especially the wonderful lyrics in the original show were either omitted or truncated. I only wish that some film producer had the courage (and the money)to make a film version of the original show. So much of it is still apposite today, like Reverend Salvation's religious justification for an unnecessary war. "},{"Title":"Powerful, moving, a great ensemble...","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A brilliant triumph by actor turned director Tim Robbins, Cradle Will Rock is based on the real story of the Federal Theatre in the late 30's.  Featuring characters like Orson Welles, the Rockefellers, Diego Garcia and a slew of U.S. political figures, the movie is grounded in the mostly true stories of the pre-war red scare, as the Federal funded arts came under attack from the House Un-American Activities committee. Specifically, the story revolves around a pro-labor union musical of the same name, directed by Orson Welles, that is forced to shut down.  The story is mirrored in the business relations of the Rockefellers, who make underhanded deals with Italian fascists while destroying Diego Rivera's beautiful mural in their skyscraper because of it's controversial nature.The movie is not avant-garde in its own right, but certainly celebrates the artists who championed the avant-garde theatre of the 30's.  The acting is superb, featuring yet another energetic and truthful performance by Turturro, a revisited melancholy malaise by Bill Murray, a dead-on Welles played by underrated MacFayden, and really just splendid performances by everyone in this cast.Cradle Will Rock will not appeal to everyone's taste, as it takes a rather hard line towards leftist viewpoints, but the message of the movie goes beyond the politics of left or right. The movie is a celebration of the artist as a cog in the works of American life, and how bravery and strength in the face of fear kept the spirit of freedom alive in not only the theatre, but in humanity itself as pride and dignity persevered.  "},{"Title":"You Know?! I liked it!","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Perhaps it's because I'm a scatter brain.  Or perhaps it's because I can appreciate good filmmaking when it slaps me in the face.  Alot of you have said that you wanted to like this film but it was just not there.  NO! Look at Angus Macfayden's performance...can you spell brilliance?  Some say scenes were not cohesive...MAYBE THATS ON PURPOSE!  Tim Robbins isn't exactly Ang Lee directing The Incredible Hulk!  The whole film gives the feeling craziness and distraction, to quote the film.  Bill Murray is just as good as Translation or, dare I say, Ghostbusters.  Susan Sarandon gives a career best performance, I love it!  Anyways, before I get off topic, this film  is a spectacular look at MANY angles of the theater business, as an art, during a time in our history when that particular business was dangerous water to be treading in.  BRAVO.  If you didn't like it the first time, watch it again and this time watch it! "},{"Title":"A treat for theatre and film fans alike","Date":"18 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Why didn't more people see this film? Tim Robbins made an assured if unconventional film director debut with Bob Roberts, and his follow-up could barely be more different.Taking his stylistic cue from Robert Altman, with whom he worked on The Player, the story is about a play, the eponymous The Cradle Will Rock, to be directed by the up and coming Orson Welles. Set against the political and artistic upheaval of the late 30's, at a time when Commies and Red were perhaps the two most feared words in middle America, Welles stumbles upon the writing of playwright Marc Blitzstein. He has written a play about the impoverished workers rising up against corruption, screaming and singing about their right to earn an honest buck. We are witness to every step of the artistic process, from Blitzstein (the incomparable Hank Azaria) writing the words and music alone, haunted by his former lover and his nemesis, through the political difficulties of putting on such a play at the time for all involved, along with the actors - both accomplished and untested - making their mark for different reasons, as well as observing the struggle of those working for the government, the theatre and the art world in general. Thrown into the mix are a ventriloquist fighting the end of vaudeville, artist Diego Rivera holding onto his artistic scruples in light of a commission from businessman Nelson Rockefeller and a homeless, penniless singer who can't sing, but has a pure heart.With so many elements - the artistic, the narrative, the political and the historical - thrown together, it could have been a hard film to get into, yet Robbins wastes no time in showing that if you immerse yourself in the world he is illustrating, there is much entertainment and education to be taken from the finished product. His masterstroke is in making the film both heavily theatrical, as most films about theatre are, yet purely cinematic. While many of the performances are so theatrical as to be almost over-the-top - notably Angus McFadyen as Welles and Cary Elwes as his producer - those outside the theatre world are more measured - Emily Watson has never been more beautiful or effective than here as the poor outsider; Susan Sarandon is both funny and touching as a frustrated art dealer stuck in a crowd of high-society money men - and the technical elements of the film are handled perfectly. The camera glides through corridors, streets and windows from one scenario to another, tying all the strands together; the period detail is spot on without being in your face; the editing and music are by turns calm and frenetic, tightening as the film progresses and events get more desperate.And then there is the cast. Perhaps the biggest influence of Altman is evident in the casting, perhaps one of the finest ensemble casts ever assembled. While everyone acquits themselves wonderfully, special mention must go to Azaria and Watson, the film's heart, from different ends of the spectrum, each dealing with their own demons and shortcomings with tenderness and pathos, easily holding their own against a cast of screen luminaries. Sarandon is as good as she has ever been, nailing a difficult accent and drawing a truly interesting if politically ambiguous character. Vanessa Redgrave is having more fun than she ever seems to have had on film as someone with a lot of swing, who is just going along for the ride. Ruben Blades - nice to see him in such a notable role after an unfair number of years in the wilderness - is a joy as Rivera, displaying the conviction and lack of morals which marked out Rivera's personal life and the greatness of his professional life. Likewise John Cusack, having a ball as Rockefeller, and coming across as likeable at first, unforgiveable by the close. And finally, Bill Murray, showing once again that no-one can mix sharp one-line humour and tragedy as well as he. He is hilarious and pathetic at the same time, a man out of time with his finger no longer on the pulse of the common man's tastes or politics. In recent years he has gained notoriety for his tragi-comic performances in films such Rushmore, The Royal Tenenbaums and the forthcoming Lost in Translation, and he is as good here as in any of these.Perhaps an understanding of the period depicted would make the film more enjoyable, but it is by no means essential. I knew next to nothing of the events of the film and i found it to be hilarious, touching and educational, an intellectual gem in a sea of retarded kiss-kiss, bang-bang. Treat yourself on a rainy day and dig this one out. You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"interesting. but not exciting","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this film yesterday (it has been released in Italy on 2003 June, 13th, four years after his American release!). I was looking forward for it, but I am a bit disappointed interesting matter, fine acting and direcion (I love Emily Watson), but too many characters out of the plot (what does Murray's character mean?). However, it has been funny to see Diego Rivera, Nelson Rockfeller, Frida and the painting in Rockfeller Center again after having seen in Frida movie. "},{"Title":"smart, stirring and controversial - everything I like in a film","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I don't remember this movie getting a lot of press upon its release, so the first time I encountered even the existence of it was searching for Tim Robbins's name on this site. The title in and of itself is rather curious, so I read the plotline, which was intriguing, and the cast, which contained a lot of actors whose work I admire immensely. However, the presence of an all-star cast can be deceiving (such as in John Wayne's 1956 debacle The Conqueror). While I was debating whether to rent this movie, I looked at a lot of reviews online and feared that most of them were overwhelmingly negative, but I took a chance on it and rented it anyway. I'm definitely that I did, and in fact, I want to add it to my DVD library.The plot concerns the musical Cradle Will Rock, a left-leaning (actually downright socialist) musical by Federal Theatre Program employee Mark Blitzstein (Hank Azaria), and the subsequent attempt by the government to shut it down. Hallie Flanagan (Cherry Jones), head of the Federal Theatre Project, tries vehemently to assure its continuation, and is called to testify in Washington amidst accusations that the Federal Theatre Project is infested with Communists. Meanwhile, rehearsals continue despite the personal problems of many of the main characters such as Olive Stanton (Emily Watson), a penniless young woman who hopes of becoming a great actress, and Aldo Silvano (John Turturro), an idealistic Italian immigrant/family man, ashamed of both his poverty and his family's ties to Mussolini. Meanwhile, Nelson Rockefeller's (John Cusack) appreciation for art throws him in the midst of a connundrum by two opposing political points of view he is dealing with fascist art critic Margharita Sarfatti (Susan Sarandon), Mussolini's former mistress and now-ambassador, who plans to gain favor for Italy with wealthy, powerful individuals such as himself and steel magnate Gray Mathers (Philip Baker Hall). However, Rockefeller has commissioned the Communist Mexican muralist Diego Rivera (Ruben Blades) to create a piece of art for the lobby of Rockefeller Center (and is surprised when he does).The movie is marked by a number of strong performances. Cherry Jones's performance is usually the one that is identified as the best in the reviews that I read, and she does indeed give an intelligent, subtly powerful one. Emily Watson's portrayal can almost be called tearjerker-worthy; she does appear aptly vulnerable and innocent, as her character must, but there is something rather flat about her character until the end. I am, however, partial to four of the performances in general John Turturro's, who as of yet, has never failed me in any of the movies he is in; Ruben Blades, who serves not only as commentary, but as occasional comic relief as the very politically passionate Rivera; and Jack Black and Kyle Gass of the musical duo Tenacious D, are hilarious as Tommy Crickshaw's (Bill Murray) inept ventriloquist protgs.One criticism I have about the film is how unfavorably Joan Cusak's character (a vehemently anti-Communist employment office clerk) is portrayed. While I consider myself fairly liberal, and balked at how her conservative politics cause much trouble for the artists in the movie, I thought that her portrayal could potentially give conservatives who rail against the elitism of the liberal intelligentsia an example of such elitism without even realizing it. Another criticism I have is that some people may be thrown off by the Nelson Rockefeller/Diego Rivera subplot, which seems completely irrelevant to the movie. Robbins, in my opinion, should have had a stronger tie between the two subplots than the Countess LeGrange (Vanessa Redgrave), the wife of Gray Mathers, and a patron of both Rivera's art and Blitzstein's musical. Robbins also could have done away with the character of Bertold Brecht (Steven Skybell), who served the role of Blitzstein's conscience but actually did very little to develop the plot.Despite these criticisms, Cradle Will Rock is overall, a strong film definitely worth watching. The themes presented in this movie censorship, freedom of expression, the ability to create art without fear of oppression, and the right to disagree with one's government, are especially pertinent today. Whether you agree with Tim Robbins' politics or not, Cradle Will Rock will make you think, if you are indeed open to its message. "},{"Title":"A brave & worthy effort, shame about the script","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I think this was a very interesting pice of work. I am amazed that it was made at all. I really enjoyed the tone of the film, it struck me as if it was more of a theatrical piece than a move. I felt that the actors had a lot of fun making this. My only quibble with this movie would be with the scripting and plotting, it was a bit disjointed and needed some tightening up. Still it was an interesting movie in a positive sort of way. I didn't think this sort of picture could be made in the USA any more. Still, it makes a change from the usual commercial dross that eminates from Hollywood nowadays. "},{"Title":"Great historical flick","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie. The characters are compelling and real, with no heavies. It points out how rare personal integrity is and how common it is for people to sell out--including artists and labor union leaders. Asks the question where do *you* draw the line when deciding between personal comfort and personal integrity? Great performances by most everyone, and no weak performances by anyone.  "},{"Title":"Robins No Robert Altman","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is as subtle as a sledgehammer.  Hmmm.  Business Bad.  Government Good.  The characters were one dimensional; the plot cliche; the direction ham fisted.  Surely this must be a low point for Tim Robbin's directorial career.  Bob Roberts and Dead Man Walking were entertaining and complex.  Cradle Will Rock is vacuos and vapid.Was Tim Robbins trying to do a Robert Altman-type movie where several discrete plot lines are all somehow inter-related.  Afterall, Robbins did star (if any one could have starred in the movie) in Short Cuts.  However, in that film, Altman did manage to give each segment a plot and show how it all fits together.  What does Nelson Rockefeller have to do with Orson Wells?  The Susan Sarandon character with the play?  Nothing!Even more annoying is that after the film, everybody walks away exactly the same.  Nobody learns anything; nobody is changed.  (Except Bill Murray....and that was so contrived).  For a film with such a powerful message this is rather ironic The message in my movie is so strong and powerful that nobody in my movie even gives a d--n.  It is not a warning to others because the last scene shows a vibrant, prosperous Broadway.On a final note  This is a movie and not a documentary. However, it is generally understood that Nelson Rockefeller opposed the destruction of the mural; his father was the driving force behind the destruction.  See almost any bioraphy on the Rockefeller family. "},{"Title":"In Dollars, We Trust!","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In Dollars, We Trust! A Film Commentary by Pat Saunders We are all Whores! The Theater, Press, Arts, Artists, Government and Unions. We take the dollars from Mr. Big and his friends, the Capitalists (Rockefeller, Mathers and Hearst) and sell out our principles, values, co-workers, neighbors and friends. This is the message that Marc Blitzein was sending in his play written in 1936 and that is why it never seen the light of Broadway. Tim Robbins has sucessfully recreated the mood, players, chicanery, brilliance and idiocy that was alive during that period  Along with the basic plot around Blitzstein and his play, there are many other subplots swirling The Italian Fascist, Margharita Sarfatti (Susan Sarandon), representing Il Duce, selling priceless works of art to american financiers and industrialists to get support for their war machine as they slaughter the Ethiopians in a one-sided invasion to resurrect a new Roman Empire. The battle of wits between Nelson Rockefeller (John Cusack), financier, art appropriator and Diego Rivera (Ruben Blades), Artist and Leftist, over the mural in the Rockefeller Center, money wins. The attempts by the right wing to destroy the Federal Theatre Project, a part of the WPA. A compelling look at the relationship between Orson Welles (Angus MacFadyen)and John Houseman (Cary Elwes) and their theater projects at the time, the Mercury Players. The decision of the rich to subsidize or buy art and artists. So that they can control its content, and prevent the Riveras' and the Blitzstein's of the world from subverting the people. One of the parts of this movie is the inside look that is given to the Federal Theater Project and the idea behind it. To get theater out to the people, to sponsor works that are not only entertaining but have a message. To make people think! When Hallie Flanagan (Cherry Jones)was testifying before the Dies Committee, it came across that the right wingers, Congressman Dies  (Harris Yulin) and Congressman Starnes (Gil Robbins), would have censored Shakespeare, if they would have been around in his day. One of the themes of this movie is that the most terrifying thing to the powers, the Mr. Big's, the character in Blitzstein's play, of the world is the mass of folks having acess to uncensored and unfettered information. The movie takes a look at the hardtimes that were the reality, by showing how Olive Stanton, was existing or not existing at the start of the movie. The masses of people who were out in the street for no fault of their own. It also takes a poke at myths, when Marc Blitstein (Hank Azaria) is queried about his politics, if he has ever been a member of the Communist Party. He answers, I  believe in their social issues, but cannot be a member of  the party , because I am a homosexual. The party will not allow homosexuals to be members. So much for egalitarianism amongst the comrades. This is also taken a step further with Tommy Crickshaw (Bill Murray), a vaudeville ventriloquist and his students, Sid (Jack Black) and Larry (Kyle Gass); Crickshaw thinks that they are communists and when he accuses them of this, they say, We are not communists, we' re gay. Tim Robbins has carried on the tradition of Hallie Flanagan and the Federal Theatre Project in this movie, because it is truly a great film, that makes you think. "}{"Title":"Sorely Underrated","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Tim Robbins is one of the most exciting directors working today.  Dead Man Walking was my favorite film of 1995, and Cradle Will Rock (together with Magnolia and Topsy-Turvy) tops the list for 1999.Cradle was also one of the most underrated films in its year.  Everyone went ape over American Beauty and ignored this movie.  The Academy snubbed it completely (but who really cares) and audiences avoided it (which doesn't really surprise me).  But even critics couldn't get behind this one.It's a rousing bit of work, and if it's a bit one-sided, at least it's one-sided for a good cause.  The film makes a point about art appreciation that I think desperately needs to be made in these days of Survivor and Temptation Island and every other sort of banal entertainment corporate conglomerates are serving up to the public.  Tim Robbins directs with visual flair and gets top-notch performances from everyone, even when the actors are miscast (John Cusack, Susan Sarandon).  Standouts include Cherry Jones, Joan Cusack, and Vanessa Redgrave.I came away from this movie with the desire to sing, dance, write, paint, sculpt--anything that involves passion and creativity and freedom of expression.  Thank you Tim Robbins for making a movie about issues that matter.  Next time you sit down to watch Survivor, pop this in instead.  "},{"Title":"Mostly a GREAT film.","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I thought Cradle Will Rock was an almost-excellent film, save on piece of bad casting.  Despite that one shortcoming, it was an absolutely fantastic film.Without a doubt, the last 20 minutes of the film were incredibly entertaining, clever, well-done, and totally awesome.  The performing of the play, impromptu, in and around the audience was fantastic in every aspect, from conception down to acting and cinematography, and I would put in my list of top 10 scenes from movies of last year.I admire Tim Robbins and have enjoyed all of his movies immensely. However, the casting of Susan Sarandon was a very poor choice for the role she played.  Susan does not carry an accent well, and at any given point during any of her dialog in the film she's either Russian or Italian, never one or the other very clearly.  There are a number of other actors who could have pulled it off better, and for this I give this film an almost-excellent rating. "},{"Title":"Listen to a story ...","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I haven't read all of the comments about the film that have been posted, but I think that, based on those I have read, the success of this movie for many people might be based partially on how much you know of the historical background of Marc Blitzstein's The Cradle Will Rock. No one mentioned the fact that Tim Robbins had performed in a production of the musical directed by John Houseman and starring Patti LuPone. The production was recorded, though Robbins isn't on it. Yet his role in that revival helps explain Robbins' passion about the piece and the story behind its controversial opening night. I found the movie fascinating to watch and know that he cut a great deal of material from it. I'd someday like to see it added back in, much as I'd like to see all of the footage Milos Foreman shot for Ragtime, a tale Cradle Will Rock resembles in its artful blend of real and fictional characters "},{"Title":"Intellect, satire, symbolism, allegory","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Cradle Will Rock is an outstanding movie for so many reasons.  Because I viewed it today for the first time, I cannot yet give it a 10, but further attention might change my mind.  There was so much to absorb.  Previous comments have pointed out most of those wonderful attributes intellect, satire, important topics for discussion, etc.  It is clear that a lot of thought went into this film.  I guess that's what I liked the most a great deal of intellectual thought went into it--something that so many of today's movies don't seem to have.  I found the montage aspect somewhat unsettling at first, but the various strands in the web did come together well by the end.  The end is the aspect on which I wish to focus in this comment.Remember the famous ending shot from Planet of the Apes, in which Taylor (Charlton Heston) looks up from the beach and sees the Statue of Liberty sticking out of the sand?  That scene brought home the whole truth to us in the audience.  Yes, it can happen here!  (In the case of that movie, nuclear destruction.)  The movie prompted us to constant vigilance against such a threat (or acceptance that we have no control over fate, if you prefer).My emotional response was similar when I watched the parting shot of Cradle Will Rock.  Note that the final scene is TODAY, not the thirties!  (It is also loaded with symbolism.)  First we witness the applause and joy after the play, followed by the interspersing of three separate (but connected) scenes the dancing players and their audience (with three young children prophetically shouting the cradle will rock), the funeral procession of clowns carrying the casket of the dummy (bearing the sign Federal Theatre. Born 1934; Died 1937. Killed by an act of Congress.), and the scene of the destroyed Rivera mural (focusing on the one remaining piece the syphilis cell, which Rivera claimed represented the decadent rich) and its three bored, indifferent workmen, who are resting after the destruction.  The final scene is of the funeral procession moving from a dark street of the past into a busy, brightly lit city street of today.  The parting shot is of that present scene.  First we see a vending box labeled USA Today, then a crowded sidewalk and street, with a red light and walk sign in the center.  The first car in our focus is an NYPD cruiser, followed by yellow taxis.  Then the camera focuses on an array of huge, brightly lit signboards and logos Sony Theaters, Hertz, Marriott Marquis, Kodak, Maxell, Suntory Whisky, and others.  To the left side of the screen are two American flags.  Another sign, high above the flags says Prove It.  I found this scene almost as profound as the aforementioned scene from Planet of the Apes.  I thought it was such a major point in the movie.  It seemed to be trying to prompt us to constant vigilance against an imbalance of power (or to accept the blowing winds of fate).  Or perhaps I simply read a lot into it.Digging deeper, I noted that the three scenes each have significant threes three children, three apathetic workmen, three dummies (puppets).  The children might represent possibilities for the future, young instruments ready to be filled with knowledge and understanding.  They are linked symbolically with the open-minded bohemian artists.  The three dummies (one wooden puppet and two actors representing puppets) represent people, especially ignorant people who allow themselves to be manipulated.  They are symbolically linked with death.  The three workmen symbolize apathy in the shape of human drones who perform their work without thinking about what they are doing.  Interestingly, the workmen managed to destroy all of the mural except the syphilis cell representing the decadent rich.  Their apathy frees them from caring that they are allowing the decadent rich to manipulate them and others.  Also interestingly, Rockefeller (John Cusack) refers to the cell as a bubonic plague cell.I thought most of the characters were deliberately painted as gross caricatures, while Diego Rivera, the artist, was portrayed much more carefully--let's say he was a more careful, serious caricature.  Important were his arguments about his art as a political statement in the face of using his art to please someone for financial gain.  Today it seems that all art, all literature, all science, all law, everything is simply a commodity to be bought and sold.  The prostitution of art (and everything else, particularly the media) is such an important aspect of this film.In one scene Rivera is explaining his mural to Rockefeller.  Among the various items is a representation of television.  Rivera says, Television...beamed visual radio!  Imagine the potential for education!  Television, in this statement, might represent the various media, in the Aristotelian sense that the purpose of art is to educate and enlighten.  Today's media, represented in the final shot of giant signboards and logos, have woefully failed to educate, though they have made masses of people into apathetic puppets and dummies, and they certainly have made a lot of money while failing to educate.The winners in the film seem to be those who remain open-minded (such as the children and bohemian artists) and do not allow themselves to be manipulated (like the puppets) or apathetic (like the workmen).  At any rate, profound or not, Cradle Will Rock is a provocative, intellectual film, worth a second, more careful examination. "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I liked this movie so much! Finally, something intelligent that assumed I am not an idiot. Oh yes, I quibble with the direction, although I suspect that Robbins let everyone do what they wanted to. Welles is horrible, but Houseman is close. Redgrave (and I am  huge fan) was awful early, but better later. But...the movie had subplots, was convoluted, conveyed ideas, and yet was human...i loved it!I wonder who it was that thought this movie should exist...and I thank whoever it is...I rarely watch movies more than once...this one I will!! "},{"Title":"Fascinating subject matter, though the style of cinematography may not appeal to all","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Cradle Will Rock is an ambitious cinematic project that many will have difficulty understanding during the first half of the movie. The filmmaking style weaves several subplots together into a cinematic collage, and it takes some effort to mentally catalog each subplot while the film is running. Oftentimes, the images on screen seem like part of a stream of consciousness, especially scenes when we take a look into the creative process of the playwright Marc Blitzstein (Hank Azaria). The style aside, I found the subject matter quite intriguing. The film reminded me of those high-school studies of the anti-Communist crusades of the 30's and 40's, and I was fascinated by the various ways in which the prevalent political sentiment of the day touched the lives of different people practising different forms of art and human expression.After warming up to the film's unconventional style, I was able to derive some enjoyment out of it. I do wish, though, that more time was given to character development (not an easy task, I realize, with the number of characters in the movie). I could envision this as a three-hour movie or even a mini-series. More solid character development would've probably given more impact to the film's ending, which seemed a little bit contrived and didn't attain the climactic feel that a moviemaker would seek. My rating 6/10. "},{"Title":"I liked it...","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I know it may sound strange but even though I agree with the people who didn't like it...I still did.I liked it for its energy, its enthusiasm and ambition. I liked it because it introduced me to events and happenings that I never knew occurred. It introduced me to the struggles and ambitions of people long since gone but their craft and artistry survives and Tim Robbins was industrious enough to bring it forward and tell the world a story that needed to be told.I liked it because it sparked an interest in me to learn more about Diego Rivera and Frieda Khalo. And you know what? Anytime an interest is sparked in someone to learn more about a person, event or subject, then I consider the catalyst for such a spark to be a success. "},{"Title":"Rock it does!","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I don't think I have ever seen a better performance out of Ex-Not Ready For Prime Time Player Bill Murray.  Wow!  His dramatic power as the vaudevillian Tommy Crickshaw, who will stoop for anything, is sensational! But that's not all!  Robbins directs his screenplay onto the screen like Rivera painting the Rockerfeller Center mural.  He puts the gut passion of fear of Communism Era into a poignant, lyrical, beautiful pseudo-performance of the lost show, Cradle Will Rock. It's too much a thrill as Braveheart's Angus MacFadyen bombasts as a young Orson Welles determined to challenge the authority of the public and of society with the production of the play.  We see a very willowy Emily Watson try her heart out to get a role in the play.  We watch as Azaria exhumes Marc Blitzstein, describing the show to the producers.  We feel the anticipation of a show that might not be put on -- might be closed down -- might be dangerous to even attempt to perform.It's a no special effects spectacle.  It's a true underdog winner!   What a great movie! "},{"Title":"I lost interest. Try to tell you too many things at once.","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This another movie that try to tell you too many things at the same time. It's set in 1931 when Roosevelt unleashed a program to give affordable theater for every american and it centers around Orson Welles trying to get a leftist play off the ground. It's about politics, union, money and power. A bold endeavor for the director Tim Robbins. While funny and intelligent at first, you get the sense where this is going and it gets pretty hard to hold your attention. Midway through I lost interest. Maybe because I didn't care much for any of the characters. Don't get me wrong, I love Tim Robbins. Bob Roberts was good and dead man walking was great. I give this one a 6. "},{"Title":"bravo, Tim Robbins","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Cradle Will Rock, written and directed by Tim Robbins, is a terrific movie. He tells a fascinating story (mostly true, we're told at the beginning) about the social and political climate of the 1930's. It centers on the Federal Theater Project's production of Mark Blitzstein's musical Cradle Will Rock. The musical and the entire FTP come under fire when an employee testifies before Congress about the alleged Communist themes of the plays. Around the same time, Nelson Rockefeller (John Cusack) is all too willing to pay artist Diego Rivera (Ruben Blades) to paint a mural for Rockefeller Center's lobby until he sees the finished product. And Mussolini's former mistress Margherita Sarfatti sells Rennasaince paintings to rich American businessmen. When the government shuts down the FTP, producers Orson Welles and John Houseman scramble to find a new venue to house the show. The impromptu performance of it at the movie's climax is quite stirring.This film has a terrific cast, featuring such talents as Emily Watson, John Turtorro, Susan Sarandon, Bill Murray, Joan Cusack, Angus Macfayden and Hank Azaria. It is a tribute to Robbins' skills as a director and screenwriter that he was able to mix in all of these talented performers without having anyone stand out too much from the rest. Robbins as a writer, actor or director has made alot of great films. He might not make the type of films that become Hollywood blockbusters, but are always entertaining and thought-provoking. We're lucky to be blessed by his artistic gifts. 8/10 "}{"Title":"Everyone's Talking","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I haven't seen another movie that has provoked more people to submit such lengthy commentaries!  Orson Welles' character, when asked why he wants to make the play, says that it will make people angry and cause them to be passionate and talk.  Which, apparently, was the goal of this movie.  And, boy did it achieve that goal!And now I must throw in my two bits _Cradle Will Rock_ is an effective, thought-provoking, emotionally-charged movie.  My passion is history, and yet for once I was able to forget about historical inaccuracies and just enjoy it as it was.  Not only that, but the knowledge that it had inaccuracies fuelled my interest in researching what really happened!As well, the movie stayed true to its ideals -- a movie about leftism that had no individual protagonist or antagonist, but rather preserved the collective ideal.  Can you name a single protagonist?  It was the idea that mattered, and not an individual character. "},{"Title":"Learn about the fascinating, politically intricate origins of Off-Broadway; Bill Murray's ventriloquist is a classic.","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The subject matter of Cradle Will Rock leads us to the library, and then to a shelf where we find political & socioeconomic issues mixed with an historic story of the beginnings of  American Off-Broadway. First lesson in hanging out with the Off-Broadway crowd know your history &#150; or at least have a taste for the avant garde. This is the main subject of Cradle Will Rock an avant garde political-musical-play that apparently was ineffective in its attempt to smooth its subject matter, including some intricate socioeconomic issues, into an accessible enough Broadway libretto and tunes. Even in its own day, the original musical lacked enough talent to win audiences approval. It died in its first week, not from a witch hunt as Robbins' film suggests, but from lack of theatrical quality. This part of history was changed in order to convey how strongly all of us liberals feel about the socioeconomic events of that time and to reveal the ultimate cultural importance of the play. Funny how a relatively mediocre play with the right socioeconomic ideology became the greatest sleeper musical of the 20th century. It literally gave birth to Off-Broadway, an important sub-culture of the genre that has since provided opportunity and respect for countless talented theater play writers, songwriters, actors etc. through the years.Whether or not you will like this film really comes down to a matter of acquired taste in two main areas liberal politics & the avant garde style of Off-Broadway musical plays. In sparing those of us who are not Broadway inclined, Robbins spruced & edited Blitzstein's semi-atonal songs. Then fast paced film editing a la Fellini was applied, and this actually lent very well to a film based on an avant garde musical play, its economically subversive producers and corporate/political conspiracy to suppress them.A lot of critics hated the Orson Wells character treatment. To me, his character was one of the most entertaining. My favorite line was when Wells eludes to the weakness within the concept of cutting songs into what otherwise would be a perfectly good play. Rock is filled to the brim with satire of this sort, maligning itself like only a good intellectual liberal is capable. There are layers upon layers of intelligent social criticism interlaced within a complex labyrinth of misanthropy and hypocrisy all played upon a socioeconomic backdrop. All the brightness and quick dark wit of behind the scenes Broadway production is here presented with a twist of Fellini. It's a perfect match, and it's surprising that Robbins didn't receive Academy awards for this achievement. The reason, however, may be found again in the difficulty of swallowing Blitzstein's strange musical play, particularly in how it combines sober socioeconomic issues with peppy Broadway songs. One must acquire a taste for this kind of performing art. Its intricate, often interlacing musical & dramatic applications are fascinating on their own, without the politics. For this, Blitzstein deserves historic recognition, for he veritably founded a sub-genre, if without trying. Yet such recognition would not exist without the fact of this play's political timing. The myth of its failure as a result of capitalistic suppression supersedes the truth that it was basically a weak work. This is actually appropriate, as hypocritical as it may sound. For when it comes to alternative art, politics often is more important than the actual talent of the art. Finally, there is tragedy within this twisting hypocrisy as we witness the failure of a virtuoso ventriloquist because his politics are wrong. This deeply complex & dark character study alone lifts the film to classic status. It is very rare to see a contemporary film touch on an issue so dark & deeply, complexly  human. One is reminded of Bogart parts, or of Ernest Borgnine in Marty.The liberalism, freedom fighting etc. in Rock is moving and deliciously provoking. The casting impeccable. The history lesson is enticing at least this writer into studying more on the subject, which is probably the most important element in releasing such a film into the entertainment mainstream. But far surpassing any of these fine achievements is the appearance of one of the greatest supporting parts to ever be played in the history of films. That is Bill Murray's ventriloquist. It is one of the finest casting choices of all time. Rod Serling & others discovered long ago an unique aspect of dark horror the dramatic power that is attained by reaching into the macabre inner life of a vaudiville ventriloquist. Such a part is reserved for only the finest of character actors. Murray has revealed himself to be such an actor, and this fact is nothing short of a film revelation. As I watched Murray soak up the part with a finesse that could only be described as natural genius, I began to wish that this character was the lead. Murray's career needs such a lead part, in terms of dramatic integrity, like Jackie Gleason needed to play Gigot. I anxiously await for the day Murray's face shows up again on my local theater screen playing such a humbly sentimental, seriously dramatic & darkly ironic character, this time hopefully in a lead part. Until then, I'll have this, his Tommy Crickshaw, which literally stole the show.  "},{"Title":"Fascinating Subject Material","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The entire period of the 1930s is potentially intriguing subject matter.  The WPA theatrical project which supported Orson Welles and John Houseman in their early stages is wonderful material for dramatizing.  It is also, to my knowledge, an area which has previously received little dramatic treatment.However, the stylistic approach Writer-director Tim Robbins has chosen is a daringly personal one.  He must rise or fall on his often overblown theatricality by virtue of the individual viewer's taste. Personally, while I appreciated his patchwork collage approach, the presentation tended to emerge with a somewhat hollow and nebulous center.  Many scenes went by so fast that the actors could only convey external work.  Characters were often shouting at the top of the lungs at one another or whispering so softly as to almost be almost unintelligible.  It was as though the heart was missing from Robbin's realization of his own script.Perhaps the Super 35 image in theaters went a long way in supporting this presentation.  Unfortnately, I viewed it on home video and, in all fairness, this may have been a detriment to its inherent impact.Still, the concept was a good one, particularly using Marc Blizstein's score as the take-off point.  It was a nice try, and I'm grateful for this effort to explore a fascinating period in American theater and history.  "},{"Title":"A Big Helping of Shame","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Is it possible to make a movie about the fascinating history of passionate artistic geniuses, fill it with talented actors, and still have it all go wrong, horribly wrong? You say no? I say CRADLE WILL ROCK!I appreciate Tim Robbins liberal leanings and his pro-artist stance. Rich white guys and the actor's union are both cast as bad guys here. Hooray for that. But that does not, in and of itself, make a good movie. Here, in fact, it makes an bad one. A shamefully bad one.First off, the movie has no heart, no center. There's lots of stories, but little actual character development. You never get to know these people as people. What you get is lots of wooden  dialogue where everyone reveals their political leanings. You get some potentially interesting stuff-John Turturro, Emily Watson, and John Cusack provide some humanity-but its lost in lots of clunky overbaked drama. For instance, poor Hank Azaria plays the guy who writes the title play, and all you see of him is a few scenes of him interacting with the ghosts of his past. You never get to know him beyond these scenes. These ghosts are a lady in a bride's dress and a European Kurt Weill-type fellow. You have to see these scenes to understand. They're staged in a goofy theatrical way, but that kind of hammy experimental theatre that makes you hate all theatre people. They made me giggle and feel shame. Deep shame. Which brings up another pointThe movie turns into a bad European film all the time. I'm not slamming European films as a whole. I have seen many a fine moving film from the Continent. Europeans in these wonderful films seem to have a deeper emotional capacity Americans are unfamiliar with, like the rules of soccer. I'm talking about the kind of cold, weird, artsy, stylized, whimsical, clown-filled European films that steer most of America towards Bruce Willis movies. This film takes on that tone over and over. I mean, you have a scene approaching some level of actual emotion, and wham! Clowns! Whimsy! Overacting! The last sequence of the movie is a procession of vaudeville performers-its dirty with clowns, I tell you!-bearing a coffin of a ventriloquist dummy through the streets! Merde! Shame!Let me talk about the performances. We have a lot of good actors in the movie. Some of them do well. Some do not. Most of the performances here are irritating. Vanessa Redgrave acts like Lovey from Gilligan's Island for most of the movie, then gets caught up in the cause at the end and gets so full of the joy of life, I wanted to bludgeon her. Paul Giamatti is actually annoying, no small feat for this wonderful actor. But, I don't blame these actors. They were directed to be over the top and cartoony. Two exceptions. Angus MacFayden as Orson Welles and Cary Elwes as John Houseman. Orson Welles was a serious, intense, charming visionary, not an overblown buffoonish chimp. Cary Elwes- how do you get work? Seriously. Deep shame!Finally-as I have worked myself into a froth-I blame Tim Robbins. He wrote and directed this sucker. Wrote the bad dialogue. Directed the horribly executed scenes. And his wife sings over the ending credits. The movie was obviously his pet project. That's always a scary prospect. Good directors can go bad really fast with pet projects. Steven Spielberg with ALWAYS and HOOK. John Boorman with WHERE THE HEART IS. Kevin Costner with THE POSTMAN(he sings over the end credits!). And now Tim Robbins, a terrific actor, the wonderful director of DEAD MAN WALKING, has gone to that dark well of shame with this pompous dud.  Tim-please come back soon! We're waiting for you... "},{"Title":"A Bit Too Diverse","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  An energetic endeavor by writer-director Tim Robbins, `Cradle Will Rock' is a dramatization of a true incident which occurred in 1936.  During the Depression, there was a government funded theater program, created to give work to professional actors, and to make live theater affordable for the average person.  The story revolves around a pro-union musical, `The Cradle Will Rock,' written by Marc Blitzstein (Hank Azaria), to be produced with government funds, and directed by Orson Welles (Angus MacFadyen).  At the same time, there is concern about possible Communist infiltration of the program, and a Senate sub-committee begins hearings in an effort to root out the `Reds.'  This witch-hunt precursor to the infamous McCarthy hearings brought about the closing of the show before it ever opened.  The theater in which it was to be staged was closed down, and the actors forbidden (under union sanction) to take the stage anywhere else in order to perform this show; and it all came down on the eve of opening day.  Welles and company managed to secure a venue anyway, with the idea that Blitzstein (who was not a union member) would play piano and perform the entire show himself.  And for this one performance, the entire cast was seated in the audience to watch, and give Blitzstein some moral support.  Near the beginning, when he falters, one of the actresses, Olive Stanton (Emily Watson), rises from her seat and begins singing her part; and, one by one, the rest of the cast follows suit, until the entire show is performed by the actors from their places in the audience. This project was obviously a labor of love for Robbins, as a statement against censorship, as well as to illustrate the tyrannical embolisms that can be caused by fear.  Unfortunately, he takes this opportunity to make other statements as well, involving the politics of big business, and of wealth, and how it all tied in, and still does, with business as usual in Washington today.  And, though his stand is well-taken, to anyone not quite up to speed with their history, at least concerning this particular facet of the Depression, the story just seems to cover too much ground in too short a time.  True, the events enacted here are significant, and they do tie in with the funding of the theater program, but the story of the show, of Welles, of all the other members of the cast, and everything that went into it, was enough story for the movie on its own; but, perhaps, that movie wouldn't have made the impact Robbins had set out to make.  As it is, `Cradle Will Rock' is fairly entertaining, but to actually learn anything from it, one would have to make a number of cross-references first, before making any conclusions (There is a disclaimer at the beginning of the film, which states that the following is `partly true'). There are some notable performances here, particularly Azaria, John Turturro (Aldo), and Cherry Jones (Hallie Flanagan).  Hopelessly miscast are MacFadyen, who is made to bear a strong physical resemblance to Welles, but who lacks that distinctive voice, and Cary Elwes as John Houseman; in both instances, their performances are no more than impersonations, and the actors never really get to the soul of the men they are portraying, who ultimately become nothing more than boldly drawn caricatures.  John Cusack, it must also be noted, was less than credible as Nelson Rockefeller.  The supporting cast includes Joan Cusack (Hazel), Ruben Blades (Diego Rivera), Susan Sarandon (Margherita), Vanessa Redgrave (Countess LaGrange), Bill Murray (Crickshaw), Philip Baker Hall (Gray Mathers) and Jamey Sheridan (John).  Robbins must be given credit for making a noble effort with `Cradle Will Rock,' and it does shed some light on an important moment in the history of the theater; but in the end, it all seems just a bit too diverse for it's own good.               "},{"Title":"the worst movie I've seen all year","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Cradle Will Rock is so awful that it doesn't deserve to be reviewed. There is not one thing in this film that I liked. I came away asking myself two questions 1) What was the point of making this film, 2) Why were so many talented actors such as John Cusack and Susan Sarandon thinking when they signed on to be a part of this film.  "},{"Title":"Patience fades fast.","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The story of a cultural revolution from 1936-37 is portrayed in an excellent, intelligent fashion. The arts, both visual and theatrical are studied as the United States attempts to weed out Communism. Unions are everywhere too. The movie is smartly done, and a good piece of historical reference too (sort of). How many people under 25 would actually care about watching this kind of movie though? The movie is strictly for movie buffs. Heck, this could have easily gotten away as a Broadway production rather than a movie. For someone wanting a quick movie, this is NOT IT! "},{"Title":"Positive comments","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed Tim Robbins' The Cradle Will Rock in spite of its weaknesses.  I'm a student of 20th century American culture and this picture dishes up a rich menu of interesting characters and issues, from the infamous destruction of Diego Rivera's mural at Rockefeller Center, to the never-ending battles between the left and the right to control and manipulate the public's tastes in art. In The Cradle it was fascinating for me to see the depiction of Rivera's neurotic partner the bloody Frida Kaylo, while the Orson Welles character was just flawed enough to humanize this otherwise holy icon. As far as the rich and powerful using the arts to further their interests, I loved the scene in which Rockefeller and Hearst discuss their plans to support painters of 'pretty pictures' like Henri Matisse, over the socially dangerous likes of Diego Rivera.  The Cradle Will Rock is not without its shortcomings - none of the characters rise above the level of caricature and the final scenes for me were lame - but I applaud Tim Robbin's gutsy selection of themes for his movies that are both intelligent and entertaining. "},{"Title":"Sumptuous sets and cinematography don't make up for the incohesive narrative","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Visually i found this film a success and it's portrayal of thirties life was convincing. However despite the pluses and the fine cast, the film failed  to win me over. Supposedly all the stories where interconnected and whilst i found the characters convincing, the frenetic way it jumped from each story to another left me bewildered. In the end I couldn't care less whether the play was produced or not. It just didn't gel for me and left me feeling unmoved. I was left to dwell on whether this was an arthouse movie and i had missed something or a badly directed hotch-potch of scenarios supposedly interlinked. Having said that there was a lot to remember in the movie. Ultimately, I would see that you have to go and see for yourself whether it is a good flic or not. In my case, I have to say it was a miss. "},{"Title":"Truly strong ensemble acting - a rare thing","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Being from the other side of the pond, the history of this time is not mine, so I was worried that I'd lose the plot - unfounded fears.Tight direction, well explained background, humour ranging from slapstick to the darkest gallows humour and, foremost, a tremendous set of performances. (No real surprise, given the cast.) Robbins has developed a very definite style, following a narrative tracing strong characters, developing, revealing themselves and letting actors stretch themselves. Fortunately he has a good head for selecting his cast.It's a thoughtful film, not for the easily bored, nor the after-orders thrill seeker, but I thoroughly enjoyed it.  "}{"Title":"Highly inventive","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A marvelously inventive film. Multiple stories weave in and out, then come together at the end. If only they had included Charles Seeger (Pete's father) and Carl Sandburg, who were Marc Blitzstein's fellow travellers at the time. I thought Brecht's lines were the most potent of the film, but the whole thing worked to a fabulous conclusion. "},{"Title":"Near-perfect","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had such goosebumps watching this movie! As an aspiring actor and theater lover, I couldn't help but get caught up in the story and its important message - and the performances! I notice that a lot of people have said that the characters are one-dimensional, but I didn't see that at all. Since there are so many characters, there isn't as much time to get to know all of them - but we do see the most important traits of each character. My personal favorite was Vanessa Redgrave whose giddiness and excitement over the show certainly rubbed off on me while I was watching it. Joan Cusack and Bill Murray were heartbreaking and especially wonderful. I also enjoyed John Turturro (who made me cry), Hank Azaria, Susan Sarandon (you just have to get used to the accent), and the AMAZING Cherry Jones who was so natural and charismatic. I also got a kick out of seeing some of my favorite theatrical performers in small roles (like Stephen Spinella, Victoria Clark and Erin Hill). And in the beginning, having the voice of Audra McDonald heard as Hank Azaria's ideal voice was a perfect choice. There isn't anybody who can sing like she can.Overall, this was a wonderful movie to watch and get caught up in. And the end was so empowering, though it felt like it was cut a bit short.  8/10 "},{"Title":"An Important Film","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Illustrates well what anti-communism does to people, art and government officials.  Great scene at the end contrasting what New York City was in the '30s to what it is today.Tim Robbins' best film to date.My rating 9 "},{"Title":"a damn fine movin' pitcher","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  it's good to know that someone is out there making movies like this one. Tim Robbins has made something that makes you feel like you're watching a movie made in the 1940's with large rooms full of people where the camera sweeps through, with tracking and panning and tricks lost on todays students of the quick cut.  this story is this Orson Welles is trying to put on a play during the origins of unions and the dawn of the Red Menace commie hunts.  Everyone is selling themselves because times are hard--the simple plot is that each of us is a whore, only our price differs.  But the casting is glorious Robbins uses many of his pals and no one disappoints.  I don't even know really if this movie was any good on points of story or characterization, but I'm so grateful to see this kind of dedication in telling a story in a way that no one seems to be able to do anymore that I'm recommending this movie to everyone. "},{"Title":"An excellent film from an enormously talented filmaker","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This excellent film is an example of recovered history that does great justice to the period and subject matter. The Federal Theatre Project and the many committed and talented individuals who worked in it, is an important part of American cultural studies. This popular, funny and moving film really does a fine job. Mr. Robbins did for Hallie Flannigan what Warren Beaty did for John Reed in his film Reds - rescued an unsung hero from our past and restored her into the living present. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"excellent cast; splendid finale","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Cradle is not quite a docudrama, though based on actual events during the Depression, when the Federal Theater Project was trying to bring theatre to ordinary Americans(and succeeeding).  Robbins has chosen to present the aborted production  of Marc Blitzstein's Cradle Will Rock in a 1930's agit-prop style (with some allowances for contemporary irony)that takes a little indulgence on the viewer's part.  But the cast is marvellous, especially Bill Murray as a drunken ventriloquist, Vanessa Redgrave doing a star turn as an OTT parlour pink, and John Turturro as a working-class Italian actor.  Susan Sarandon is pretty good too, though the accent needs some work.  Whatever shortcomings the middle of the film may have (like almost all films, it is too long), the ending is smashing, beginning with the Dies committee hearings and ending with the wild-cat production of Blitzstein's Cradle.  Robbins wants to remind us what real theatre can do; the wide shot at the end, pulling away to modern Broadway, reminds us of what it doesn't.  "},{"Title":"Powerful, worthwhile film, if not unflawed","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I hate to add yet another entry to a well-covered film, but I feel I have some things to say, maybe as a synthesis of previous comments.Cradle Will Rock tells an against-all-odds story, of how people  rose to the occasion to protect artistic freedom and produce a good show, risking careers, if not life and limb, in so doing. While it espouses many liberal values, I don't agree with what many said, that only liberals would enjoy/appreciate the film and that it was a self-serving, self-important liberal tool. Cradle had a powerful message, and it is only if you missed the message that you would view it as self-important.Hank Azaria, John Turturro, Emily Watson, Joan Cusack, Bill Murray, Vanessa Redgrave, and Cherry Jones, especially, were excellent.To sum up, this film is very well done and gives good glimpses both at Blitzstein's great show and an era of social and economic turmoil. See it. "},{"Title":"A swing and a miss","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  God bless Tim Robbins for taking on this slice of American theatrical and social history.  Curses on his head, though, for producing such a sentimental postcard of what should have been a pageant.Robbins is certainly ambitious, presenting a dozen or so characters -- some lifted from history (Nelson Rockefeller, Orson Welles, John Houseman) and others created for the story -- and following them through as they commission or support or patronize or, for the most part, create socially-relevant works of art.  In a more experienced director's hands, this would have been a sweeping and crisp production.Unfortunately, CRADLE WILL ROCK slogs along with a list, with some of the character played straight (John Cusack, Joan Cusack, Bill Murray, John Turturro, Emily Watson) and some of the character weirdly two-dimensional and cartoonish, such as Houseman and Welles, as well as the Vanessa Redgrave character.  The Houseman and Welles scenes are particularly disastrous, as the two actors, Angus MacFadyn and Cary Elwes, lurch and mug and cut up, but never bring a real dimension to two of the great personalities of American stage and film.Worse, the film is sluggishly paced, and Robbins' camera work is unimaginative.  The opening tracking shot is, in particular, way too long, too uniform and uninteresting.  The script, also by Robbins, never gives its characters (other than Ruben Blades, as Diego Rivera, and Cherry Jones as the Theater Project director) any real passion for their work, other than the clownish passion exhibited by Welles and Houseman.  What they want, what they're willing to fight for, never is fully presented in the story, thus draining the brash ending of any impact.Note  Susan Sarandon is absolutely awful in this film.A great subject to film, but sadly, a big swing and a miss. "},{"Title":"History or art?","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am not entirely certain what to make of this film, having seen it only a day ago, but it intrigues me. It is certainly thought-provoking, and Cherry Jones is infinitely watchable, as is Vanessa Redgrave; in fact, there isn't a Bad Performance in the film. However, I have to take issue with a handful of smallish issues that I couldn't avoid noticing.First of all, I think it helps to know a bit about the art and politics of the 1930s before anyone even thinks of seeing this film, if only because of the little textures thrown in which Tim Robbins and his production crew so obviously labored over -- the relationship between Diego Rivera and Freida Kahlo, Nelson Rockefeller discussing the future of art with William Randolph Hearst while Orson Welles is throwing a play downtown -- and it is these details which help the film rise above itself. I have never seen Robbins' other directorial efforts (Bob Roberts and Dead Man Walking), but I will say that he has a bit of an obviousness to his style. Subtlety is forsaken in honor of Symbolism and Irony that are planted so as to be immutable to the audience -- possibly to balance the great historical detail that may be lost on the underinformed.My greatest beef with the film comes from the fact that Angus McFadyen plays Orson Welles. Not that I have anything against McFadyen, who is normally a fine actor, but apparently someone thought it wise to play a good majority of the historical figures in this movie, Welles included, as cartoons of themselves, quite one-dimensional. Welles comes off as A Character, not a genius, which he is alleged to be in most accounts, and McFadyen seems to let a hint of an accent slip into some of his lines, which is probably unavoidable. What was avoidable is the fact that in 1936 Welles was 21, and McFadyen certainly doesn't pass for his 20s, period. It seems odd to me that Robbins would choose to overlook a large detail like that in favor of aestheticism.Still, beyond all of its minor successes and flaws, Cradle Will Rock is an ultimately satisfying film if only because of its final twenty minutes. After all of the hardships fought to be able to put on the title play, the actors involved do a spectacular job of pulling it together, even if they will only ever get to do it once. Hank Azaria is wonderful as Marc Blitzstein, the playwright in question, and the scene as a whole is inspiring even to those who don't create art for a living. The film succeeds in its one goal to make us as the modern society aware of the importance of art and freedom of expression, and reminds us just how far we've strayed from those ideals in this modern world. "},{"Title":"Flawed, But Quite Unique","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I like what Robbins tried to do in this film.  Illuminate a period of history in an entertaining way.  Very much the goal of Marc Blitztein as well I think.  The movie is flawed mainly because of an overarching ambition I think.  By trying to show the evolution of a play, AND the rise and fall of the WPA AND the Rivera-Rockefeller feud AND the rise of Mussolini all in one film it falls a little short at portraying any ONE event fully and 3-dimensionally. But this movie is ABOUT SOMETHING and is not afraid to take a stand on something, a quality I find missing from so many movies lately.Great performances from all especially John Turturro, and Tony Award winner (and personal fave) Cherry Jones. Go see it and argue about it with a friend. "}{"Title":"Mostly true story","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Cradle Will Rock will dazzle you with its many historical characters.  It will educate you on the constant struggle between the creative process and the people who control what artist can do.   And it will dramatize the power of stereotyping groups into order to perpetuate social conflicts and barriers.  That Tim Robbins accomplishes this while presenting an unevenly paced and, at times, tangential film is a tribute to his fine ensemble of actors (John Turturo, Emily Watson, Ruben Blades,  Susan Sarandon, Vanessa Redgrave, Angus MacFayden as a dead-ringer for Orson Welles, and a nice cameo by Barnard Hughes) and to a clear and unwavering theme.  We may not appreciate fascism, communism, Mussolini's big lie, capitalism, and unionism presented in Cradle Will Rock.  Nor the significance of men like Diego Rivera, Nelson Rockefeller,  Harry Hopkins, William Randolph Hearst, John Houseman, or Orson Welles.  Happily, historical figures and terms serve only as starting points in a film that blatantly reminds us that exhibitions of art are very much the result of political and societal dictates rather than the truer expressions they were intended.  The fight over exhibiting lewd forms of art at the Brooklyn Museum of Art and the virtual abdication of the National Endowment for the Arts to Congress are just two recent examples.  Cradle Will Rock uses the fight for control of the Federal Theater Project in the 1930s to show how a well intended enterprise can be waylaid by the people who control its purse strings.  This is dramatized so well in the scene in which Rockefeller and two other moguls dress up for a French costume ball as royal nobility as they discuss how they will only be funding art  that fit their conservative tastes.   The interaction between the ventriloquist, Tommy Crickshaw (understated by Bill Murray) and the Ms. Do-Right character, Hazel Hoffman (aptly played by Joan Cusak)  is a poignant reminder of how people can be mislaid by believing in labels and the betrayal of truth that results.   Cradle Will Rock makes a powerful case for artistic freedom and , given another round of editing, would have been an even better film.        "},{"Title":"And you thought Magnolia's ensemble was great!","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was lucky enough to be familiar with the circumstances of the story behind Cradle Will Rock before I even heard the film was being released (I took an Orson Welles course in college a few years back, and Barbara Leaming's entertaining Welles biography covered it extensively), and was quite excited to hear that Tim Robbins, one of the few American directors of the last several years to seriously and intelligently examine politics in his work, was taking this subject on.  He takes on a whole lot more than just Welles, however, and Cradle Will Rock emerges as a timely and captivating story of the dangerous web woven when art, commerce and politics mix.The Cradle Will Rock was originally slated to be a production mounted by the Federal Theater Project, a government-funded arts coalition which gave unemployed theatricals jobs during the Depression.  However, like many other people's groups during this period, the FTP eventually fell under suspicion of Communist leanings, and the feds locked the theater prior to Cradle's opening show.  That didn't stop its director, Welles, and its producer, John Houseman, from marching the whole cast and crew twenty-one blocks to another theater, where the composer, Marc Blitzstein, played the score from the stage while the actors performed from the seats (thereby saving their union status and keeping their jobs).This story is intercut with the conflict between fatcat-in-training Nelson Rockefeller and left-leaning artist Diego Rivera, who is hired to paint a mural for the lobby of Rockefeller Center under the false pretenses that he will be permitted to express himself.  It was a scary time in America in many ways.  Artists were being shut down and blackballed for expressing the threatening philosophy that the working man should be entitled to his fair share.  The government found Communists in every backyard, and ruined many decent people's lives, while the rich businessmen who kept the politicos in office were free to hobnob with Hitler and Mussolini for the sake of their business interests.  It was the only time in American history when arts projects were fully supported by the government, and the results show that artists should probably never put their fate into federal hands again.   It's a lot for one story to tackle, and great credit goes to Robbins for keeping it all clear, interesting, and immensely entertaining.  He shows a style and verve here that his previous two films, for all their skill, lacked.  He's like Robert Altman crossed with Woody Allen here, and his elegant, confident work should not be ignored at Oscar time.  The film breathes with authenticity, and the cinematography of Jean Yves Escoffier glimmers.Still, the true hats are off to the superb ensemble cast, who take what could have been an intriguing but staid history lesson and truly engage us in the roiling emotions of the people involved.  All are superb, but special mention goes to Bill Murray, whose work as a Red-hating ventriloquist who falls hard for a like-minded government worker surpasses his turn in Rushmore, Angus Macfadyen, who has a ball playing Welles as a loud but exuberant perpetual showman, John Turturro, who dazzles as a proud FTP actor, and especially Vanessa Redgrave, who turns in a zesty comic performance as a countess whose marriage to a gladhanding steel tycoon hasn't dulled her revolutionary zeal.Rudolph Giuliani, Jesse Helms, and the entire federal government should be sent on a field trip to see Cradle Will Rock.  Not only will they be supremely entertained, but they might take something away with them that will help us all in the long run.   "},{"Title":"Disappointing...","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Without a doubt, this is a movie with a great script and a great cast that delivers exceptional performances.  Too bad the director and/or the editor had no idea how to piece it together.  Tim Robbins, the same guy who made Dead Man Walking go at the speed of 1 cm/h, decided to rush through this film.  The flow is awful.  Only the last scene and a few other scenes spread throughout the film are adequately paced and left to develop and sink in.  Otherwise, Robbins was too busy trying to make as many continuous shots as possible and working with the actors, instead of making sure that every scene worked well and hooked in emotionally.  So we are left feeling detached, or abandoning a scene before we are ready to do so.  It's a shame.  I particularly felt sorry for the scene were the crowd is marching to the new theater.  It should have been a key scene, but wound up being nothing.  Ironically, the fast speed made the film feel slow and made it soporific by moments.Overall, the stories and the characters were underdevelop.  Similarly, the film's main discussion, the prostitution of the artist, is left only slightly deeper than the superficial level.Still, the film is not bad.  There are a couple of good scenes there, and a lot of good dialogue and great performances. But wait for it to pop up on video or TV.  I can't rate it higher than **1/2.A final warning, for John Carpenter fans the guy playing William Randolph Hearst is just some guy that has the same name as the director, and is not THE John Carpenter. "},{"Title":"An excellent film!","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film was powerful and moving! I am shocked that anyone could've walked out of this excellent movie.  One of the best movies I've ever seen.  Tim Robbins' directing and writing were some of this year's best.However, I was confused with the final shot of Time Square--if anyone has any theories as to the relevance of this scene, please feel free to e-mail me! "},{"Title":"Altmanesque agitprop?","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Why is it that NASHVILLE is so resonant, right now, a quarter century later? An ironic Bicentennial monument, NASHVILLE is the movie of the moment as we cross the millennial divide. Robert Altman's mosaic form may appeal to the channel-surfer in us (that's Altman-wannabe Paul Thomas Anderson's interpretation), but I prefer to think that the openness, the decentering off a heroic protagonist and the recentering on community, is what makes the Altman shape seem so new, so useful to us. And the Altmanian smorgasbord approach has never been aped so baldly as it is in Tim Robbins' CRADLE WILL ROCK.The movie is exciting--at least in the ideas Robbins wants to explore namely, the role of art in a culture of greed. (In other words, the lifetime theme of Robert Altman.) Making explicit reference to recent American culture wars, Robbins pits Hattie Flanagan (Cherry Jones), the idealistic head of the Federal Theatre, against a proto-McCarthyite congressman (Harris Yulin), and the assembled forces of privilege and darkness--the apex of whom is a grizzled, diadem-like William Randolph Hearst (John Carpenter).Robbins tries not to be heavyhanded. He makes Nelson Rockefeller (John Cusack) into a bit of a charmingly deluded smoothie--Don Ameche from a forties movie poured into ten million bucks. And he casts his wife as an Italian Jewess who flacks for Mussolini; she deals with the moral conundrum with a shrug. But is this a Sturges farce, an Altman clambake, or--here's Robbins' real affinity--left-wing lesson hour? The movie gets undone by Robbins' cardinal sin as a director--his sense of his own superiority. He gets actors as marvellous as Joan Cusack and Bill Murray to play a couple of anti-communist artists on the dole, and conceives their scenes with a surpassing, ugly meanness. (Robbins subscribes to the old saw, one thought abandoned, that only liberals are sexually happy.) And his conception of John Houseman and Orson Welles as a couple of blustering, overexposed ninnies, with Marc Blitzstein, author of The Cradle Will Rock, as the shrinking-violet genius in the corner, is stale, PC--and offensive to anyone who knows a thing about Welles and Houseman. (One of Robbins' agendas here is the Debunking of the Modernist Genius Artist--he even has an Oliver Stoneish scene where Hearst teaches Rockefeller how to influence the course of modern art, depoliticize it, promote Picasso and Matisse. But somehow Robbins can stomach this archetype when it's the politically engaged, Latino Diego Rivera.)For all its hooey, and all of Robbins' trademark smugness, the movie is affecting. The moment when Emily Watson, a stagehand turned lead actress, rises out of the audience to sing the opening number of Cradle is a goosebump-maker. And Bill Murray has an onstage crackup scene that ranks with the best--with NASHVILLE and Cukor's STAR IS BORN. And Robbins' final elegy for a civically sponsored, active theatre is haunting. The movie is a muddle, but it stays with you; the varying shades of corruption and purity linger in the memory. And the movie gets points for having--almost unique in this day and age--a subject. "},{"Title":"Altmanesque agitprop?","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Why is it that NASHVILLE is so resonant, right now, a quarter century later? An ironic Bicentennial monument, NASHVILLE is the movie of the moment as we cross the millennial divide. Robert Altman's mosaic form may appeal to the channel-surfer in us (that's Altman-wannabe Paul Thomas Anderson's interpretation), but I prefer to think that the openness, the decentering off a heroic protagonist and the recentering on community, is what makes the Altman shape seem so new, so useful to us. And the Altmanian smorgasbord approach has never been aped so baldly as it is in Tim Robbins' CRADLE WILL ROCK.The movie is exciting--at least in the ideas Robbins wants to explore namely, the role of art in a culture of greed. (In other words, the lifetime theme of Robert Altman.) Making explicit reference to recent American culture wars, Robbins pits Hattie Flanagan (Cherry Jones), the idealistic head of the Federal Theatre, against a proto-McCarthyite congressman (Harris Yulin), and the assembled forces of privilege and darkness--the apex of whom is a grizzled, diadem-like William Randolph Hearst (John Carpenter).Robbins tries not to be heavyhanded. He makes Nelson Rockefeller (John Cusack) into a bit of a charmingly deluded smoothie--Don Ameche from a forties movie poured into ten million bucks. And he casts his wife as an Italian Jewess who flacks for Mussolini; she deals with the moral conundrum with a shrug. But is this a Sturges farce, an Altman clambake, or--here's Robbins' real affinity--left-wing lesson hour? The movie gets undone by Robbins' cardinal sin as a director--his sense of his own superiority. He gets actors as marvellous as Joan Cusack and Bill Murray to play a couple of anti-communist artists on the dole, and conceives their scenes with a surpassing, ugly meanness. (Robbins subscribes to the old saw, one thought abandoned, that only liberals are sexually happy.) And his conception of John Houseman and Orson Welles as a couple of blustering, overexposed ninnies, with Marc Blitzstein, author of The Cradle Will Rock, as the shrinking-violet genius in the corner, is stale, PC--and offensive to anyone who knows a thing about Welles and Houseman. (One of Robbins' agendas here is the Debunking of the Modernist Genius Artist--he even has an Oliver Stoneish scene where Hearst teaches Rockefeller how to influence the course of modern art, depoliticize it, promote Picasso and Matisse. But somehow Robbins can stomach this archetype when it's the politically engaged, Latino Diego Rivera.)For all its hooey, and all of Robbins' trademark smugness, the movie is affecting. The moment when Emily Watson, a stagehand turned lead actress, rises out of the audience to sing the opening number of Cradle is a goosebump-maker. And Bill Murray has an onstage crackup scene that ranks with the best--with NASHVILLE and Cukor's STAR IS BORN. And Robbins' final elegy for a civically sponsored, active theatre is haunting. The movie is a muddle, but it stays with you; the varying shades of corruption and purity linger in the memory. And the movie gets points for having--almost unique in this day and age--a subject. "},{"Title":"One Flaw","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The only flaw in this film is knowing who all the players are. Otherwise it is a very compelling and fascinating film. The scene with the  destruction of the Diego Rivera mural in Rockafeller center was extremely powerfull. All in all a thought provoking movie. "},{"Title":"We should all remember that Robbins promised a little camp and a little history","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  So many People seem to really dislike this movie and I can't figure out why. I saw this movie December 26th and have been looking forward to it's release since I first heard of it in July. I have to say that I really liked it. Politics aside it was a great romp through the 1930's New York Arts scene which is precisley what Tim Robbins wanted. Why else would he have included the Mural fued between Rokefeller and Diego Rivera which had nothing to do with Marc Blitzstein's musical which actually took place 4 years later. I really didn't care, and thought it was brilliant to include this classic story of a very brief and very odd relationship. Yes I'm a liberal, yes I'm a little left of center, Yes I love the ACLU and don't know what we'd do without them and yes I am PRO UNION!!!!!! so perhaps this movie was a little bit up my alley so to speak plus I'm fairly familier with this period the American labor movement, the Spanish Civil War, the TVA, the WPA, the CIO, the new deal and I'm crazy about Orson Welles. I personaly think he (Angus Mcfayden)did a good job. It was a little over-the-top so to speak and was more of a comedic impersonation but this was not all about Orson Welles. My only complaint is where was his Pipe. Anyone who knows anything about Welles at this period of his life knows that he was seldom seen without a pipe either in mouth or hand. Welles as a cigar smoker only came much later in life. Even Lev Schrieber who played him in HBO's RKO 281 failed to make use of a pipe as a typical young Welles trademark. I thought Ruben Blades was great and when I saw the guys from Tenacious D show up as Bill Murrys ventriliquist apprentices I though I'm going to love this movie. Great casting all around. I also was not familier with Cherry Jones who portrays Hallie Flanagan, Director of the FTP and whipping post for the right. I thought she was great and I'll be looking to see more of her work.  "},{"Title":"I was disappointed","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had really been looking forward to this film.  But although there were some great performances, the storyline was very confusing and the music was awful.  You certainly don't come out of the theater humming these songs!!As I said, the acting was mostly wonderful, but all of the political aspects were very hard to follow.  I'm still not sure who was a bolshivec or a communist or a republican.  I admit I'm politically naive, but I don't believe I'm the only one.  A movie made for the masses should make it a little easier to follow.The audience I watched it with got restless often.  Not a good sign. "},{"Title":"A great job by Tim Robbins","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is Tim Robbins third time directing an outstanding cast. The based on real events movie should net him at least one Oscar nomination.   Kudos all around --- Emily Watson literally glows, Angus MacFadyen is a total Studmuffin and my favorite as Orson Welles (he was Robert the Bruce in Braveheart). Vanessa Redgrave, Carey Elwes, and Bill Murray are over-the-top and hysterical! Susan Sarandon, Rueben Blades, John Cusack, Joan Cusack, John Turturro, and Hank Azaria are all great -no surprises here. "}{"Title":"CRADLE WILL ROCK is about the history of making Art a trivial, entertaining ornament, devoid of meaning, concerned with process rather than content a commodity like any other in American Society.","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I agree with many comments critical of CRADLE WILL ROCK, especially the depiction of Orson Welles.  However, the film makes a profound point in a complex, entertaining way.  Between > the Great Depression and the Post World WarII period, all our institutions, many of them touched upon in this film, were trivialized and separated from their intimate human elements by a process of marketing and public relations.  This process is epitomized by the final images of the film.  We may disagree that all liberals are naive or dithering incompetents, that fascists because they had (and have) the power deserve the best lines, even that proletarians always represent Truth, but since the End of the Cold War, we have become more and more a shallow, confused society in which EVERYTHING is for sale and the PRICE OF ANYTHING is its only value. (We have, for instance, begun obviously to sell our children.)  Director Tim Robbins dramatizes a moment in the 1930's when a few artists challenged the agenda of Wall Street, Big Business and Madison Avenue which led to The New World Order.  Everyone should see this film, > left, right and center, and then sit down to debate  "},{"Title":"uh, okay.","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  i liked it.  i saw a stage production in san diego a few years ago of the actual play.  the production of the play was set in the dark theater--with no sets or costumes--and the performances sung from the audience.  an awsome re-creation that really riled one up.  the movie was kind of bland.  i agree that cherry jones was great.  i hope we get to see more of her.  yes, the cinematography was great.  I actually liked vanessa redgrave.  however...am i the only one who just did not understand the final shot of the film?  "},{"Title":"One of the year's best films","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's been a strong second half of the year for movies, so it actually means something to say that Tim Robbins' brilliant Cradle Will Rock out-performs almost all the competition.  For anyone with a passion for art, history, film or just exciting, captivating filmmaking, Cradle Will Rock is a must. Robbins, who obviously has a great deal of interest in the topic, stages his Depression-era critique amidst the backdrop of increasing fear of Communism and worsening conditions for the nations poor.  The specific details of the plot, though fascinating and intricately woven, aren't nearly as important in the end as the variety of fascinating, telling characters, whose plight during this dark time in history is wonderfully depicted by an immense and talented cast. Along with Being John Malcovich and American Beauty, Cradle Will Rock ranks as one of 1999's must-sees. "},{"Title":"Does It Get Any Better Than This?!","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's been years since I've seen a film this good. Hell, this great!  The script is so smart and the filmmaking so powerful, it's amazing!  The cast is brilliant.  The finale is perfect and the final shot stunning! "},{"Title":"Should have won an award at the Cannes Film Festival","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this film at the Cannes Film Festival this year. This movie was my second favorite at Cannes after Almodovar's Todo Sobre Mi Madre, but still serves as an excellent epic that was enjoyable. I was astounded at how much Tim Robbins has improved in his craft. He intertwines the lives of many artists and elite involved in the Federal theater during the depression with flowing camera movemenets and gets great performances out of the star studded cast. The actual musical, Cradle Will Rock, which is performed at the end is extremely catchy and brings a certain strong climax to all of the films action. With extremely strong performances from Susan Sarandon, Bill Murray, John Turturro, among others, I believe that if this film is released at just the right time Cradle is headed for a handful of Oscar Noms. "},{"Title":"Scarily ambitious","Date":"22 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" movie with an excellent outstanding all-star cast... Basically it tries to illustrate the traps and pitfalls in the never-ending war between art, politics and money. Art (as is usually the case) being the preferred hero, but realistically portrayed as being almost impossible to hold down - and if one does manage to curtail the art, it usually is at a loss for society as a whole. However traditional union stubbornness is also frowned upon in the movie.The movie tries to see the events and the multitude of characters involved from a sort of detached perspective which makes it a little bit difficult to get close to any of the characters. Many of the side-stories (at least 8) could easily occupy an entire movie of its own, but I give credit for the effort in trying to tie it all together.For me the Rivera versus Rockefeller part is the most poignant - That Rockefeller could even think that hiring a well-known socialist sympathizer as Rivera without doing something subversive is just both hilariously funny and naive. One could argue that making the joke a little bit less obvious would have saved a great piece of art, but I guess thats very typical of many artists.All in all a very fascinating slice of a time-period, but a little bit too fragmented to really score a bullseye in my view. "},{"Title":"Think More About this Movie","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The leading review of this movie says that it makes a fascinating film out of a dull subject. The review ends commenting that human spirit triumphs over 'regulation'. This doesn't even show the barest understanding of the themes in this story.This is a fascinating interleaving of history (in the base story) and philosophy (in the muscial the story surrounds.) It's about a period of time when Americans didn't know whether to side with Stalin or Musellini, Communism or Fascism. It's about a struggle between Capitalism and both those things, and none comes out unscathed. All surrounding the main story of this film are little reminders of things you should think about for example, the Rockefeller son's character. He's so light, so focused on his life and happiness. Contrast this to Bloody Ludlow, the massacre his father generated.One big question inside me cries... How many piled-up aching bodies, brother, does it take to make you wise? --Cradle Will Rock "},{"Title":"Tim Robbins takes a rather dull subject and turns it into a fascinating film.","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  SPOILERS - USA, 1936, Great Depression, lots of unemployed, advent of unions and their threats, growth and suspicion of Communism in the USA, Italy and Germany are buying steel.  The central theme of Cradle Will Rock is the Federal Theater Project, sponsored by the WPA, to bring low cost theater to the masses, especially the unemployed. One project is a musical, The Cradle Will Rock, written by Hank Azaria's character, and because of its controversy is having a tough time finding a theater that will allow it to be shown.  In a perfect, magnificent scene near the end, Azaria alone with his piano on stage is set to do a one-man show. However, as it progresses, one-by-one audience members, who had trained for the various parts, stood up and performed their parts amongst the ordinary theater goers.  It was done so well it did not seems like a dramatization. Human spirit again triumphs over regulation.Tim Robbins, who I remember mostly for roles like Merlin (Top Gun) and Ed (I.Q.), is one of the most talented writer/directors, as he showed previously in Dead Man Walking and Bob Roberts. His use of the moving camera in selected scenes puts the viewer right into the action. Example, early on, the camera follows Turturro and his kids out of a taxi and across the street, then seemlessly picks up Emily Watson standing in the employment line, then later picks up Ms Flannagan as she walks past and into the employment building, always picking up the right voices to go along with the shot.The film is full of top drawer actors. Emily Watson, a Brit, plays an American singer out of work, becomes a stagehand, eventually gets the role of the prostitute in Cradle even though her singing is very marginal. Ruben Blades is a painter commissioned by Nelson Rockefeller (John Cusack) to paint a large mural in his new building, it is eventually torn down because the artist insisted on having Stalin displayed prominently.Orson Welles at 21, 5 years before Citizen Kane, is played ably by Scottsman Angus MacFadyen. Bill Murray is great as the ventriloquist who must try and teach two no-talents. Also Joan Cusack, Susan Sarandon, John Turturro, Vanessa Redgrave.Overall a very enjoyable film that goes by more quickly that its 2+ hours.  The characters are all so alive, the script so well done, the filming so interesting, I will enjoy re-watching it periodically. "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the greatest American film ever made.","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Never before have I seen a movie which left me with such a feeling of enlightenment and pure elation. How the Oscars eluded this movie completely remains a mystery to me.Empowered by superb acting and encompassed by intelligent directing, Cradle Will Rock turns a series of early industrial American events into a brilliant extravaganza set to indulge all of the senses.Hank Azaria was quickly boosted to the top of my favorite actors list. And John Cusak managed to make it off my least favorite actors list. Bill Murray became the essence of vaudeville, and Cherry Jones was absolutely riveting.Great music, great acting and beautiful storytelling what more could you ask for? "},{"Title":"This is why movies were invented.","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Unbelievably stellar cast (Tim Robbins must know every cool person in the world), knockout script, heartfelt performances, creative and daring direction.  Anyone who has done theatre will find this movie invigorating. Anyone with an interest in Depression-era history will find it fascinating. Anyone with a conscience should find it riveting.  10 out of 10.  "}{"Title":"Wow, now this is historical drama the way that it was meant to be.","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was an absolutely phenomenal film.  I was thoroughly impressed by the weight of the characters, the depth of the storyline and the commentary on American art and theater.  This was one of the most realistic portrayals of America in the Great Depression and a fascinating look at some of the most important figures in the 30s.  I was impressed by the realistic portrayal of Houston and Wells as elitist slummers in the WPA, I really appreciated the conflict between Capitalism and Communism in the whole Rockafeller plaza debacle.  I was moved by Bill Murray's portrayal of a bitter radical who had become a reactionary in his old age.This movie was simply one of the best produced, acted and written films that I have seen in years.  I recomend it to anyone familiar with the history of the period, or anyone interested in seeing a good and engrossing film (although I think that some knowledge of the period would be beneficial). "},{"Title":"Politically acute with excellent performances","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is typical of Robbin's fascinating perception of class struggle and political upheaval. Building on the excellent Dead Man Walking of 1995, this film has all you could want, using a political backbone and introducing music, comedy and despair seemlessly.Do not expect conventional Hollywood from this one. "},{"Title":"keep in mind the politics","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film has rather leftist politics.  Keep in mind that this will considerably influence how people rate the film.  I did my best to put politics aside, and I came away convinced that CWR is brilliant and deserves serious perusal when it comes out on video.  As with many great films, once will not be enough to catch all of it subtleties.  Of course, your mileage may vary.As a tribute to the script's ability to win over an audience, I saw CWR in a far-right town with a mall audience and, at the end, *everyone* in the theater applauded for what seemed like nearly a minute.   The final, silent, frames are the most moving and perhaps, in implication, the most radical.Tim Robbins is to be admired for creating a fresh and truly original script (the scenes in which Marc Blitzstein communes with the ghosts of Brecht and his late wife are just some of the script's high points).  Had this been a first time script by some unknown talent, it would be surprising enough.  That it comes from a name actor is somehow more surprising (who knew he had it in him?).  Robbins should be nominated for an Academy award, but of course he won't be.  Most of the cast, from the Cusak siblings, to Bill Murray, to Carrey Elwes (and his dead-on John Houseman impression) is well chosen.  The actor who plays Welles struck me as a bad choice, but he grows on you.  I could go on, but to make a long story short, this will be a film I will treasure for a long time.  With Magnolia, I am encouraged that we may be entering a renaissance of great film making.  I can't unreservedly recommend CWR to anyone, given its politics but I think even died in the wool conservatives will find something in it to admire.  Only Libertarians perhaps should stay away. "},{"Title":"Robbins and Beatty What a Righteous Presidential Ticket!!","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  So you think Mussolini didn't have his admirers over here?  You think Joe McCarthy was the only witch hunter crying 'Red' to destroy people who wouldn't knuckle under to his idea of the 'true American'?  The demonizers are still here, except now they wish to demonize Americans who believe that a piece of cloth is NOT our country but a piece of paper is the Bill of Rights.  Cradle Will Rock reminds us of how evil Hearst and his steel maggot cronies really were, and what 'hungry' still means.  The young woman sleeping in the theatre and being chased out is still with us, but how poignantly Robbins shows us the human soul within that young woman and Cherry Jones, the head of the Federal Theater. Our National Endowment of the Arts has met the same vilification by our Congressional concrete-heads as we witness in this gorgeously photographed movie.Yet as you watch Bill Murry...best acting of his career...try to make contact with an equally bruised frigid woman by joining the anti-Red movement--a pitiful effort to bring some warmth into their lives;  you feel compassion for them as they try to destroy one of Rosevelt's attempts to provide employment during the later years of the Depression. You long for the brave union leaders of old, as you watch the strike-breaking police drum their tune on the heads of the jobless.  Today our union leaders are easily bought off, our unions flabby and useless.   Never having been hungry, we well-fed Boomers are made to feel the desperation of those people with no roof over their heads, as we step out of the theatre and over the bodies of today's homeless. ( Talk about logic tight compartments!!!)Watching John Torturro bravely reject his family's embrace of fascism in the name of Italy and the security of a home, joined by his Anglo wife and loving children, makes us wonder if we could put principle over having a roof over our heads.  So, the arguing and over-posturing of the actors playing Orson Wells and John Housman is irritating....small price to pay for this masterpiece in both overall acting, writing and message.  No wonder so many Hollywood stars took relatively low pay and were fighting each other to be in this movie.  This is a Great one. "},{"Title":"bah","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Communism, the red scare, federal theater, the conflict between commerce and art, America's changing relationship with Italy in the late 30s, and union strikes are each potentially fascinating subjects for a film on their own. But thrown together in such a complex way as they are in Cradle Will Rock makes it hard to get caught up in any particular issue, let alone any one of the many interesting but underdeveloped characters. I realize that these were all real issues of the day, and that director/writer Tim Robbins was trying to portray the sociological complexity and the whirlwind feel of the time. But it doesn't work. Instead of a complex, tightly integrated work, it comes across as confusing and episodic. If you personally lived through the movie's events, you may follow the story better than I could...but that's hardly a realistic expectation for audiences in 1999.This film is full of interesting situations and people (John Cusack as Nelson Rockefeller-- fascinating casting, but we get only the barest glimpse into what he could do with the character), but they do not add up to a good movie. "},{"Title":"Less would have been more.","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Cradle Will Rock is an ambitious, busy, and esoteric mixture of fact and fiction with an extraordinary cast and all the trimmings. This unfortunate white elephant of film hasn't the time do justice to the character's depth, the history of American red paranoia, the WPA and the arts, or any of it's many other facets. Of value because of it's sheer magnitude and some wonderful performances, this may be yet another example of directorial zeal biting off more than a film can chew. "},{"Title":"A self-indulgent disappointment","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Saw Cradle at a Writers Guild screening in New York (Nov, 1999) which offered post-screening interview with creator Tim Robbins. Mr. Robbins, an intelligent, if not truly intellectual, handsome, engaging, unpretentious artist, was so much more entertaining and absorbing in the few moments he spoke with the audience than was the case with almost all of his over-long two hours-long-plus movie.The movie informs, but it neither enlightens nor entertains. The remarkable cast does its best to keep up with Robbins' vision of a modern-day version 1940s screwball-comedy farce, but this devotion to a cinematic form, and a comparable commitment to historical accuracy and costuming, only distracts Robbins from any artist's true goal engaging story and characters. There is none of this in Cradle. It is pure pastiche, mere montage, with too all the time and $30 million spent on atmosphere, not flesh-and-blood authenticity.Robbins admitted that a writer friend of his read the script and told him it didn't work and advised him not to undertake the movie. But he did, and now believes what Joe Roth, Disney's studio chief, probably apparently told him that the studio loves the movie. (Though certainly no one in marketing or publicity or sales or 'profit' can love it!)Well, Joe Roth is a decent man raised as the loving child of dedicated left-wingers. I admire him for that, as I admire his loyalty to Robbins' intensity and intentions, but Cradle is a a hopelessly flawed, irrelevant boring movie experience. "},{"Title":"American history X (make that A+)","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Under-appreciated story of various and sundry events in the 1930s the rise of fascism in Europe, Orson Welles' stage production of Marc Blitzstein's politically charged opera The Cradle Will Rock, and Nelson Rockefeller hiring Diego Rivera to paint a mural, all in the midst of the Depression. The movie jumps around a lot, but it does pretty much succeed in tying everything together. And I shouldn't have to explain that the cast is beyond impressive Hank Azaria as Marc Blitzstein, Ruben Blades as Diego Rivera, John Cusack as Nelson Rockefeller, Cary Elwes as John Houseman (who later became an Oscar-winning actor), Angus MacFayden as Orson Welles, Bill Murray as red-bating ventriloquist Tommy Crickshaw, Susan Sarandon as Mussolini's cultural emissary Margherita Sarfatti, and various other people (among them Bob Balaban, Jack Black, John Carpenter, Joan Cusack, Philip Baker Hall, John Turturro and Emily Watson).There are some lines that really give one a gotcha feeling. For example, Diego Rivera complains to Margherita Sarfatti that she is Jewish and working for the Fascists, and she notes that he is a wealthy Communist. Later, after Tommy Crickshaw has spent so long calling people Commies, his dummy suddenly calls for Socialism. An awe-inspiring, if sometimes confusing, movie. "},{"Title":"An Inspiration!","Date":"27 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is a must see for anyone interested in freedom of expression in the arts. While I agree that it is a bit too altman-esque for my taste aesthetically - all the various narrative threads do come together in the last 45 minutes or so to create a biting critique on federal/corporate control over the arts. Tim Robbins has given us an excellent reminder of the urgency for vigilance in protecting artistic expressions that grate against the all-too-well protected status quo. Experimentalism in art inspires people to explore their personal and universal worlds - that's why it is dangerous to those making money off the norm. It is as true today as it was in 1936. It is up to artists and those who love art in all its forms to put themselves on the line - as everyone involved in the impromptu production of the original Cradle Will Rock event did. This film is a great tribute to those performers and to artists like Diego Rivera, as well as his wife, Frida Khalo who refused to compromise their beliefs or their love of art. "},{"Title":"Excellent work of history and art","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of my favorite films of all time. It's a very clever script, and despite what I've read from many other user comments, I think that the multi-character storytelling is done as well as one possibly could. It's necessary for a film that talks about art vs. politics during the tumultuous 1930s to cite more than one example of the universal (and in today's Hollywood system, still relevant) truth of art, creativity, integrity, commerce and politics. One thing that I've read in both the negative and positive reviews that bothers me is everyone's complaining about the portrayals of Orson Welles and John Houseman by Angus MacFadyen and Cary Elwes, respectively. Many people have commented that Welles' genius is not given a fair shake, being overshadowed by his arrogance and drunken foolishness. Here is where we should commend Tim Robbins and Angus MacFadyen more than ever! The simple fact is that during this time, Orson Welles' theatre work was lessened by his involvement in radio, he was taking on more projects than he could handle, and once he left New York after his War of the Worlds broadcast in 1938, his theatre WAS in a great shambles. Aside from the legendary voodoo Macbeth, and his Julius Caesar set against the backdrop of the Nuremberg Festival, much of Welles' theatre work in NY was not of great success, and often worked through chaos, sometimes to disastrous results. So, rather than choosing to skew the truth by showing the genius of Welles that orchestrated War of the Worlds, and made Citizen Kane and Chimes at Midnight, Tim Robbins chose to be honest and show us the Orson Welles who drank a bottle of scotch each night with his dinner as he tried to barely keep his edgy productions from falling under. I'm an ENORMOUS admirer of Orson's; as a director, he is my hero and mentor. So, I'm just as sensitive about issues involving him as anyone.The other major complaint is regarding the politics. That this is so liberal minded it's impossible to watch. First off, if you are a right-wing conservative and/or republican minded person, you will never like this film, even if you gave it the benefit of the doubt. Secondly, this is pointing at a time in history when the House Un-American Activities Committee was notoriously responsible for propaganda fueled by paranoia, and many artists suffered. Quite simply put, this story happened, and Tim Robbins is just interpreting it onto the screen. And I feel he's done a magnificent job in doing so.  "}{"Title":"A Great 'Historical'Film. Outstanding Cast!!","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was dissapointed when after watching this film I read very mixed reviews. Intelligent scripting and structuring coupled with visual style is seldom seen these days in 'historical'  films.Tim Robbins was clearly influenced by working with Robert Altman on several films in the early to mid-nineties. This is most noticable in the extremely long tracking shot at the beginning of the film, and also in Robbins managing of an outstanding ensemble cast. Admittedly, there is a lot happening all the time, and you will have to concentrate quite hard (sorry folks), this is why much can be gained from repeated viewings. I believe Robbins was very brave to choose such a politically potent topic for his film, and he does not in anyway flinch from the shocking facts which reveal themselves throughout the film (namely, the funding of the Musilini's war effort by American businesses).  Robbins does assume that his audience has a firm grasp of historical figures and events, this can be a problem at times but it serves as an encouragement to the viewer to maybe pick up a history book or two and there's nothing wrong with that.Viewers shouldn't expect a long and boring history lesson in this movie, it is still fantastically entertaining. . .and why can't films be political?? We need political films more than ever now.8/10 "},{"Title":"Woody Allenesque","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie feels like a Woody Allen film. The characters are rich and keep on talking and when they don't, they're singing. It's about a play called Cradle Will Rock but with Tim Robbins at the helm, you expect that this will go loudly political and it is.The actors were really great, you should watch the Tenacious D (Jack Black and Kyle Cass)part, very hilarious. "},{"Title":"The '30s Left","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Marxism was the undercurrent of the '30s, just as libertarianism is the subtext of the '80s and '90s. It's a bit of a shock at first to see a Hollywood movie with these concerns in these days, as the people in right-wing culture are either Us or the ones We feel scorn for, the inferior ones. The federal government sponsoring theaters? Right-wingers would sooner drive pins in their eyes. (Forget the huge amount of employment and amusement it would bring in the dirty '30s, it's more important that it would perhaps be overrun with leftists.) Nowadays, we have a totally privatized artistic universe, and see what wonders it brings cheap non-fiction entertainment and fictionalized tabloid news.That being said, it does seeem a bit preachy as a script, but it's pretty hard to imagine this kind of piece not being preachy and still being a historical piece. Don't worry, go back to the dramas that become popular in right-wing times superhero revenge dramas where the square-jawed hero cannot lose. And you wonder why these times are so empty. "},{"Title":"Perfection on Film","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A brilliant film, touching on huge swathes of socio-political issues, intelligent plotting, scripting and acting.  Life-affirming values, marvellous portayal of the period, enlightening and clever.  The performance of Angus MacFadyen as Orson Welles is both a brilliant impression and a vivid caricature and I cannot recommend this film highly enough. It's only fault is that with its renowned cast, it might attract people to watch who are either the political opposite of the film's creators or who might be expecting a totally different, less cerebral effort.  Of course, to me this is not really a fault! "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  SPOILERSThis movie is an excellent movie for anyone who supports free speech in all its forms...and especially for any theater people. Mostly this was a film about the theater and how the use of theater can be very powerful.  The magic that we watch being created during the final performance is very familiar to any who work or enjoy the theater... So many people have complained about plot holes and I am at a loss to find any in this work of art. Tim Robbins is a cinematic genius. "},{"Title":"captures spirit of theatre better than any other film","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Rarely does a film capture the thrill and atmosphere that is theatre. Most are content to belong to convention and trudge through a tired plot. This film is as vibrantly alive as the theatre itself, with at least a dozen of the most compelling characters written in the nineties. Tim Robbins' admiration for Robert Altman is more than apparent. He even outdoes most of Altman's films with this entertaining, challenging, and exciting piece of work. "},{"Title":"Okay but not memorable","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 'Cradle Will Rock' is a musical story that follows a group of entertainers and a theatre production. This film received a lot of positive criticism back when it was released (1999), but since then, it seems to have been forgotten. I watched the film in 2001, and I confess that I can not remember a lot of the story of the film. I do remember thinking that the film was okay and that it was directed and shot well, but I cannot remember the storyline behind it other than what I have already mentioned.Entertaining though it is, not to mention produced well, it is not a memorable film. "},{"Title":"An interesting and engaging film that is surprisingly enjoyable and entertaining","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In the 1930's the Unions rise up in American industry causing strikes and, ultimately, unemployment as industry falters. To counter this the Government pours money into employment programmes &#150; one of which is funding theatre projects to create jobs and supply subsidised entertainment to the masses. However it is also a time of fear and suspicion &#150; with Communist being the worst insult around. It is at this time that Marc Blitzstein writes a play about a prostitute and an Union organiser in Steel Town. Of course, while writing alone in his home with only his dead wife and the spirit of Brecht for company, he was not to know the significance that the play would come to have.Although it is perhaps too fictionalised to be of use as a historical piece, Robbins' labour of love is a jauntily entertaining ensemble piece that does a great deal well and very little badly. The plot is about the events leading up to and surrounding Orson Welles and John Houseman's staging of Marc Blitzstein's Federal Theatre Musical in the face of great unemployment, tantrums and the accusations of communism. The script makes the whole thing look effortless but it is far from being that; actually it could easily have been a mess with so many plot strands and characters, but it works very well, keeping each interesting, engaging and, surprisingly, lively, amusing and entertaining. It is hard to describe but it does work pretty well. The downside of this is that, no matter how well it does it, the actual focal point of the film is a subtext rather than part of the narrative (although it does try to put the play at the core of things by messing with the timeline) and this will be a problem to audiences that don't often see this. However, Robbins opinions of art and censorship are clear and it does make for an engaging meaning to the story.Robbins shows his skill with a fine opening five or so minutes of good camera movement and shot framing. After this he keeps up the real quality feel but is never obtrusive. He also manages to capture a real sense of time and place &#150; in the writing and directing. The cast is deep and they all work well together, easily taking to the ensemble feel in the script. Azaria works well with his character; the Cusacks are both good; Elwes is enjoyable; Murray produces a darkly comic performance; Hall is good; Sarandon is solid enough; Redgrave is colourful; Turturro is good; Macfafyen's Welles is convincing and enjoyable; Blades is convincing and so on &#150; I could talk about each actor because they were all good. The only problem with their performances is that, with so many people and characters, few have the chance to go deeper than the pacey delivery permits.Overall an enjoyable and interesting film that is surprisingly entertaining even if it is, understandably, a bit stagy. Some have commented on the length of the film but for my money there is so much happening in the story that to cut any more of it would have been very difficult. The direction is great and the cast all take to the ensemble script like ducks to water- more than making up for the fact that the film never looks too hard at any one character for too long. Well worth seeing though for the many things it does well rather than the odd weaker aspect. "},{"Title":"Hire a writer","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The cinematography and directing are good.  But the movie could have benefited greatly from a talented screenwriter.  There were too many bad storylines that were never woven together adequately -- it was like 2+ hours of channel-surfing bad television.  And the central storyline (that the government had it in for this one play) was discounted even by the film itself (ALL government-funded art was put on hold due to cutbacks). The film had its humorous characters and lines, but all the good parts could have been put into about 5 minutes leaving enough time in the evening to watch a good movie. "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  Overly arty, dark comedy","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" OK, I get it. The great depression was a sad time. But all the dark comedy just makes me depressed. I'm an action movie buff who likes it when things blow up. I like a film that's intellectual, but usually avoid dramas, because I don't have the film school spider sense to ignore a bad story or uninteresting characters to pay attention to makeup or the musical score.So I was disappointed by Cradle Will Rock, which has an all-star cast but contained way too much arty for me. The film is set up like an episode of The Love Boat TV show, where rather than there being one protagonist, there are several who don't really interact. So the plot meandered and I found it to be boring. Where are we going with this?I learned a little about the time period, and it wasn't nearly as stark and cardboard as The Hudsucker Proxy. But the deep themes and meanings were a little too subtle for me (if there were any), unlike The Gosford Park, which I found quite accessible.Who should see this film-- film school types, have a field day-- people with a genuine interest in the 1930s and a hightolerance for dramaI'll give Cradle Will Rock, a must-have-gone-over-my-head rating of only 5 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Underdeveloped one-dimensional characters...","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was one of the most manipulative, self-important, and insulting movies of 1999.  Tim Robbins really disappointed me.  He wrote a script that consisted of one-dimensional drama queens who thrash their arms about and scream CENSORSHIP! And his directing is indulgent and weak.  Also, a marvelous cast is completely wasted.  (Joan Cusack's and Bill Murray's scenes seemed like they could have been from another movie!!!) The ending is obvious and over-dramatic.AND Susan Sarandon's gave one of the most unintentionally hilarious performances I've seen in a long time.Stay away by all means...unless you're easily manipulated and aren't insulted by being manipulated. "},{"Title":"Robbins should concentrate on acting","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Cradle Will Rock is well-filmed and has a political message. It is, however, boring, predictable, and patronizing.  I don't see anything wrong with artists putting politics in their art, in fact I encourage it, but Tim Robbins' characters are like Duracell rabbits who carry their messages without any personality or depth (is 'investment' better?).  In Cradle Will Rock, Vanessa Redgrave's character mirrors Susan Sarandon's character in Dead Man Walking.  They're filled with a mission and they don't ask questions, but hopefully and cheerfully carry their missions out. Dramatic tension?  Nope, they're above it (the scripts, characters, and movies).  The parallel between the French monarchy (Louis XVI at the eve of the French Revolution, to be exact) and Gray Mathers and his crowd is plain tacky and void of character development.  Robbins' is a very shallow reading of history.  He can't figure out if he wants to do high art or reach the masses, and the result is not very good at all. "},{"Title":"Art can be Chaos. This movie is.","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If Tim Robbins intended to show how chaotic or just plain crazy the depression era and this branch of the WPA was, then this movie might have hit that mark.  It doesn't make it any easier to watch even using this perspective.  Does the term Cross-cutting mean anything Tim?  Yes some great individual performances but unless you are a student of those times and really knew what the movie was supposed to be about, it was difficult to sit through it. Many people didn't.  Only about 30 out of 40 were still in there seats at the end. We kept hoping for a real coming together since we really didn't know how much This movie is (Mostly) a true Story. really meant.  Colorful, Chaotic, wild, provocative but a bit too much trying to figure out where the movie might take you.  Hard to take with the singing too since most of the cast really couldn't sing.Read up on the whole story before you see it.  I might help.... "},{"Title":"Tim Robbins fails","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What was Tim Robbins thinking when he decided to direct Cradle Will Rock because it is a movie that was flawed from the beginning. In fact, it was so awful that it doesn't deserve to be reviewed. There is only one positive thing that came from watching this movie; telling other prospective viewers that Cradle Will Rock is a waste of time and money.There were many things about Cradle Will Rock in this film that I found to be terrible. However, there were two that stood out as the worst parts of the film. The first was the pointless storyline the writers came up with. The second were the performances of every actor involved with the making of this movie. I can hope that viewers will stay away from Cradle Will Rock.  "},{"Title":"Too Much Of Something Will Impress Too Few People","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" CRADLE WILL ROCK is an example of too much going on which comes close to ruining a movie . You really do get the impression that director Tim Robbins has during the production of the movie been receiving phone calls from his socially aware friends pleading politely that they be given a part . Being a very nice man ( Has anyone ever said anything bad about Robbins the person ? ) the director hasn't had the cruel common sense to say  Sorry but we've got everything we need for the project  instead he's replied  Okay I'll get the writers to write you a part  This is the problem with CRADLE WILL ROCK . We could have had a very memorable biopic of Orson Welles as a struggling actor in a New York theatre company in the 1930s , or we could have had a movie pointing out that it wasn't just Joe McCarthy's UnAmerican congressional hearings that ruined artistic careers , but the whole storyline becomes swamped and ultimately drowned with little character episodes that don't really lead to a bigger picture . Of course some of the subplots will appeal to a lot of people and I was thoroughly entertained by the sub story of Bill Murray's ventriloquist act being stolen by the two homosexuals but you do find yourself wishing that your favourite sub story had taken up more screen time with other subplots being eliminated totally at script stage . A very good example of less being more "},{"Title":"What?????","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What was Tim thinking? This movie was a jumbled mess. He wasted some great talent on such a terrible script. Vanessa Redgrave, Em,John Turturro, and Joan Cusack gave excellent performances as usual. But Orson Welles and John Houseman must be turning over in their graves and the ridiculous caricatures that were imposed upon the audience by Angus Whatever and Cary Elwes. I was very disappointed! J.W "},{"Title":"Truly truly dreadful...","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What is it with films like this & The Moderns? Are they bad homages or assassinations masquerading as tributes? We seem to live in an age with a massive oedipal artistic complex. Hemingway & Stein reduced to simpering pedantic fools in The Moderns & here Welles & Rivera & Rockefeller reduced to late Saturday Nite Live skits. There's some kind of ideology at work here. Ideology of trivialization. Here's rooting for the next generation to rise & overthrow the Robbins/Sarandon mindless retro-liberal nexus. "},{"Title":"Just Another Load of Left-Wing AgitProp Nonsense","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"9 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This pompous and painfully self-congratulatory movie is not so much the story of a 1930's theater production but a gathering of Hollywood left-wingers intent on praising each other for their Political Correctness. It is offensive.Cradle Will Rock was a 1930's play put on by hardcore Leftists and outright Communists and was a pro-Labor anti-business load of sanctimonious AgitProp - agitation propaganda. And it would have been most suitable in Stalin's Russia  or the China of the Red Guards in the 1960's. Being publicly financed in the FDR administration it was to be closed down, but according to the Leftist Mythology they heroically fought the good fight and put the play on at another theater.So now we have the far-Leftists of 1990's Hollywood presenting a tedious and bloated salute and paean to New York theater Leftists and Communists of the 1930's. If you are of similar extreme political bent go watch it and slap yourself on the back. Everyone else, STAY AWAY and avoid the boredom of this pretentious and self-important movie!   "},{"Title":"Awful!","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I never walk out of a screening, but I walked out on this film.  I could not take one more minute of this boring, tedious film!!!!  When I left, several other people followed and I heard many of the same comments that I was feeling.  Not only would I list this as the worst film of 1999, but of the decade! "},{"Title":"About as immediate and relevant as Twelve Angry Men","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Self-conscious and not nearly as vital and striking as it supposes itself to be. A fine ensemble cast mostly goes through the motions of a very obvious agenda. Somehow, a populist urban polemic about McCarthyism set against the backdrop of public theater doesn't seem very relevant in 1999. The time-warping ending, presumably attempting to address qualms of appositeness, is laughably heavy-handed. "}{"Title":"Communist Propaganda","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was just overwrought communist propaganda.  Every single character is a cardboard stereotype -- evil capitalist, racist anti-communist, homeless person with a heart, etc.I rank this among the top 10 dumbest movies I have ever seen. "}]