[{"Title":"Some Credibility Gaps But A Fun Fugitive-Type Tale","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"35 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" With two really good lead actors and people I like to watch (Tommy Lee Jones and Ashley Judd) plus an on-the-run-Fugitive-type story, I expected a lot. I wasn't disappointed, either, although it's a bit hokey.This is a very intense, involving story, a la the above-mentioned The Fugitive, except this time it's a woman chasing down her ex-husband who set her up for murder. Once again, we see Jones in his familiar role of chasing down the supposed-criminal.As interesting as the story is, there are some credibility gaps such as why Jones didn't have a picture of the ex-husband in the first place or the always-annoying hesitation-before-shooting at the end which saves the good guy...and a few other things like that which are unrealistic. Will Hollywood ever stop that nonsense? However, clichés aside, overall it's very entertaining and always fun to watch no matter how many times I see it. Both Judd and Jones are excellent in these kind of roles. "},{"Title":"Nice thriller","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"38 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When you are convicted for something like killing your husband you can not be convicted a second time for the same crime. Sounds logical, since you can't kill someone twice. But when your dead husband suddenly shows up and you want your revenge, you can get that since you've already had the punishment. These are the circumstances Libby Parsons (Ashley Judd) finds herself in after she is released from prison, six years after her conviction. How and why the husband (Bruce Greenwood) framed her is not really important, he just did. Now Libby tries to track him down with Matty, their son, as her main reason. The problem is Travis Lehman (Tommy Lee Jones), her parole officer who is strict in his rules. He does not believe her, but of course we understand this will slowly change.'Double Jeopardy' belongs to the group of thrillers where you expect certain things to happen and you will see you were right. That is not a bad thing, but it means the road to those predictable moments must have something to offer. This film has some things, one of them is Ashley Judd. Maybe it was because I always like Ashley Judd, but for me she was the reason this film entertained me. She plays the clever Libby in way that keeps her serious but sometimes quite funny as well. Especially the sarcastic little remarks made me smile more than once. Tommy Lee Jones is reliable as always, especially in 'The Fugitive' kind of roles like this one is. Scenes between him and Judd are entertaining on themselves. Greenwood turns out to be a nice villain.Simply said if you do not expect too much of 'Double Jeopardy' there is a good chance you will have a really good time. "},{"Title":"There's a time and place for everything and women in peril thrillers were cool at that time..","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"33 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I've read all the bad reviews-I can say that it's really not THAT bad-granted-this picture has no realism whatsoever but-I could rattle off the names of many movies even more unbelievable that are still considered good films.Not that this is a really GOOD film or anything-but it does what it does well-which is to get your attention and hold it-no great analysis, no deep conversations afterward about what it all meant. Just a bit of time away from day to day life.The movie is also trying to appeal to a particular crowd, the type who like these type of mind thrillers'(Guilty as sin is another one, Malice, Final analysis etc etc) There's a whole host of movies like this one.Now this particular movie stars Ashley Judd who is so talented she almost had me thinking she really was locked up-definitely a quality actress-and if your a female and have just had a really BAD breakup you may wanna see it for that woman will triumph quality.Not that I'm saying this movie is great but I always tend to look for the bad AND the good-I thought one of the worst thrillers(a lot worse then this) was malice with Kidman and Alec Baldwin-that one was not only improbable but also extremely boring-but I'm getting off the subject at hand...I liked this. saw it in the theater and rooted for Ashley all the way.Seen a lot worse in my time.And lastly if you wanna check out ridiculous movies(and it's a SEQUEL to boot) rent revenge of the stepford wives. "},{"Title":"DON'T CARE WHAT THE CRITICS SAY, IT WAS VERY ENTERTAINING","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"25 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If you listen to the critics who knows where we would be.  Iignored the comments that this was another Fugitive only a female version, but found the movie fast paced and well acted by Tommy Lee Jones and Ashley Judd, as well as the whole cast.  I liked the story line and it was exciting and the time just flew by. Go see it you will enjoy it!!!! "},{"Title":"Quality Visual Splendour with superb scenery","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"34 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ... but enough about Ashley Judd.Standard Tommy Lee Jones fare here, a thriller in which he is the cop/law enforcement officer of some sort (in this case a parole officer) with a dark past who saves the day.Some good action, not bad stunt scene on a ferry, and the ever lovely Ashley Judd, particularly fantastic in her working out scenes that were there for nothing but gratuitous titillation, and who can complain about that? "},{"Title":"Ashley Judd carries the movie...","Date":"16 April 2007","Score":"22 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Ashley Judd is very beautiful and apt for this role. The way she characterizes a wife,a mother and an victim is too good. Hats off to Ashley Judd. After Elizabeth Taylor ,I like the acting skill of this fine women. Ppl - watch this movie.Its a nice dose of suspense,romance and dose of other emotions as well and Ashley Judd did her best. The story is subtle. Good screen play. Good direction. All in all good investment of time. Watch it for Ashley.They say that this movie has some issue in the legal interpretation of some legal point but I think that it has no relevance to the movie in so far as the way the screen play is done.I believe that the movie doesn't weigh on that interpretation alone as the climax just sinks into us without that gravity. I personally think though the story is good,Ashley carried it excellently well and an extremely delicate one at that. Infinite thanks to this beauty of an actor and a person. Thanks all. "},{"Title":"Thriller. Pay back is hell. Determination wins over all.","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"24 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Nick Parsons, played by Bruce Greenwood, wants to protect his ill gotten wealth; so he fakes his own demise. His wife, Libby, played by Ashley Judd, is convicted of murder. While in prison, Libby finds out that her husband is still alive and has taken her son to New Orleans and is living under an assumed name.Upon release, Mrs. Parsons breaks parole in order to get her son back. One other thing, she realizes she can  kill her husband for real and not suffer the consequences. Tommy Lee Jones plays the parole officer trying to bring her back to custody. He ends up helping Libby.Miss Judd is very beautiful and is probably on screen 97% of the movie. No objection here. Jones was outstanding. This action thriller is worth seeing more than once.  "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie in the theater and really enjoyed it. Ashley Judd does a great job as a woman convicted of killing her husband and realizing later that he's still alive. The title, of course, comes from the fact that since she's already been convicted of killing him once, if she finds him and kills him for real, she can't be tried again.Tommy Lee Jones is excellent as her parole officer, and Bruce Greenwood is the dead husband who's not so dead.Although this movie was very entertaining and well acted, it was extremely derivative. Also, several elements of the plot in the first scene were somehow telegraphed - or else it all seemed familiar.Still, this is a good rental and a fun watch. "},{"Title":"great Drama thriller","Date":"23 May 2008","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie by Australian director is now a weekly DVD but definitely worth seeing. Ashley Judd plays Elizabeth Libby Parsons who loses her husband, Nick, during a Yachting trip with him. During the police investigation it is discovered that Nick was in a financial crisis at the time of his death but left a two million dollar life insurance policy collect. Suddenly a whole set of evidence is produced to reinforce the allegation that she had a motive to murder her husband and she is convicted of murder. There is a plot problem that in reality she would have to wait seven years if he went missing from a boat before the claim was paid and it would be unlikely she would be convicted of murder without corroborating witness testimony from an independent party. Nonetheless somehow she is convicted of her husbands murder and it provides the intrigue. In prison Libby studies law in order to prove her innocence and when she phones her friend Matty who has custody of her 4 year son she accidentally stumbles on the fact that her husband may still be alive. The insurance claim has been paid to her son and her friend can use the money in his care apparently. Libby also learns that once convicted of murder of someone that you cannot be sent to trial again over the same murder and its called Double Jeopardy in legal terms. Libby is determined to hunt down her Husband for what he has done when she is released. Libby is released into supervised sentence under parole officer Travis Lehman ( Tommy Lee Jones) but escapes custody and sets out to track down her husband to prove her innocence. There is lots of action and Ashley Judd is such a great actress that you become emotional attached to her battle through the film. Tommy Lee Jones also performs well in his role as he breaks ranks to assist Ashley in quest to be reunited with her son in freedom. "},{"Title":"Excellent - exciting and suspenseful","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Great plot - excellent acting - beautiful sights and scenes. Exciting story with lots of action.  Thoroughly enjoyable - even if one knows the plot in advance.  Many touching moments. Strongly recommend this movie which has something for everyone. "}{"Title":"Thanks God for Tommy Lee Jones.","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Double Jeopardy is an interesting enough thriller, but it just isn't as satisfying as you would expect a movie with this premise to be. Ashley Judd is just annoying for the first hour or so of the film, and it isn't until the fugitive style chase begins that the movie gets really interesting. And this, of course, is where Tommy Lee's excellent acting is the most entertaining and fun. He has unfortunately been somewhat typecast since his spectacular performance in The Fugitive, but at least he has been typecast in a role that is always fun to watch and that he can always pull off excellently.I think it's pointless to try to argue whether or not the whole double jeopardy law can truly be handled in the way that it was described in the film, but as a crime film Double Jeopardy was pretty good. Judd's husband in the film is one of those characters that's easy to hate, and not only because of what he did in the movie. You just look at this guy and you immediately don't like him. That's good casting, but it also completely voided any effectiveness that his `auction' might ever have had. And how about that coffin scene! Who cares that no one gets buried in a coffin that has plenty of room for two! That was one of the creepiest things I've seen in a movie in years.Clearly, there is nothing spectacular about Double Jeopardy. It's not going to win any awards and it probably won't be remembered for very long. But it has a certain charm that can unfortunately only be appreciated if you're in the right state of mind when you watch it. Don't expect it to be as good as The Fugitive just because Tommy Lee Jones is in it (really, are any movies as good as The Fugitive?). I mean, let's face it, Double Jeopardy isn't even as good as Under Siege, but as far as a moderately entertaining crime thriller to kill a couple hours, you could definitely do a lot worse.  "},{"Title":"A good  movie of  revenge and  content!!!","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is one satisfying movie which I saw in DVD recently. The plot seems to be interesting after the conviction of Ashley Judd (Libby Parsons) for murdering her husband and even more eager to watch when Bruce Greenwood(her husband) appears again in a scene slamming a phone down. The director handles the revenge of Ashley in a down to earth manner though some of the unnecessary scenes of adventures like drowning car in the pond or hitting a car with a truck could have been avoided. These may be put of to just to keep the audience unobstructed. Like I was wondering how Ashley could carry a gun in plane in one scene. On the whole it is worth seeing it, and I would rate it 8/10. "},{"Title":"Hit play on the remote, but hit pause on your brain.","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Suspension of disbelief is put to the ultimate test in this cat-and-mouse chase thriller. Judd plays a wealthy wife and mother, living in a waterfront home where she bonds with her sweet little son. When her husband (Greenwood) surprises her with a luxurious sailboat and takes her on a romantic jaunt, she begins to believe that their once-shaky relationship is on the right course. However, when she awakens in the middle of the night covered in blood and alone, she soon finds herself the target of a murder investigation. From this moment on, virtually everything that occurs in the film is preposterous in the extreme. Ludicrously, she is found guilty of murder, even more ludicrously, she only serves 6 years for it and most ludicrously, when she finds out that Greenwood isn't even dead, she believes that since she has already killed him once and been tried for it, she can do it again and not be prosecuted! The entire premise and title of the film is completely inane and impossible! That said, the result is still a fairly gripping and intriguing experience. One is advised to completely abandon all notions of logic and reality in order to wring some enjoyment out of the proceedings. Almost nothing that Judd's character does is either plausible or sensible. She finds out her husband is alive only a month or so after being sent to prison, yet she rots for 6 years and never seeks any sort of legal aid? Her stint in prison is laughable. Two burly bitches, who likely would be raping her nightly, instead bake her birthday cakes for her missing son. She is out of the clink about 25 seconds when she is missing her curfew and breaking and entering a schoolhouse. She then breaks away from her parole officer (Jones) and is on the run all over the US from then on, desperately trying to retrieve her son and kill her dead husband. Jones is somehow able to completely abandon his post in order to follow her everywhere she goes. Scene after scene of thoroughly unbelievable and unrealistic situations come up. And the biggest surprise of all? Somehow Jones and Judd make it work! This film was a big crowd-pleaser and, in fact, it does provide a considerable amount of entertainment. Jones is just playing a less-confident, less-powerful version of his Oscar-winning role in The Fugitive, but he does it well. Judd somehow manages to take the audience with her (especially the female audience) as she single-mindedly pursues her cretin of a husband. Greenwood does an effective job as the deplorable spouse. The outcome of the film is predetermined. The story is so full of holes it actually hurts. Yet the film still comes through out of sheer audience manipulation and actors' charisma. It was downright shocking to see Judd, in a DVD featurette, asserting how rock solid the story is. This woman is going to want some serious help with script choices if she plans to remain a star (and if Twisted is any indication, she's on the wrong path!)  "},{"Title":"I Keep Watching It Over and Over","Date":"4 August 2013","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Let me be up-front. I loved it. Easily in my top 20 all time and maybe top 10. I think it's a Mind Thriller. The ingenious way she gets Angie's phone no. The scene at the BMW dealer where she gets Angie's new address. Later, she obtains Nick's new and latest name and his address through a Kandinsky painting. She recognized the painting from a newspaper article about Angie's accident. It had been hanging in her house. She knew that all Kandinsky paintings were registered and used this to find Nick' New Orleans address.I'm aware of the relatively low rating of this film. I've read most of the reviews and many of them are not so complimentary. Many of these people have rated the movie as a 0 or a 1. This is one reason why the rating is so low. I will now address some of the most common complaints about the movie1. Double Jeopardy doesn't exist. The main plot point of the movie is that you cannot be tried for the same crime twice in America. Many - apparently knowledgeable - people have said that this is not true as a point of law. I'm not a lawyer but I would like to ask a question Has it ever been proved in a court of law? Has anyone ever murdered someone, paid their penalty, got out of jail, found the still alive person, and the killed them? I doubt that this has ever happened. If it does, I venture to say they would find the second murder justifiable.I have always assumed that Double Jeopardy does in fact exist. Even it it really doesn't, then what is the problem? In U.S. culture, it does exist. It is used as plot points in many movies. Why did Charles (Terry Thomas) give a gun to Stanley Ford (Jack Lemmon) in How to Murder Your Wife.2. No credibility. There are many action scenes in the movie. Each one is believable. Taken together, I guess one's credibility must be stretched. But, what is the problem? This is a movie that exists for our entertainment. Is it really so important that - although she was initially handcuffed - she swims to the surface in the bay, hits Tommy Lee Jones over the head with his own gun, and then swims to shore, is hard to believe. I enjoyed the scene. While watching it, I was not thinking that it's not credible. Was Barry Kane (Robert Cummings in Saboteur) more credible when he, while two hands were hand-cuffed together, jumped off a very tall bridge, and somehow swam to shore while police officers were in pursuit?3. Cops out of Double Jeopardy. The complaint was that although she initially wanted to kill Nick, she eventually only wanted her son back and thus reneged on the Double Jeopardy plot point. My response is that she changed her mind after she realized that Simon Rider had killed his wife. She now knew that he was more dangerous that she thought. She reverted to the no. 1 priority which was to get her son back. This is not spelled out in the movie and so it's a little like Hitchcock, isn't it? He loved to make the viewers think for themselves.Speaking, of Hitchcock, I have wondered, what if this movie was exactly the same except he was the Director. Then what would the IMDb rating be? I maintain it would be close to 8.0.4. Too Predictable. Yes, I admit it was predictable. I knew the moment she went to prison that she would get out and eventually be reunited with her son. So what? The ending was one of the most satisfying I've ever seen. I watched High Noon for only five minutes and knew that the Marshal (Gary Cooper) would have a gun-fight at the end of the movie and that he would win. Didn't stop Gary from winning an Oscar at all.5. Lacks Suspense. Suspense is not a concrete thing. I can only answer this complaint by saying that, for me, it was very suspenseful. When she found Angie Rider's new address in Colorado and, before going to the door, preparing the gun - was this not suspenseful? Many situations in the movie were suspenseful. 6. The Annoying Hesitation Before Shooting. When Libby (Ashley Judd) and Travis (Tommy Lee Jones) confronted Jonathan near the end, I agree that it was annoying that Jonathan hesitated before shooting. This allowed Travis to jump on him and eventually, allowed Libby to kill him. I didn't like it either but it didn't bother me. This seems to be the Hollywood way. In summary, Double Jeopardy is great entertainment. It's clever, suspenseful, and has a tear-jerking ending. "},{"Title":"love conquers parole violations, bullet wounds & miscellaneous felonies","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Where do I start? When she picks up the murder weapon to insure her prints will be on it. When the kindly ex-atty female prisoner gives her idea, you've been convicted of murdering him, so now you can and get away with it. And, is TLJ a parole agent or a house mother? Instead of running car back & forth on ferry, all she had to do is use to keys in ignition to spring the cuffs, of course, that would have defeated that development no sinking cars, no swimming away, no gun, no conking TLJ on the head underwater. She visits her mother - do you think cops might be monitoring mom for this visit? One good scene chasing the boy in the cemetery, which I think was cut brutally to fit CBS's requirements. But the main thought is Louisiana is the only Napoleanic justice state in U.S., do their laws about double jeopardy apply uniformly with other states? Now that would be an interesting question, instead of this chase her down mercilessly, then fall in love with her in the end with a twinkle-in-the eye-style drama. "},{"Title":"Pick the Cliche","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"22 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT This movie was one big formulaic cliche.  Here are a couple of the better ones -1.  Woman sees bloody knife on the deck of the boat and PICKS IT UP (surprise surprise!).  And wouldnt you know it, the minute she picks it up the cops appear, shine a light on her with her holding the knife up menacingly!!!! Who the hell would pick up a bloody knife anyway????2.  When someone is on the run from cops, no matter where you go they are always there looking for you.  No matter where this chick went in New Orleans there were cops however she was always able to just elude them. This always gets me in movies - no matter where the fugitive goes the place is swarming with cops.3.  This is the worst one and always the sign of a crappy thriller - at the climax of the movie the bad guy gets the upper hand and aims the gun at the heroine whereby the other good guy (who the audience believed to be already DEAD) suddenly shoots the bad guy before he can pull the trigger.  I cannot believe that this is the only way to end a thriller.  How many times has this been done before.4.  Hero or heroine goes to Jail whereby the other inmates immediately dislike her however gradually warm to her plucky spirit and eventually become good friends.5.  Heroine is wrongfully imprisoned however no one will listen to her...ho hum....6.  Cop sent to capture her eventually gets evidence that she is actually innocent and then helps her.  Cop is usually grizzled/jaded with tragic past.7.  Plot involves cute kidThere are many more - especially regarding the bad guy and how he can take on new lives without anyone batting a eyelid - however the above are the main ones.Utter, utter crap. 0/10 "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I found Double Jeopardy to be a very good movie. I saw in school a few weeks ago and it immediately attracted my attention. I thought the acting was good and the storyline was very interesting.Double Jeorpardy tells the story of Libby Parsons who is convicted of murdering her husband, Nick Parson. While she is in prison for six years she suspects that her husband is still alive. She learns about double jeopardy and plans on getting revenge on her husband, and being reunited with her son Matty.Overall I thought this was a really good movie. I suggest that everyone should see it. I give Double Jeopardy 10/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Double the suspense.","Date":"31 March 2014","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Tommy Lee Jones and Ashley Judd team up in a story where happily married Libby Parsons (Judd) finds her financial-troubled husband Nick (Bruce Greenwood) missing. An investigation leads to the conviction of Libby for murdering Nick to obtain the insurance policy he had. While in prison, Libby learns Nick is still alive and had framed her. Therefore, after being paroled she escapes probation officer Travis (Tommy Lee Jones) to look for Nick, with Travis hot on her trail.This movie combines the tension of Judd's Kiss The Girls and Jones' The Fugitive to provide a movie that is double the mystery and suspense, captivating an audience and keeping the movie's momentum strong. The tension builds in one scene after the other to its action-packed climax, from the moment Libby finds her husband missing to her struggling to cope in prison, and to her avoiding her probation officer to her attempting to track down her husband.Movie may be a little predictable, and some of the plot elements are the same as the TV movie Bitter Vengeance, which stars Bruce Greenwood playing a character that also escapes, fakes his murder, and frames his wife. But overall, this is another nice popcorn movie for a night.Grade B- "},{"Title":"Good film!","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Tommy Lee Jones and and Ashley Judd are very good in the film.It is really a good mystery and revenge film!The characters Jones and Judd play are very likable.The film has some intense action and emotional scenes.If you like Jones and Judd then watch Double Jeopardy! "},{"Title":"An Excellent Film (Not a Game Show)","Date":"28 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" If you like the edge-of-your-seat suspense and love to watch Tommy Lee Jones, then this is the movie for you. Also starring Bruce Greenwood and Ashley Judd in the major roles.Judd is a woman accused and tried for the murder of her husband, where she is convicted to three years in prison. While in prison, she soon discovers that her late husband is really alive, and married to her best friend. To say the least, she is anxious to get out and find him.Her parole officer, Jones, is a former alcoholic whom she has pursuing her upon her escape to find her husband. She does find him too, he is now a powerful rich man in the South. When her husband figures out she is there, he believes he has killed her.You have got to love the United States law, Double Jeopardy comes into play when Jones shows up to tell the man about his wife's plan. She has come to kill him, but her husband admits to having killed her.The ending will totally blow your mind, but you have to watch the movie to find that out, as well as all the little details. "}{"Title":"Ah Ha Ha Ha Ha...I Can't Stop Laughing...What A Riot!","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A must for any bad-movie fanatic!!!  (Possible spoilers ahead...like ANYTHING in this movie could come as a surprise).Ashley Judd plays a woman who gets busted for murdering her husband in a setup so hilariously inept that it couldn't fool a seven-year-old...She gets sent to the nicest, cleanest maximum-security jail in America where she gets to work out her triceps and work in the prison hair salon.  She serves her term and gets out 6 years later, looking not a day older than when she went into jail (must be all those spa treatments and healthy jail food).   She tracks down her husband across two or three cities---it's so dull I can't remember the details---and tangles with her parole officer, Tommy Lee Jones who plays the part like he's been zombified and is only thinking about the check he must be getting for playing exactly the same role he's played in ten or twelve other movies.This is a movie so lame that it stoops to a tussle over a handgun as its climax...is this the sort of writing the movie industry rewards with tons of money and big stars?  The American public buys into it so it must be working.I guess it's not so funny after all. "},{"Title":"legal thriller","Date":"26 July 2013","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie for a variety of reasons.. first of Ashley Judd, not only is she great to look at she can act as well,, Tommy Lee JOnes what a great job he did as well.. a woman is convincted of killing her husband in absentia,, as he faked his own death,, she is sentenced to prison,, she then learns that he may be alive, after she get's out she's sent to a halfway house run by a tough as nails man, played by Mr. Jones. She sets out on a cross country chase after her husband and to find her child as well.. great chase scenes,, a few twists and turns,, lot's of interesting legal stuff , regarding the double jeopardy law. lot's of great camera angles, and location shooting , "},{"Title":"Let's remake The Fugitive","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" but we can't because Richard Kimball solved the mystery of who killed his wife. I wasn't thinking of Harrison Ford; Tommy Lee Jones was the real star of that movie. The follow-up, US Marshalls did not do bad either. So maybe we have him after another runaway fugitive, sort of like a nicer Dog, The Bounty Hunter. He can sprinkle some corn pone charm like when he is the DA in The Client, but we won't have him be so important, some lesser job. And we will make the fugitive a woman this time, like if Thelma survived driving off the rim. Yea, and she can be married to a real SOB, but she doesn't know he is a SOB. He can end up dead, maybe his mistress kills her. Better yet, let him fake his death but her be held for it while he goes off with her best friend or something like that. Wife is put in jail, escapes and goes to find him because she suspects he is alive. We'll give her a daughter, no make it a young son; they are cuter. Little boy can mention seeing Daddy when friend brings him to visit Mom. Only problem, can't see a women's jail break without outside help....maybe we put her on parole and make Jones her probation officer, and she skips to find hubby. Throw in some photogenic locales, some atmosphere and make Jones craggier than last time....no romance between them but all else is game....make her like Thelma, or is it Louise. Well, let's run with it. "},{"Title":"What a load of garbage!","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I should say  warning, contains spoilers  and I will do so to appease the IMDb staff, but this review contains no more spoilers than the trailer for the film.I am not a lawyer.  I am not a professor of law.  I am not even a law student, but I can certainly tell you that there are huge problems with this film, and I am not just talking about the double jeapordy law.  If that was all that was wrong with the film then perhaps you can overlook it.  But every frame, every inch of film carries more questions than answers.  For one, is it really that easy to fake your own death and then start a normal life with millions of dollars in your bank account?  Can you just change your name and then get a new birth certificate, drivers license, social insurance number and passport?  Don't they require you to show some proof of ID before you become someone else?  The answer is obviously yes.  Could you imagine if it wasn't a requirement to do so?  Anyone with credit problems could walk into the store that gives you new identities in the movies and ask for a new name.  The conversation must go something like thisPerson wanting to change name  Hi, I'd like to change my name. Name changing clerk Okay.  Can I have your current name?Person wanting to change name  No, I don't want to give you that. Name change clerk  Okay, can I have your old SIN or your passport ID number or drivers license number? Person wanting to change name  No not that either.  I don't want you to know that stuff because I just framed my wife for the murder of me and if I give you that information it will come up that I am legally dead and then I would have problems collecting the 2 million dollar insurance claim that I have and that would mess up my plans. Name change clerk  Okay, just sign right here please. ( she says with a valley girl tone and a glistening smile )So seeing as that is not the case in real life, then logic dictates that they would have to ask for some form of ID in order for the name change to be legal, and if that is the case then this movie is impossible right from the get go.  Simon or Johnny or Nick or whatever his name is in the film is a successful business man and he therefore has to fill out tax forms and that means that he has to have a SIN and he probably travels so he has to have a passport.  Wouldn't the authorities then wonder why his other ID was that of a dead man?  You would think they would.  That is just a hunch.  But again, all this is heresay as you can overlook tiny errors like this if the film is redeemable.  Sadly this one not only isn't redeemable, it down right stinks.  And I mean it stinks badly.As everyone has mentioned before, the trailer for this film gives it all away.  Why should anyone even see this film when you know that she is convicted of a crime that she didn't commit, you know she goes to jail, you know she is hell bent on revenge, you know she is going to have a confrontation with her husband and do the talking killer thing explaining to him that she can't be convicted of the same crime twice and you know that a resemblance or an ersatz Samuel Gerard is going to chase her around the country only to finally be the only one that believes her story.  I was honestly waiting for Newman to go fetch him a chocolate donut, the ones with the little sprinkles on top.  Or for him to say  do you know that Devlin and McGregor made 7 and one half billion dollars last year?  That company's a monster.  Or for him to say.... well you get the idea.  Tommy Lee Jones has the same everything that he did in the fugitive, only in here he is one dimensional and he is pathetically boring.  His character had a chance to be interesting because they briefly gave him a background and then they inexplicably forgot about that background.  To the makers of the film, Tommy's chance at character development goes no further than showing him in a bar sipping a shot of whiskey.  Just because his eyes are black like a doll's eyes, it doesn't exempt you from interesting dialogue.  Sometimes a dark and frustrated stare can work wonders in the right place, but not when I know nothing nor will I ever know anything about what makes Jones tick in here.  And that is the scripts fault for being so incredibly shallow and thin.  Actually thin is complimentary.  This script was anorexic.  I actually forget what Jones' name was in the film!Double Jeapordy is the kind of film that has nothing going for it.  When you have a film that can't even utilize Jones properly then you have problems.  He is in the class of actors like ( IMHO ) Bill Paxton, Sam Elliot, Kevin Spacey, Michael Rappaport and Omar Epps, guys that can keep you interested in a bad film just by their mere presence.  But not in this one.  Jones can do nothing to make his character work and consequently there is nothing that can make this film work.  I mean please, are you going to tell me that when you stuff someone into a coffin, you are going to keep them alive and just let them die over a period of what? seven or ten days?  If you were so concerned with this person, why not kill them first and then stuff them into the coffin?  This is just one of the tiny discrepancies in the film.  And as a reviewer and as a reader of reviews, you know it is a bad sign when you start cutting up tiny things like this.  This film is awful and the saddest thing is, it had so much potential to be a great film.  It had a good director ( Beresford ) and two really good leads ( Jones and Judd ) and a good supporting role by a vastly under appreciated actress (Gish) who is basically window dressing, she is given nothing to do.  The only reason this film opened strongly is because of Jones and my bet is when American Beauty is released North American wide on October 1st, it will bury this piece of garbage in the same cemetery that they found this script.  This is truly an awful film that leaves a stench so bad that it may be right outside your window right now.  Can you smell it?  I know I sure can. 1/10  "},{"Title":"What's wrong with you people??","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I couldn't belive it when I read these comments and most of them were negative.  This is one of my favorite movies!!  I absolutely loved it.  I think Ashley Judd is an incredible actress and Libby is my favorite character that she plays.  This movie keeps you on the edge of your seat the whole time.  What I love most is all the steps she goes through to finally find her husband and son.  I just feel like screaming GO Girl!! like half the time.  I love the character of Libby and how she is so strong and smart and doesn't take any crap from anybody.  I don't know why people didn't like this movie more.  I think it is wonderful and really touching about a mother's love.  Regardless of what these other comments say... go see this movie!!  Decide for yourself what you think but I doubt you will be bored. Wonderful movie!! 10/10  "},{"Title":"Double Jeopardy?  So they can't make me watch this twice!!!","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Going into see this movie, I knew very little about it.  I'd seen the trailer and so I roughly knew the plot.  I've always liked Tommy Lee Jones and Ashley Judd is absolutely gorgeous so I figured this was a no-brainer to rent.  It turned out to be a no-brainer in the sense that if you had one, you'd not like this flick.  The opening sequence was nice and compelling and I was really starting to get into it.  After a few scenes, though, it becomes one improbable scenario after another with wasted performances by Jones and Annabeth Gish.  Mix in some questionable camera work and you get this fiasco.  I realize the director must have thought the slow-mo sequences would have an effect (the effect on me was laughter), but in this ultra glossy prison sequence it just does not work.  If you want a descend Ashley Judd movie, rent Kiss the Girls.  For TLJ, get the Fugitive.  As for Double Jeopardy, just leave it on the shelve.   "},{"Title":"The car crasher's revenge","Date":"28 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I have to admit I really enjoyed this film. It's entertaining, beautiful, quite original and has a good acting.You know, just in the beginning I noticed a big difference from Brazil laws and United States'. In Brazil, our laws believe that no body - no murderer. It's here to avoid innocent people going to jail just like happened to Libby.It is interesting to notice how far people can go for their children. Libby seemed to be an ordinary good person in the beginning, but once she suffers lots of injustices and misses her son, she breaks every rules. Car crashes, illegal gun possession, stealing and other things, only to get back to her son. And that's the most wonderful thing about the human-being.Also, it is very satisfying from the director to let her recover Matty. My congratulations for Double Jeopardy. "},{"Title":"No surprises, but fast-paced script and good photography","Date":"10 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This 1999 film stars Ashley Judd as a woman who is convicted of killing her husband. His body is never found and the audience knows she's been framed. While she's in prison she finds out she can never be tried for the same crime twice, so when she gets out she goes hunting for him. Naturally there is a darling little child involved and naturally our heart goes out to the woman who's been terribly wronged. Tommy Lee Jones is cast as her parole officer who runs a half-way house. She spends a lot of time running away from him and this leads to some wonderful chase scenes. At one point they are both underwater after she's been handcuffed inside a car. There are no real surprises in the film, just some fine acting, good photography and a fast-paced script that throws Ashley Judd and Tommy Lee Jones into conflict. In spite of the formula however, I thoroughly enjoyed it. Therefore, I suggest it as a escape film to keep you mind involved in the perils of the people on the screen instead of focusing on your own day-to-day issues. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Reluctant 7","Date":"18 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" reluctant 7, Reluctant because Double Jeapardy's plot is so manipulative that it makes the whole project suspect-- wending its way at its own convenience, and at the expense of the characters (esp. their intelligence) and the nerves of the audience. That said, the worst moments of the movie are those early exchanges between the mother and son--I know these folks are yuppies but c'mon. The best moment is the jeopardy exchange in the woman's prison between Judd and the ex-lawyer prisoner. The redeeming things are Judd's athletic performance, her evil husband's very effective acting, the parole officer role (reminded me of similar pursuer in Thelma & Louise) New Orleans itself, the New Orleans bar tender, and that the movie, from a sensibility vantage point, is pretty damn good for a thriller with too many chase scenes. That human moments can emerge at all here is amazing, but they do--right up to the end. "},{"Title":"Great Movie.","Date":"7 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Double Jepordy contains everything a good movie needs. It's plot makes the viewer want to know more every time a suspenseful event occurs. Ashley Judd empowers herself from being accused of a murder that she didn't commit and is sent to prison. In return she spends years in jail attempting to keep in contact with her son while gaining the strength to one day get out of jail and find her ex-husband.Finally when she does get out of jail she spends what seems like weeks tracking down her husband but the only thing she wants is her son. Originally she has no intentions of committing double jepordy but intern is forced to in self defense. This movie is full of suspense and drama that will keep the viewer on there toes attempting to imagine what will happen next. "}{"Title":"Far-fetched fun","Date":"5 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Implausible (to be sure), yet thoroughly enjoyable suspense-ride with Ashley Judd perfectly cast as happily married wife and mother who is tried and convicted for killing her husband, a smarmy lout who has cleverly framed his spouse, changed his identity, and now lives a decadent life in New Orleans. Naturally she wants justice, but more importantly wants her child back. Jaded viewers might be quick to point out the plot-holes, coincidences, and general manipulation inherent in the story's concept, but when a revenge-melodrama works this well it's awfully tough to complain. Terrific performances by Judd, Tommy Lee Jones, and Bruce Greenwood. Extremely well-made, fast-paced, and slyly written by David Weisberg and Douglas Cook. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Double Jeopardy- Where's Barbara Stanwyck for this One? ***1/2","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The film reminded me of the 1944 classic Double Indemnity. Bette Davis, Joan Crawford and Barbara Stanwyck would have had a field day with this one. Instead, we have Ashley Judd in an average performance in a great thriller of a movie.Ms. Judd is framed for the murder of her husband, who is played quite well by Bruce Greenwood. The latter adopts a southern accent for his years in the south after he and Annabel Gish, who plays Angela Green, a private school teacher, concoct this scheme.It's office to prison for Miss Judd. Imagine her amazement when she speaks to her little boy on the phone and hears him say Daddy, when Greenwood walks into the room.The rest of the film is devoted to Miss Judd's scheme of revenge. Tommy Lee Jones enters the film in a supporting role as a parole officer who is having trouble with the bottle. Soon paroled, but breaking it at every attempt to get to her husband, Judd and Jones are led into quite an adventure while she seeks out her husband. In the interim years, Angela dies in a supposed gas explosion in their home.The film is well paced and exciting. It's just that Ms. Judd's performance is somewhat restrained. Bring back those ladies of the Golden Screen Age time! "},{"Title":"sweet revenge","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" while i wouldn't call this movie incredible, it is a very good movie. the plot is very thick. a man fakes his own death and the wife is charged with his murder only to find that her friend has taken her daughter to go off and live with her dead husband. i suggest (to all the girls out there) watching this movie with one of your best friends and some brownies. oddly enough, it's a great way to make you feel better about yourself. it makes you feel like anything is possible even in the dankest situations. there are a lot of tiny law glitches in this movie, and if that bothers you too much, don't watch it. however, it is one of the most sweetest revenge stories of our time. i'm teetering on saying it is this time period's count of monte cristo although there are many differences between the two stories. the sense of utter satisfaction from both is the same. ashley judd is a great actress and this part was perfect for her. "},{"Title":"Good Thriller","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I think DOUBLE JEOPARDY is a well executed thriller and should be an example for all coming movies. The picture was clear with full of colors. The great performance of Ashley Judd should have been the Oscar for her. It was a good cat and mouse story. It shows also a very emotional relation ship between mother and the missing son with plenty of love for both. This was perhaps the biggest touching scene. It is perhaps predictable but worth watching. It offers many plots and twists and the movie is shot in very nice areas. Another DVD for my best of collection. Rating 7/10.   "},{"Title":"Predictable Thriller","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Can this even be called a thriller? I've come to the conclusion that Ms. Judd will never surprise me but she's just so darn cute! How could you not love her?Ok. Beyond the fact that she looks really great in this little flick, the movie itself isn't great. The story is very predictable and the acting isn't fantastic. Tommy Lee Jones doesn't reinvent the good cop persona and Ashley Judd doesn't exactly break the mold of the wrongly accused convict. Though the story does have a couple of interesting little twists, let's face it. They're not exactly re-inventing the wheel. Not awful but certainly not the best of it's genre.5/10 "},{"Title":"Fairly exciting, good acting, good movie","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie will keep you interested, with Ashley Judd both on the run from the police and with a purpose, and Tommy Lee Jones pursuing her in a Fugitive style.  Not a lot of real action, but it never gets dull. "},{"Title":"Tommy And Ashley The Dream Team","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has got to be on my top fifty movies of all time.Ashley Judd was amazing in this picture and showed what life was in prison and knowing that your son is out there parted from you.She put a lot of emotion into every single scene she acted in.The Plot had twists and turns that made this movie action packed and hard to turn your head away.Tommy Lee Jones was not the lead actor in this movie but he was as equally good as Judd.Bruce Greenwood who was Judds husband was just haunting.The Plot was put together perfect.Double Jeopardy was indeed a masterpiece and became a legend in its own time.If You haven't seen this go rent it, everyone will enjoy this flick. *** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Lacking","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The writers decided to do completely without character development in the name of selling a screenplay with a decent plot. Don't waste your time on a movie like this one. Such a pity to see Tommy Lee Jones in this dribble. "},{"Title":"A lot better than the trailer indicated.","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I watched the trailer for this film months ago and thought that it looked a bit lame.  I was pleasantly surprised to find that the full feature was quite good,  with a pretty solid performance by Ashley Judd.  Zipp0 rating of 7/10. "},{"Title":"Solid thriller","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  After hearing several people rave about this film and hear the critics talk about Ashley Judd's breakthrough performance, I decided it was worth a rent.  Well, it was worth a rent.  This film wasn't the top film of 1999 but it's a straightforward, engaging thriller that did have me at the edge of my seat at times.  The best description of this film is solid and pleasant.  It wasn't fantastic and I could almost see it being on cable or video.  The performances were good overall but I wasn't overawed by Judd.  She's okay - she's very pretty and has a winning manner but a lot of her lines came out flat and she seemed a little wooden at times.  To be honest though, some of those lines were not the greatest. I can think of several actresses today who are can do a lot more.   Tommy Lee Jones was much better (in my opinion) and didn't disappoint.It's worth viewing and it's good entertainment.   "}{"Title":"A Thrill Ride to the End!","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Double Jeopardy is a fast, cool, hip and highly entertaining movie with a great story and good direction. Ashley Judd steals the show, her performance was as good as her one in Kiss the Girls (1997). Tommy Lee Jones, of course, doesn't match up to Judd's performance, but his craggy charm is irresistible! Double Jeopardy is a thrilling, dramatic, action-packed, mysterious movie that will leave you breathless! It is one of those movies that deserves much more praise. I could hardly see a single fault in the film!Rating 9 "},{"Title":"Simple, but interesting film.","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  An innocent person is imprisoned, breaks out to find the real murderer, and Tommy Lee Jones hunts that person across the States. Sounds familiar? It's like a sequel to The Fugitive and U.S. Marshals. Although the Double Jeopardy point is almost forgotten in the movie, it's a nice entertaining film. Nowadays thrillers are full of explosions or special effects, so I was pleasantly surprised by this good old filmmaking, and Ashley Judd did a great job. Too bad that it wasn't a success in Germany. Well, the german title Doppelmord is pretty silly. Recommended. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Fun movie with two great stars","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Double Jeopardy is an entertaining thriller. Tommy Lee Jones is always enjoyable, although his character here is mostly recycled from his Fugitive role. Ashley Judd is very sexy and very talented. She is great in this role, although it's kinda hard to believe a woman could spend six years in jail and come out looking as good as Judd does. It's a fast-paced and exciting movie by director Bruce Beresford with two great lead actors. But even if it sucked, I can think of alot worse ways to spend 2 hours than watching Ashley Judd on-screen.  "},{"Title":"Maybe I'm just too easy to please ...","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw this movie two days ago, as it came to our college's theater. Since I'm a student, I didn't have to pay a dime. I had wanted to see this movie a few months ago when it came out, but time didn't permit.Previous writers have written in on the gaping plot holes in this movie, the recycled performance of Tommy Lee Jones, and even the absurdity of the title, considering that the Double Jeopardy clause to the 5th Amendment to the Constitution has nothing to do with wrongful convictions, only acquittals. They're all right. The premise of the film started out as ridiculous, and the plot was contrived beyond believability. I read the comments above and shrugged and said So what? In most of the movies I've seen Tommy Lee Jones in, he is essentially the same character, with just a few tweaks here and there. Take a good long look, and you'll notice that Travis Lehmen in this movie is a carbon copy of Brad Little from Firebirds, Sam Gerard from The Fugitive and US Marshals, Mike Roark from Volcano, Agent Kay from Men In Black. Jones CAN stretch his style when his scriptwriters give him something that calls for it, (see Under Siege, Batman Forever, JFK and April Morning), but most casting people seem to want to give Jones the gruff and taciturn roles. Scriptwriters meanwhile bless him with lines that can be hilarious, inflammatory or dead serious, but will all be delivered in Jones' trademark semi-bored voice, usually without his face cracking a smile. If Jones is okay with this trend, I'm okay with it. It doesn't do much for variety, but a little familiarity is good every now and then.As for Ashley Judd well, I thought she was enjoyable to watch while she was hyperventilating on the dock. Granted she might get sick at any minute, but she'd look good doing it. I'll refrain from commenting on her acting, since I'm obviously biased, sucker for a pretty face that I am. Whether it was good or bad, it will almost always be good to me. Bruce Greenwood played his part well, as an utterly contemptible money grubbing scoundrel. By the time the action moved to Louisiana, I was actively rooting for his violent death.The movie has a heroine that's lovely to watch, a hero that's fun to watch, and bad guy that's easy to hate. Couple that with a few good one liners, and nice photography of the boat and of Louisiana, and I think it's an enjoyable movie. Granted it's silly and unrealistic, but I for one can look past that, given it's assets. I'd recommend this movie for Judd fans and Jones fans, just not for serious crime drama fans.  "},{"Title":"Standard modern thriller","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This may the type of movie that packs the audiences in and does guaranteed box office, but it still doesn't get any more points for receipts gross from me. I went to a session two days ago and the house was almost full up, but I was puzzled afterwards as for the reasons.  The whole 'Double Jeopardy' clause of law was rather interesting. I was expecting to see more legal based stuff, but the whole focus seemed to be on Ashley Judd and whether or not she could look good while escaping from numerous people. On cue, the whole movie seems to occur too rigidly, too predictably and worst of all, it makes everyone's lives look co-incidental. The script too was pretty average, and the actors seem to function as though they need to be wound up by clockwork every morning. Overall, it's a harmless time passer, although why it was #1 in the US for three weeks is beyond me. Is that the only thing the publicity people have to hang onto in Sydney? It worked in bribing me to the box office however.It's started making me long for better Hollywood thrillers. In the meantime, a few re-releases of good old classic Alfred Hitchcock will keep me happy. Maybe I'm just too picky for a teenager. Rating 7/10 (Because anything making a valiant attempt to recover me from the horrors suffered during Pokemon deserves a reasonable rating) "},{"Title":"Brief and open.","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film was entertainment pure and simple.   Unfortunately the early part of the plot had been given away in press releases etc..   The acting and photography were of a high standard, and most of the plot was viable.   To put it simply, my wife and I both enjoyed the film. "},{"Title":"Entertaining even if flawed logic and law","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  An entertaining movie, even though it is flawed logically.It is worth the entry fee and probably won't disappoint.Forget the obvious and accept the train of events.It is similar to a made for tv movie designed to keep you in your seat for the next commercial. "},{"Title":"Terrific Movie","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I pretty much knew what was going to happen,but with most movies almost everything's been done.  How well it's done and can you relax and enjoy the ride anyway?  Thanks to a terrific performance by Ashley Judd and the always entertaining Tommy Lee Jones I had a great time and will see it again! "},{"Title":"There are some pretty good movies out right now this is one of them..","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Ashley Judd rules!! She always kicks so much butt, and is the good girl in the end! My new favorite superhero! I enjoy movies with strong female leads and this is one of them. Tommy Lee Jones always delights, and is funny as well. Best performance since The Fugitive. Although the trailer gives away much of the movie, it is still entertaining. She goes through hell. Wrongfully accused for the murder of her husband, she is sent to jail, but gets out in 6 years. Searching for clues and a motive, she begins a cat and mouse race to find the truth and put the bad things right. Made me want to go out and kick some butt! Way to go Ashley, you are my new favorite action-adventure model! An entertaining way to spend a couple of hours. "},{"Title":"Hey!  We LIKED this movie!!","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  My husband, two friends of ours, and I, saw this movie.  We don't understand what the big deal is.  It gets shot down as a copy of The Fugitive (movie).  As a kid I used to watch the Fugitive series, and I saw the movie. This movie is a whole different ball game.  I found it kept my interest throughout, was fast-paced and had us (me?) on the edge of my seat (unlike the movie Random Hearts. Z-z-z-z...).  I found the story line to be totally plausible.  The only thing that lacked credibility  with me, was that someone could spend 6 years in jail for a murder sentence.  I notice some of the reviews here commenting on Ashley's appearance and how perfect she looked.  Hey... some people look good when they get out of bed or after scrubbing toilets.  She is one of these people, that no matter what she does, she's gonna look good.  I have never been a big fan of Ashley Judd, but she definitely raised my opinion of her in this movie.  We'd (the four of us - 3 PhD's and one non-academic) highly recommend it (I notice the theater--after being out a few weeks--is still packed, so that must say something!)  Besides... if you want something deep -- go rent Dune.  We gave it at least 3-1/2 stars. "}{"Title":"Wonderfully entertaining, exciting and clever!","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Drawn in like everyone else to the interesting concept of this movie, I just about sprinted to see it on opening day.  Double Jeopardy is a dramatic thriller that is based on the legal premise that a person cannot be tried for the same crime twice.  As to the actual legal feasibility of this concept, you might want to contact your local prosecuting attorney's office, but I wouldn't count on it holding up.Ashley Judd, who is really turning some heads in the press with this movie, is a wife married to a husband too clever for her own good.  Libby Parsons (Judd) is neatly set up by her strikingly good looking husband, played by Bruce Greenwood.  If you get that feeling of I feel like I've seen him somewhere before it's probably because he's done numerous, if rather unmemorable roles in movies and TV for years.After the seemingly happy couple embark on a little overnight cruise, Libby is discovered by the Coast Guard in the middle of the night, standing on the deck of the anchored pleasure boat.   A bloodied knife in her hand, bloody foot and handprints decorating the boat, and no sign of her husband anywhere send Libby on a downward spiral into what we can see is a nicely framed conviction for murder.  Realizing that she doesn't want to see her son become a ward of the state, she blithely puts him in the hands of the child's young and pretty teacher, Angela, who is  played by Annabeth Gish (Mystic Pizza and Hiding Out are her more well-known films from the late 80's).After a couple of tearful visits to the prison with plexiglass separating them, Libby loses contact with her son and his newly-adoptive mother.  Her need to find her son starts her on an investigative and resourceful path to locate the woman with whom she entrusted her only reason for getting through this nightmare situation.  She locates Angela and her son by phone, and brushes off the woman's lame excuses for disappearing, demanding that she put her son on the phone.  Suddenly, a man walks into the apartment, and the boy shouts Daddy!, followed by Libby being abruptly cut off as the other phone is ripped out of the wall.Realizing that she would sound just like every other person in the prison system who claims to be  innocent and/or the victim of a frame-up, she continues to track them as best she can on her own from behind prison walls. Her despair is turned into motivation when a fellow inmate (who used to be a lawyer before she trespassed against the law) enlightens her on the legal premise of double jeapordy.  She contends that if Libby's husband really is alive she could truly murder him without worry since she's already been tried and convicted for his murder once.  Thus inspired, revenge fuels her into training like an Olympic athlete hopeful to wile away the time until she can get out on parole to even the score.When that blessed day arrives, she calmly moves into a half-way house that is run by a no-nonsense Tommy Lee Jones.  His character, Travis Lehman, has a less than pristine past himself, but seems determined to repent by keeping the house of female convicts on the straight and narrow.  The combination of the two stubborn but clever characters of Judd and Jones is entrancing and hypnotizing to watch.  Libby is hard not to like since she's a smart and resourceful woman who does what needs doing to find her son, and gets the pleasure of making her husband squirm in the process.  Jones' role as the less-than-angelic convict custodian, Lehman, is also likable since he is eventually able to tell the difference between what's right and what's justice.Although this is by no means an Oscar caliber film, I certainly found it to be quite entertaining and worthwhile.  It's very clever and yet has enough emotion and ironic humor involved to offer most everybody what they might like in a movie. Tommy Lee Jones is terribly talented and always a big draw, but I will admit to feeling that the whole concept of him chasing various fugitives from the law may stale quickly if they try to draw from that well again after this one.  "},{"Title":"I liked this show","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Some people in the comments said Double Jeopardy was like The Fugitive or Marshalls etc. movies like that.......true Tommy Lee Jones was chasing her, but I didn't think the movie was like those movies.  I enjoyed watching this movie.  I liked watching the main character grow up and learn and become smart.  I don't want to give the plot away or should I say other people already did so I won't say tooo much about it.......if you like action and you like the 2 main characters you'll like this movie.  It has a few twists to it and there is one part that totally creeps me out.....just a little hint........a coffin seen with Ashly )  That's all I'm going to say.......go see this movie you'll like it....well I did so of course you will. "},{"Title":"one of the best","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Double Jeopardy is one of the few films shot in New Orleans that 1) is not infested with stereotypes and 2) is not about New Orleans per se.Not that there's anything wrong with movies about New Orleans, but Double Jeopardy was able to successfully weave New Orleans locations into an excellent plot/storyline.The understated, laid-back attitude of the city is what draws  filmmakers to New Orleans;  if that attitude is overstated it loses its appeal.It is a truly entertaining film, one of the best ever shot in New Orleans. Also, Peter James (director of Photography) deserves an Academy Award for the look of this film.  "},{"Title":"I enjoyed this film, but . . .","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I had a lot more fun watching Double Jeopardy than thinking about it later.  Ashley Judd and Tommie Lee Jones make the most of a contrived script that is full of inconsistencies, far too convenient plot developments, questionable motivation, and just plain holes.  Nevertheless, if you don't ask too many questions, it's a fun ride from beginning to end. "},{"Title":"A riveting portrait of revenge","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  3 stars out of 4.  This is a riveting portrait of revenge.  The villain is up-to-date and bad; the heroine, cunning and driven by the reclamation of her son.  From the last frame to first, I was glued to the screen.  You will be too.Ever since Ashley Judd portrayed a crack whore in SMOKE, I've been smitten by her.  I tried not to let that persuade my judgement, so I confess to it up-front.  Tommy Lee Jones is excellent as always.  When you pair the two, I am bound to enjoy the outcome.  So in deference to my bias, I awarded 3 stars by starting with 4, then subtracting for flaws.The major flaw involves the prison environment.  Perhaps I've seen too many H.B.O. OZ episodes, but her subsequent parole halfway house seemed more prison-like than the prison depicted. After 6 years there, Libby (Ashley) seemed relatively unaffected by the experience.  I have to imagine cold-blooded murderess country clubs are few and far between in Washington state like anywhere else. . . . 1/2 a star, denied.Minor flaws accounted for another 1/4 star's deduction.  The cemetary coffin result was illogical to me (though admittedly possible.)  The trial scene was contrived yet critical to delivering an acceptable plot.  The unwinded elderly art dealer catching up the well-winded, younger Tommy Lee after his fugitive chase didn't make sense.  There are others, but you can see them for yourself.  Minor stuff  Nothing to impede your enjoyment trust me!The cut to the chase scene following Ashley's burglary is top shelf. She's on foot vs. the police Jeep's pursuit through beach sand and surf.  It is unique and keeps the high tension on the wire. Terrific!All of the daytime Washington state outdoor photography is spectacular. The film is paced well and the scenes naturally fold from one to the other.  I enjoyed this film in a relatively full theater.  We gasped, laughed and squealed in all the right places.  A handful even applauded at the end. (But I can't tell you why, obviously.  See for yourself)For those doing the star math en route to 3, I deducted a quarter for my bleary-eyed  acceptance of Ashley and Tommy Lee for matters confessed in the second paragraph above. Deal with it.  See this movie at your first opportunity.  It is worth every minute invested.  "},{"Title":"What is  Good","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Elizabeth Parsons(Ashley Judd) lives the perfect life. Her husband (Bruce Greenwood The Sweet Hereafter) is a successful businessman, she has a precocious four year-old boy, and her child's nanny is a caring, loving woman who places the child's needs before hers. Out on a weekend retreat in a boat on a nearby lake, Elizabeth wakes up one quiet night covered in blood, with footsteps leading outside to the water. Her husband is missing and Elizabeth is suspect number one. Sent to jail for the murder of her husband, Elizabeth pleads her innocence and becomes increasingly aware that she might have been framed. Upon parole six years later, Elizabeth begins to track down the suspects who might be able to explain what happened on the boat that night and why she cannot find her son. In pursuit of her is a crusty old parole office (Tommy Lee Jones) who also becomes aware that Elizabeth just might be telling the truth about her innocence.Directed by noted filmmaker Bruce Beresford, it should be established that even this man has a spotted record. For every brilliant Driving Miss Daisy, Mr. Beresford has made a Silent Fall to bring his ego back into check. He can be a powerfully manipulative director, and as junkily tangy as Double Jeopardy is, it's also a return to form for the director after past failures.You can think of this film as Fugitive lite. A thriller who's conventions are nothing new, but approached with a freshness and grace that many other contemporary films cannot seem to muster. Shot with gorgeous widescreen luster and written with some cleverness by Douglas Cook and David Weisberg, Jeopardy is the kind of autumn diversion that makes moviegoing so much fun. You can't really tell what's going to happen next, but you know exactly where you're headed.The screenplay by Douglas and Weisberg gives star Ashley Judd exactly what she needs right now. One of the more naturally gifted performers in her age bracket, Ms. Judd fits perfectly in the role of convicted murder Elizabeth. It would be hard to top her career defining performance in Ruby In Paradise, and lord only knows she's been floundering ever since. Jeopardy puts Judd front and center, right where she belongs. Granted, the film does feature some awfully abrupt plotlines. A small one involving Elizabeth never really fighting the charge of murder, and her subsequent time in jail are handled rather poorly, as if the filmmakers wanted to get going right away, liberally tossing aside narrative to get there. It's to Judd's credit that this familiar material works at all. She's a fine actress, and the right role will make her a superstar.With Tommy Lee Jones, the appearance in this picture is a bit dumbfounding. Quite literally the same Sam Gerard role he played in The Fugitive and the spin-off U.S. Marshals. Jones seems to be slumming for a paycheck in Jeopardy. I'm at a blank to describe any other reason to why Jones would appear in such a role. He's a unique actor with such a loyal fan base, I can only imagine a nation of fans feeling bored by the actor's work here. This isn't his finest moment.Besides the obvious Fugitive parallels, Jeopardy also features a very specific nod to George Sluizer's The Vanishing. Anybody who saw that film will easily recall the horrific resolution to the picture. While Jeopardy doesn't end anywhere near as downbeat as Sluizer's classic, one scene involving a coffin and a familiar camera move will surely drive the audience wild with claustrophobia. It's tough to tell if it's homage or stealing. Either way, it's that kind of moxie that makes Jeopardy rise above the conventions and remain a satisfying movie.Paramount Pictures seems to be the only studio in town to have an incredible knack for churning out decent to great adult-themed fare (Kiss The Girls, Payback, Simple Plan) for the off weekends of the year. Double Jeopardy should be yet another mid-priced success story for them. A reasonably competent thriller with a good cast, a watertight script, and a director with a definite affinity for the conventions of the genre. You cannot ask for much more than that.----------- 8/10  "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Movie Review! - http//tss5078.blogspot.com - @tss5078","Date":"27 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The law of double jeopardy states that once a person is convicted or acquitted of a crime, they may not be tried for the same crime again. So, when Libby Parsons (Ashley Judd), discovers that the husband she's been convicted of killing is actually still alive, she goes on a mission to hunt him down. There is one problem though, her parole officer is determined to stop her. This is one of those films that for some reason you easily forget about. I saw Double Jeopardy when it was in the theaters and totally forgot about it, until it was on TV last week. It's only then that I remembered just how intense it is. Ashley Judd is truly a fantastic actress when she's in the right role, and trust me, a scored, lonely woman is the perfect role for her. Tommy Lee Jones has a somewhat smaller part than we are used too, but he's as amazing as he's always been. The chase for Libby easily brings back memories of Marshall Samuel Gerard. The only knock against this film is that it is unfortunately somewhat predictable, if you're looking for a shocking twist in the story, you won't find it here. The extreme nature of the story and the terrific acting more than make up for the predictability though and the film is perfect for those times where you just want to be entertained without having to think too much. "},{"Title":"A great thriller","Date":"13 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This film is about a woman who is convicted of murdering her husband. She later finds out that her husband is still alive, which starts her quest to prove her innocence.Double Jeopardy is a great thriller. Right from the start, we know the woman is innocent. She goes on a long journey to prove her innocence, and seek revenge. It is a simple plot, but engagingly told. She is so patient in waiting for her chance to strike. I admire her determination, and the calmness that she approached the whole matter. Her character makes the viewers feel for her. The ending is so satisfying, I felt so touched and happy. I enjoyed Double Jeopardy a lot. "},{"Title":"Brill","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Double JeopardyWhen a man and wife are on a boat, she falls asleep and when she does her husband gets murdered and she gets blamed.Now in prison her sons adoptive mother has disappeared and the woman in prison has tracked her down on the phone.When she phones her son up she hears her dead husband in the background,(he's still alive).She talks to another person in prison and the girl talks about something called double jeopardy, which means if you've done time for murder and the person is still alive, when you get out you can kill him and there's nothing the police can do about it, and that's just what she does. Rating8/10 StarringAshley Judd GenreThriller, crime Time120min Made1999This website is brilliant and I want to thank it for supplying great reviews, this is my website by the way www.mattyswebbo2.moonfruit.com "},{"Title":"Double Jeopardy A person can not be tried for the same crime twice, even murder","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Devoted mother, Libby Parsons (Judd) is convicted of murdering her husband Nicolas Parsons (Greenwood). Released on parole after six years of incarceration, Libby discovers that her husband is in fact alive. Double Jeopardy takes us through Libby's search, for her son and husband. To add to the fun, Libby violates her parole, which brings Travis Lehman (Jones) into the mix in this action-filled, suspense thriller.Strong performances from Judd, Jones, and Greenwood, along with an intriguing plot gives Double Jeopardy a place in my movie collection. Judd's character, Libby Parsons, keeps audiences focused on a heartfelt search for her son, Matty. Emotions are out poured and we really feel the pain brought on by the deception and cover-up of her husbands murder. Her son was her everything.I highly recommend this movie. It has a great story, is well-acted, and most importantly we care about the characters.Enjoy the Movie! -Marcus Brodzki (mbrodzki@gmail.com) "}{"Title":"Ashley does it again","Date":"21 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I think Ms. Judd is a superb actress and does very well in her characterizations. In this movie, she takes on the look of the unsuspecting housewife. Theree is a very plain simple look to this woman who looks like the average girl next door. Then there is a scene in every one of her movies where she just shines out and a very beautiful woman appears. I think the party scene at the beginning of the movie depicts this as she doesn't seem to shine until she is in prison and can't locate her son. Ms Judd then becomes a very shattered woman bent on finding her son at all cost. Of Course, Tommy Lee Jones now enters and makes her shine even more. "},{"Title":"Judd And Jones Deliver","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  **Possible Spoilers**		Ashley Judd stars as Libby Parsons, a woman out for justice after being wrongly accused of her husband's murder in `Double Jeopardy,' a thriller from director Bruce Beresford.  Libby is happily married and living in the Seattle area with her husband, Nick (Bruce Greenwood), and their four-year-old son, Matty (Benjamin Weir).  Nick, however, is in big financial trouble, and they are about to lose everything; and Libby knows nothing about it.  Under pretense of buying her a boat, Nick takes Libby sailing, alone.  During the night he disappears, leaving behind evidence of his apparent murder, and orchestrating it to incriminate Libby.  When she is convicted and sent to prison, Matty goes to stay with a family friend, Angela (Annabeth Gish), who disappears with the boy a month later.  Adamant in her quest to locate Angela by tracking her through a series of phone numbers, she finally succeeds; and also discovers that Nick is still alive.  And with Angela.  Frustrated in her attempts to get someone to listen to her story, Libby can do nothing but serve her time, and wait.  After serving six years in prison, she is paroled, and begins searching for her son, armed with a useful bit of information she learned on the inside  The law of Double Jeopardy; since she's already been convicted of killing her husband, she cannot be tried for it again, even if she shoots him in front of a crowd in the middle of Times Square.  She does have one more problem, though.  Her parole officer, Travis Lehman (Tommy Lee Jones) is out to track her down for violating her parole, and If he catches her, she'll go back to prison. 	Outstanding performances by Judd and Jones highlight this film, along with some nice touches by Beresford in keeping the tension high while moving it along at just the right pace.  Judd makes Libby believable, infused with a vulnerability and determination that makes you pull for her; she's a strong woman who's been wronged, and you desperately want to see her get her life put back together.  Jones is convincing as the hard-as-nails Lehman, who doesn't see parole as a second chance, but as a `last' chance.  Beneath it all, however, you know that this is a man who also believes in justice, and will do what he can to make it so.  Greenwood gives just the right touch of boorishness to Nick; he's like the successful used-car salesman you never want to have to deal with, and you wait for the moment when Libby will finally get her crack at him.   	The supporting cast includes Annabeth Gish (Angela), Michael Gaston (Cutter), Roma Maffia (Margaret) and Davenia McFadden (Evelyn).  In a world in which the unjust too often prevail, it is gratifying to at least see the attempt made of putting things to right.  `Double Jeopardy' does just that; it takes you on a wild ride and gives you hope at the same time.  Maybe it's only a movie, but it's a good one.  And sometimes, that'll just have to do.  I rate this one 8/10.     	      "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"6 November 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Double Jeopardy actually seemed like my sort of film, and when I finally saw it I thought it was enjoyable. It is far from flawless, although the premise was interesting the story itself has some credibility lapses and has a lot of derivative elements. The film has the odd draggy moment and the characters are rather clichéd. On the other hand, Double Jeopardy looks wonderful, with striking scenery and stylish photography and editing. The music is not too generic either and it helps the atmosphere, and the script is well paced and sharp. Double Jeopardy is also well directed and Tommy Lee Jones and Ashley Judd give great lead performances, and although the rest of the characters aren't as interesting or as well written, effort is done both in written and performance quality to make them credible. Overall, an enjoyable film. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Good work by Tommy Lee & Ashley!","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I first saw this movie on Halloween in 2000 at my father and stepmother's house, and I loved it! It really kept me on the edge of my seat! I thought Tommy Lee (Jones) and Ashley (Judd) dazzled as a dogged parole officer and a framed housewife. DOUBLE JEOPARDY has it all. Mainly, it's full of suspense. My favorite quote of this film is, Show's over! Go to sleep! I thought that Libby (Ashley Judd) looked very beautiful in the fancy Armani dress she wore at the bachelor's auction in New Orleans. The finale was exciting, too. As a matter of fact, I was on the edge of my seat from the beginning. An excellent and suspenseful movie, I give DOUBLE JEOPARDY three out of four stars. "},{"Title":"mediocre piece of pop fiction tripe","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If Double Jeopardy succeeds at all as entertainment, it is thanks to two basic elements  the luminous, feisty performance by Ashley Judd and the fact that the story taps into a pair of sure-fire emotional grabbers - the attempt by a falsely convicted person to prove his or her innocence and the wrenching spectacle of a mother being unduly separated from her child.This trite revenge melodrama is, otherwise, a fairly mediocre piece of pop culture trash, short on solid character development and long on credibility-defying illogic.  Judd plays the wife of a multimillionaire businessman who is framed for the murder of her husband (an ersatz murder, by the way, whose logistics are never explained either to Judd or to the audience), spends six years behind bars and then, when released, goes in search of not only the husband she now knows is alive and well but the son whom she has not seen in all that time.  Tommy Lee Jones co-stars as her parole officer who, at first, attempts to inhibit her search then, becoming convinced of her truthfulness, joins her in her effort to exact proper revenge.The film sets up its framework on a very shaky premise.  We are expected to believe, idiotically, that Judd is free to murder her husband for real this time with full impunity, covered by the double jeopardy legal argument that one cannot be tried twice for the same crime.  Any film that believes its audience is that gullible is unlikely to win over too many converts.  Similarly, are we really to swallow the fact that a man as professional as Jones' parole officer appears to be would leave the keys in the ignition while his prisoner sits in the car handcuffed to the door handle while he goes looking for a cup of coffee?  And would a man who has managed to eliminate two wives so successfully and establish himself as a pillar of the community under several different aliases allow himself to be fooled so easily into confessing his crime into a concealed tape recorder?  Such lapses in logic permeate this entire film. The movie does deserve credit for keeping the Judd/Jones relationship a strictly platonic one, thereby avoiding the romantic cliches that could truly overwhelm the proceedings.  And Jones nicely underplays a role that, in other directorial hands, might have lent itself to hyperbole and bombast.All told, however, I'm afraid that one's enjoyment of Double Jeopardy is predicated mostly on how willing one is to suspend critical judgment and go with the facts as they are presented.  Unfortunately, the film is not tightly edited or suspenseful  enough to allow the audience to ride over all these crests of incredibility.  The result is a watchable, but neither compelling nor memorable, piece of pulp fiction tripe. "},{"Title":"Great!!! Ashley Judd and Tommy Lee Jones Are Brillaint!!","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"    Double Jeopardy is a great film!!! The directing is great, and the acting is superb!!! Also, the film has a lot of action!! This is a great action/thriller/drama film! Ashley Judd did a wonderful performance as Libby Parsons, as well as a great performance from Tommy Lee Jones as Travis Leham (Libby's paroll officer), and Bruce Greenwood as Nicholas (Nick) Parsons. This is a a great film withe a great ending! This is a HIGHLY recommended film! I give this film a 10 out of 10!!!  )  "},{"Title":"This Film Should Meet Double Jeopardy...in at Least Two Pieces.","Date":"24 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Double Jeopardy (1999) Dir Bruce Beresford / Cast Ashley Judd, Tommy Lee Jones, Bruce Greenwood, Annabeth Gish, Michael Gaston Recycled crap told entirely through its theatrical trailer. It is basically The Fugitive starring a woman. Ashley Judd is sentenced to six years in prison for the murder of her husband. Her prints are found on the weapon yet she claims innocence. Her son is kept under supervision but one call leads to the suspicion that her husband isn't dead after all. This all boils down to revenge fantasy outcome. Director Bruce Beresford does his best but his cast travel familiar territory. Judd is playing Harrison Ford in drag and adds absolutely nothing new to the premise other than being a woman. After released she searches for answers and we all know where that leads. Tommy Lee Jones is ideal because he pursued Ford in The Fugitive, so he can merely recite. Bruce Greenwood as her so-called deceased husband is indeed despicable and nearly kills her. He will be placed in a difficult position when rendered to a choice. It is unfortunate that one of those choices wasn't choosing a different script to act in. Annabeth Gish plays Judd's friend whom she leaves her son with. This role is small yet pivotal and hopeless. Pointless recycling of a plot that we have seen hundreds of time in better films. The script was in double jeopardy from the start. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"Hell Hath No Fury Like A Woman Framed For A Fake Murder.","Date":"19 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Very briefly, Ashley Judd is married to Greenwood, apparently happily. They have one infant. Gish is their best friend. Greenwood fakes his own murder after setting the stage for the arrest and conviction of Judd. She accidentally discovers that Greenwood and Gish have betrayed her and run off with the kid.Six years go by. Judd is paroled under the supervision of the hard-nosed Tommy Lee Jones. But she skips, and by means of some tricks discovers that Greenwood has murdered Gish and moved to New Orleans where he is now a pillar of the community. This greatly irritates Judd, who tracks him down, with Jones in hot pursuit.There are some pretty good action sequences. It's not often an escaped prisoner, manacled to a car door, will start the car and race it off the ferry's aft ramp. And there are other exciting moments. At one point, Judd is knocked out and wakes up to find herself locked into a coffin in one of those above-ground mausoleums in New Orleans' famous All Saints Cemetery.Judd isn't bad. She gets the job done. But she's been able to do more than that in some of her other work, most notably Heat. Still, it's enthralling to witness her features at times turn into a pageant of fleeting expressions. Tommy Lee Jones, an inventive actor, is more or less wasted in a reprise of his role as the obsessed and gelid representative of justice in The Fugitive, some five or six years earlier. Too bad.As thrillers go, this one isn't as repulsive as many others. Is there a car chase? Are you kidding? The double jeopardy business is a lot of hooey. The attempt to jack up suspense -- leaving open the question of whether Judd will walk up to her delinquent husband and blow his brains out in public -- interferes with the purer motive that these commercial enterprises require -- namely, a mother's desire to raise her baby. "},{"Title":"Ashley Judd was terrific and beautiful","Date":"4 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Its not a great film in terms of plot, but nonetheless a good thriller movie that keeps you intrigued and interested. Double Jeopardy is about a beautiful lady called Elizabeth Parson (Ashley Judd) who 'apparently' murdered her husband on a yacht on one particular night. She has been prosecuted for her 'alleged' crime and served many years behind bars but during those years behind bars, she strongly suspects that he could still very well be alive, and she sets out to seek the truth and bring justice once she finishes her sentence. Problem is that despite serving her sentence, Elizabeth also known as Libby (Ashley Judd) is under parole for a further 2 years under the watchful eyes of a parole officer called Travis Lehman (Tommy Lee Jones) so Libby (Ashley Judd) has a very tough task in seeking out the truth about her husband despite her release. Like I have mentioned, the film was good which will keep the viewer interested, but plot to me seemed a tad weak and could've been a lot better. One of the major things that makes this film good is that it is emotional, you the viewer will strongly feel for the character that Ashley Judd played - Libby and will instantly support her mission in seeking out truth and justice. From a personal point of view, it is hard to swallow that an innocent and caring woman can be locked behind bars for several years, but the beautiful thing about it is that the character Libby can keep her composure and be so patient to seek the truth. I didn't want these sort of things to happen since I'm too emotional, even though its only a movie, but yeah it does get to you and this is what makes the film pretty good. Ashley Judd performance in this film was exceptional and Double Jeopardy has to be one of her best films to date I think. I gave it a 7 rating but that's only my opinion. "},{"Title":"One must overlook the questionable concept","Date":"18 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Nick Parsons (Bruce Greenwood) is a successful investment dealer with loving wife Libby (Ashley Judd) and son. He takes her out on their new boat but he goes missing with signs of struggle. She is convicted for his murder. She asks her friend Angela Green (Annabeth Gish) to adopt her son instead of leaving him a ward of the state. Angela goes away with her son. Libby tracks them down and her son let slip that Nick is still alive. Prison lawyer Margaret tells her about double jeopardy that she can't be convicted again even if she kills her husband. After 6 years in prison, she is paroled under the supervision of hard-nosed Travis (Tommy Lee Jones) at the halfway house.The basic concept is questionable at best. On top of that, it forces the movie to be a slow grind for the trial. The movie is better off skipping much of that section. The murder trial feels very rushed. It's where a montage could really help or at least something to drive a more exciting opening. Once it gets to Tommy Lee Jones, this movie moves well. Judd and Jones have a good Fugitive feel. It's got good tension, but one must always overlook the questionable basic concept. "}{"Title":"An interesting story, but difficult to consider a 'great' film.","Date":"7 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I have seen Double Jeopardy many times over my life, but never really questioned why anything in the movie is actually happening, i decided id revisit it last night with a more critical eye and was amazed what passed my judgement the first few viewings.The concept of the movie is somewhat unique, the main character Libby, is framed for the death of her husband, who creates a new identity for himself so he can be beneficiary for the insurance money from his own death. This makes sense to me. When in prison, Libby is informed by one of her 'ex lawyer' convict sisters that as she has already killed her husband, and been convicted, she can do whatever she likes to him and not be convicted. She takes this on face value, and sets off on a variety of montage scenes to show her gaining fitness so she can accomplish this very task. Up to this point the movie seems like its setting up for an interesting story line.This is were it all starts to fall apart. Libby is released on parole after serving 6 years in prison. 6 years for a murder sentence? Sometimes you just have to accept these things in films so i will. Following this she makes what is possibly the longest list of stupid decisions I've ever seen a character make, including breaching your parole to steal a document from a school, making it extremely obvious which document you stole to directly identify you, getting on what is the most ridiculous chase scene from the police I've ever witnessed, including a beach buggy flip scene for chasing a suspect on foot, driving a car which you are handcuffed into in the river, and selecting a cemetery as the scene for which you meet your husband who is out to kill you. After these ridiculous amount of breaches in all logic from the main character who is suspected to be the one 'in control', she than continues to flirt with her ex husband, demanding her child back. Wasn't the whole point of getting out to commit your revenge? As a final touch to an already ridiculous series of events, they are going to fake her death and indict him with it at the end as some form of threat? By this point in the movie i was just watching one ridiculous scene after another take place with no obvious common sense from any of the main characters. This movie on face value really does seem like one of those classic 80's mystery thrillers, and i must admit, despite the ridiculous plot i was entertained, and its worth seeing, once. But i cant help but feel a lot more could have been done with the somewhat original 'double jeopardy' concept.5/10. "},{"Title":"Even if Tommy Lee Jones is getting typecast as the pursuer, the movie's still OK.","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Now that Tommy Lee Jones has four times played the pursuer (in The Fugitive, U.S. Marshals, Double Jeopardy and The Hunted), it may appear that he's getting typecast, so this movie would seem meaningless. In fact, this movie isn't half bad. I understand that what the movie portrays isn't exactly accurate, but it's still a pretty fun flick. Usually I don't take any interest in these kinds of movies, but I kind of liked this one. It showed Ashley Judd to be a pretty capable actress. Worth seeing. Also starring Bruce Greenwood, Annabeth Gish and Bruce Campbell.Why is it that movies filmed in Washington usually come out good but movies filmed in Oregon usually don't? "},{"Title":"What did they tell Matty?","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I have only one remark about this movie, and that is a HUGE plot hole. Matty obviously knows that his mother (Libby) is in prison, and he is seen visiting her. And he obviously is not told that the reason that she is in prison is that she murdered his father (Nick), because Matty knows that his father is still alive, and he is seen with Nick. The audience is never told what reason that Nick has given to his son that Libby was sent to prison! It is revealed to the audience at the end of the movie that Matty was told that Libby is dead, but never why she was sent to prison! Also, Matty is with Libby when she is arrested for suspicion of murdering Nick. He is a very bright boy, and had to have known what was going on! "},{"Title":"A thriller with a heart of gold","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Libby Parsons (Ashley Judd), a young woman with a handsome husband and a loving young son, has everything to live for. One night, however, her dreams are shattered when she is picked up by the Coast Guard after radioing from their yacht that her husband has been killed. Quickly, the law decides she killed him and must serve time in prison for his murder -- in spite of the fact his body was never recovered.For six years, Libby lingers in prison, all the while dreaming of seeing her son again and wondering if he'll remember her when she is released. Soon, however, she learns that her husband is still alive and had her framed for his murder. Determined to avenge herself, she serves her time honorably and is granted a limited parole -- in the care of gruff but honest parole officer Travis Lehman (Tommy Lee Jones).Several adventures follow, including a furious race against the law on the dunes, a miraculous rescue at sea, and a computer search which zeroes in on her husband's whereabouts. Libby, now more determined than ever to find her son, braves the lion in his den -- this time, in a fashionable New Orleans hotel -- and gives her felonious husband (Bruce Greenwood) an ultimatum Give Libby her son, or she will destroy the new life her husband has built for himself.By this time, Travis, who has been tracking her across the country, has caught up with Libby. Now faced with his prisoner and her supposedly dead husband, he has an intriguing choice to make. "},{"Title":"Double trouble","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The trouble with this film is in its direction and poor screenplay rather than the story, settings, and acting. The plot is unrealistic, but as most of the films I see out of Hollywood tend to be unrealistic, this was no better or worse than many. I like Ashley Judd and Tommy Lee Jones, and they did their best with the inadequate script. I have read the other comments on this film at this site and most have been scathing. I think that's a little unfair, I can think of far worse films than this. For a Sunday afternoon thriller, this film entertains and gives enough plot detail to keep your attention. I'd rather have a slightly second rate thriller with Judd and Jones, than a dozen silly comedies or dull romances. The 'double jeopardy' of the title - where you can't be tried twice for the murder of a person - is an interesting concept, and it was good to see Ashley turn the tables on her diabolical husband.I have to say, I enjoyed this film, and I liked Judd's efforts. She tries very hard with her material - she just doesn't get good enough parts. Tommy Lee Jones is always good, if predictable. Having seen Judd in Frida and been impressed with what she did with a very small role, I am looking forward to her Linda Porter in 'De-Lovely'.  "},{"Title":"Above standard thriller which is engaging but not very memorable.","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Double Jeopardy does seem a lot like `The Fugitive'. Yes there are a few alterations, but it's a vaguely similar plot with Tommy Lee Jones trying to find the person on the run&#133; again. But despite these similarities, Double Jeopardy is an above average (if not predictable) cat-and-mouse thriller.The lead role goes to Ashley Judd who plays a woman trying to find her son after being imprisoned for six years, though she didn't seem to age at all, and find her husband who framed her. Judd gives her breakthrough performance and is quite convincing aswell. She got the role when a pregnant Jodie Foster pulled out (who would have delivered the role with equal oomph). Tommy Lee Jones plays the parole officer/policeman trying to track her down (does that not seem a tad familiar). He's standard for the part but didn't exactly jump off the screen. The film keeps you on the edge of your seat up until the end, but after watching it you'll probably instantly forget it. There's nothing really wrong with the film, but it's just not very memorable. But then again, if you want some fodder for the mind this an intriguing movie. 5.9 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Poor Tommy...","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Firstly, how Tommy Lee Jones could look so old and tired...For the eleventh time as a cop..The idea of the movie is very good, but the trailer maker could keep some of the mystery.Most of the story is given there..So I needed to wait more than 40 minutes for something new. A few conditions of the movie are unreal. The jugdement was probably one of the fastests of all cinema's history. Considering that the body was  not found, probably it would take more than 8 years to declare someone guilty. Maybe they didn't want to waste money with make-up. Ashley Judd's face deserve a to be clean and young. The screenplay is very similar to millions, but I should say that from this model, it is one of the bests. Nothing to be oscarized, but for entertainment. Girls like, boys too. There are some holes on the plot, but the movie is not done to be analysed as a masterpiece of art. "},{"Title":"Double Jeopardy/Double Retarded","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A friend of mine was up for the holidays, and we went through my girlfriend's parent's video library.  Double Jeopardy was one of the movies they happened to grab during a going out of business sale at a local video rental house. And let me tell you what a find this was.  It is, perhaps, the worst pile of crap ever made or thought of.  Here's the recipe You take a writer who comes across a term like Double Jeopardy (that's concept) and decides I'm going to turn this concept into a story.  The only thing is, concept does not = story.  Ever.  Never never never.  So, he spends 100+ pages trying to weave this concept into the culminating moment where whats-her-face squares off against her ex-husband who faked his own death and got whats-her-face (ah, yes, Ashley Judd) put in prison.  Since she was tried and convicted of his murder, she can't be tried again, and she goes to kill him when he finds out it was all a big set up.  And, somehow, Tommy Lee Jones is drug into the mix.How?Well, let me tell you.  You see, he was the head of a half-way house for women, and when Ashley Judd escaped, it, for some reason, became HIS job to chase her across the country.  Now, I was asking myself  Jeff, what happened to all those badass women that he was supposed to be looking after and disciplining?  Apparently, nothing.  I assume when he got back to his real job, the women would have been gone.  But, the writer, and the director, and the producers all figured The hell with it.  What's one little hole?In the end, all this movie turns out to be is drivel.  A moron writer with a concept that had to piece together the concept with a climax and the melodramatic lines something to the tune of You're going to kill me? Double Jeopardy.  I can't be tried for the same crime twice. Bang. Roll credits. Seven dollars well-spent.Not.  "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this was going to be one of those cheesy movies where the main character gets falsely accused and then goes through all sorts of changes and trains really hard in prison to get back at those who put him/her there. I also thought that Judd wasn't going to kill her husband because she would rather see him in jail than dead. Well, to my surprise the training scenes lasts only about 3 minutes and she definitely smokes the sucker. The incredibly sexy Ashley Judd is believable as the desperate vengeful mother and Tommy Lee Jones sort of reprises his role from The fugitive. Nothing special, but a very entertaining and exciting movie. 6/10  "},{"Title":"It got better","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Possible Spoilers ***For the first half hour or so of this movie, I was dubious.  First of all, I have some serious doubts about the truth of that particular interpretation of the double jeopardy clause.  I'm not a lawyer, so I'm not an expert, but then neither are the filmmakers.  Secondly, I had a very hard time sympathizing with Libby as she did so many stupid things early on in her parole (breaking into the preschool and wrecking the car on the ferry come to mind).  Being back in prison for violating parole wouldn't have helped a bit. I kept thinking, why didn't she just go to the police as soon as she had any evidence that her husband was alive, and nail him legally?That said, I did enjoy the movie more as it went on, especially once she arrived in New Orleans.  The auction scene was a brilliant idea, and the scenes with the husband were tense.  Of course the audience is onto the ploy in the cemetery early on, but still it works decently because of its chilling development. I was pleased to see the way things worked out with the husband, and the ending is touching -- maybe a little sappy.  Those who don't have children will probably find it sappier than those who do; I always find enough in that sort of scene to identify with, to forgive the over-the-top emotional tugging going on. I don't imagine that works for people who have no basis for comparison.Overall, this is a movie worth seeing if it's the kind that interests you, and you can suspend your disbelief for a while. "}{"Title":" Angela?","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Ashley Judd is voluptuous in this energetic suspense farce. The following cast is terrific. The costumes are underdone. One of the good movies in the genre, Double Jeopardy will put the viewer's life on the line. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie!!!!!!","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is one of the best I ever seen!!! And on top of that Ashley Judd is one of my favorite actors. Here she plays this betrayed wife and she wont give up til her husband got what he deserves and I must really say she does it brilliantly too.... Why cant they make more movies like this and with Ashley Judd and anyone that seen her in for example Heat knows that she is an excellent actor. Enough said this movie is just one of the best i've seen ever. And it gets 10/10. "},{"Title":"Stupid, yet entertaining.","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  May contain spoilersThis is one of those movies that quite good if you ignore plot holes and things such as logic. It's pretty much a polished version of the type of movies that are rerun on the Lifetime channel. You have the evil husband/cute kid/ wronged woman/back stabbing friend and so on for stock characters. But somehow you can't stop watching. The scenery of the various locations is lovely. Ashly Judd is very likable in the this movie. A lesser actress would have made it unwatchable. You root for her no matter how corny the situation all through the film. The stunts such as the car going off the ferry and various wrecks are silly. But entertaining in their own right. Tommy Lee Jones is pretty much wasted in a watered down version of his character from The fugitive. We all know what's going to happen in the end. But despite it's formula this is a nice fluff movie to pass the time. "},{"Title":"enjoyable but not incredible","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I don't want to be one of those people that breaks down a movie for all it's hits and misses. This was a decent film that I don't feel I wasted my money on, but I would feel that way if I bought it. The landscape is beautiful, and so is ashley judd, so there you go, men and women have a reason to watch. Thrillers are usually fun even if we know what is going to happen because we don't always know HOW. Although she is beautiful, I don't think that Ashley Judd is an incredible actress. She has a lovely speaking voice and plays intelligence well, but that's as far as it goes. Her crying scene really gives it away in this movie. I had to laugh at it.  But hey, it's just a movie "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was predictable, but good.   It was about a lady named Libby (Ashley Judd) who was framed for murdering her husband Nick (Bruce Greenwood.)   While Libby is in prison, she learns that Nick is really alive.   After she is paroled, she goes on a mission to track Nick down, and her parole officer Travis (Tommy Lee Jones) is hot on her trail.   I recommended this movie to anyone who likes action thrillers.      "},{"Title":"Sleeping with the Fugitive","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Libby (Ashley Judd) and Nick (Bruce Greenwood) have a good life a loving marriage, a large lake-front home, and a four-year-old son (Benjamin Weir) just for starters.  Of course in Hollywood, nothing this good can last, and for Libby her ordeal begins when she awakens on a sailboat to find her husband gone, leaving behind only a knife and a whole lot of blood.  The coast guard quickly arrives on the scene to find Libby holding the murder weapon (talk about perfect timing!) and she is soon charged with the murder.Of course Libby is convicted, thanks to woefully inadequate counsel and an unbelievably lenient judge--lenient to the prosecution, that is.  With Nick dead and Libby unwilling to put her son through the hell she went through in her parents' house, Libby's friend Angie agrees to take Matty in and adopt him.Does this sound contrived enough yet?  Wait, there's more!  Angie skips town with Matty, and Libby tracks her down through some clever detective work.  While on the phone with her, Matty to call out, Daddy!  Is Nick alive?Fueled by rage and realization that the fifth amendment would allow her to legally murder her husband in cold-blood, Libby connives her way through a parole hearing after six years' imprisonment  (or is it eight?) and hits the streets searching for her not-so-dead husband and more importantly her son.  Assigned to a community house under the administration of one Travis Lehman (Tommy Lee Jones), she quickly violates parole and leaves Lehman up a creek (literally) as she races off on her quest.What follows is nothing more than a remake of _The Fugitive_, and we soon come to realize that _Double Jeopardy_ is essentially standard Hollywood fare with a gimmick that ultimately has very little to do with the story line.  But where _The Fugitive_ was cleverly written with compelling characters and motivations, _Jeopard_ is packed with coincidence following unbelievable coincidence until the entire movie feels too contrived to be enjoyable._Jeopardy_ also suffer from the nagging plot holes.  For example, it doesn't matter if Libby can be retried for her husband's murder; she violated parole and will never be allowed to live with her son in peace.  Also, despite Libby's lament of her childhood, she visits her mother who treats her kindly and even helps her financially.  Why was it she wouldn't let Matty live there?_Double Jeopardy_ refuses to allow us the necessary suspension of disbelief because the flaws are so obvious we can't help but notice them.  Thankfully Judd's resolve and Jones' wit, combined with a healthy dose of action and suspense, are enough to keep our interest until the unfulfilling showdown.  They are not, however, enough to recommend this movie.**1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"story is the best part","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If you want to know what this is about, just think of The Fugitive with a female lead. Ashley Judd plays a woman falsely convicted of killing her husband, then tries to track him down keeping in mind the precious Double Jeopardy law. Along comes Tommy Lee Jones in basically the same role, only this time he has a bit of a conscience. The cast is good, the story is intriguing, and most of the situations are believable, but the whole thing is much too routine. 2/4 "},{"Title":"Entertaining but full of plot holes","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this in one sitting because it was interesting and compelling viewing.  There were no dramatic moments that stood out and nothing anywhere near blinding genius, but it was a fun way to spend 2 hours.  I mainly took away with me a high opinion of Ashley Judd's abilities as an actress.  She was very believeable in the role, even though the plot around her was full of holes and moments where you were required to overlook certain things (such as, How come no one ever seemed to recall that this guy whose picture was undoubtedly in newspapers during her trial was still walking around?).  But that's just a minor quibble.Tommy Lee Jones, with his sad puppy eyes and kick-ass attitude, makes for good watching as always.  His role is a little too much like Sam Girard in The Fugitive and U.S. Marshals, but I'm sure screenwriters have a hard time distancing him from roles like that which he does so well.  Bruce Greenwood has been better, as in 13 Days.  Here he is just a greasy, dispicable villain.  However, he does that role adequately (as he did in Rules of Engagement).7/10 "},{"Title":"Double Dumb","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I just watched this for the second time, and it doesn't improve with age.  The final two acts are serviceable, but Act 1 can only be described as preposterous.  After Ashley Judd's murder trial, thankfully shown only briefly, she finds out in prison her supposed late husband has faked his death.  Does she enlist a private investigator, perhaps, to check out this juicy material?  Or a journalist?  No, of course not, as this would stop the movie and sudsy musical interlude where a determined Ashley gets into shape for later escapes, such as the one where she gets away from Tommy Lee Jones.  I'd list more, but I don't want to ruin your mediocre time.   To be fair, the story idea is a great one.  But the direction is clumsy and the story full of holes.  How did Mom get so much money? And the auction scene is the best in the movie.  Again, the last two thirds are all right, but the unbelievability factor while getting there spoils it.  By the way, is it sacreligious to suggest Ashley is no great thespian? "},{"Title":"Good work by Tommy Lee & Ashley!","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie last Halloween at my dad's fiancée's house, and I loved it! It REALLY kept me on the edge of my seat! I thought Tommy Lee (Jones) and Ashley (Judd) dazzled as Travis Lehman and Libby Parsons. DOUBLE JEOPARDY has it all. Mainly, it's full of suspense. My favorite quote of this film is, Show's over! Go to sleep! I thought that Libby (Ashley Judd) looked VERY beautiful in the fancy Armani dress she wore at the bachelor's auction in New Orleans. An excellent and suspenseful movie, I give DOUBLE JEOPARDY three out of four stars.  "}{"Title":"Good on some levels, but in the end obsurd.","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Double Jeopardy is a film about a woman who, after falsely being convicted of her husband's murder, supposedly can kill her husband without any consequence because of double jeopardy stated in the fifth amendment to the constitution. That is absurd. Did the makers of this film attempt to contact any constitutional experts? Double Jeopard prevents the state from trying anyone again after they they have been aquited of a crime. It does not protect you if you commit the same crime against the same person twice. Even if you never have committed the first crime it does not excuse the second crime. The film fumbles over the simple idea. Ashley Judd is pretty good in this movie, as a woman who desperately wants her kid back. Tommy Lee Jones plays a less effective character, who is pretty well played but his motivation to follow the woman is lost. Everyone else in this movie is pretty ineffective, including the evil husband who apparently didn't even change his looks from his previous identity.The first third of this movie is okay. The trial is hardly believable, with 2 major atributes, the fact that a body was never recovered and whether the blood was even her husband's on the boat, never discussed. Then in jail, which is so great her hair stays the same, she finds during a phone call that her husband is still alive. The best parts of this movie are her in jail.Six years later she's gets on parole with a parole office who's very strict played by Tommy Lee Jones. Not wanting to wait three years she goes on the search. She uses clues which at first was interesting, but the clue that finally leads her to her husband is so unbelievable, why couldn't they think of something a little more smart and realistic. All this way her parole officer follows her even though he knows nothing about her except that she may have a son. It seemed like there was a bread crumb trail everywhere she went cause he was always right behind her. How does he even know who her supposed husband is, an obvious flaw. The ending isn't an entire disappointment, but it's utterly predictable, and hardly thrilling. No surprise this movie ends with her and her son in her arms. Double Jeopardy has good elements but it hardly works as a thriller with it's utter obsurdities. It could of at least of been a little more smart and less predictable. This movie is not terrible but it is a thriller to be forgotten. I give it a 5 out of 10, not too low mostly because of Ashley Judd's performance.    "},{"Title":"A lots of things don't add up in this movie.","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If it hadn't been for Tommy Lee Jones' acting and Ashley Judds' looks, this movies really would been awful. Ashley Judd plays Libby Parsons who is framed for her husband's murder and goes to jail for six years. However, she knows her husband is still alive and living somewhere else.POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD!! The funny things is that she really doesn't want revenge on him. When she finds him in New Orleans, she just asks for her son back. She spends six years in prison and is on probation for three and she doesn't want any revenge on him. Hard to believe!!Another thing that I didn't understand is why Nick didn't alert the authorities as soon as he saw Libby in New Orlean. If she gets caught by the police down there, she goes back to Seattle, he doesn't have to worry about turning over their son and she's out of his life for good.Another thing that was stupid was that despite the fact that Seattle and New Orleans are fairly big cities, Travis Lehamn (Tommy Lee Jones)surprisingly kept running into Libby on the streets and around town. Wow, What a small world.There were a lot of other things that made no sense, but it would probably take me forever to list them.   However, Tommy Lee Jones gives another great acting performance, despite playing a fugitive-tracking parole officer for like the hundreth time. Ashley Judd still looks amazing desite the fact that they try to make her look as unattractive as possible in this film. "},{"Title":"A Poor Man's The Fugitive","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The acting was good in this movie.  However, the story was very weak.I don't blame the actors in this movie; they are only working with the material that was given to them.  A different form of motivation for revenge should have been used with Ashley Judd's character.Out of four stars, I would give it two.  There are several reasons why video and cable TV were invented.  This movie helps to explain why. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable but completely implausible","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  **spoilers** Oh man...what was the screenwriter thinking when he churned this one out? Don't get me wrong, the movie is entertaining and I like it a lot, but the story just annoyed me.  One thing before I start-  Ashley Judd was horrible when she cried in court (it was about as fake as it gets.)   Most of the positive comments on this movie have said something about Judd being a great actress...but let's be honest.  Besides horrible actors, most other actors are about the same.  I mean, there is a notable difference between say, Alicia Silverstone and Judd, but they both act about the same.  The only difference is the fact that Judd get's alot better roles to show off her talent.  Anyhow....let's go on. First off, like someone pointed out in the goofs section of this movie's page--double jeopardy does not work like this.  It works for the plot, because most people don't realize this.  Most states in the United States have laws where if convicted of murder in one state and aquitted or in this case- the guy turns out to alive in reality, you CAN be convicted of murder again...if you leave the state to do it.  She did leave the state, so it's quite possible that Louisiana could convict her again.  Even if the state didn't have such laws...she would go back to prison anyhow.  First off, she broke parole (that probably wouldn't matter if the original charge was dropped) but...you have to think about it.  If she goes and kills her husband with a guy, she'll get 20 years for the weapons charge alone!  So, this entire idea is ridiculous. Secondly...how on earth does Judd get away every time?  I know that if she doesn't, the movie sort of has to end, but come on!  Give us some realistic situations here.  No way she would be able to escape Jones everytime like she does.  It's so bad, it's funny. Next, when Jones goes to New Orleans and talks to her husband...he doesn't know it's him, because he changed his name and all.  BUT--He was Judd's parole officer...I'm sorry, but he would have had some sort of access to the records of her case and subsequent trial.  All he would have to do is get his hands on those files and find the guy's picture, and realize it was him the whole time. Fourth--No way Judd would just go to New Orleans and expect her husband to hand over the kid like that without a fight.  She tells him she just wants her son, and she'll let him go.  If she did that, she would go back to jail, because she couldn't prove he was still alive!  Not to mention it's a bit hard to believe that she would just go there, trust him to keep his mouth shut and give her the kid without any problems.  In the cemetary, only an idiot would believe that was really her son!  And, there is no way she would follow the kid all around, while losing sight of the husband that framed her for murder! Next, you're telling me she found her husband's location by seeing a TINY piece of a painting on the wall in a newspaper clipping?  I don't think so. Maybe I missed something, but how did she find out who painted it and the name of the painting so quickly? Another thing.  She supposedly killed her husband, she gives custody to the family friend, the family friend takes the kid away, moves in with the supposed dead guy, but no one discovers any of this?  That's a bit far fetched. Finally...in the end of the movie Jones and Judd are in her husband's office in New Orleans.  They get the evidnce they need to frame him, and tell him all about it. He knows if they get away, he'll go to prison forever...yet Jones walks Judd to the door and they completely take their eyes off the husband, giving him time to get a gun from his desk and shoot. Nice..... Like I said, the movie is entertaining, but there are so many plotholes, you'll be screaming by the end of it all.     "},{"Title":"Good Bang For The Buck","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  DJ is about as well-made a movie as you're likely to encounter in this genre. Ashley Judd, Tommy Lee Jones and Bruce Greenwood (please go back and finish Nowhere Man, Bruce!) give it a go with unusually good acting for this type of film. (Ashley Judd is about one good role away from an Oscar-caliber performance. I'm crossing my fingers. The girl deserves it.) Beresford does a neat job of direction with some nice underwater footage and the best screen treatment of the Big Easy on celluloid since Angel Heart. She's on the run for murder, but first she sits down to a meal complete with hot sauce. Now THAT'S NAWLINS, partner! Beresford gets extra points for THAT bit of insight! FOOD first in NO. Everything else can just wait! And I'm booking 820 St Louis St for my next jaunt to NO after seeing this one. (Already stayed at the Monteleone..also featured prominently.)Nothing you haven't seen before. But this one's definitely worth the time. And, if possible, watch it before dinner. Then head for the best local Cajun/Creole joint you can find. Have a hurricane or two. They're good for you. Builds strong bodies 12 ways. "},{"Title":"Okay film","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Includes SPOILERSDouble Jeopardy is an okay movie -- nothing more nothing less. In fact, the acting is also okay -- nothing more nothing less. It's basically one of those oh-so-predictable movies where the director might as well put up signs that say It's not her son, the b*stard paid some kid money to pretend to be her son! I mean, who didn't see that one coming a mile away... about as obvious as a pink crocodile in a Cadillac. And that's only one of many twists that you can't avoid figuring out about a minute before they happen. But, still it's a fairly entertaining film, though very unbelievable, and I kind of enjoyed it so why not give it a 4 out of 10? "},{"Title":"a very good thriller","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film is really entertaining , has a great performance by ashley judd , and a good work by tommy lee jones.Ashley looks great in a film that have the exact personage for her a woman running of somebody,  similar  than in Kiss the Girls,but perfect for her.Ashley is one of the most pretty actresses i have ever seen , and that isn't all ; she is a great actress...It is an authentic pleasure to see her in a film. "},{"Title":"Ashley Judd at her Finest, Movie could be better","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoyed the movie.  Felt the plot was well developed and well writen, but yet something was just missing from it. I think it might have been how the movie was edited. Ashley Judd is just one the finest actress of modern time and is so polished in this movie.  It's amazing how she can own those pages of dialogue.  Tommy Lee Jones seems to always act the same character in every movie he's in and I believe that might be why I did not rate this movie higher. If you enjoyed this Ashley Judd performance, be floored by her in Kiss The Girls. "},{"Title":"non-stop drama and action","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this film offered something for everyone.  It had action but not violence.  It had vengeance in a way that the entire audience is rooting for Libby Parsons.  She allows nothing to stop her only goal, which is to find her son at all costs.  Vengeance is an after thought, almost. The prison scenes bothered me a little because they were unrealistic with regard to the type of interaction between inmates.  But, that didn't keep my attention.  I was engrossed in the unfolding of the story. I was thoroughly impressed with Ashley Judd's performance.  she is just now being discovered for her depth of talent.  Jones played yet another state marshall.  He seems type cast for this role. All in all I loved the film.  I went 4 times while it was in the theaters! I wanted my friends to see it on the big screen! A must see! "},{"Title":"Predictable Entertainment","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It is always nice to see that some people know how to cast Ashley Judd. While she doesn't actually know how to act, she does very well in this predictable thriller. Don't expect too many surprises, but the movie is entertaining enough. Tommy Lee Jones is great as ever, and with Judd in place, the casting seems good - though Roma Mafia in jail is a big no-no. While far from an unforgettable edge-of-seat thriller, this movie will give you two hours of viewing pleasure without any obvious and/or irritating imperfections. Good to rent, just don't buy! "}{"Title":"Not bad at all","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Double Jeopardy is actually just a new version of the wonderful Fugitive. Still, it´s pretty good. It´s a bit surprising that it went to gross over $100 million at the US box office. I´d rather watch these kind of movies on video. Anyway, Double Jeopardy offers good entertainment for a few hours. Ashley Judd is a good actress and Tommy Lee Jones delivers as well. Still, this could´ve been a lot better if the story was more original.I give this 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"it could have been done better...","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Double Jeopardy is the kind of film that someone rents on video in order to have a great 2-hour entertainment. Actually the film looks ok even in the big screen thanks to a very beautiful leading actress (Ashley Judd is completely ravishing) and an intriguing plot (at least at the beginning). Problems appear along with the introduction of Tommy Lee Jones role (a very weak performance) and continue with the more and more unbelievable screenplay. My final verdict on this film is that it's a great action/drama combination and a very entertaining film but of no artistic value. In other words  it could have been done better.  "},{"Title":"My Likes and Dislikes of the movie Double Jeopardy.","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I thought the movie Double Jeopardy was a good film. I voted a 7 because i thought they could make the movie better with that storyline. i couldn't really give it a ten because i guess i thought differently than what was in the movie. But it was still a great movie and i urge you to see it sometime! "},{"Title":"very good","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I was hoping this movie wouldn't put me to sleep but it kept me entertained the whole time. I like Tommy Lee Jones and he did a good job in this and Ashley Judd did a good job as well. This movie has a good story to it and is fresh and original. It has a few shocking points and I do find myself cheering for Ashley in this movie, often times I cheer for the villian but the villian in this movie was a real jerk so the ending was a good one. But this overall is a great movie and I recommend it to anyone, 9 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Entertaining, Gripping and Well Worth a Look.","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoyed Double Jeopardy. It was a movie that kept me intrigued and entertained, its story was very well-written and original, while the acting was brilliant, Ashley Judd is an absolute winner, and the directing and production of the film finished it to just about perfection. There are hardly any faults in Double Jeopardy, it has the right length, good certification, but it is a bit flat on the lines sometimes. But I promise, you'll hardly notice it. Ashley Judd is Libby Parsons, a young mother of 1 who has taken a relaxing trip with her husband (Bruce Green). But it is not as relaxing as she had hoped, when she finds a trail of blood on the deck of the boat early in the morning, and it looks as though her husband has committed suicide. Yet the police see a different story. They think Libby has killed him, and sentence her to jail for 6 years. When she gets out, she has only one thing on her mind. To kill her husband. Because according to the Double Jeopardy law, you can't kill someone twice. I highly recommend this action-packed, thriller-fest, drama filled film because it will not fail to entertain you!Rating  9 "},{"Title":"Exactly what I expected.....","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this mainly because I like revenge flicks (especially if it's a woman doing the payback) and Tommy Lee Jones. Main thing that was a drag the trailer gives the movie away completely. I mean, the big PAYOFF scene (and line) is even in it! Another reviewer said it best-I felt like after seeing the trailer, I was watching the movie for the second time upon first viewing. Execs have argued, 'well, the trailer got the audience into the theater bigtime, so there'. That's no excuse...I guess for the execs, it works out great, but for the audience who pay to see a movie and want at least a TINY bit of surprise or suspense and feel let down, it's just not fair. There were a few good scenes; most not given away ahead of time. My favorite moments were those that were not in the trailer; the scene where a cute young guy shows Libby how to use the internet and then tries to hit on her, and she gets rid of him by telling him exactly how she has spent the last 6 years very openly and cheerfully .Though it was a good scene, I couldn't help thinking, come ON lady, you haven't got any action in 6 years for Chrissake and this hot, adorable young guy is asking you out for a drink (the guy was great-looking, friendly, and most single women who hadn't got laid in a month or so would have gone for him at the drop of a hat)what the hell, are you made of wood? I also liked the scene where Libby finally tracks down her evil husband and stages her first meeting with him for maximum dramatic effect, and is dressed to kill to boot. I loved Judd's two tough prison pals, though at the start I expected the bigger one to end up making Judd her (insert typical Prison Babe Movie cliche here). Tommy Lee Jones is always fun to watch. Even though he played pretty much the same character/storyline as he did in The Fugitive and the sequel, I'm not complaining. The movie is worth a rental, at least, if you are bored. It does entertain and I did find myself rooting for Judd a few times. But again...if you've seen the trailer, you've pretty much seen the movie. I wasn't too impressed. "},{"Title":"an entertaining movie","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I don't see the reason for all the negative comments. I liked this movie, but maybe I'm not quite as picky as most people who comment on this site. I like investigative plots where the protagonist figures out all kinds of clever ways to get what she wants, especially when something or someone is after her. Ashley Judd did an excellent job; her mama-on-the-mission role was very convincing. The Double Jeopardy law does confuse me, though. In this case, it wouldn't necessarily be a problem for her to murder the SOB and get away with it, since he probably deserved it anyway. But what if it was a case where someone was raped, the guy was sent to prison, and then 10 years later he got out and did it again to the same person? Would that be okay with the law, or is it really the SAME crime, since it's a different occasion? It's something to think about, anyway. But my compliments to the directors and actors of this movie. "},{"Title":"Can you murder some one twice?","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This was a really good action movie.  I liked it, it was what an audience is looking for in a movie.  It's got thrills, suspence, action, drama and even some humor.  Ashley Judd and Tommy Lee Jones gave fine performances.  I feel though that Mr. Jones wasn't in all that much of the movie to be a lead character.  He was more like a secondary character, but as my film teacher said, women always have to be backed up by a man or the movie is an art flick.  Other than that, it was a great movie and had a few fresh ideas. "},{"Title":"Comments for those who have already seen the movie...","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILER up aheadFor those who have already seen the movie... the one inconsisency in the plot that bothered me throughout the movie and contributed greatly to the overall dissatisfaction with the flick was the way Judd managed to find her husband's mistress in Colorado. According to the movie, Judd goes to a car dealership (I think BMW) and asks a dealer to run a credit  history check on Angela Green (by giving him her social security number)  as if she was wanted to buy a car. I have no problem with that - it's actually a smart way to lookup a person's address BUT later in the movie we find that the mistress (Angela Green/Ryder) has been dead for 3-4 years. Now, I would think that the credit report or whatever report a car dealer gets would say DECEASED or something similar. The dealer seemed not to care the woman who came to buy a car is dead (or obviously impersonating).This might seem like a small thing but it just kept eating me throughout the movie. I agree that the movie was awful but a gaping hole in the plot like that is simply outrageous.  "},{"Title":"S/he who laughs last ---------------","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Somewhere in the Bible it says Your sins will find you out. True enough in this case. Although the ACTUAL murder victim was NOT Libby Parsons. Tommy Lee Jones turns in, as usual, a quality performance. U S Constitutional Amendment V drama, suspense at it's finest. Maybe not quite a must see, but pretty close.  "}{"Title":"Double Predictions","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It's quite predictable movie.You can predict how it begins, where it leads you, and probably how it ends. The unpredictable part is the power 'Double Jeopardy' can give you. But apparently Ashley Judd doesn't use it too well.Even Tommy Lee Jones is much predictable. Closest thing he does in 'the Fugitives'.Seeing this movie is like proving your movie-knowledge or story plots. You ended up guessing what Ashley Judd will do next, and funny thing is, you rarely miss-guessed.For light fun viewing it's o.k., a fair weekend movie. "},{"Title":"Bad Movie! Bad Movie! Never do that again!","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'm surprised so few people mentioned the simple fact that the entire loophole they base this movie is wrong.Double jeopardy does not mean what they say in the movie, it means she cannot be tried twice for the same crime.  If she did kill her husband for real, that would be a different crime.This movie is like saying that if you punch someone in the face once, and are convicted, you can do it again to the same person, because you already served time for the first assault, which is just stupid. "},{"Title":"Not disappointing, but as I expected from the previews","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie delivers pretty much what it advertised and not much more.  The plot of Double Jeopardy closely resembles that of The Fugitive but doesn't parallel it exactly.  Tommy Lee Jones, also a supporting actor playing a cop in The Fugitive, is her parole officer after Judd is accused of murdering her husband.  The prison scenes seem alarmingly short for a six year span and Judd's character doesn't seem to age at all, physically or mentally.  She doesn't play the prison-hardened, desperate con too well; her face is too innocent.  Towards the end the plot is rather predictable, but the action scenes are engaging and keep you following the movie.  Despite of several striking similarities to The Fugitive, the movie comes off well all together and it is a decent good-guy vs. bad-guy movie.  I give it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Contrived and stupid; nevertheless, watchable (spoilers)","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Wonder why I bothered putting a spoiler warning in the summary field.  All the necessary spoilers are in the film's trailer.  No question about it, this movie is dumb and it is contrived down to the very title.  Movies that are contrived usually are dumb and are contrived usually because of some gimmick (which in this case IS the title).  The movie is so dumb that they couldn't possibly even describe the plot without giving the movie away in the trailer.  There are lots of stupid things in this movie, but I won't go into them here; you can read up on them in the reviews.Or better yet, just watch the movie and see for yourself.  As jaw-droppingly stupid as it is, the movie somehow manages to be watchable; maybe even entertaining.  This is, in large part, due to Ashley Judd who, aside from being a more than capable actress (she'd have to be if she can pull this silly part off) is awfully easy on the eyes.  And though we've seen Tommy Lee Jones in almost this exact role before, he would seem to be the only actor for the part. "},{"Title":"Murder isn't always a crime, but to make a movie like this is","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Remember the title Move of the Week.  Well this comes close.  The only motivating factors for the major actors in this so called major motion picture has to be that, they must  have owed somebody a really big favor. It never should have made it to the theater.If you think about one of the major hits for Tommy Lee Jones, The Fugitive in 1993 may come to mind and guess what they tried to do the same concept in US Marshals 1998.  And the studios seem to think, that the innocent man on the run idea is pretty good, so lets do it again, but this time with a woman.  It will work.  NOT!!  I do like Tommy, but i'm tired of seeing him chasing people.  The first character was a white male in the fugitive, the next character was a african american male in US  Marshals, then alien bad guys in Men in Black, and now a white female in Double Jeoporday.  What's left, your guess is good as mine?I'm thinking that I won't end this by telling you the full count of the holes that are in this movie, because I only have one thousand words.  Nor, will I tell you that in my opinion, the movie makes the woman appear to be smart enough to track her husband down (the bad guy).  But then appear to be totally stupid when she finally confronts him by saying I just want my son.  After all he has put her through.  But if you have paid to see it, then i'll just simply say, I'm Sorry "},{"Title":"Murder isn't always a crime, but to make a movie like this is","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Remember the title Move of the Week.  Well this comes close.  The only motivating factors for the major actors in this so called major motion picture has to be that, they must  have owed somebody a really big favor. It never should have made it to the theater.If you think about one of the major hits for Tommy Lee Jones, The Fugitive in 1993 may come to mind and guess what they tried to do the same concept in US Marshals 1998.  And the studios seem to think, that the innocent man on the run idea is pretty good, so lets do it again, but this time with a woman.  It will work.  NOT!!  I do like Tommy, but i'm tired of seeing him chasing people.  The first character was a white male in the fugitive, the next character was a african american male in US  Marshals, then alien bad guys in Men in Black, and now a white female in Double Jeoporday.  What's left, your guess is good as mine?I'm thinking that I won't end this by telling you the full count of the holes that are in this movie, because I only have one thousand words.  Nor, will I tell you that in my opinion, the movie makes the woman appear to be smart enough to track her husband down (the bad guy).  But then appear to be totally stupid when she finally confronts him by saying I just want my son.  After all he has put her through.  But if you have paid to see it, then i'll just simply say, I'm Sorry "},{"Title":"Standard thriller, nothing more","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Double Jeopardy could've been made into a respectable action movie if only it had a half-decent script. The dialouge is often cheesy and has a plot holier than Jesus. For whatever reason Paramount didn't bother getting it re-written, and it takes the entire film down with it.	That said, the movie still is entertaining at times, even a little suspenseful. The scenery is well photographed, and the plot does hold promise, even if there aren't enough twists to make it worthwhile.	So instead of shelling out six bucks to rent it, surf off to movie-list.com and watch the full-length trailer, it's just a condensed version of the movie without the bad script or boring scenes.5/10 "},{"Title":"Good but not GREAT","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Overall, thought the movie was a decent drama.  But it does leave the viewer with a lot of loop holes and unanswered questions.  Tommy Lee Jones and Ashley Judd roles were OK but not that impressive when you compare it to their other work.  Felt that if the script was written more thoroughly, it would have made a pretty sensational film comparable to that of Sleeping With The Enemy. "},{"Title":"Not everything should be recycled.  Sometimes you just have to throw it out.","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Why can't Hollywood buy some of those BBC writers to make a Murder-Mystery instead of recycling the same old garbage?  What were the producers thinking when they cast Tommy Lee Jones in the same role he played in the Fugitive?  Why does the dupe being framed ALWAYS pick up the murder weapon?  Who goes to bed in the middle of nowhere in a bathrobe?  These are the only mysteries in this movie.  Not enough thrills to be an action movie.  Not enough intrigue to be a mystery.  Not enough boxing to be Rocky.  Pass on this one and rent Fugitive.  Same story, more mystery, better acting. "},{"Title":"stoopid stoopid stoopid stoopid stoopid stoopid stoopid stoopid ......","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  (SPOILER ALERT!)This movie is incredibly stupid.  The events and plot points concocted by the screenwriter are SO insipid and SO unbelievable that I found myself laughing and rolling my eyes.  To swallow this story, you have to believe that Ashley Judd would sleep through a drenching in blood, that the Coast Guard would arrive on the scene at the precise instant she's standing bewildered with a knife in her hands, that she would be convicted of homicide based entirely on circumstantial evidence, that upon learning that her hubby is actually alive and well she would elect to follow the advice of a disbarred lawyer/fellow inmate and serve her time rather than inform the proper authorities, that she could knock a car off of a ferry and into Puget Sound without anyone on board noticing....and the list goes on and on....Good points?  Tommy Lee Jones, who is the only breath of fresh air in this movie...although even he looks slightly bemused by the proceedings.  You sense that, if he could, he'd break character, stare straight into the camera, and apologize for the screenwriters ineptitude.Stoopid.  Just plain stoopid. "}{"Title":"Thin plot; well acted; beautiful cinematography","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Remake of old movie.  While the plot is thin, the movie carries it off well. The action is quite good.  The cinematography is outstanding with great shots of the Puget Sound islands, Evergreen, Colorado, and New Orleans. Well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Effective timewaster","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  There is nothing particularly spectacular about this film, apart from a nice underwater sequence involving Jones, Judd and a rapidly sinking car.  Judd did not seem to have enough experience to tackle her role effectively.  While Jones was very similar to his role in U.S Marshalls crossed with Volcano.  There were absolutely no surprises in the plot, and everyone seemed to be just going through the motions.  The first half hour is the weakest with a couple of very poorly handled scenes - the murder scene, the trial and Judd's time in prison all come to mind.  It picks up after this, but Judd just was so unconvincing in her role that the viewer just did not seem to feel her desperation in finding her child - the storyline alone can only take the actor so far.  This is a bad film, yet the time went quite quickly, but the entire time we know what will happen and so any sort of suspense there might have been is lost.  Very mindless. "},{"Title":"Pretty good movie with a lot of holes","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, I thought that this movie was pretty entertaining, definitely not the worst I've seen.  However, there were a lot of places in the movie where you go Yeah right... I guess afterall, it is a movie so it's not supposed to be real but sometimes you have to stretch your imagination.  Also, I wish that the people who film in New Orleans would realize that NOBODY HERE TALKS LIKE THAT!!!!  The only people in New Orleans that speak with any kind of Cajun or southern accent are NOT from here!!!! "},{"Title":"Worst screenplay of 1999","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was worst than I could have possibly imagined. It was completely unrealistic. Haven't the writers ever heard of habeau corpeus. How can you send someone away for murder when there's no proof of murder? It was all circumstancial evidence. AND THERE IS NO BODY! Ashley finds out that her husband is still alive, but no lawyer, private investigator, or anybody else can help her. You'd think the husband would be living low profile for the rest of his life. Nope. He's the host of a bachelor's auction. He isn't disguised at all.How this movie got made, and attracted Jones and Judd is beyond me. If this script was turned into a professor by a film student, he'd get a failing grade for sure.  "},{"Title":"A little boring.","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Half decent story starring a woman screwed over by the court justice for her husband's murder. However, the story is boring. Ashley Judd is extremely annoying (is the eyebrow look to show she's possessed?) Tommy Lee Jones softens up a bit from his other tough character roles. And although the story is half-decent, it's rather predictable and boring overall. Do we really care about poor Matt, if his mother's going to kill his father? A movie such as this was bound to be made sooner or later. Just wish it was a TV movie. "},{"Title":"Storyline is full of holes, not a good film","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Ashley Judd is excellent, Tommy Lee Jones is Mediocre, and the rest of the cast OK.  The storyline kills this film - its just NOT believable at most levels.  Individual scenes are mostly well done.  This is only  worth 6/10 "},{"Title":"Effective Drama","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a relatively nice drama, that moves pretty quickly. Tommy Lee Jones plays much the same sort of character that he has before, but at least he does it quite well.  The car-ferry-escape scene I thought in particular was nicely done.  While not too good, this film is still exciting at times, contains humor, and is a generally entertaining hour and 45 minutes.    "},{"Title":"Compelling!","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The movie had awesome non-stop action, great acting, especially by Ashley Judd, Tommy Lee Jones and definately by Annabeth Gish. Also, I loved this movie because it had a woman doing the action, which you do not see that much! Annabeth and Tommy were underused in the story, I say that because they are absolutely awesome actors and Ashley is by far better than the rest of her family! You really have to see this really cool and clever movie! There was not one thing wrong with it, so do not listen to the rest of the peoplewho say there are! "},{"Title":"Predictable","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I wasn't impressed by the predictable action scenes. When watching the film, I always seemed to know exactly what was going to happen next and felt that I was just watching another action film not unlike any others that I have already seen "},{"Title":"If you've seen the commercial, You've seen the movie!","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  We saw this movie because the one we went to see was sold out. I had wondered how the movie would play out, since the trailer and commercials were so revealing, and the title tells you what happens. Because of this.. I expected the movie to have a huge twist that would make the story different than what we had seen.The huge twist never came..... So if you have watched the trailer and commercials, than you have pretty much seen the movie.This movie was so flawed.   Libby Parsons (Ashley Judd) runs away from her Half way house in persuit of the real story. This leads Travis Lehman (Tommy Lee Jones) to hunt for her due to her parole violation.Now in the process of him hunting her.. she dumps his car into the ocean, steals other cars and crashes them and much more. All these laws she has broken, INCLUDING violating her parole and yet no mention of it and the end leaves you wondering why.This movie was ok to sit through but left no thrill. "}{"Title":"Absurd script, partially redeemed by cast","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I knew, going into this movie, that plausibility was not at the top of the filmmakers' priority list.  The first time I saw the trailer, my reaction was Double jeopardy doesn't work that way!  Still, I was unprepared for just HOW unlikely and unbelievable the plot developments were.  Most of them have already been discussed by some of the other viewers who have posted here, so I'll just do a brief enumeration of some of the ones that stuck out in my mind (and this is far from a complete list)(POTENTIAL SPOILERS)1. Most obviously, the film's ridiculous misinterpretation of the double jeopardy laws...this might have been acceptable if it was just Libby's misunderstanding of how it works, but the movie has not one but TWO ex-lawyers presenting it as correct!  (I guess that's why they're EX-lawyers...)2. The idea that an insurance company wouldn't at least look into Libby's story, especially on a $2 million policy.3. Libby has a car dealer run a credit check on another character's social security number, while impersonating that character.  The credit check turns up that person's last known address, but not that she's been dead for three years.4. Travis leaves his prisoner alone in the car with one hand free, and the keys in the ignition.5. Nobody on the ferry notices as Libby noisily bumps into several of the cars around her, not even when she knocks one of them overboard.  However, when HER car goes over, everyone comes running.6. Libby fails to notice that the youth she's following in the cemetery is not only considerably older than her son would be, but is also carrying a beer.7. After knocking Libby out, Nick doesn't bother to make sure she's dead before dumping her in a potentially-escapable coffin and leaving her.  (Shades of Dr. Evil & Austin Powers!)8. After going to so much trouble with his evil plans, Nick casually (if vaguely) confesses to someone he barely knows.And those are just a few of the errors and plot holes.  However, the movie is far from a complete disaster.  Beresford's direction moves the proceedings along smoothly, no matter how far-fetched they are, and the performances of Ashley Judd and Tommy Lee Jones are highly entertaining.I wouldn't say this movie was worth the effort of renting or going to the theater, but if it comes on cable or if a friend picks up the tape (which is how I saw it), it could make for enjoyable escapist viewing. "},{"Title":"Almost made it to a category of a good thriller","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Tommy Lee Jones once again stars in a thriller where he ends up being the hero. A mother, tries to find her son and punish her husband who she suspects framed her for the murder of him. Practically no blood, some predictable suspense, some not so predictable. Average movie as a whole, but an enjoyable one.  "},{"Title":"An editor would have helped.","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Boy do I have a list of laughable plot leaps too.  But first, let me say how disappointed I was that the writer/editors failed to exploit the intriguing concept, however technically correct it was, of having someone able to kill her husband because she had already done the time.  I expected to find a film where the husband was always looking over his shoulder, not unlike the Julia Roberts character in Sleeping with the Enemy.  Instead, having used this concept as a hook to draw me in, they virtually ignore the idea, to the point where the husband seems more annoyed at having ex-debtees find out he is still alive than worried that is wife can kill him.  Bummer.  I never felt that the husband felt threatened by Ashley Judd's character at all.Now then, being a Washington Ferry Boat rider, I simply have to take offense that the car drove facing forward off the back of the boat.  Not often do they have you back onto the ferry--maybe it was a Southworth run on the Vashon ferry.  Not very likely.  Also, one heck of a lot of people simply sit in their cars, reading the paper or snoozing.  If some idiot were driving back and forth smashing the cars ahead and behind, then pushing one off, there would be attention paid immediately to the situation.  AND, that chain across the back (front?) is pretty firmly anchored in the deck with posts.  Oh well.I am also amazed to believe that Driver's License photos from people believed deceased are available six years after the death.  My, the Washington Dept. of Trans. is really an efficient organization.  NOT!! And, finally, how in the world does a semi-parolee find the money and driver's license to buy flight tickets to Colorado, then New Orleans from Seattle?  Oh yeah, this is another case (like the recent Willis?Pfeiffer video) where money is apparently no object.In short, this could have been a really suspenseful thing had the annoying anomalies been edited and the main idea used to its fullest extent.   "},{"Title":"Actually, yes, murder IS a crime...","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The basic premise of this blockbuster is that if a woman is convicted for killing her husband, and he later shows up alive and kicking, she can then kill him anyway, since you can't be convicted for the same crime twice. Umm.. Wrong! With a premise like that, the credibility of the movie goes way out the window. The legal term 'double jeopardy' means one cannot be convicted of exactly the same crime twice, not just the charge. If I were accused of killing a man at 830 in a bookstore in New York on November 13, 1996, then I can never again be convicted of killing that man at that time in that place on that date. All of the specifics need to be the same, not just the I killed a man part. But obviously, since so many people watched and liked this movie, the actual veracity of the plot is mostly immaterial. My personal opinion is that with so many rotten ex-husbands in the world, any movie in which one gets killed TWICE is going to make beaucoup bucks! So forget the implausible plot and focus on the action and the drama. Ashley Judd is Libby Parsons, the accused woman in question. Judd turns in another of her fine performances as a woman who will do almost anything to get back to her young son, who of course was taken by the seedy husband. Tommy Lee Jones is her parole officer (!) who seems like a bit of a jerk at the start, but lo and behold comes to believe in her cause. Actually, Tommy Lee's character is a little tough to figure out. Is he a good guy? Is he a bad guy? Does he have ulterior motives? Well, no ulterior motives surface here, because this film isn't quite deep enough for that. But when all the dust settles on this incredible tale, the customer is satisfied with the product onscreen. "},{"Title":"Entertaining as Camp","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  There has been lots of bashing of this particular movie, but I was mildly surprised by the entertainment factor.  Yes, some plot points make no sense, and the legal basis for the movie is bunk. But the acting isn't too shabby, and you get an idea of why it performed well at the box-office. And for the frat boy in all of us, there is some surprising Ashley Judd nudity in the movie (not all body doubles). "},{"Title":"Entertaining, despite a very sloppy script","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Ok people Double Jeopardy isn't perfect. i for one am all ready to tell you its many flaws but you have to admit this was quite an entertaining film.you all probably know the story(since most of it is revealed in the preview for the movie). Libby Parsons(Ashley judd) is convicted for the murder of her husband. she is later sent to jail but soon finds out that her husband faked his death for reasons you have to find out when you see the film. so when libby gets out it's a cat and mouse chase. because libby has all the cards on her side. supposedy it's a 5th amendment right that you can't be convicted for the same crime twice. so basically from her own words she can shoot him in the middle of mardi gras and no one can touch her. Sounds good right? but there are some flaws.Some aspects of the story seem very unbelievable. this is the kind of film that might sound good on paper but when it is executed you realize how ludicrous it is.But this film does entertain despite a bad script. there is plenty of action and good pacing. everything happens fast so you're not bored with the film.The acting is what keeps this movie from going to hell. Ashely Judd proves that she can carry a film on her own. she is a great actress and she has great screen presence. very strong femlae actress. all the credit goes to her. she carries this film.All in all pretty entertaining but with this film you just can't get buy all those flaws that keep it from being a great movie. B- or C+ "},{"Title":"Excellent remake!","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This film really surprised me in that it was involving from beginning to end.  Ashley Judd and Bruce Greenwood give stand out performances in this remake of an old classic.  My only reservation is Tommy Lee Jones portrayal of the parole officer, which seemed much too close to the character he played in the fugitive.  However, the film is still thoroughly enjoyable and unpredictable. The DVD looked exceptional on my new Pioneer HD510 widescreen television.  I was especially impressed by the scenes filmed in New Orleans.  It really captured the essence of the Bourbon street area.   "},{"Title":"Ashley Judd scores big.","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I just knew I was going to like this movie it seemed to be the type of movie Hollywood does best, it had decent reviews, and had sustained a long box office run. I wasn't sure I would like Ashley Judd in it, though. I had seen her before, of course, but she hadn't made much of an impression. It was to my pleasant surprise to find she is what I liked most about the picture. She is not a great beauty, but that works to her advantage, as she is better able to convey her role as a tough, everyday Mom (though filthy rich), caught in a very difficult, emotionally-draining situation, with greater conviction.And, hey, she's certainly not that bad to look at. This is basically an action thriller, with one basic twist it's a woman who is the purveyor of this action. I can't think of many movies with this twist...Nikita comes to mind, as does Barbarella, but not many mainstream Hollywood movies; and not with this same feeling of realism. Ashley Judd pulls off the action sequences with aplomb. It was a little tough to find some elements of this movie credible, but an exiting story, a slick production, and a good performance by Judd, easily overcomes this. Oh, and Tommy Lee Jones plays his usual self as her pursuer. "},{"Title":"An accessible thriller, good for an evening without stressing your brain.","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Ashley Judd (known to all Star Trek fans as Ensign Robin Lefler from The Game, an episode of Star Trek The Next Generation) stars beside Tommy Lee Jones and Bruce Greenwood in this story of a woman sent away for 6 years for murdering her husband who in fact faked his death (this may sound like a spoiler, but it's revealed in every trailer!). Through a rather silly legal loophole, it transpires that since she can't be tried twice for the same crime she can now hunt him down and kill him in broad daylight and walk away scott free. Ashley Judd, who is greatly changed since her Star Trek appearance, carries off her rôle with ease and style, and Tommy Lee Jones (perhaps getting a little type-cast) is very good as always. Bruce Greenwood is very good at being evil and switching in and out of a New Orleans accent - pretty much all his character calls for. A slightly weak premise, and occasionally pithy scripting don't really take away much from this movie. It's not a deadly serious intellectual movie, and isn't meant to be. It's an enjoyable hour and three quarters at the cinema. "},{"Title":"Fairly good effort, some plot mistakes, nothing fatal.","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  From other comments on this picture, one would think that I am in the minority.  But, after taking a HUGE group (12 people in all) to see this film I got very different feedback.Overall a good flick, (6.75 out of 10)Ashley Judd is turning out to be one great actress.  After Simon Birch, I didn't think I would ever trust those beautiful features in anything else.  But when my friends told me they were going to this movie, I figured it wouldn't be the only bad movie I had seen this year. > And a note on Tommy Lee Jones in this picture, straying from his usual roll, Tom is actually convincing in his portrayal of a parol officer.  With the notable exception that parol officers do not chase down their parolies, which he does in this film.If you like Ashley Judd, or just want a good movie to watch at the house, this is a good choice. "}{"Title":"Why can't movies just be movies anymore?","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I've seen Double Jeopardy many, many times, and I love it. I've been reading reviews from different magazines and realized that most have regarded this movie as a waste of time based simply on the trivial fact that it's not technically accurate with today's judicial system. Why does that matter? The movie is meant to entertain audiences, not take them on a school field trip.I found the movie to be riveting. Ashley Judd pulls off a wonderful performance as Libby Parsons, a woman wrongfully accused of murdering her husband. Tommy Lee Jones plays the gruff parole officer with whom Judd convinces of her innocence, but not before first taking the viewer on action packed getaway scenes. Judd, who is becoming the prototypical, strong willed woman who gets even with all the wrongdoing put forth onto her, pulls you into the emotions that Libby is feeling. Especially the love and frustrations concerning her son. Despite all the nay-sayers out there who write this movie off as fictitious in all accounts - I highly recommend it for entertainment value.It's worth seeing just because of Ashley Judd. She's the,'good girl getting even', and you love to watch it happen. "},{"Title":"Double Jeopardy (1999)","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film and tommy isnt the star judd is her name should be first..besides she was waay better than anyone else in the film. It isn't a normal chick flick but is good and interesting and is worth your rent money!IT's perfect other than a few barely recognizeable patches you will experience but all in all it is god and gets better and better! "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Well,It's hard for me to say that I truly enjoyed this movie.It's a weak rehash of the whole Fugitive storyline, sadly enough with Tommy Lee Jones re-taking the fugitive-finder role.  Ashley Judd plays Elizabeth Parsons, a woman falsely convicted for the murder of her husband. While in jail for this crime she finds out, fairly unrealistically, that, oh my god, HER HUSBAND ISN'T REALLY DEAD!  After the filmmakers shoddily push her through six years of jail, she goes about trying to find her husband and her child.  Sounds pretty, you know, average.  It is.The story never really finds anything to focus on. We don't get a really good chase down the fugitive story, because we don't ever really get to care about Tommy Lee Jones character.  A side point, the best part of the movie for me was the way that Jones played the character.  He was gruff and amusing and was the only character that I was really excited about. The directors never seemed to be able to find one place that they really wanted to go with the movie.  They bring up the whole double jeopardy thing...but, it's only brought up...and then sort of discussed at the end of the flick again.  Also how can you make an interesting fugitive movie, if the fugitive is only running from her...parole officer?Ashley Judd is a beautiful actress, that's no doubt.  But she seemed to struggle with making the character anything but generic.  It was fun to look at her, but she's no one I'm going to remember in a week.Overall, the story was slow and had problems going anywhere.  Tommy Lee Jones helps to save the movie, and so does the cinematography in the movie, wide, expansive; a different take on filming a boring genre.I'd have to give the movie a 6/10. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The film in my opinion was a bit of a let down.  It had the potential to be an excellent film.  I thought that the director perhaps could not be bothered to explore all possibilities and many story lines were not developed, they were left up in the air.  I felt that it also could have been much more emotional than it was.  Not exactly a bad film though but you may find that you will have to fill in a few gaps yourself. "},{"Title":"how to cheat your insurance broker","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Fraud,crime and adventure in this well-designed movie.A very respectable woman will suffer the greatest of pain in prison. Social aspects of an ill-behaved husband are examined in an everchanging environment of deceit and malice.Looking for her son becomes a major weapon for survival. "},{"Title":"Bland - may make a good TV movie.","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Despite a good performance by Elizabeth Parsons, the film was bland and predictable. I found the fade out at the end to be somewhat limp, confirming my impression throughout that maybe this is one for the small screen. "},{"Title":"Beresford could have done it better","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I just came from the cinema. To me, strong logic is a key issue in stories, but specially in thrillers.How come a real and clod-bloded criminal like Nick Parsons wouldn't kill Libby before hiding her body in the coffin? He just needed to brake her neck or to strangle her. Also How come he did not check her, just to verify she has not a weapon or a document with her? Beresfor made Nick Parsons stupid just because the film needed Libby alive.Another one since Lehman knew he was facing a cold-bloded murderer...... how come he did not watch Nick? This is not a proper attitude for an experience cop. I am not a cop, you are not likely a cop, but you would keep an eye on a murderer.For last, I did not like Ashley Judd. She is made of PVC; she did not provoked any emotion in me.I hope Tommy Lee will dismiss further works playing the pursuing cop and Beresford will resume good works. "},{"Title":"Good film to see on half price Tuesday but otherwise forgettable","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This was not my first choice of film to watch today. But it was half price Tuesday so I decided it would be a good two hours' entertainment for the money. Double Jeopardy is a perfect example of getting what you pay for. For half price Tuesday it was just right. The premise is a bit doubtful, but then I'm not a lawyer so it may be realistic. Unfortunately it tends to overwhelm everything else in the film - characters, storyline and action. Many of these elements are far too contrived for sustained believability and end up getting sacrificed so the idea can live on in shining glory.One of my pet hates are scenes where the hero/heroine is the only one in the entire cinema who can't see the bleeding obvious, such as the graveyard scene. There are numerous examples of character stupidity - Libby wandering around New Orleans in full view without the least attempt to disguise herself. It's strange that Lehman, being so interested in Libby's case, doesn't know what her husband looks like until a convenient plot point. And yes, she couldn't have swum that far without somebody noticing. In these situations the film descends into genre cliches. Which is a pity because there are real moral dilemmas here to be explored, but Bruce Beresford seemed determined to make a light easy-on-the-eye piece of fluff to entertain the masses and make the studio money. He is capable of better than this. It's not a bad film, but it's not memorable. Ashley Judd looks exactly the same throughout the whole thing, not like a woman who has had to endure 6 years of prison. No wonder her son had no trouble recognizing her. If she kept calling me kiddo like that I'd disown her anyway. Tommy Lee Jones is just Sam Gerard again which is a major disappointment.There are some fine scenes - the coffin scene really does evoke horror and a wrenching empathy from anyone who has suffered claustrophobia. But it's far too predictable and hackneyed. And the ending was a complete copout. Where are the themes of personal revenge versus parental love for Libby, duty versus personal involvement for Lehman, individual rights versus social responsibility etc? It feels at the end as though this was all a bit too hard and let's just finish it and give the audience what they (supposedly) want. You can almost see the actors shrugging. Shame Bruce. You're better than this. So is your audience. "},{"Title":"Predictability","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the most predictable films I have ever seen, it has a reasonable plot but you can tell what is going to happen just by seeing the short trailer on television. Save your money and go and see another movie that isn't so predictable. "},{"Title":"can you say CRAP??","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Ok this is what happend, I went to see BONE COLLECTOR , but because I am under 18 and the movie is rated R, I couldnt get in. Then instead I went to see this CRAP.I dont know was it that the movie screen was the size of my 13 tv or was it that that moron working there didnt let me in to watch Bone Collector. Ok i really like Ashley Judd as an actor , but in this movie its like she forgot to act. When she cried me and my friend would start laughing because she looked like an idiot. The plot is interesting but for it to work it would be best to write a book.I give this movie **** out of **********. the 4 stars is because the popcorn was cheap and very good, if I may say so.  "}{"Title":"Is it an original movie or The fugitive 3?","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The movie is about a woman (Ashley Judd) who has been tricked by her husband. His wife is in jail because he simulated his death and took his son with him.  When Elizabeth learns the truth that her husband is not dead and that he is with her best friend, she get out of prison and try to kill him to have back her child.  Will she succeed? And also, Tommy Lee Jones follow the fugitive to get her back in prison. It seems to me a little familiar.When we look at the trailer, the film seems interesting because of the subject and also because we know another law that we cannot be guilty two times for the same crime.  The main character will chase her husband and it's quite fun.  It surprises me.  But when I think more about the script, it looks like The Fugitive and other movie where innocents sent in prison get out to chase and to find the real killer, and they always succeed.  It is not realistic, but it's entertaining.The characters are normal and almost dull but the actors give them a pretty good interpretation, especially Ashley Judd who was very convincing.  It's a bit different for Tommy Lee Jones, not because he wasn't good, he is always good, but this character is too much like the one in The Fugitive.Bruce Beresford did a great job for this movie.  Most of the time, I do not like action movies because they are always the same.  But there are beautiful images in it and most of the action scenes are captivating and there was rhythm.  Like I said before, the interpretations are very good.Unfortunately, the ending is predictable like in every American movie. When will they surprise us with an unpredictable end like Arlington Road where they didn't put a happy end where it was against the subject.  I mean, when you talk about a certain subject, the ending is there to clarify or to show the subject very clearly.  If a movie is about drugs and at the end everybody get rid of those substances, nobody will react while coming back home, they will be happy and they will think that the problem does not exist anymore.Well, the movie is generally interesting and entertaining, but not original and predictable.  "},{"Title":"Made for TV/Direct to Video","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"            The best thing that you can say about this film is that it's easy on the eyes. The British Columbia scenery is breath taking, as is Ashley Judd. Sadly, the plot is rank with implausibilities, so much so that the audience is left laughing at the ridiculousness of it all. Did the trailors spoil this movie for me - hardly. The problem here is that I seen a few action/suspence films in my time, and they did it much better.           The problem here is that those involved in this film have taken the moviegoers money, and given little in return. A poor effort.   "},{"Title":"Christian Review of DJ","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was very refreshing to see during the first months of school, with only a few minor flaws such as the rating discrepency and the fact that a double jeopordy clause would not apply in this instance.As a Chistian I was very deceived by the fact that this was rated PG-13, but however had a sex scene in it that showed everything of Ashley Judd.  Not very good.  Sometimes I don't know why we even have ratings.The double jeopordy clause would not apply because the crime would have been committed at two seperate times.  For instance, if I go out and rob the same bank twice I can be tried and sentenced twice.  If I rob it once and am found innocent or guilty but rob it a second time I can be tried for that as well.  Ashley Judd's character would have been guilty if she were to have killed her husband without just cause.Other than those two things I found the movie to be a nice and easy going movie. "},{"Title":"Very predictable movie","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Based on previews of this movie, you might think the movie is just about fighting which was in my mind before seeing the movie. Or perhaps you might heard that this movie has alot of homosexual theme ( Even also respective journal mentioned it). From my experience, this movie was more than fighting or homosexual theme (although there weren't any homo-theme based on what I watched).There were alot of humors in this movie as well as enough blood scenes. I found myself laugh and gag because the story was very mentally ill. People in this movie weren't afraid of anything because they think death as nothing except Chuck. Chuck juggle death and real life, he treated disease as his sleeping pill.Wait till the end, it will blow your mind up. It is like experiencing DeJa-Six Sense because you will find some imaginary person in this movie. I enjoyed 2/3 of the movie but suddenly I received so much information I finally got lost in Bermuda. "},{"Title":"An alright film","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was entertaining, however, was also very predictable.  Ashley Judd is, as usual, briliant.  Tommy Lee Jones, is also.  The problem is with the script, I believe. The idea is awesome, but the story seems a little bit lame.  Maybe I was just too hyped up for it, but I was disappointed, as was my girlfriend. "},{"Title":"The Fugitive part 3.","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I felt like I was watching the third sequel to The Fugitive thats exactly what it felt like I mean I liked this movie it some suspense, some action, some drama I liked the performance of Ashley Judd I think she made the movie and Tommy Lee Jones performance was satisfactory.It was worth the admission price although not one of 1999's best. "},{"Title":"Suffers from excessive trailer revelation","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Like so many films of the genre, this one suffers from the immediate realization that all of the major plot points were disclosed in the trailers.  There are no surprises, and very few tense moments.  While the premise was interesting, I found myself remembering trailers and identifying each step before it happened.  I didn't even need to see the film, I had seen the trailers.  The only thing not covered in the trailers was Tommy Lee Jones character, which could have developed so much more than it did!The only surprise that threatened to take place, didn't eventuate, which would have made the film a much stronger one!  All in all, a real disappointment. "},{"Title":"Very well done.","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I thought that the movie was very good, could have been better if the storyline had not been given away by the previews. The ending had enough twists to make the story interesting. Your interest was held throughout the movie. I thought that the ending had a few good twists. "},{"Title":"Great, well-made action film.","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I think women will definitely want to see this movie. Fast-paced thriller. Tommy Lee Jones adds distinction and feeling as her probation officer. Ashley Judd gives a deep, emotional tug at the heartstrings as she fights her way through trying to find out the reasons why this happened.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  *yawn*  This one adds new meaning to predictable. The previews looked great; unfortunately they consisting of all of the interesting parts in the movie being put together.  You never learn enough about any of the characters in this movie to care what happens to them; the focus is on plot to the exclusion of all else and there isn't a single surprise.  Ashley Judd could not look convincing as a woman who has spent six years in prison if her life depended upon it, and as others have commented, there were plot holes big enough to drive a truck through and the legal concept here is fallacious. Save your money.  "}{"Title":"Don't rely on this film for your legal advice.","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If you can get past the false premise, i.e., you can kill your spouse twice, the second time with impunity, then the film is an OK suspense movie. I worry about how serious viewers are supposed to take a screenwriter who blatantly misstates the rule of law.  Oh, well.  It's just a movie. "},{"Title":"I just wasn't impressed...","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I can't exactly pinpoint my disappointment with Double Jeopardy, but I do know that I wasn't happy overall with the movie.One thing that I couldn't understand was why Tommy Lee Jones was hardly used in this movie...  The first half of the movie deals with Ashley Judd's character Elizabeth dealing with the death of her husband and being sent off to prison..  Tommy Lee Jones is nowhere to be seen during all of this! He's such a strong character in these sort of situations...After that this movie falls into your basic chase action movie piece...nothing new, nothing interesting... especially if you've seen the Fugitive...Definately...5/10 stars  "},{"Title":"Ttoo predictable.","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Should have taken a walk. Ashley Judd is quite good, as is Tommy Lee Jones but the story is very loose. Way too predictable. If you've seen the trailer...you've seen the movie.The end is the worst part. "},{"Title":"Major plot problems","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Even if I ignore the fallacious interpretation of double jeopardy at its core, the film has two major plot problems which destroy it entirely.(1)  When Judd finds out (in prison) that her husband is still alive, she doesn't do what any rational person would  get a lawyer or private eye to track down the husband and prove that she was unjustly convicted.  Instead, she suffers through 6 years of incarceration.(2)  When Judd has her husband at gunpoint at the exciting conclusion, she brutally kills him instead of just injuring him and letting the cops take over.  By doing this, she lowers herself to his level.  She also makes it extremely unlikely that she could ever have a normal relationship with her son; the son had a much longer relationship with the father than he had ever had with her.  "},{"Title":"wake me up when it's over","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Yawn.....I gave this a 2.  Ashley Judd gives a performance I'd label adequate and it's not her fault that her character has no reasonable emotions written into the script, like, duh, a little FEAR.  Tommy Lee Jones is wasting his time and considerable talent here.  (Hello, Tommy, you DID win an Academy Award once upon a time, did you not?!).There are so many implausible situations in this script that I won't even bore you with them, but Ashley showing up at a fundraiser in an Armani gown and full makeup when she doesn't even have a hotel room to stay in is just one of them.  I really did not like this movie at all, obviously, and I even would have felt ripped off if I had rented it for 3 bucks. "},{"Title":"Predictable and stupid","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Bruce Beresford's Double Jeopardy is the nadir of his spotty career.  Neither suspenseful nor smart, it's the kind of made-for-tv movie you'd see on Lifetime-- a wronged woman in trouble who will defy all odds (and logic) to return to her son. By this time everyone knows the plot, so it's not worth rehashing.  But it's worth commenting on the (uniformly terrible) Ashely Judd as the wronged woman is simply awful, as usual-- watching her try to emote is like watching a toothless man eat peanut brittle-- she tries, but it's a mess.  Tommy Lee Jones is no better, as he just kind of sits around and grimaces and growls in an unfriendly way.  Bruce Greenwood, who is a very fine actor, brings a bit of professionalism to the movie, but he's limited by 1) not having much screen time, and 2) an insipid, predictable script.  For example, Ashley Judd is sent to a minimum-security prison for 4 years for murder?  What?  And why is it every time a film needs to show an exotic location they shoot in New Orleans, even when it doesn't make any narrative sense?Save your time, save your money.  If you like wronged-women-in-trouble movies, see Caged Heat or Chained Heat or any other movie with Heat in the title.  But don't see Michael Mann's Heat, because Ashley Judd's in that too, and she's just as unwatchable.  "},{"Title":"A great performance from Ashley Judd.","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  *Possible spolier ahead*Since all the trailers and marketing of revenge thriller `Double Jeopardy' gave away the juicy plot twist, I won't resist trying to conceal it.  The film stars Ashley Judd as a woman framed for the murder of her husband and sent to prison, only to discover her husband is still alive.  If anyone knows what the legal term `double jeopardy' means, you can probably guess where this movie is heading.  This isn't a bad film, but it's not a great one, either; I liked it.  I liked it because Ashley Judd is my favorite actress and she gives a strong performance here.  I thought her last major motion picture, `Kiss The Girls,' was a much better showcase for her and the film, as a whole, was more successful.  The director, Bruce Beresford (Driving Miss Daisy), creates a nice mood throughout the picture.  One of the few problems with `Double Jeopardy' is that it's more of a drama than a thriller because there isn't much suspense.  Ashley Judd made a very sympathetic character, which brought this film up from total oblivion.  Her co-star Tommy Lee Jones was, more or less, playing his Oscar-winning role from `The Fugitive' but to a lesser degree.  I did like the fact that there wasn't a tired love story involving Judd and Jones' characters.  In a film like this, her objective is most important and there isn't time for an additional romance.  I also liked the look of the film, the cinematography in the beginning of the film was gorgeous, and Judd simply looked stunning in a black dress near the end of the film.  In conclusion, yes, I liked the film.  It had some rather interesting scenes and a nice connection between the leads.  Some of the prison scenes are good and Ashley Judd has never been better.  It's just a shame that an equally strong script didn't support such a strong actress. "},{"Title":"Too many implausibles spoil an potentially good film.","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is really my kind of movie, with good action and a plot that keeps you guessing as to exactly where the story is going.  Tommy Lee Jones is right at home as he pursues his latest fugitive; and Ashley Judd once again plays the strong, independent female.  Two of my favorite actors doing what they do best.While I am more that willing to allow for some dramatic license, I was really distracted at times by events in the movie that were too far removed from the way things happen and the way people act in the real world.  The prosecutor in the courtroom scene would have at least been warned by the judge for some of her outrageous remarks and behavior.  I was also troubled by the fact that Ashley Judd's character while seeking help locating her son from prison, never tried to contact her lawyer. They seemed to have a good relationship.  What happened to this guy? Did he die, fall off the edge of the earth or what?  Finally, I don't see how even the smallest car can fall off the back of a ferry boat full of passengers and not be noticed by at least one person.  Still that is what we are asked to believe.These and a few other distractions aside, it wasn't a bad film. It just could have been so much better.  Still, it was worth a couple of bucks on a rainy afternoon.  "},{"Title":"Servicable, but Legally Inaccurate","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Please don't use this movie as legal advice.  It is simply incorrect. Double jeopardy is NOT a bar to conviction of the same offense in another state (look up dual sovereignty in Black's law dictionary).  Further, it fails to address the civil consequences of what is being proposed (though the actual circumstances of Ashley Judd's actions end up differing, but I won't spoil it for you).  An interesting puzzle for legal beagles everywhere  if you were a prosecutor in the state in which she was convicted of murder (assuming general common law state law principles apply), and she re-committed (i.e., in fact did commit) murder IN THAT SAME STATE, how would you go about securing a conviction for the second (actual) murder?Anyway, the movie is servicable enough, often silly, occasionally absurd and/or ridiculous, but not a total waste of money, and Ashley is, of course, a doll, as always. "},{"Title":"Predictable but enjoyable anyway","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Excellent performances make this otherwise mundane film fun to watch.  We know from day one what's going to happen, and there are certainly plot problems(how did she get the gun on the plane; how can you fire a gun in a small concrete building without doing damage to your eardrums) but the acting is SO good.  I gave it a 7. "}{"Title":"Suspense thriller that misses the boat","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" `Double Jeopardy' is a movie that could have been so much better. In the year where the 100th anniversary of Alfred Hitchcock's birth is being celebrated, here is the germ of an idea on which he would have put his indelible stamp of creativity. The film as publicized in trailers and TV teasers persuaded many moviegoers to want to see it. However, the advertising has given away 90% of the plot. What's left is a flatly photographed and flaccidly directed yarn with so many holes in it that the audience was audibly making comments as the heroine, Libby, gamely portrayed by Ashley Judd, begins her journey of frustration, determination, and revenge.  One of Hitchcock's ongoing themes is the wrong person caught up in events beyond his/her control (North by Northwest, The Wrong Man). Here Judd's character is wrongly accused and framed for the murder of her husband (Bruce Greenwood). Once she has an idea that he is not dead at all, why didn't she just call her lawyer? This is just one of the ridiculous holes in this Swiss cheese of a plot.  When one of her prison mates, the wonderful Roma Maffia, explains that she cannot be tried again for the murder of her husband (the double jeopardy of the title), Libby patiently builds herself up physically to exact revenge on him. Tommy Lee Jones is her parole officer who doggedly pursues her, first to recapture her, and later to help vindicate her. There is lots of action, pursuit and some suspense. Jones can play this role in his sleep. He is almost the same character he ably portrayed in `The Fugitive' and `U.S. Marshals'. The pity is in what could have been. Director, Bruce Beresford (Driving Miss Daisy) has definitely seen better days. "},{"Title":"Pretty suspensful when you think about it","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  'Double JEopardy' was really good, suspensful and kept youguessing throughout the length of the film. Ashley Judd andTommy Lee Jones were good in their parts, especially Judd. As inmost movies, the plot is a little far-fetched, but that doesn'treally matter b/cuz the movie is so interesting. I liked'DoubleJeopardy' a lot, if only the previews didn't give away so much. ~~~~~~My rating 8 out  "},{"Title":"Good, but movies are movies and this one ain't totally true...","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  OK, well I'm just going to come out and say it.  It may be a spoiler to some people (be warned!), but the fact of the matter is that the whole concept of the movie is totally false.  There is no such thing as double jeopardy in the case of legal matters, but it makes for one good movie.  I truly enjoyed this movie from start to finish.  I think that Ashley Judd had a few marbles rolling around upstairs in this movie, but who wouldn't with some crazy husband trying to kill you.  I have always liked Tommy Lee Jones, but it seems that the movie doesn't pry into his personal life much.  It states that he has a mysterious past, but it never really goes anywhere from there.  Judd says kido way too much in the movie!  Can't she think of something else to tell to her son.  She does have great beauty, and she a pretty good actor, to say the least.  Double Jeopardy is a fiction movie based on false facts, but it made for a interesting plot which, for the most part, succeeded. "},{"Title":"The fugative returns as a chic","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Same concept but not quite as good.Ashley Judd is incredible as usual.The flick was very predictable from the beginning but still entertaining with a few minor surprises.I give it an enthusiastic 3 stars(out of 5.)Worth the ticket price.Without Judd,Jones,and Gish it is a made for Tv special. "},{"Title":"'The Fugitive' Lite","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This was not a terrible movie but I expected a lot more. What you get is character development only to the point that you can follow the story. Too much rushes by unexplained and the plot is all too predictable. Tommy Lee Jones and Ashley Judd work well together and both will have fine careers ahead, but had the script been better this could have been a great thriller. Unfortunately, it's a little too pale in comparison to The Fugitive, or even the iffy 'U.S. Marshall' sequel.  Watch it if you've got a rainy afternoon to kill.  "},{"Title":"Don't Bother!","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Well I saw Double Jeopardy this weekend because it is really the only thing out right now that sounds interesting. Save your cash.  There is nothing special about this movie.  Talk about a predictable script - there are no surprises in this thing, I've seen better TV movies.  I won't bore you with details but it is the same predictable thriller we have seen about 80 million times.  While it is well made, the story is just dumb - it is the type of movie where you yell at the screen (some people actually did this in my screening) and say why would she do this?  why would he do that? etc etc.  Ashley Judd is pretty good considering she doesn't have much to work with and Tommy Lee Jones is his same old Tommy Lee Jones you've seen in the Fugitive and US Marshals (except this time he is a law enforcement officer with a drinking problem) - for the life of me I couldn't figure out what the heck his point was in this movie.  He is just kind of around because a wisecracking parole officer is needed (what a waste). In a way this movie gives me hope - I can right a mediocre screenplay, get it produced and then have it released when nothing else is out! What an easy way to make a million bucks. "},{"Title":"Cliches never die--they just get recycled","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Back in the forties this would have been known as a woman's picture, perhaps starring plucky Barbara Stanwyck or put-upon Susan Hayward as a heroine wronged by her duplicitous husband. But a 50-year-old movie would at least have some nifty film noir lighting and a few utterances of baby, swell and jernt to carry it along. All Double Jeopardy has is a preposterous premise, plot holes big enough to drive a Packard through, and dialogue that sounds like it was written five minutes before the cameras rolled. A serviceable Ashley Judd stars as a wife and mother who is rather expeditiously convicted and sentenced for the murder of her smarmy husband, only to discover a month after landing in prison that he is alive and well and living with the babysitter in another town. Honestly, if you were Judd, would you a) scream your head off to anyone who'll listen that you know the exact street address where your dead husband can be found right now, or b) elect to spend the next six years in a hellhole waiting for the possibility of parole so that you can track hubby down and kill him without repercussion? Double Jeopardy is suffused with incredible scenes like this, where the viewer is compelled to wonder uhh...that would never happen or why doesn't she just make a phone call?. This is one jernt that ain't too swell, baby. "},{"Title":"dumb, but entertaining nonetheless","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The plot is dopy, and others have pointed out the bad legal advice given our heroine, but Ms. Judd is a good enough actress to be able to somehow let you connect emotionally to her character. Mr. Jones is competent, but he has very little to do in the movie -- it looks to me as though a lot of his work got chopped out. The movie spends too much time setting things up and doesn't give us enough time with the characters.It probably helps if you like girls, since Ms. Judd is a very attractive woman, and so perhaps my vote is slightly positive because of that. My wife skipped this one, so I can't get a more disinterested reading... "},{"Title":"Ugh.","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film was frightful - a dissappointment. According to the adverts, Double Jeopardy is a nail-biting spine-tingling thriller. It's nothing of the sort! Double Jeopardy may have been exciting for the first ten minutes, but sadly, it was quite predictable.Ashley Judd, apparently believing her character to be a wronged, noble woman, has made Elizabeth Phillips absolutely intolerable. She's spoilt rotten. Aside from that, the absolute unreality of the plot and conveyance is *yawn* sheer boredom. The director could have cast cardboard cut-outs with more emotive capacities! Sorry, Tommy Lee Jones, but I'll take The Fugitive or U.S. Marshals any day! "},{"Title":"Great storyline with great characters","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I was wary at first about this film, but now that I've seen it, I want to go back and watch it again just to get all the little things I missed the first time.  I loved the storyline almost as much as the characters themselves. This is Tommy Lee Jones at his best!!! "}{"Title":"Judd was great; plot was ridiculous","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The number one ingredient for a good film is a good script. But occasionally, by sheer force of will, appealing actors and slick direction can make even the most hackneyed script almost  watchable.Such is the case of Bruce Beresford's latest opus, Double Jeopardy, which is a showcase for the talents of the great  Ashley Judd. Judd plays Libby Parsons, an affluent wife and mother, who is charged with murdering her husband and sent to prison. For those of you who haven't seen the needlessly revealing trailer for this film, I will not give away any more of the laboriously twisty plot except to say that the holes in this swiss cheese of a script are big enough to drive a truck through.Fortunately for the filmakers, Judd is such a naturalistic actor that she gives a full three dimensions to her USA-movie of the week character. You find yourself suspending disbelief for the sake of Libby and her(implausible) quest for justice.Adding marquee value to this dreck is Tommy Lee Jones, who is playing a slightly seedier version of the character he played in the Fugitive and U.S. MarshalsIf you are a hard-core Ashley Judd completist, by all means, see Double Jeopardy. Her performance is worth it. Otherwise, save your money and rent Ruby in Paradise or Kiss the Girls to see Ms. Judd in something better. "},{"Title":"An excellent thriller that actually thrills and chills","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"    When I saw Double Jeopardy I was astonished what the outcome of the film would be, and I was thrilled big time! This film has what other films don't have and that's a perfect movie like excellent plot very intriguing, good storyline that will hook the audience, and very good actors who characterize their performances so perfectly, and I thought to my self this is Oscar Worthy, and my outcome of the film is 9/10 A ( Well- Done) "},{"Title":"Terrible script, wonderful details","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The idiocies and plot loopholes in Double Jeopardy beggar belief. The biggest ones I noticed were1) Double Jeopardy itself YES, you can be prosecuted twice for killing the same person, as numerous real lawyers have pointed out. Double Jeopardy protects you only from being tried twice for THE SAME OFFENSE. If Ashley's character killed her husband again in 1999, that would constitute a separate offense at a different time and place from the first murder in 1993. Pity that  she relied on such bogus legal advice from the two lawyers in the film. I assume that neither the writer nor Paramount Pictures bothered to do 5 minutes research on this key plot point.2) The plotting husband apparently had no difficulty getting his hands on his son's $2 million trust fund, which contained the life insurance payout, to fund his luxurious lifestyle.3) Ashley's character was paroled after only 6 years in prison for cold blooded murder. 4) After she broke into the school, the pursuing police vehicle turned over so violently that anyone inside MUST have been killed, badly injured or at least temporarily stunned - yet they had no problems scrambling out of the upturned wreck, resuming their pursuit of our very athletic, uninjured young heroine and arresting her.5)The heroine had the advantage of having the dumbest parole officer on the planet - he handcuffed her to the car while it was parked on the ferry deck, left her alone (what would have happened if the ferry started to sink with her cuffed to the vehicle?) and of course he left the keys in the ignition so she could start it and attempt to escape.6) No one on the ferry apparently noticed anything when Ashley started her parole officer's car and rammed the bright red car off the deck into the water.7) The heroine apparently had no difficulty getting the gun aboard the airliner for the flight to New Orleans.8) She also had the benefit of the dumbest murderer in the world. Her husband did not bother killing her quickly when she was completely at his mercy - he simply shut her inside a coffin at the cemetery, with a lighter and gun so she could shoot her way out.9) Her parole officer seemed at times too stupid to find his own backside in the dark, yet he had no problems keeping track of our rapidly moving heroine as she raced around the country. Of course, he had no problems finding her again and again in a crowded, rain soaked New Orleans, where just about everyone seems to be concealed beneath an umbrella.10) The apparently by-the-book parole officer cooked up a bizarre blackmail scenario to entrap the husband, instead of simply handing him over to the local police, along with the overwhelming evidence of his guilt.In a genre of movie which depends so much on clever plotting, the above defects stuck out like a gorilla in a kindergarten.   As compensation, the Pacific North West scenery is magnificent, the New Orleans street and cemetery scenes are wonderfully atmospheric, the art gallery and other interior sets are splendid, the cinematography is top notch, and Ashley Judd and Tommy Lee Jones are very talented and watchable. The technical and artistic workers deserved an infinitely better script as the basis for their obvious efforts. "},{"Title":"I will treasure my experience","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The early scenes and character development were done as only Hollywood can create, with snippets of the life of active successful exciting people. The story line was doing well but, I was a bit disappointed in the extent of realism that went into the bloody scenes on the boat. Perhaps I had more problems with  story not picking up on the strength of the our now female heroine, Libby,  done wrong. Her steady developing realization of the events were well done and the audience was always moving with her.I had a bit more trouble with the lack of character strength that it seems to me was never written for Elizabeth. I was always excited that she made distinctions regarding what needed to happen in order for her to pursue the injustice of her husband, Nick.I would be remiss not to recognize her compassion for her son but later in the cemetery, I was disappointed that she would expose herself to terror so blindly. Again she should have by then been written as a stronger character. I'm getting ahead the story. Travis Lehman is developed as a believable parole officer, whose past has similar injustices as Libby.  Again my criticism, the screen writer continues to give a disproportion of strength to male roles. Also the intensity of the subplot chase within the search for justice, plot, never developed moments for passion that might have prepared for an expectation of more affection at the end.I really don't believe the balance of the character of parole officer had to be the level of our heroine Libby Parsons.  In the least it a lost opportunity for the screenwriter. The biggest weakness, in an otherwise remarkable story line, is a powerless Libby character not being savvy to her well-being in the cemetery. I really felt ambushed by script for Nick Parsons disrespect for the banal bashing of Libby on the stone mortuary. That was a major audience insult. I wanted Elizabeth to be a strong character for the sake of the compassion for her son, Bobby. The story line evolved to a close with Libby, the screenwriter weakened Elizabeth.  > If the director filmmaker, Bruce Beresford, could have developed the expectation of a long painful prison infirmary as Nick Parson just reward, and perhaps more important, built an increasing depth of character for Elizabeth I would have felt more satisfied.The movie had a great female heroine story line potential and for that I will treasure my experience.  "},{"Title":"Plot holes galore!","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  *Warning this may contain spoilers* There are too many plot holes in this movie to make it entertaining.  You will spend too much time laughing at the absurdity.  Here's a short list Judd being denied bail after learning of her indictment (why?); Judd being convicted of murder in short order without a body (and then only serving 6 years for what, first degree murder, manslaughter, ?  We are never told!); giving up her child for adoption (how convenient for the story); Judd flying to New Orleans with gun in tow (hmmm, how did that get through security); or visiting her mom and money (from the tomato garden!) to finance her cross-country travels (huh?, where was this nice mom during her murder trial and subsequent incarceration?); or meeting her husband in the cemetery (where lots of tourists will be) but there isn't a tourist in sight; her husband locking her in a coffin WITH a lighter AND a gun (if you wanted to kill her, just do it and place her in the coffin!)There are so many more to list but I won't waste your time. Wait for the rental release if you feel the urge to watch this thriller. One more comment Does EVERYONE in New Orleans use an umbrella when it rains??  "},{"Title":"Tommy Lee Jones in...The Fugitive?","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It isn't a bad diversion for a couple of hours, but it certainly isn't special.  This movie is pretty much an overly lighter version of the Fugitive, featuring Tommy Lee Jones.The good news is that it is at least relatively intelligent.  The main character, Libby Parson (Ashley Judd) only has one moment of pure Hollywood stupidity.  The ways she gets out of bad situations tend to be fairly creative, and indicate that she is capable of conscious thought.The bad news is that there really isn't anything new.  Not only that, but the plot revolves around Parson's husband (Bruce Greenwood) being remarkably stupid almost every step of the way.  It manages to pretty much follow every convention and almost every cliche, right up to the ending, which should have been better handled.It really is a shame...there were so many ways this film could have been special.  It could have been unconventional, thought-provoking, and at least unpredictable.  Unfortunately, it is none of these things.  3/5. "},{"Title":"Puh-leeze","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If you liked Congo you'll love Double Jeopardy.I hated Congo. Double Jeopardy is almost as bad, has almost as many plot holes and has just as ridiculous a plot.  The worst thing about this movie is IT'S ENTIRE PREMISE IS WRONG!! Saying you're allowed to kill your husband after you've been unjustly convicted of killing him is like saying you're allowed to rob the same bank again after you get out of jail for robbing it the first time.Ashley Judd looks beautiful in her country club prison, she carries a gun onto an airplane and she and Tommy Lee CONSTANTLY run into each other conveniently in the middle of a busy city.I'm not against mindless action movies as a rule (The Fugitive was great) but this movie just has me saying Puh-leeze way too many times. "},{"Title":"Too predictable!","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw the trailer for this movie, I got the impression that the movie was going to be a good suspense thriller. But alas, the plot followed a very rigid and predictable line. You basically knew what was going to happen next all the time. In short there was no suspense at all. Not much thrill either, unless you count the short scene on the boat. "},{"Title":"The Fugitive with a female and Jones basically reprises his role(again!)","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is little like The Fugitive with Tommy Lee Jones and Harrison Ford. But this time , we get Ashley Judd who is set up for the murder of her husband. Ashely Judd's character then is sent for jail for several years. While there she learns of a loophole calledDouble Jeopardy. I cannot explain this legal term , so I will not bother. After leaving prison , Judd then goes to a halfway house. She meets her parole officer who is played by Tommy Lee Jones!Jones is basically reprising his role from The Fugitive (but is not the same name). Judd starts searching for her husband and son. Judd escapes  from Jones. Afer she escapes she goes on a cross coutry odyessy to find her family. Jones goes after her(just the Fugitive). Eventually both Jones,Judd and her family are reunited after Judd takes care of some other personell problems within her family . This movie should do well , depsite the similiarities to The Fugitive . A lot of women are see this movie,perhaps Hollywood is cashing in on women ? Both the leads need hits after Judd's box office bomb last in Simon Birch and Jones needs a hit after his OK U.S Marshalls  and Volcano?!!Maybe this movie will give them a bigger audience to look for them. This movie is one of my favorites of the fall so far, along with Mystery, Alaska. I hope that we can some good movies this fall. Good movie for a date, I would not take children as this movie is not a family movie. Other wise Enjoy this awesome , cool movie!!! "},{"Title":"The Fugitive all over again","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Tommy Lee Jones, Ashley Judd, Bruce Greenwood, Annabeth Gish and newcomer Spencer Treat Clark round out a talented cast in Double Jeopardy. Libby Parsons (Judd) has led a good life; she is married to Nick (Greenwood) she loves, a son named Matty (Clark) she adores and her best friend Angie (Gish) that she can rely on. However, the good life will become a nightmare as Libby is soon thrust into the spotlight and stands accused of her husband's murder while on a romantic weekend of sailing. Libby is convicted of Nick's murder and is sent to prison. Rather than have Matty become a ward of the state, Libby asked Angie to adopt Matty. After only one meeting between mother and son, Matty is taken to San Francisco where this film takes a surprising twist. This twist, which is the re-emergence of Nick Parsons takes Libby through emotions that give her a reason to get out of prison and find Matty. 10 years in prison and Libby is paroled to begin her mission to find Matty. One person stands in the way and his name is Travis Lehman (Jones). Filmed in Vancouver British Columbia, the first part of Double Jeopardy was enjoyable; however, it faltered in the latter half when it became apparent that it would be just like The Fugitive. Also, Judd's performance as the betrayed mother was overplayed and should have focused equally if not more about taking revenge on Nick. Director Bruce Beresford deserves credit when he changes the stereotypical combination of male cop versus male villain to having a vileness for a fugitive. As good as this film was, Jones needs to move on to pursue roles other than a federal marshal in pursuit of a fugitive. Double Jeopardy is worth the price of admission if for nothing else the reaction of Nick when Libby finally locates her dead husband. Double Jeopardy is rated R for language, a scene of sexuality and some violence.  "}{"Title":"Fun Movie","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a good afternoon movie.  Though a bit predictable, it is a fun matinee flick.  I like pretty much every movie Ashley Judd is in.  She is a fine actress.  Tommy Lee Jones' character is straight out of 'The Fugitive', but who cares.  I still liked the movie.  "},{"Title":"High Marks for Ashley Judd and Photography, but the rest....","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Watching Ashley Judd and the cinematography were highlights for me in the film -- the only highlights.  Ashley Judd (who surely should have had top billing because of story, role, and acting) was strong in each facet of the character and circumstances of Libby Parsons.  Stunning visual impressions (for example, that sailboat we see as the camera lens swoops smoothly around it) and ways in which the visual told stories were exceptionally good.  In fact, I find I can almost overlook or forgive the other shortcomings of the film for these pleasures.  Almost.  You know the story already -- if you have been to another movie in the last few months.  After the faked murder, we don't get much insight into the trial, which seems to have been conducted by the family's (civil) attorney, which I suppose is appropriate considering the misinterpretation of the law which is reflected in the movie's title.  I guess the producers forgot to hire a real attorney to check the law.  We get a few vignettes in the prison and are reminded how easily the judicial system is influenced by contrition, whether real or feigned.  Next we have the female version of The Fugitive complete with Tommy Lee Jones (this time playing Travis Lehman) running after the runaway running after the not-really-dead husband.  Twists and turns of the plot give us mostly predictable actions. Let me say again....  Ashley Judd is a joy to watch.  She brings intelligence and depth to the character in the context of a flawed script.  I recall being captured by her performance (Ensign Robin Lefler) in Star Trek The Next Generation.  She is truly gifted.  And I want to see more, more, more of her in some good films.       Beyond the flaws of the movie itself, I also want to voice my objection that through the movie's title and the many previews, I already knew the story and had guessed most of its turns with only a few minor surprises.  I do feel it is an injustice of the movie industry to reveal pivotal scenes in advance promotion.  Some trailer scenes do not even appear in the final cut!  I am reminded of one of the BEST trailers I have seen  Albert Brooks talking about the film Mother several years ago.  He sat on a stool and told us about his relationship with his Mother (played by Debbie Reynolds).  We didn't see any scenes clipped from the film; we got a flavor of the theme instead of the actual movie.  While Mother is not one of the world's greatest movies (I did enjoy it), it's trailer is one of the greatest.  There is a current trailer (for Magnolia) which is also excellent  the members of the cast introduce themselves in character.My overall feeling of Double Jeopardy (essentially negative) is colored by the high marks for the two highlights  Ashley Judd and the cinematography.  So I have rated it in the middle, 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Wake me up when it's over","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Not that it's a horrible movie, but it was certainly nothing new. I didn't find a single surprise in the movie and overall found it to be almost boring.I thought Ashley Judd and pretty good as was Bruce Greenwood. Tommy Lee Jones was OK, although his character was weak and never really developed.As for the story, it's a good idea, but the execution leaves something lacking. There were no surprises in the story (something very important in a thriller). Without the twists and turns expected in a good thriller, the story seems to just meander to the inevitable ending. I (as did the group of people I was with) knew the ending about 15 minutes into the movie. There was no suspense of who did it or will he get away with it.All that can really be said about Double Jeopardy is that it had potential--great cast and good story idea. However, it just never came together. Part of this might be attributed to the marketing of the movie. As an example, The Sixth Sense, released just a few weeks prior, managed to keep the ending a (sort of) secret, until it was seen. With Double Jeopardy though, the viewer goes into the theater knowing who did it and able to guess the ending without much thought.  "},{"Title":"Ashley Judd...who needs a plot?","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Actually, this film has a pretty decent plot and it doesn't drag.  As the story begins, you see what's coming, and then you basically know how it will end.  But getting there is still fun.  There's a little action, a little suspense, and Ashley Judd sweats which is worth the price of admission all by itself.  There could have been a little more development of Tommy Lee Jones' character, but that doesn't hurt the film.  Overall, the story has something for the guys and something for the gals.  B+ "},{"Title":"Living on Premise only","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Every now & then we all get suckered into seeing a film by falling for the trailer campaign or the one line positive reviews of small time critics plastered all over the paper & TV or even by the premise of the film. Double Jeopardy got me with all three.   The premise of the film being if your convicted of murdering a person you cannot be convicted for murdering that same person again therefore you can legally murder someone under these unusual and unlikely circumstances.  This offers a good starting point for a good thriller unfortunately the producers failed to find a competent writer to put together a plausible screenplay around the premise. It took about five minutes into the film for me to determine that DJ was going to be a turkey. To start with Ashley Judd just happens to wake up just a few minutes before the coast guard shows up so they can see her pick up the supposed murder weapon of her husband aboard a newly bought yacht . I guess we can assume film characters playing framed murders never watch TV or movies since this cliché has only been used about  500,000 times and yet they keep picking up the murder weapon !! I'm not a lawyer so perhaps I don't know what I'm talking about but isn't a body required for a murder conviction !? So now we move on to Ashley in prison and her son & girlfriend caretaker have disappeared. Ashley is a smart woman and tracks her down and wants to talk to her son and then she hears her son call for his father and now Ashley knows her husband is alive ! Does Ashley call her lawyer and have him investigate the disappearance of her son & caretaker who have now run off with her husband ? NO, She decides to serve her term and go after her husband with the knowledge giving to her by a prison mate ex lawyer about double jeopardy !  Yea I guess I would stay in jail for 6 years too since I know I could track down my husband instead of trying to get someone else to do it for you so I could get now ! If you bought that one your brain dead !! My favorite one was when she gets out of prison and breaks parole and goes home to mama. Of course the police  would never think of looking for her there !? Mama has a nice wad of money stashed for her so she can finance her way around hunting down her lost husband. Oh I forget to mention her loser parole officer Tommy Lee Jones his ex wife screwed him and took off with his child that he hadn't seen in years ! Just a coincidence of course. Tommy's not too bright leaving his car keys in the ignition with an escaped parole in the car. Tommy is only stupid enough to keep letting Ashley escape his grasp but he gets smart when trying to help track down her husband and help her in the end.  You would think at some point in the film there would be an explanation for how Ashley gets setup but it never happens and all were left with is a silly chase film. Ashley doesn't even want to kill her husband she just wants her son. Well why did she sit in jail if not to use the DJ rule to seek revenge on her betraying husband ?! She ends up shooting him in self defense  not for revenge  like all good guys & girls are supposed to .  I enjoyed Tommy Lee Jones as he seems to always be good no matter the film and Ashley Judd is a doll but she is never convincing playing a character that should be far more dark and bitter considering what she was put through. This is not a boring or totally unentertaining film but it is completely unbelievable from the very beginning and with a smart script could have been much better.  "},{"Title":"One of the Worst Films Ever","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Is it just me or did everyone suddenly forget how to act?????  I KNOW I've seen some of these people act well before.  It's just like when I saw Runaway Bride - EVERYONE FORGOT HOW TO ACT there, too!!!  Is this intentional?  Are directors requesting that people become less real?  Maybe they're trying to dumb everything down to fit today's movie viewers???  I don't know what' going on, but I want answers. I have to admit, Ashley Judd's emotional reaction to finding herself covered in blood and then learning that they weren't able to recover her husband's body was incredibly convincing.  So many times I think actors just aren't there with really heavy scenes.  However, every other line she delivered, as well as the rest of the cast, was patheticly done. Oh - and how many times did we have to hear her call her son, kiddo?  Was that supposed to make us think that she's some really nice, great mom who could never kill anybody?  I think that's what that was.  Oh - here's a good one  When her friend brings the son in to see mom in THAT REALLY SCARY PRISON (ha), she tells Judd (I can't remember the names...I so much did NOT care) that she's taught her son the ABC's, I just cracked up!  I would certainly hope that that kid knew his ABC's WAY before he was like, 4!  That was clearly about a 4-year old child in the way he looked, spoke, etc.  Later, they show her celebrating his 8th birthday, and the next thing you know she gets out of prison and supposedly spent 6 years there.  Um, are they trying to tell me that that great big kid was 2 YEARS OLD when she went to prison????  I guess somewhere along the line, while the writer and director were spending all their energy on that great script of theirs, they just sort of forgot how old that kid was supposed to be. The most annoying thing, by far, about this movie was how incredibly EASY everything was.  There was not ONE MOMENT of tension.  Everything pretty much went exactly like everyone wanted it to go.  The husband's splattering of all that blood all over the boat AND his wife (heavy sleeper I guess) - (by the way, I've seen more convincing fake blood at Ben Franklin for 59 cents) -- Judd's successful request for parole -- her success in tracking down all of these people (she should start her own Missing Persons Bureau) -- oh yeah, Tommy Lee Jones was real good at finding people too -- do guns really keep on working after they've been submerged in salt water for a while?  Apparently they do -- it's a good thing, too, because it sure came in handy inside that coffin!  And chock full of bullets so many more shots could be fired at the end of the movie.I could go on, but I'm making myself mad.    "},{"Title":"Double Jeopardy is Double Fun with Judd and Jones","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Ashley Judd and Tommy Lee Jones do a fine job with this flick. Yes, there may be some legal questions as to plausibility but hey, it's a movie. Bruce Greenwood plays an ever so debonaire evil doer to perfection. All in all, the film was well paced and kept my attention and I would recommend spending the $7 to see it.  "},{"Title":"Double in trouble...","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I must say, sadly, that I was rather disappointed with this movie. While I found both Ashley Judd and Tommy Lee Jones' performances well done, the story line and plot were extremely predictable and transparent. As I was sitting there I could basically see the next scene coming, and what was going to happen. I was looking forward to seeing this movie very much and it just fell flat for me. There were just far too many holes and short cuts in the film making that really made the movie look as if the producers wanted to just get the picture released. I guess they all can't be gems.  "},{"Title":"Action movie disguised as a thriller","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  First off, the studio PR department deserves a kick for keeping the rolling cars out of the promo.  I went to this film for two reasons Ashley Judd, and the fact that Jodie Foster was supposed to do it before she got pregnant, and I wanted to see what she pulled out of.Good decision, Jodie.  They don't call you the Smart One for nothing.This was not a bad movie, but it could have been a lot better.  It was quite snappy and witty and well-written in spots, and the strong woman thing was obviously a factor, but there's a difference between strong and bionic.There are too many rolling, crashing cars in this movie but the worst comes when Libby (Judd) is handcuffed to Layman's (Jones') car and decides to break away, and they end up in the ocean.  Keeping in mind she is HANDCUFFED to a sinking car, Layman unlocks her, she manages to grab his gun, they swim to the surface (air not being an issue for either one, and it IS actually quite a cool shot as they come up).  They rise to the surface barely gasping, she tries to swim away but he keeps grabbing her, a struggle ensues, she cracks him in the head with the gun THEN swims to oh my God, where did that beach come from? and instead of collapsing on the shore, RUNS into the forest.  And there are more scenes like this!I'm sorry, I cannot suspend disbelief for something so stupid in what is supposed to be a smart movie.  I am bitterly disappointed. "},{"Title":"Could be a good book","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This was entertaining enough that I don't feel cheated out of the ticket price, but it wasn't nearly as good as it could have been. A better script--one without so many plot holes--and a good edit could have turned this into a keeper. As it runs, Jones is wasted in a throwaway role, and Judd isn't any closer to hitting the A-list. What a shame. Even if you're a fan of either, waiting for the video isn't a bad idea. "}{"Title":"Good Action movie with a few flaws.","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This was a good action movie with a few flaws.  Deliberately vague on what she was convicted of and the actual sentence.  The friendship with the other inmates a stretch since she was not communicating well.  Characters played well but Tommy Lee looked bad on film.  Intended or what?  He has looked much better! A good movie overall. "},{"Title":"JEEZ, AM I THE ONLY ONE WHO LIKED THIS FILM?","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Bottom line, I see EVERYTHING Tommy Lee Jones is in.  Ashley Judd is great, too.  I thought this film was great. My friend and I were on the edge of our seats the whole time. Sure, there are some holes in the script. I also think Judd's six years in prison could have been explored a little more. Otherwise, I loved this film. It is a kind of female fugative film. The script does have a few small holes, but otherwise 7/10. I even think Judd's acting deserves an award.  My only complaint is there wasn't nearly enough Tommy Lee Jones in this movie. He is such an amazing actor, I would have liked to have seen his character developed more deeply.  I give it a 7. "},{"Title":"Ashley Judd is divine.","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Editor's note this comment contains SPOILERsAshley Judd is a divine actress because she has the talent to make us believed and be moved by  her character in a bad script and in a lazy filmdirector work. In the touristy thriller Double Jeopardy, Nick Parsons (Bruce Greenwood) proves himself a wealthy art bore by browbeating a young man who mistakes Nick's Kandinsky for a Picasso. This is reason enough for Nick to meet a violent end. Photogenically, he happens to have bought a nice new sailboat for the occasion. Libby Parsons (Ashley Judd) wakes up to find blood all over the boat, Nick missing and a telltale gory knife lying on deck. She clutches the knife without benefit of gloves. This is enough to get Libby imprisoned for murder. And that setup is enough to send Double Jeopardy roaming from the coastline of Washington State to the French Quarter of New Orleans, once the third piece of the puzzle has fallen into place. Nick has been having an affair with Libby's sister (Annabeth Gish) and he has run off with Libby's son.  He merely faked being overboard and dead. Now Libby, who has managed to look princessy even while wearing a hairnet and stirring a vat of prison gruel, is out of the slammer and out for revenge. As directed by Bruce Beresford, the film moves mechanically through these early stages. It shows so little true momentum that lines like I feel like I've grown in the past six years are all that signify the passage of time, as opposed to change in the characters. But Ms. Judd is a so talented actress that you forget the context and you care only on her character, Libby. She transforms Libby as a mother and not as a victim. A mother who has the will to get her child back. Ms. Judd's work is beautiful  as an actress she is able to incarnate with finesse a mother. The first and the last scene are one of the exceptional example of her work. It is so rare than an actress could performe in a way that the audience will be moved by her  work and will consider the silly plots and the direction as a secondary background. It's a real miracle which is difficult to explain how with a so bad material an actress could save by her own talent and work, how she could give to a movie a character who will be a part of audience's mind during a long time. It's so rare that the filmcritic will probably not understand the reason of the success of the film - they will think about the marketing , or the similitude with Fugitive , or the beauty of Ms. Judd. But they will never understand the extraordinary result of her dainty performance as it is.The latter part of the film invokes Tommy Lee Jones as another weathered sourpuss with a knack for barking orders. A coed homage to The Fugitive is part of the desired effect.Of course the film has Ms. Judd driving demolition-derby-style, hurtling a car off a ferry, becoming a computer-smart  investigator and stealing an Armani evening gown which are written and directed so badly than you ask yourself how difficult it should have been for Ms. Judd to keep her character on track.Though the action revolves around Libby's legal right to whack the odious Nick (see title), the lawyers and investigators who might have sent Nick to prison are conveniently absent from the story. Jones' role, that of a law professor turned probation officer who (like Libby) is heartbroken over a lost child, seems to have been devised by a plot-o-matic machine. Jones continues to hone the fine art of the acid wisecrack, combining it with an attractively gruff, paternal side.  "},{"Title":"Such promise, but so disappointing","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The combination of Ashley Judd, Tommy Lee Jones and director Bruce Beresford held such promise that I made it a point to see Double Jeopardy on opening day.Promises broken.The premise was brilliant and the acting satisfactory, but there are so many glaring holes in the storyline that I was moved to utter out loud Oh, c'mon! twice during the presentation! I fully understand the concept of suspension of disbelief, but too much of the plot here is simply unbelievable. (It's not giving anything away to say that the women's prison sequences look more like a Girl Scout slumber party than bad chicks doing hard time.)A fleeting glimpse of the alluring Ms. Judd romping in the sea-going hay may be worth the price of admission, but there is little else in Double Jeopardy to make it worthy of recommendation. "},{"Title":"If you liked the Fugitive, you'll probably like this.","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is designed for those people who would like to see The Fugitive on the big screen one more time -- especially those who were thinking The only thing that would make the Fugitive better was if Tommy Lee Jones was chasing after someone pretty than Harrison Ford.  If that describes you, then you should really enjoy this movie.If that doesn't describe you, then you probably won't much care for this movie, since (other than the misinterpreted legal theory behind the title and the previews) this is the same movie.I fell into the first category, and while there was nothing new here, I did enjoy the movie. "},{"Title":"Not Bad","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Ashley Judd does a very, very nice job.  I'm usually critical of Tommy Lee Jones and some of his odd dramatics, but his role was small enough and his personality was perfect for the role.I don't know how female prison is, but this movie sure didn't make it look all that tough.Overall, a good flick and worth the 6 bucks.  "},{"Title":"","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEADThe primary problem with `Double Jeopardy' is that the television trailers give the whole story away.  Based on TV commercials, we know there will be a standoff between Judd and Greenwood where she describes here freedom to shoot him since she already served her time for his murder!  Well, then why bother showing up for the first 90 minutes of the movie? The only suspense in the entire film is whether Jones will end up dead.  Judd wakes up covered with blood on a sailboat---we already know it has to be a set-up. Judd's courtroom trial begins---we already know she's going to jail.  Judd is trapped in a coffin---we know she'll escape because the over-advertised `shoot you in the middle of Mardi Gras' line hasn't happened yet.A second interesting problem is that the movie left the distinct impression that a fugitive that has been wrongfully accused of a crime (where have I seen that plot line?) who also happens to be an attractive women should steer clear of other women (unless they're in prison). Instead, focus on the men, who will bend over backwards to help.  Here is a short list of the women in this film who were antagonists to Judd. These include the nanny (extramarital relationship with Judd's husband, stealing her child), the lawyer (the `aliens did it' monologue), the head-mistress (not divulging her child's whereabouts), the receptionist in the hotel (wouldn't provide information on Greenwood's schedule), and the gift-shop clerk (not offering to help and then questioning Judd's dress size).  At the other extreme are the men in the movie.  This list includes Jones (basically risks everything because he believes Judd), the French Quarter bartender (who provides Judd an escape while holding the `WANTED' posting in his hands), the library Internet guy (who teaches her how to search on-line while hitting on her), and the BMW salesman (who run's a credit report based on a stolen SSN and name).Unfortunately, the complete lack of suspenseful situations coupled with many unrealistic plot twists (couldn't a women of Judd's means afford a better lawyer?) left me feeling that the $5 matinee price was still too much.All in all, a disappointing movie for all involved.  "},{"Title":"Wait for the video, or better yet, for it to be on video.","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I love a good thriller, so much so that I will gladly suspend my disbelief and go for it if a movie is chilling enough or clever enough or efficient enough, if it has tolerable characterizations, and the casting and acting are not too shoddy.This movie has great Panavision cinematography, luscious location work, two super-charismatic stars (Jones and especially Judd) but sinks under the weight of a ludicrous script with holes so big you could fly a 747 through them, impossible set-ups (the whole idea that Judd's character is free to blow away her husband is simply incorrect from a legal standpoint, which renders the premise of a happy ending dead on arrival) and dialogue that makes The Brady Bunch sound like literature of the highest order.Too bad, because the story really had some great possibilities, and some of them actually seem to have made it to the screen (the prison sequence, for instance, contains some terrific quasi-ensemble acting, and the cemetery scene is really quite creepy.)  But the movie feels like a typical Hollywood studio movie circa 1999 written and re-written by committee, re-shot to death, scenes added solely for their look or action content and others deleted because they make it impossible to play the movie in theaters five times a day.Personally, I would also like to know why the studios continue to promote their thrillers with the punch line and the payoff shot in the trailer?  If you have caught the television trailer for this movie (and anyone who has watched 30 minutes of TV in the last two weeks has) you know that Judd is set up for a murder she did not commit, that her husband is actually not dead, and that in the end she blows him away!  It would be OK if the movie was clever enough to keep you riveted through its running time wondering just how she's going to do it, but this movie is so-but-oh-so predictable, the whole enterprise of seeing it seems pointless.  One more question does this movie represent the creme-de-la-creme of the scripts Ashley Judd is getting, or did the movie she originally signed on to make never see the light of day?  I would like to believe the latter, because Judd is too talented a young actress to be settling for this level of script or movie.  Had Double Jeopardy had the script it deserved, Judd might have pulled a star turn of the same caliber as the great star turns of all time.  But star turns do not happen out of context and on the basis of star charisma alone.  They need a substantial film around them to be memorable, and substantial this movie ain't.Teach the Hollywood suits behind this waste of time a lesson and don't waste your money on it!  "},{"Title":"Straight to the Lifetime Channel","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  McDonalds may not be your favorite place to eat, but if you're on a long road trip, hungry and there's no other place in sight, you might find yourself ordering Value Meal #1.When people have a real need for something, other considerations get pushed aside.  Audiences at Double Jeopardy won't mind the flaws if they are hungry for what this film offers -- a story about a woman determined to get her child back.If this sounds to you like the typical fare served up on TV's The Lifetime Channel -- Television for Women, you've got a pretty good idea of what this film is all about.The setup involves a very well-to-do woman who goes sailing with her husband and wakes to find blood on her bathrobe.  Her husband is nowhere to be found and in short order she is convicted of murdering him and pushing him overboard.  We know she is innocent, but this is not a courtroom story.  After the conviction she has her best friend take care of her son and they soon vanish.  She spends the entire film looking for her son.The point here is that we get to watch a woman struggle against the odds, by herself, to solve a relationship crisis.  If you're a junkie for that kind of thing, bring your bowl of ice cream to the theater and enjoy yourself.The rest of us will be scratching our heads, wondering why there are so many holes the story.  The biggest goof happens when our hero discovers while in prison that her best friend and son have vanished.  She learns of solid evidence that could get her out of prison in a hurry, but never calls anyone for help.What gives?  Doesn't this successful woman have family that can help, friends from school, anyone at all?  She just needs one person to hire a private investigator for a day and poof, she'd be out of prison in a flash.But noooo.  We have to watch her struggle (against the odds, by herself).  We have to watch her stay in prison for a couple of years, getting ready.  And on and on as she fights her battle (alone).And that's the point.  The film makers think we want very much to see her grapple with this terrible situation (which is caused, of course, by a man) and we apparently don't care much if the rest of the film makes much sense.   "},{"Title":"come on","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  You already know what's going to happen.  You've seen the previews; they're worse than Snake Eyes.  They give away the whole movie in a mere two minutes.  Anything that the previews didn't give away will be blatantly obvious for those who understand typical thriller cliches.  It follows all laws and guidelines of studio manufactured suspense films, and all attempts at spontaneity are tripe.  If you want to just abandon your brain for two hours, check this out.  It's a safer bet than Jakob the Liar. "}{"Title":"A lousy script mars great performances.","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film had the potential to be a great thriller and one reason it gets even two stars was for a marvelous Hitchcockian sequence in a New Orleans cemetery that was actually pulled off by director Bruce Beresford.  The climatic scene was near-perfect as well.  What falters is the overly contrived script by David Weisberg and Douglas S. Cook, who were responsible for The Rock, where they did a much better job.  Weisberg and Cook sets up situations and then don't follow their own rules.  So, instead of a taut thriller where you wonder how our heroine is going to accomplish her goal, the whole thing comes off as lethargic.I love mysteries; I wanted to highly recommend this film, but in the end, I can't.  Double Jeopardy may be an OK way to spend a rainy afternoon, to view at a discount movie house, or to rival a TV-movie, but as a top-notch thriller, it doesn't make the grade.My vote 5 "},{"Title":"Entertaining, still unrealistic","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was really quite entertaining. Action, action, action.... still some things were quite unrealistic. First of all Why would a husband with such a beautiful wife try to get rid of her? Somehow he must have had some reason we weren't told, but anyways... A real judge would never ever let her just go, because she already had a penalty while she was innocent. The government would just say Hey Ma'am we're sorry for the first time, here you get $10.000 to see we apologize - and may I see your hands for the handcuffs?. And if she would really not be prosecuted, why didn't she kill him right after she bought him at the auction? Would have been much cooler, a beautiful lady gets her gun and BOOM BOOM BOOM shoots him in his dumb, insidious head. But no, she had to wait till they were alone and nobody could see it... Well, anyways It sounds like I disliked the movie. That's NOT true, I really liked it, it was entertaining. I give it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"If you saw the trailer, you saw half the movie.","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I covered my ears and shut my eyes, but in the weeks leading up to seeing Double Jeopardy, I still managed to see enough of the trailer to know what would happen for at least the first hour.A mystery story implies being surprised by events in the plot -- but apparently the mental midgets who create trailers don't get the concept. There were almost NO surprises left.If I hadn't seen the trailer, I'd have enjoyed the film very much, though; it was  mostly well-plotted and fast-moving, with interesting, well-acted characters -- and a few nice laughs.There are some  early scenes involving a sailboat that left me wondering, though.  Ashley Judd's character -- supposedly an expert sailor -- did a few unusual and unlikely things. Coincidence played too strong a part there, too. "},{"Title":"Judd is good; Jones....we've seen this before.","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I think that Double Jeopardy is another case of the trailers making the movie look better than it actually is.  Ashley Judd played a pretty good and for the most part believable role.  Tommy Lee Jones played the same character he has played in every movie.Although this movie had great potential, the script was not written well.  You know that Judd's character is convicted of murder, but not what degree of murder.  This leads to the question of how a convicted murderer gets parole in just 6 years.   There is a point where Libby (Judd's Character) learns that her husband (whom she was convicted of killing) is still alive.  Rather than trying to prove he is alive and prove her innocence, Libby gets herself in shape so she can track him when she gets out.  In order to get out, she admits she killed him and throws herself on the mercy of the parole board.  I can't help wondering if these are really the actions that a woman would take in this situation (especially a woman with an affluent background).Double Jeopardy had a lot of potential.  The writer could have written a richer and more believable story.  And if someone other then Tommy Lee Jones had been cast, this movie may have reached its full potential. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable if unoriginal crime thriller","Date":"24 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Really enjoyed this crime thriller. It's a manhunt movie pure and simple - a criminally betrayed wife is wrongly locked up for the murder of her (still alive) husband, and on her release from prison single-mindedly seeks to find and punish him and recover her son.Ashley Judd puts in a solid performance as the ice-cold mother, and Tommy Lee Jones likewise as the parole officer who helps her out. The best performance however comes from Bruce Greenwood, who is excellent as the wealthy but evil and ruthless husband. Unfortunately he only appears in the movie for short intervals.This movie isn't incredibly original, and there aren't too many twists and turns in the storyline, but it's exciting, pacy and easy to watch. I enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"A slick thriller.","Date":"15 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A bit of a classic for me, since I've watched this one at least five times, and it's still an attractive film, not in the least because it has the fair and intense Ashley Judd and the ever charismatic Tommy Lee Jones in the leads.The story and the way it is told reminds me of many, many classic crime dramas that preceded it; a nicely built up story, but nowhere shocking and hardly extraordinary. If I didn't know any better I would have thought it to be a remake. Sometimes things are coming all too conveniently together (Travis showing up at the same times and places Libby does) and the overall feel of it is a little too slick, but hey... It does look beautiful at times, for instance with those shots of vast horizons with character bang in front.A nice one, but nonetheless no more than a big 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Ashley Judd's Presence Elevates The Film","Date":"10 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Double Jeopardy is a that stars Ashley Judd,Tommy Lee Jones and Bruce Greenwood. It was directed by Bruce Beresford, from a screenplay by Douglas S. Cook and David Weisberg.The film is about a woman who is framed for the murder of her husband.Ashley Judd plays Elizabeth Parsons, who is convicted of murdering her husband and sentenced to a long stretch in prison. After Elizabeth has spent six years behind bars, it turns out that her husband is still alive he faked his own death as part of an insurance scam, and Elizabeth is soon released. However, Elizabeth's feelings for her husband can hardly be described as warm, and she wants custody of her son. Elizabeth's parole officer (Tommy Lee Jones) wonders if she might try to make his murder a real thing after all, especially since the law states a person cannot be convicted of the same crime twice.Your guess is as good as mine.Double Jeopardy principally works as a suspense film for an early autumn evening.It cannot be art, but commercially and emotionally, it aims to satisfy, and does provide entertainment.With chases, shootings, family values, undying love, betrayal and a thoroughly involving plot, it has something for the movie needs of the viewer.Most of all,Ashley Judd's presence elevates this rather average film. "},{"Title":"Double Jeopardy","Date":"30 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" From director Bruce Beresford (Driving Miss Daisy), I remember seeing a small poster for this film in the year of its release, and being a fan of the actor from Men in Black I was certainly up for it. Basically Elizabeth 'Libby' Parsons (Bug's Ashley Judd) is happily married to Nicholas 'Nick' (Swept Away's Bruce Greenwood) and has wonderful son Matty (Age 4, Benjamin Weir), and then after spending the night on their boat, Libby wakes to find Nick gone, blood all over the place, and a knife covered in it. After an investigation and trial, it is discovered that Nick had a two million dollar insurance policy, and she was in financial trouble, so they charge her for murder and believe she killed him for the money. In prison Libby allows her friend Angela 'Angie' Green (Annabeth Gish) to adopt Matty, and during a phone call to him, she hears him call to his daddy, Nick is alive and has set her up! She also learns that because she's already charged with a murder she cannot be convicted for the same crime (or victim) twice, this is known as double jeopardy, so she keeps this in mind that she can kill Nick and there is nothing the law can do. After giving a compelling statement to the prison officials to apply for parole, Libby is put in the custody of parole officer, and former lawyer, Travis Lehman (Tommy Lee Jones), who knows himself what it is like to lose a child. As she is on parole she has a certain set of rules to follow from Travis in terms of curfew, but she ignores all of this and when she can tries to find a way to trace Angie or her son. After she is caught breaking into Angie's school to get her record she is to be taken somewhere more secure with Travis, but she manages to escape when she causes an incident on the boat they are travelling. While Travis is trying to track Libby down, she has found out that Angie died, but she traces the routes through some art work, and eventually she tracks down Nick, under the new name of Jonathan Devereaux. Instead of planning to kill him she confronts him at an auction evening, and she demands to have her son back, and he agrees to meet her in a cemetery, but just when she thinks she has found Matty again he has hired a fake kid and knocks her out. Libby manages to escape her coffin in the mausoleum, and even though Travis catches her going back for Nick, he is now convinced, having followed her movements, that she is telling the truth about her innocence. In the end Travis and Libby confront Nick about his crimes, and after demands and blackmail he does tell them where Matty is, but it turns into a violent fight and he ends up shot, with Travis wounded as well, but Libby does finally get Matty (Age 11, Spencer Treat Clark) back. Also starring Jay Brazeau as Bobby Long, John Maclaren as Rudy, Edward Evanko as Warren and Bruce Campbell as Bartender at Party. Judd gives a believable and compelling performance as the mother put through a nightmare and wanting revenge and her son back, Jones gets his moments as the parole officer chasing her and eventually swaying to her side, and Greenwood is rather a nasty villain as the cheating husband that fakes his death. I read that this was a big hit in America, and no wonder, it is a little bit of a preposterous idea, but at the same time you can go along with it and have a great time, it is full of exciting and entertaining, a most watchable action thriller. Good! "},{"Title":"Good Story and an Enjoyable Movie","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Libby Parsons (Ashley Judd) wakes up after a night of passion with her husband on their yacht, and she is distraught to find he has gone, leaving only a trail of blood behind him. She is blamed for his murder and serves her time in prison, but while she is there she learns the truth that he staged the whole thing; and upon her release she decides to hunt him down, she can't be charged with the same crime twice 'Double Jeopardy'I like the concept of this film a lot, and i'm glad to say that it turns out to be a good movie. Tommy Lee Jones is good in a fairly familiar style role as Libby's parole officer and Ashley Judd plays the part of Libby superbly. There is some good action and enough suspense and thrills to entertain.7/10 "},{"Title":"Tommy Lee Jones, a cop?  Get outta here!","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I never get tired of watching this movie. It's still leaves you feeling a little intense at times, even though you've seen it 15 times.Tommy Lee Jones stretches his acting abilities in this as a Washington state parole officer. I know, he never plays a cop, but let's face it he's good at it. And although I'm sure there are some who will think I'm hypocritical by saying this, but I love him as an actor! Even though he always plays the same roles, he's just really good in those roles.However, he is not the only reason why I love this film as much as I do. You can't forget the leading lady. Who, is also the main focus and star of the entire film. Ashley Judd. From beginning to end, you feel in some small part that you are her, and that the things she is going through, you are going through with her.How would you feel if after a romantic night on a boat, out in the middle of the ocean, you woke up to blood all over you, the boat and there is no trace of your husband. You'd be pretty scared, right? And you would certainly never suspect that you'd be going to prison for murdering him, would you? Well, this is the set up towards the beginning of the film and what proceeds, is sheer excitement, and fear.Certainly not just a one time watch, and there is some humor in it if you like a thriller with a little bit of a humorous attitude to it.Ashley Judd kicks my socks off the couch in this movie, and I recommend it to everyone! "}{"Title":"Premise is absurd","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A woman is tried for murder based upon the presence of fish blood on her husband's boat?  This would NEVER happen because the prosecution would need to at least establish that the blood came from a human before the defendant would be required to stand trial.  The entire premise for the movie was absurd and we viewers should stand up and shout Stop feeding us this crappola! "},{"Title":"A Must-See Thriller.","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"                          ******SPOILERS******Double Jeopardy is such a brilliant thriller. It's the kind of the movie, I'm normally into, so I expected to like it, but not as much as I did. There's a great screen-play here and the movie is just very exciting.Ashley Judd stars in the movie, she plays Libby, a happily married woman, who has a son, Matty, and just a very good life-style. Until, one day, she and her husband, Nick, are on a romantic trip on a boat, (Matty is staying with Angie, a 'friend' of Libby and Nicks.) when in the night, whilst Libby is asleep, Nick has supposedly been killed, or so she thinks. As when Libby wakes up, she sees blood all over her and the boat. She walks into the kitchen and then outside the boat, when she picks up a knife from the floor, the police come.  The story continues, when the police think Libby has killed Nick. They also can't find Nicks body. Now, even though she obviously didn't kill Nick, she can't convince the court that and is sent to prison. She tells her friend Angie, to adopt Matty. Angie agrees. For a while, Angie and Matty come to visit her in prison, until after a while they stop coming to visit. Libby knows something is up and when she finds out that Angie has moved, she gets her phone number and when she calls Angie up, she realises that Nick, her 'dead husband' is still alive and in the house with Angie and Matty. Angie and Nick are obviously together. (The thing was, this movie had the type of screen-play, which even though was great, I knew straight away, that Nicks death was planned and that Angie and Nick, would be together and in on the plan, etc.)Now, a friend Libby meets in prison tells her that if she tells the court again, that she did murder her husband, Nick and that she's a changed woman, etc, they probably will end up letting her go. They do. So, after six years, innocent Libby is free. She's on parol though and has to stay in a special house for a couple of years, until she's allowed to live on her own. This house is looked after by, parol officer, Travis played by Tommy Lee Jones, who ends up Libby after a while.   Seeing as Libby is free woman, she plans to get her son back, on the way, she finds out that Angie has supposedly died, in a gas leak in her home. It's obvious to Libby, that Nick really killed her. Anyway, It's quite hard for Libby, to find Nick and Matty as Nick keeps changing his name, all the time. She ends up finding Nick though and ends up killing him, but not in the Double Jeopardy way. And, of course she gets Matty back, which is basically what happens at the end of the movie. Oh, and she becomes good friends with her parol officer, Travis.Ashley Judd and Tommy Lee Jones are both great here and were perfectly cast in there roles. (Judd was a tiny bit unconvincing though at the beginning, when she crying.) Double Jeopardy is a movie for everyone and I give it a 10/10, so see it now. "},{"Title":"Kill him twice. It's legal.","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Boy, was this guy a dirty, rotten scoundrel or what? Not to mention a sociopath with a deep, abiding love of money....so deep that he would do anything for it. This was a good drama with Jones doing his patented hard-ass act and Judd turning in a good performance as the betrayed spouse.  "},{"Title":"Painfully unwatchable disaster","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All Costs                           Once again,a film that inspires an involving and original premise turns out to be a complete turkey,but unfortunately,Double Jeopardy turns out to be the worst out the lot.With a title that sounds like it was taken from a rejected Jean Claude Van Damme script (Double Impact,Double Team,now Double Jeopardy?No way),and a premise that starts off as original and intriguing,but,after seeing the movie emerges as merely far fetched and stupid,the movie is'nt involving in any way at all.As a drama,as mystery,and definetly not as a thriller.The charecters are totally inconsistent.Tommy Lee Jones,who's recently shown he's got more versatility as an actor,is completely wasted and barely seen here in one of the main roles,while Ashley Judd's charecter is dreary and poorly portrayed.The plot itself,and the twists involved in it,are rather implausible and stupid.                              It came as a shock to me to learn just a few minutes ago that this is actually directed by Bruce Beresford,who we hav'nt seen in quite a while.This is a shoddy and misguided effort with which to spring back on,and means the next effort of his I witness will have to particularly impress me to get him back in my good books.Getting away with murder a second time is one thing in this cutthroat-to-succeed day and age,but getting away with another lousy film effort is quite another.*         "},{"Title":"Murder may not always be a crime, but an actor as good as Tommy Lee Jones in a film like this certainly is!","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Given the poor quality of this film- mainly due to the very thin story and plotlines- I find it difficult to believe it ever got a cinema release. I can only assume it is due to the presence of oscar winning Tommy Lee. Tommy is a class act but this really is a by the numbers job by him- a case of just turning up and being himself. In no way does he stretch himself. The same cannot be said of the the rather thin plotline. It is full of holes, for example I thought you cannot be tried for murder without a body- yet our heroine- played by Judd- is and gets life! We have seen this so many times before- mostly in very average TV movies- and believe me many of those are better than this. This is a movie that should have starred someone like Jacklyn Smith and Robert Ulrich. Only if the video shelves are really empty should you waste a rental on this. "},{"Title":"Great flick if you can pretend the double jeopardy law works for murder cases!!","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Which it dose NOT, so the movie kinda stinks. Lets say we lived in an alternate universe where it did, well then this movie would still stink. I hate to say it because I love Tommy Lee Jones and I think that for the short amount of time that Ashley Judd has been acting she's really pretty good ( keeps getting better, but we really don't get much of a background on any of the characters and have not a clue as to why they did what they did. I mean of course its always money but thats about all we get from  this story. Even Libby's 6 year stint in prison for a crime she did not commit seems to not have any effect on her at all except for the fact that she works out alot instead of trying to talk to her lawyer. But hey if you like action and you always wanted to kill your husband if only the laws were different well then this bud's for you! P.S just kidding about the whole husband thing don't everybody get all crazy and send me any email. "},{"Title":"What can I say... Ashley is a great actress!","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Without her I'm not sure this movie could carry on.  Oh sure Tommy Lee Jones is in here, but not as much air time as Ash.  This movie is a just for about anyone type of movie.  However because of the slight nudity at the beginning, it may not be for kids.  (course in my opinion why are we so concerned about kids seeing nudity.  Same way it was when I was growing up.  Sure, we could see all the violence we could get our hands on, but nudity... oh run the other way boys and girls.)  Now trust me this isn't the Fugitive, but it's a great runner up.  One complaint though.  I think this movie could have been longer.  It seemed just fine for about the first half of the movie, then they pulled a quick get it over stunt.  Skipping over area's where I think they needed more explaination instead of making themselves resort to Soap Opera tactics.  Other than that I loved it. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Enormous credibility problems","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film has so many plot flaws that I spent most of the movie screaming at the screen, `Oh, come on, you can't expect me to believe THAT!'  The basic premise is flawed.  Even if the double jeopardy law allowed Libby (Ashley Judd) to kill her husband without penalty after serving her time (which it doesn't), she would still go back to jail for parole violations (possession of a weapon among other things).  The plot line is threadbare from overuse.  This is a cross between `The Fugitive' and `The Pelican Brief';  innocent girl chasing after the bad guy while everyone is chasing after her.This film asks the viewer to leap chasm after chasm of incredulity.  Let's examine some of the malarkey they ask us to swallow.  Do they expect us to believe that Libby wakes up covered with blood, sees a knife on the deck and doesn't expect foul play?  Is there anyone on the planet stupid enough to pick up the knife and make themselves the prime murder suspect?  When she's in jail and suspects that her husband is alive, why isn't she calling her lawyer, the prosecutor, the press and anyone else she knows who could hire a private investigator to find him?  When Travis (Tommy Lee Jones) caught her, are we really supposed to believe that he would leave his keys in the car with her inside?  And after she crashed four times into other cars and knocked one off the back of the ferry, no one noticed?  And my favorite; why didn't Nick (Bruce Greenwood) strangle her before stuffing her in the coffin with her knapsack with the gun in it?  Even if he had forgotten that Travis told him that Libby had a gun, don't tell me he couldn't feel the weight of a handgun in the knapsack.Tommy Lee Jones was out of gas in this film.  Between `The Fugitive', `US Marshals', and this, he has played the same character in the same situation so many times in succession that he has grown flaccid from boredom. Ashley Judd was actually excellent, and was the only reason to see the film.  Her athleticism as well as her intensity impressed me.  It is seldom that you will see a female actress agree to do her own stunts, especially one that involves escaping from a submerged vehicle.Acclaimed director Bruce Beresford proves that a big budget, bankable stars and talented filming cannot save a trashy script.  The filming of this movie was technically excellent, containing good suspense, thrilling stunt work, great chase scenes and plenty of plot twists.  But Beresford must have decided that all the plot holes didn't matter, since he didn't demand rewrites.  So I place the blame for this tripe squarely in his lap.I think I was being generous in rating this film a 5/10.  Anyone who rents it on video needs to check their brain at the door if they hope to enjoy the ride.  "},{"Title":"The Fugitive 3,a well made and acted but fragmented piece of work. **1/2 out of ****.","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  DOUBLE JEOPARDY (1999) **1/2Starring Tommy Lee Jones, Ashley Judd, Bruce Greenwood, Annabeth Gish, and Roma Maffia Director Bruce Beresford   105 minutes   Rated R (for language, a scene of sexuality, and some violence)By Blake French(Caution It would be impossible to review this film without revealing a few minor spoilers--so read at your own risk.)I am getting very tired of screening movies that feature plot, motives, concepts and the star of 1994's The Fugitive, but yet refuse to call itself a sequel to  The Fugitive. First came U.S. Marshals, in 1998, which, like The Fugitive, detailed an innocently convicted man tracking down his enemies and starred Tommy Lee Jones. Now there's Double Jeopardy, which contains a plot so close to the other two, its a shame the filmmakers had to go and break tradition with generating this film an R-rating. Neither of the other two films were this coarse, and that's the only thing keeping Double Jeopardy, on its own level of comparison.The movie opens by introducing the happily married couple Nick and Libby Parsons, who seemingly has it all; a wealthy living style, a well-behaved nine year old son named Bobby, a strong matrimony, and even a great big sail boat that Nick recently borrowed for Libby and is ready to purchase for her. In the heat of the decision, the two of them arrange a baby-sitter, long time friend Angie, to watch Bobby for the night while they have the time of their life exploring the waters nearby.Everything looks wonderful from the sailboat. The waters calm and the sky clear. Libby and Nick go under deck when night falls. The two of them relax, make love, and then go to bed. When Libby wakes up hours afterwards, the entire sailboat is covered with blood, showing signs of a struggle. The boat is deserted, with her being the one on board. Where's Nick? What happened?Libby will have plenty time to think about these things when she is accused of murdering her husband with a knife. She is wrongly convicted and sentenced to prison, where she learns that her husband is off living another life with Angie and Bobby, and the two million dollars in insurance money. She then learns of the concept of double jeopardy, from a jail mate. It is the fifteenth amendment on the constitution. The prisoner explains to Libby that the state already said that she killed her husband, so if she gets out of prison, and actually kills him, regardless of how many witnesses or the evidence, she can't be charged twice with the same crime. This is exactly what Libby intends to do.Double Jeopardy has a perfect setup in the structure and story. The first act is pretty solid and confident. The scenes relate to each other and are well constructed.  The external problem is the seemingly murderous act against her husband. The internal problem has to do with her missing son. Proper complications follow the conflict, such as Libby's prison sentence, the discovery of her husbands secret plans, her parole officer (Tommy Lee Jones) and his strict rules which are broken, her escape, all that build up to a rather predictable, but admirable, conclusion.The film runs into trouble in the second act. The story turns from skillful setup to scene after scene of Libby and her parole officer, Lehman, chasing each other. The Fugitive got away with that, and I am not necessarily saying that Double Jeopardy is a total failure in its chase sequences. The scenes are well made and somewhat exciting. But it is a shame to see such a wonderful first act lead to such a conventional story line.The are many good qualities and bad qualities about Bruce Beresford's suspense thriller. The take off in the second act is full of excitement and high energy. The sailboat scene, where Libby awakens to a bloody mess in the middle of the night with her husband missing, is really suspenseful--but there is no momentum build up. The trials in which Libby is charged with are one sided, making perfectly clear that the film is going somewhere unexpected. The scene where Libby learns of her husband's secret life on the phone in prison is a golden moment, as is the slammer atmosphere altogether. There is a nice production design involved with the film as well. But what about the $10,000 Libby spends on clothes as she confronts Nick for the first time in years? That is the question I kept asking myself throughout the third act.The performing talents existing in Double Jeopardy only prove what a shame it is that the characters aren't better understood or developed. Tommy Lee Jones doesn't get to do much here except chase Libby. Not to mention the fact that his character is developed through situations, rumors, dialogue and personality clashes, never being introduced to us appropriately. This is not a major catastrophe, and to some extent, under the circumstances, kind of effective--but his performance is never anything he is capable of producing with a better developed script.Ashley Judd's performance and character is a different story. Her character is entirely realized and empathized with. From her motives to the increasingly dramatic situations she is faced with, all offer profoundness and realism. One big problem, however, is the intelligence  of her character, which seems to vary from scene to scene. For example, in one incident she might be so cleaver and tricky that her keen senses can associate troubles nearby. While in others, she is prone to walk right into an obvious trap. The key in developing profound characters is keeping them profound throughout the entire production,  and the way to do that is consistency.Even if Double Jeopardy wasn't a virtual clone of The Fugitive, however, it would probably have failed still. You see, the movie's individual scenes seem fragmented and scattered.  Like Stigmata, the production has a hard time fitting together in order to make a good overall piece of work. So, no, even if you haven't seen or heard about The Fugitive or U.S. Marshals, this film still isn't worth seeing. Sorry--a close call in my case, but no recommendation here.Brought to you by Paramount Pictures. "},{"Title":"Excellent thriller","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Suspend reality and sit back and enjoy the suspense.  Don't watch any trailers or ads on TV!  The first movie that made me get out of my seat so I could watch it in the back of the theatre while I paced!          "}{"Title":"A Murder On The State?","Date":"24 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It's unfortunate that poor Ashley Judd met all kinds of good legal help after she was convicted of murdering Bruce Greenwood in Double Jeopardy. Where was it when she was on trial?Ashley Judd is the wife of Bruce Greenwood a successful developer and they seem to be a rich and happy couple. But Greenwood's been overextending himself credit wise and he's in a real bind. One night on board they're yacht after a night of passion, he seemingly falls overboard after a violent struggle and leaves an incriminating 911 call.Who else could it incriminate but Judd and she's tried and convicted of her husband's murder. Her best friend Annabeth Gish adopts her son, but then Judd discovers that Gish has moved out of their Seattle area and then she inadvertently finds out that her husband is still alive. It takes six years, but she's granted a parole, but she's not about to wait in a halfway house. She's busts her parole and goes on the hunt with her parole officer Tommy Lee Jones on her trail.Her legal advice comes from Jones, a former law professor and Roma Maffia a disbarred attorney she meets in the joint. If these two had been her attorneys she might have been acquitted. Maffia especially gives a memorable performance in a very small role.Double Jeopardy has a number of flaws in it. Firstly if I had been Bruce Greenwood I sure would have fled the country with my ill gotten gains and not lived so public a lifestyle as he does. Could not wrap my head around his recklessness. Also Judd specifically does not want her son to go to her mother because they didn't get along. Yet it's mom played by Anna Hagan comes through in the end for her with quite a roll of bills to help her in her pursuit of Greenwood. And the whole concept of what Double Jeopardy means is open to question. I recall a Law And Order episode where someone was killed by a person who had committed a crime for which they had not done the deed and most emphatically that did not grant him the newly freed perpetrator a murder on the state.It's unfortunate because I think Double Jeopardy had a role lot of potential that was wasted. "},{"Title":"Ashley Judd talents wasted","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  You're violating the terms of your parole having broken into an office to find info on where to find your missing son. Security guards pull up outside. You look out and see them.  Do you keep quiet and hide until they leave? Of course not! You immediately turn on a light to attract attention and then begin making as many loud noises as possible trying to break open a locked file cabinet.  I need not go any further.  This is one of the stupidest movies I've seen in recent years.  Save your money until it comes out on video if you're that eager to see Ashley Judd.  "},{"Title":"Guilty Pleasure","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Double Jeopardy is the type of movie film-goers will enjoy, then feel guilty about afterward.  That's because its premise doesn't work.  The premise is that a person wrongly convicted of murder could then actually kill that person, and not be tried a second time.  Not so.  The law treats the two incidents as separate.The irony is that the double jeopardy gimmick isn't necessary in this film.  The plot of a woman framed for murder who discovers that the person she is accused of killing is still alive and then seeks revenge works on its own. There are a few other implausibilities  The wrongly convicted murder is convicted of a bloody, premeditated crime, and yet gets out of prison after serving only a few years.  Later she escapes from a half-way house and goes directly to her mother's--one of the first places the police would look for her.Aside from that, this is a fun film.  Bruce Beresford keeps the pace moving.  Ashley Judd plays the main character as a strong, resourceful woman.  Although Tommy Lee Jones basically reprises his Fugitive character, Bruce Greenwood proves he is one our most underrated actors in his portrayal of Judd's husband. "},{"Title":"Stupid movie and a complete waste of time.","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie a week ago, and I can still feel the disappointment in my body. I can't understand why Tommie Lee Jones acted in this stupid movie. It is very unlikely that Nick as a highly respected person could disappear, and then reappear as another highly respected person. Clearly this would have been discovered earlier in real life. "},{"Title":"Watchable but, let's face it, pretty stupid.","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Unlike his fellow Australian George Miller, Bruce Beresford seems absolutely determined to make people forget he used to have a good reputation as a director with his American-mae films - Miller gave us Lorenzo's Oil and Babe (OK, he only produced it, but it counts), Beresford gave us Her Alibi and Double Jeopardy. In fairness, it was written by the team behind The Rock and produced by Aaron Spelling's ex-partner Leonard Goldberg, which would explain a lot.Even without that knowledge, you still have the fact that this is the kind of film that works best if you don't know much going in. Alas, a lot of the preview information did reveal enough to give you a basic idea - Ashley Judd, the Jeff Bridges to Wynonna's Beau (that is, as one UK critic said the talented, slim and attractive one), is convicted for murdering her hubby on circumstantial evidence, finds out that he's alive, is told by a fellow inmate and disbarred lawyer that she can find him, kill him and escape scott-free under the concept of double jeopardy (I'm no expert on the American legal system, but I'm sure it can't be that simple. And as another person here noted, taking legal advice from a convicted murderer isn't a good idea), and eventually gets out of prison on parole with the goal of finding her husband and getting her beloved son back. That means that the rest of the film is a bit predictable, but it doesn't mean that Miss Judd, unlike the ever-professional Tommy Lee Jones, has to let her obvious (though not unreasonable) disdain for the script shine through a bit too often; nor does it has to be increasingly ludicrous (sample plothole how does a parole violator manage to get from Washington State to New Orleans so easily?). Another problem for British viewers is the name of Bruce Greenwood's character - it's hard for Brits to take seriously a thriller where the heavy is called Nicholas Parsons (though in fairness, I wouldn't expect Americans to know he shares his name with a veteran UK game-show host). Not that it would have been easier to take seriously if he had another name, mind.At least Judd and Jones don't become a couple, and it does keep the attention (she certainly makes a more sympathetic heroine than, say, Demi Moore), but in the end you wish it had had more suspense and a bit less silliness. Although that said, compared to the last movie in which Tommy Lee Jones pursued an innocent fugitive (U.S. Marshals), this is pure Les Miserables, even if Victor Hugo's protagonist doesn't have a bottom as nice as Ashley Judd's. "},{"Title":"Fairly uninspiring film all told","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Elizabeth Parsons has a rich husband and a young son. When she wakes up on their luxury yacht with blood everywhere and her husband nowhere to be found, she is suspected of his murder to get the life insurance. While serving 6 years, she discovers that her husband is very much alive. She learns that she can't be tried for his murder since she already has been, and begins to plan his death and how to get her husband back.Despite that fact that the whole film is summed up in the title I decided to watch it anyway. So really there is very little drama for much of the film as we all know what she's doing and where the film is going. The plot could have been lifted from any number of video thrillers - all it needed was a little nudity and it could have been an erotic thriller for late night TV! As it stood, the bigger budget, higher production values and bigger stars helped the film actually rise a little above the material and seem to be much glossier and impressive than it actually was. The stunts and effects worked well and the direction was of a higher calibre than you'd see on the bottom shelf, but it is still a very ordinary thriller if you strip all the polish away.The cast try hard but they have little to work with. An unnecessary role from Tommy Lee Jones helps keep the film's pace up by turning it into a cat and mouse chase of sorts, but mostly it is pretty dull. Judd is OK in the lead but doesn't do anything to justify her fee I reckon. Support from Mafia is so lame that it looks like she is almost falling asleep while giving her lines! The film relies on pace and tension which it mostly gets by flipping cars around for little reason and for putting Elizabeth in slightly (!) unlikely situations then getting her out of them. The legal interest in the plot actually falls to pieces when you think about it, but the film is clever enough never to take it's central idea further than a few lines of dialogue before rendering the argument null and void.Overall I was struck by just how ordinary and dull the whole film was. If I had seen this film as a low budget video thriller I still wouldn't have liked it but I may have accepted it for what it is. This film just exposed it's own weaknesses by virtue of pushing to be a product much grander than it's plot deserved.  "},{"Title":"Never accept legal advice from a fellow prisoner.","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, common law does contain a double jeopardy principle one cannot be tried for the same crime twice.  A friend of mine who knows something about legal theory (I know next to nothing) points out that one can nevertheless face the same CHARGE twice.  If I am convicted of stealing Fred's car it's just not true that the law can't touch me if I steal his car a second time - in the eyes of the law, which is not a complete ass, I have committed TWO crimes, even though they both bear the same description `stealing Fred's car'.Let us suppose, though, that it's different in the case of murder, at least in some jurisdiction somewhere.  (It's easy to see why murder might be a special case.)  Suppose that Libby Parsons, falsely convicted of killing Nick Parsons, now has the legal right to REALLY kill him.  What of it?  Murder is the ONLY crime Libby is at legal liberty to commit; but how does one commit ONLY murder? It's just not possible.  In order to murder Mick, Libby must break any number of other laws she must inflict grievous bodily harm, or damage property, or endanger someone's safety, or carry a concealed firearm, or create a public nuisance, or loiter, or jaywalk - I'm sure there are enough laws on the books to keep her locked away from precisely as long as if she'd simply been convicted of murder a second time, and a good thing too.It's hard not to think of this when she JUMPS PAROLE in order to go in search of her presumed-dead husband.  What's the point of this detail?  The film wants to wave what it supposes to be a clever gimmick in our faces the fact that Libby can commit murder within the law.  If she then breaks a law - which she needn't have done, and which the film certainly needn't have been constructed so as to make it the case that she needed to have done - what's the POINT of the double jeopardy routine?  I don't know that there was much point anyway.  Do we really want this woman to break out of jail and murder her husband?  Of course not.  We like her.  She's not yet a killer and we don't want her to become one, even if killing her husband is in her interest, which it isn't.  This would have been a better film if Beresford had at some point halfway through made it clear to us that the legal principle Libby had heard from her friend in jail was but a distortion of the truth.Anyway this bugged me.  But it's not to say that Double Jeopardy isn't otherwise a well-made thriller, distinctly enjoyable to watch.  It has Tommy Lee Jones doing his schtick, for one thing.  I actually prefer his character here to the one he bore in The Fugitive.  Everyone remembers his reply in the earlier film to I didn't kill my wife I don't care.  But it's a line that was just thrown in because it sounds cool.  In Double Jeopardy Jones has a more discernible character, and he's more fun. "},{"Title":"Unforgivably bad script writing...","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  You'd think that Paramount, while spending God knows how much money to make and promote this movie, they'd get a screenwriter that realized that the double jeopardy clause wouldn't be applicable here. For one, if she killed her husband, she'd STILL go to prison again, for 3 reasons 1. No matter WHO she killed, it would still be considered a parole violation. 2. If she killed her husband, the double jeopardy clause wouldn't protect her because it would prove that she hadn't killed him before, thus making the previous conviction null and void, or she'd be tried for killing someone OTHER than her husband, if it couldn't be proved it was indeed him she'd killed. Plus, since she would have killed him on a different date, time and possibly way than the first time, it would be counted as a different crime anyway.Basically, these thoughts kept ricocheting around my mind as I watched this movie, totally destroying any possibility of enjoying the film. If you're going to make a movie like this, get someone that can at least open a law book to consult the screenwriter. Maybe then they could make a script that didn't talk down to me and insult my intelligence.I give this movie 4 out of 10 stars, the only saving graces being the acting and editing. I really can't recommend this film just on the sheer incompetence of the script. "},{"Title":"Have I used the word Disappointing too much in this comment?","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"14 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Generally I love a good action thriller. Problem is Double Jeopardy is not really good.I thought the movie started well but then just dragged until a very disappointing ending. To make it even worse I saw it with a friend who throughout the whole movie complained; Why doesn't she just kill him!!  i love you Ally)A lot of the action seemed staged just to make Ashley Judd look good (such as when she drove Tommy Lee Jones' car off that boat), and she did. Look good that is, otherwise I found her performance disappointing and one dimensional. I thought prison was supposed to change people or make them stronger or something but the only change i saw in Elizabeth is that she said F**k a lot more.Overall I was disappointed with this potentially interesting story. "},{"Title":"It's just not very good.","Date":"26 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It's not the worst movie I've ever seen but it's just really dull for a Thriller.The acting is decent, but there's a lot of repetitive dialogue, and lots of boring moments. The suspense level is really low and it didn't really do much to keep me at the edge of my seat except for the near end of the film. The plot is probably where this movie destroyed it for me. It had an interesting concept, but the execution was very poor and it lacked suspense, thrills and energy. Tommy Lee Jones is easily the strongest actor in the film and that's one of the things that prevented me from rating this movie any lower than what I gave it. It has some good parts that don't make the film entirely bad, but it's just an all-around dull thriller that has been poorly executed.I'd say rent it first before you buy it just to be on the safe side. Maybe you might find things in this movie that you enjoy. "}{"Title":"Felonious Fluff","Date":"11 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The Always Watchable Ashley Judd and the Sometimes Watchable Tommy Lee Jones are Teamed Up in this The Fugitive Lite Film, but Bruce Greenwood Almost Walks Away with the Show. It is a Mildly Entertaining Piece of Fluff that Never Gets too Gritty and Keeps Things in a Brightly Lit Atmosphere.The Movie Looks Good with Slick, Sharp and Colorful Scenery, but the Plot, Oh My That Plot, is so Contrived it is Criminal. The Clichés Pile Up Like Felonies and it has been Pointed Out that the Central Conceit, Title of the Movie, and the Much Talked About Double Jeopardy Doesn't Apply in a Case Like This. Didn't Anyone Call Alex Trebek for Legal Advice? This Type of Error is Inexcusable. In the End it is an OK Time Waster and is Typical of Chick Flick Claptrap that is Recycled Now and Then for its Target Audience.Worth a Watch for Fans of the Stars and Those Without Law Degrees. But the Movie is Barely Suspenseful with Much Telegraphing and Not Much Better than a TV-Movie. "},{"Title":"It's decent enough, nothing too special","Date":"29 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Okay so the one main reason why I sat down and watched this is because I was told it was a good movie and decided to sit down and take a look at it and despite some really REALLY questionable things that happen in this movie, I didn't mind it at all.Okay so the story is that a woman named Libby Parsons who is rich, has a family and is pretty much on top of the world. One night she finds her husband dead and she is the suspect. When she is found to be guilty she gives her child to her best friend and it turns out that a couple of months later they've disappeared off the map and when she tracks them she finds out that her husband was alive the whole time. She then finds out from a prison friend that she can kill her husband again and she can't be convicted for it or in any way legally harm her (Um... I'm not American but I'm going to call bullshit on this one).Once she goes on parole six years after she started doing her time, she then decides to set out and find her son by any means necessary, even by abusing her parole. Through this her Parole officer runs across the country to find her and stop her (Wasn't this almost exactly Tommy Lee Jones' role in The Fugitive too?).I think some of the acting was pretty... Well it was kind of on and off. I'm not just talking about how some performances were good while others were bad (although some of the supporting players do a consistently okay job) I mean with people like Ashley Judd. I mean at some points she did a convincing job while other times... you could tell she was reading from a script. Although to be fair I might consider this bad directing/editing than I would bad acting if they were okay with using some of these takes.And the writing does get a little weak in places. For example Libby's sole defense for not killing her husband is You have to believe me, and as I said I'm pretty sure the loophole that she could kill her husband for real and there will be no legal repercussions is a really dumb plot point and there's a scene where she pretends to be her friend who adopted her son to buy a car (or learn her social security number) and a scene later we find out this friend died a few years earlier in the story... How come the Car Salesman didn't call out on the fact that she's using a dead woman's social security? It would have been better if that was revealed then.Okay now based on those complaints I think I should say what I liked. I actually think the cinematography is okay. The chase scenes are well directed and the premise is actually interesting enough to get me through the story and as I said some of the acting from people like Tommy Lee Jones is actually quite good.So I guess if you like something that isn't that smart yet has an interesting premise, good acting and good chase scenes then I would certainly recommend this movie. If you are looking for something else then I haven't really seen another movie like this (not even The Fugitive) so I can't really pass a recommendation there so as I said if you're looking for a movie that has a good premise even if some of the writing is weak then this is for you. "},{"Title":"best movie i've ever seen","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is the best movie i've ever seen. I've watched it over and over again, several times. I might have seen it at least twenty times. And i would still like to watch it again. My mum loves it too, and she isn't the kind of person who gets attached to a movie, but she has watched it several times also. I consider Ashely Judd a perfect actress. She knows how to act, she even made me cry several times in the movie. Her revenge is so strong, and she has a determination i've never seen before; which i personally like very much. If i start to talk about Tommy Lee Jones I'll never stop. Well, I'll just say that he knows what he is doing. My overall opinion for the movie is excellent. "},{"Title":"great performances from outstanding actors, but formulaic","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Murder is not always a crime. With a tagline like this, I was interested in checking Double Jeopardy out.Libby Parsons has a husband whom she loves, a son she cares for with all of her heart and a friend she can count on.Tommy Lee Jones joins Ashley Judd as they lead a cast of talented actors in Double Jeopardy. I must compliment the choice of actors that was chosen. Everybody's role was suited to fit the particular actor that was chosen for it.Libby is framed framed for her husband, Nick's, murder and is later sent to prison for 10 years. Double Jeopardy gets interesting when her son answers the phone and inadvertently calls out daddy. Libby becomes steamed and begins her search for her dead husband.The first half of this film was interesting and enjoyable; however, it deteriorated to another version of The Fugitive. The scene I enjoyed the most in this film was the reaction Nick gave Libby when she finally located him. This particular scene is what made Double Jeopardy definitely worth seeing.I thought that Judd's performance was overplayed because it tended to be focused more on the fact that she was betrayed by Nick.Although, Tommy Lee Jones was excellent in the role of Travis Lehman, I question his choice of scripts. I hate to see an actor with the caliber of Jones pick a role that has been done; much less a role the same actor did in a previous film only under the the guise of different title.The director of Double Jeopardy, Bruce Beresford deserves credit for changing the stereotypical roles of cop and villain. It was a refreshing way to see a female on the run instead of a male.  "},{"Title":"I learned a little something in prison...don't drop the soap","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'll make this brief this movie is a little bit lame.It's moderately entertaining; if for nothing else than watching ashley judd stir a vat of tapioca pudding. I don't mean to oversimplify this 100 minute movie into a 15 second scene, but trying to make this movie suspenseful got a little tiring. I still can't get this line, basically the climax of the movie, which was replayed a LOT in the trailer a few years back, out of my head I learned something in prison. It's called double jeopardy...I mean jesus-tapdancing-christ that's something i would think you would already know! It's called the 5th ammendment, and it seems like a basic legal concept since they teach this material in middle school. But i guess it comes down to the fact that this assumption is entirely my fault, since we, as Americans, are ignorant of virtually everything around us that doesn't affect our little world(s). I've spoken my piece. If you're a fan of Ashley Judd, you'll probably watch this anyway. If you're a fan of tommy lee jones, check your pulse, because you're probably pretty old ;o) "},{"Title":"Great fun -- who needs logic??","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  After reading some of the comments here I have to groan, Oh,come on!  People are actually taking this film seriously enough topick apart all of the plot holes and gaps in logic?  They're part ofwhat makes this ridiculous glossy  popcorn thriller so much fun!There are so many great things here -- beautiful heroine wholooks glamorous even after six years in prison, dastardly SOB of ahusband, back-stabbing best friend, impossibly narrow escapes,gorgeous locales and photography, and a great  mother-finding-her-son-at-all-costs plot. Ashley Judd is perfectionitself -- the fact that she can keep a straight face through all ofthese goings-on merits her an Oscar by itself. This ranks right upthere with Jagged Edge and Final Analysis as a great styletriumphs over substance thriller. "},{"Title":"sight for sore eyes","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  this was a most painful movie to watch.  i could not bear how bad it was.  it seems like her jail-time was not as bad as it turned out to be.  her character was completely unbelievable as ashley judd seemed to be the innocent caring mother.  the storyline is good but the way it was planned out was horrid.  i cannot believe tommy lee jones agreed to this movie.  it was annoyingly typical, the characters were unbelievable, the whole marriage between the couple seemed fake and was not structured enough to feel bad for ashley, and the fact that she just wakes up to see her husband dead provides no suspense or amusement at all.  what a bore. "},{"Title":"Ludicrous plot. SPOILERS","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  1. After finding out her ex faked his death to steal insurance money, why didn't this woman contact an investigator, a journalist, or get her helpful parents to do that?  Instead we are to believe she sat in prison 8 years doing nothing, as if plotting revenge, then on getting out wanted no part of revenge until forced into it?2. When he had the chance to kill her at the cemetery, why did he not do so. Instead we are to believe he left her alive, loaded her body into a coffin and sealed it to try to suffocate her, and while doing so missed the fully loaded revolver in her pocket which he conveniently left for her to use to blast out of the coffin.  Ludicrous.The list goes on.  I found the inconsistencies so numerous, the film was painful to watch.  "},{"Title":"Terrible!","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" On how many levels does this movie stink? Ashley Judd is terrible and Tommy Lee Jones' talents are squandered. Plus, the movie has plot holes. Judd's character could be convicted because she had been convicted of killing Nick several years ago. If she killed Jonathan several years later, she could be tried again even though it's the same guy. Not to mention she engages in other illicit activities such as driving cars off ferries.*Spoiler Ahead*Also, five more minutes into the movie, and you would have seen Judd tell her little son that she had murdered his father. What sane person kills their son's father? "},{"Title":"So-so","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Not bad but strictly by-the-numbers thriller. Could've been better, could've been worse. Judd is okay, Greenwood properly villainous, but the performance that keeps the film afloat is Tommy Lee Jones' turn as the parole officer. In fact, this movie served to remind me of what a great actor he is, and how he alone can carry an entire film. Despite his presence, the parallels with The Fugitive aren't overly obvious, and they are some good suspense scenes.So, if u want a straightforward thriller with heavily signposted infrequent twists and a predictable ending, then this isn't the worst of the bunch. 6/10 "}{"Title":"Pointless thriller!","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was completely dumb! I'm beginning to think that Ashley Judd is extremely overrated! I did not care for her character at all, and the story-line was downright annoying- especially during the Prison scenes.Things admittedly picked up with Tommy Lee Jones arrival onto the scene, but his character lacked motivation! Bruce Greenwood also played his role very well, but again, what was the motivation behind the character. This film had a poor story, and Bruce Beresford's direction was merely average! I was surprised he even signed on to direct this misfire! Hard to believe it's the same guy who directed 'Rain Man'...oh well...a point each for Jones and Greenwood, but this film is ludicrous and lacks suspense! ** out of *****! "},{"Title":"Helllooo - What happened to acting?!?!","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Ashley Judd can't act her way out of a wet paper bag!  This movie was so ridiculously stupid, I'm surprised the writers could finish it with a straight face!  I'm also surprised that a quality actor like Tommy Lee Jones would act in this poor excuse of a movie.  What drivel was created here!  Implausible story, ridiculous scenes, awful acting - save yourself!  Run from the video! "},{"Title":"double talk, or audience in jeopardy","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Rarely do I feel so angry at the time wasted on a movie; I can only explain my watching to the end thru sheer masochism, or perhaps a horrible fascination that it could be so dumb. This irritating thriller relies on the characters being completely brain-dead, and the audience too. A few points of idiocy (SPOILERS)  1) Ashley doesn't bother to consult any lawyers about her husband being alive, altho we see her on the phone with the insurance agency! The first people you'd call, right? The advice she follows is to take several more years out of her life before seeing her kid!2) I'm not a lawyer like at least 2 characters in this film claim to be, but I've seen enough law shows on TV to realize that this interpretation of double jeopardy is complete B. S. The term applies to being found innocent of a specific charge, not to convictions that may be overturned or separate incidents. Ashley should have asked herself why her legal advisor lives behind bars.3) Speaking of people doing the exact opposite of what sane humans would do scumbag hubby, who won't stop at murder, has her alone at his mercy unconcscious, unknown to anyone, so he kills her, right? Of course not--that would solve his problem! Instead he pulls some bizarre tedious garbage with a coffin, like he's in a parody of an old serial, and conveniently includes her bag of tricks so she can escape. It did him no good that she was so dumb as to fall for this pathetic ruse in the first place. 4) After the foregoing, this point is almost too minor to be mentioned. Tommy Lee somehow is conversant with her whole husband alive story and that she supposedly intends to kill him, altho we never see them have any such conversation, nor does it seem likely that they would. She would tell her parole officer that she's just trying to locate her son but not the crazy story about the husband after she admitted her guilt to get parole.I had to get this off my chest b/c the movie is just insulting. Sometimes people say it's just entertainment, you're supposed to suspend disbelief but it's not too entertaining to suspend your sanity. "},{"Title":"A very average thriller","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  There are good 1999 films Matrix, Sixth Sense and American Beauty.There are bad 1999 films Wild Wild West, the Haunting and End of days.When I saw Double Jeopardy there were a few words that came to me, words like average and allright. There's nothing basically wrong with it, but there are hardly any plus points. You do get to see Ashley's Jugs, though. **(out of five)  "},{"Title":"Dumb, implausible and everything in the in-between -- including entertaining","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  **GRADE C+ / 59**WARNING THIS COMMENT CONTAINS SOME SPOILERSDOUBLE JEOPARDY is the kind of movie that leaves you with a feeling of emptiness after you watch it but, even with all its defects and stupidities, you feel entertained. That's my opinion, because that's how I felt. I understand why so many critics despised it and why so many moviegoers watched it and it became the biggest box office hit on North America spring, before the release of Oscar contenders. It has everything the critics hate plot holes, clichés, factual mistakes, situations that would never happen in real life. And it has everything the big audiences like superficial, harmless entertainment. But anyway it is entertainment. You may be thinking that I liked it very much because I was entertained, but I'm giving it a C+ and 59 out of 100, because this is not a great film by any stretch of thought, but also not an awful one. I would never praise and recommend it highly, but I wouldn't feel bad if I had to watch it again.Almost every good action scenes and some plot twists were already revealed by the trailer, so I'm not spoiling when I resume the plot. Libby and Nick are a wealthy couple who live a perfect life with their child. However, this happiness is over after a night when Libby wakes up at their boat and finds blood everywhere and a knife, which she picks up (DUH!), but doesn't find her husband. After some investigations, she is blamed by his death (and of course we know she is innocent). She goes to prison, leaving her son with a friend, Angela. One day, Angela stops visiting her and she starts to search for her. She is living in another city and while his son is talking to her guess who arrives... Nick. The child mentions his name and Libby hears. Now she has a strong feeling of hate. One of the women on prison, who was once a lawyer, explains to her about double jeopardy. According to the lady, a person can't be considered guilty for the same crime twice. So Libby can kill her husband on Times Square and she won't go to prison again. Is that so easy like that???????? I guess not, but after six years Libby leaves the prison and is now by the responsibility of a state worker, Travis Lehman, whose job is to take female prisoners back to an ordinary life. But Libby won't give up of her revenging plan.With a story like that, DOUBLE JEOPARDY couldn't have been much better, but some situations could have been more difficult to happen. Libby does everything she plans. She travels by plane, finds Angela's new address, buys an expensive dress at a hotel store, saying that she is one of the hotel guests. And the cops never catch her. Situations like that are almost laughable. There is one that is the worst of the whole movie Nick throws a thing at Libby's head and puts her into a coffin. When she wakes up, there is a body by her side, but (as a superhero) she can get out of the coffin just using her gun. Smart girl, uh? However, the biggest implausibility is about the double jeopardy law. I don't know almost anything about the Brazilian Penal Code, so what would I say about the American? But killing a person and be considered not guilty in a blink of eyes is just impossible. I can say the same about Nick's situation, who pretends that he is dead, changes his name a dozen of times and goes on with his life cheating everyone. I think that the writers should have studied these two situations deeper before writing a screenplay for a Hollywood film. American lawyers may have been even ashamed of this.The people who praised Ashley Judd's performance should also reconsider that. She is not awful, but has got much to learn. She was awful in her first films (HEAT, A TIME TO KILL), pretty bad in KISS THE GIRLS, quite better here. I can't say the same about Tommy Lee Jones, who has a good chemistry with Judd, even if they don't have an affair. Director Bruce Beresford does what he can. This is certainly much, much better than his last suspense effort SILENT FALL, a muddled and almost unwatchable so-called mystery.The superficiality, the plot holes, the cliched, unbelievable and laughable situations, the sentimental ending and the trailer which showed everything that could have been considered as a plot twist make this film awful, right? No, just because it is fun to watch and never boring, a thing that doesn't happen in GONE IN 60 SECONDS, which is everything I said and also not fun and monotonous. I barely recommend DOUBLE JEOPARDY. It represents everything I like and hate about movies (attention! Movies, not films). It's better than I thought, but Hollywood should start to worry about factual errors in screenplays.   "},{"Title":"This film was great...FOR ME TO POOP ON!!!","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Double Jeopardy, eh? What a stupid concept. O.K., so if you are SAID to have killed someone, but the person's still alive and you actually kill them then it's O.K.? What the hell? No wonder our law systems f*cked up (Guess what word that is). Jeez, God, that's stupid. Oh, back to the movie. I thought this movie was another one of those releasing an 'action film' so we can keep the money rolling in, even though no one will remember it. Oh, and the acting Tommy Lee Jones and Ashley Judd give stunningly painful jobs as the parts of a guy who runs a...uh, house and a wrongfully accused woman. I think the only one who did a good acting job was the KID!!! Stay away!!! "},{"Title":"Emperor's New Clothes","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Why does everyone think Ashley Judd can act?  SHE CAN'T!!!!  Want proof?  Kiss the Girls.  A Time to Kill.  Double Jeopardy.  She plays one character and it's unbelievable and boring and everyone thinks she's a star.  It's a case of Hollywood telling us who is good and who is a star without controlling quality.First of all, the film is a waste of time.  If you've seen the trailer, or even read the video box, you know the plot.  She already did her time for killing her husband, so she can't be convicted again...  Legally, she could serve more time, and that fact was verified before the movie even came out.  You know how it'll turn out, and it's not even fun to watch the ins and outs up until that inevitable point.  It's entertaining if you just like to see characters do action-like things on screen, but there's no meat to it.  Please, just turn the TV off and read a book instead.  You'll like it more.Second, the movie is unbelievable.  My friends say oh, you have to suspend disbelief, which I can do for something like Star Wars or Ninth Gate, but there's just too much to ignore here.  I don't want to post spoilers, but I'm going to border on it, just to show anyone who hasn't seen this why it's unbelievable and why they should see something else.  Ashley Judd gets out on parole, so technically she can serve the rest of her time if she kills her husband again.  Parolees can't cross state lines.  Parolees can't carry a weapon.  Parolees in this film have to be back in Tommy Lee Jones's boarding house  by a certain time or they go back to jail.  Ashley Judd breaks all those rules yet no one seems to notice those obvious flaws.  She pays for a plane ticket with cash too, which I thought was pretty funny.Thirdly, the acting was embarrassing.  Ashley Judd doesn't change facial expressions throughout the movie.  She's determined to kill her husband no matter how illegal, illogical and just plain unrealistic it is.  Tommy Lee Jones has done so many other great films but it looks like he's just going through the motions and he looks weary of the plot.  The hard nosed parole officer suddenly gets a heart of gold and wants to see a man killed?  That don't add up.So this film is the Emperor's New Clothes.  Everyone will rave about it but they're raving about something with no substance.  Frustrating and unbelievable, uninspired and overpraised, Double Jeopardy is a bad movie caught up in the Hollywood press machine.  You'll like this if you enjoyed Boys and Girls or any other movie Hollywood likes to force down our throats with big stars and not much else to them. "},{"Title":"very contrived and problematic movie...","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Even though I'm not familiar with double jeopardy part of the US constitution, I kinda knew there's a hole with regards to killing someone in a West Coast state and killing the same person again in say New York or Lousiana.  Everyone has seen the trailers, so it's no spoiler if I make this comment since it's also in the goofs section of this website. I also feel the trial of Libby, charged with murdering her husband, was contrived and very unconvincing.  After having seen countless forensic shows, I think she could still have put up a better defense than as shown in the movie.  Are those really her husband's blood?  If what she did was stab her husband, where and how are the blood splatters developed?  After all, mere motive alone is not enough to put a person in prison.The verdict 2.5 of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Mundane","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Double Jeopardy is dumb and predictable. And it's especially shocking seeing it coming from Bruce Beresford, director of Breaker Morant and Driving Miss Daisy. Ashley Judd is quite a good actress, but got a bit annoying after a while. Average at its best.PLOT 6 DIRECTION 5 ACTING 4 SCRIPT 3 CINEMATOGRAPHY 6OVERALL 5 "},{"Title":"The plot is in jeopardy.","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Despite the appearance of three fine actors (Ashley Judd, Tommy Lee Jones, and Bruce Greenwood), this movie did not have enough strength to hold my attention. Moreover, the movie trailers showed practically the entire film, so I sometimes felt I was watching it for the second time.The movie centers on Judd, who is framed for her husband's murder and sent to prison. While there she learns that her husband is not dead, and when she is paroled six years later she goes on a hunt to find her son. The Movie's title comes from the often bandied about Double Jeopardy law, which states that you cannot be tried for the same crime twice. Thankfully everyone in this movies seems to have a legal degree, so the point of the movie is driven home over and over.Judd does a fine job in her role, and is convincing even though there is very little character development. Greenwood is also very good but gets very little screen time. Jones is the big mystery -- he's an accomplished actor who, I must admit, blew me away in The Fugitive, but in this film he does little more than reprise his role as Sam Gerard only with far less gusto.The many plot holes were what destroyed this movie for me. We were breezed through Libby's trial and prison stay. Matty apparently never bothered to find out more about his mother, and seemed unsurprised to be united with her again at the end of the film. Further, everyone, including the boy and the New Orleans police, seemed to be delighted by the fact that a convicted murderer was finally able to kill the wealthy, respectable socialite.Overall, this movie is better than watching paint peel. For better value, get a friend to rent it and invite you over. For maximum enjoyment, rent The Fugitive. "}{"Title":"No actor could save this movie...","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Although Tommy Lee Jones is a great actor he couldn't save this lousy story. It's a constructed movie whit nothing to say, and if, it's said in a no good way. It's predictable and not very dramatic. Ashley Judd is OK and with a better director I believe she can do some really good acting. Go see Magnolia instead.  "},{"Title":"Depressing Comment on American Audiences","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a trailer in search of a real movie. It's depressing that millions of dollars are spent on this type of product, with not an original thought or creative idea in the whole 105 minutes. And of course people flocked to it!  There is no joy in the film making, no inspiration evident in any aspect. Tommy Lee Jones is sleepwalking, Ashley Judd does her acting by not wearing makeup and still looking glamorous.  It's also ironic that the movie never really even follows up on its (faulty) legal premise.  It just turns into your standard revenge fantasy. "},{"Title":"Double Jeopardy but singularly boring.....","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Double Jeopardy is just a film. Thats it it simply makes up the cinema numbers. What shall we watch if that Sixth Sense movie is sold out? We'll watch that Jeopardy movie, the trailer looked good.The formula is so simple and being that the whole plot was given away in the trailer there was no surprises, twists or plotting which would come as a surprise. The film itself was structured with 10 minute flashes of action which takes us from one place to the next. Beginning, demise, prison, then so on and so forth. There is no flow or equilibirity to the telling of the story.Ashley Judd is given the lead role in an industry where women are continually complaining about equality, and then no soonerhave we settled down to watch this womens plight then they introduce a male lead who takes up the pro-ceeding action. Less of a double act and more of a two pronged attack, the predictable plot and dialogue begin to annoy you as you second guess whats about to happen. More often than not we are correct with what is going to happen.When you begin thinking about the film in your head rather than thinking about the film on the screen it means that attention is lost.There are a few moments of cleverness, in Jeopardy but the fact is there is no indivuality to the piece. Cardboard characters and set pieces, which almost anyone can imitate are all that we are shown and maybe a revenge movie with a lead female charcter would have been a better end result. "},{"Title":"Entertainment and nothing more","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This fits the category Another one of them typical Hollywood movies. It's OK to watch, but soon to be forgotten. Some of the scenes are disturbingly badly written. Tommy Lee Jones seems to have been forced to join the project while Ashley Judd finally steps up among the stars. There is nothing more painful in American movies than the mother-reunited-with-her-long-lost-child scenes. STOP THAT! - 6/10 "},{"Title":"Ashley is good, but this film is The Fugitive 2","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film is nothing about Double Jeopardy, and it would not apply in this case anyway. She could not be tried again for killing her husband in Seattle, but she *could* be tried again for a different crime killing her husband seven years later in New Orleans. The plot has several other small details that do not click, for instance can you get a person's address just by giving a Social Security number at a car dealer? How long would she need to swim underwater to escape from the ferryboat? Would the insurance company pay $2 million without hearing the accused's claims that it was all an insurance fraud committed by her husband?Tommy Lee Jones is good, but here he is just recycling his role in The Fugitive, nothing original. Judd is very good too, but the screenplay did not help her either. And it was a pity that her nudity scene was so brief - it spoiled the film for people who don't like nudity and showed next to nothing to people who admire Ashley's great looks... ;)  "},{"Title":"Bad performance by Judd but good storyline","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Viewing the trailers made this movie look rather good but seeing it was the complete opposite.Although it was a good storyline and did have good defence to it, the thing that let the movie down was Ashley Judd's performance. Not only was she boring but she didn't have enough emotion and energy to play her character. Tommy Lee Jones was the only light to this movie and the only thing that kept me awake. I don't recommend this movie at all. Don't see it if your bored it'll make you fall asleep. "},{"Title":"Too predictable","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is the sort of movie that has been made too many times, with nothing new. Ashley Judd is in fine form here. The woman she portrays is very strong, very resilient, and more than anything loves her child. Tommy Lee Jones is good, and Bruce Greenwood is very convincing and smarmy as the no-good husband. But some of the things that happen in the movie are unrealistic. For example, the scene where Judd drives Jones' car into the water, they struggle, and onlookers just look stupidly at them. There are more examples, but the other people who have commented on this film have already mentioned them. Not a horrible movie by any means, just a forgettable one. "},{"Title":"Way too predictable!","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw the previews for Double Jeopardy at the theaters I thought I had just seen the entire movie!  I mean arguably the best line in the film, when the prison mate tells Libby about the double jeopardy law is shown IN ITS ENTIRETY on the previews plus almost EVERY OTHER good scene!  The parts that weren't seen were also too predictable, most notably the scene in the graveyard.  The plot was incredible but a few screenplay changes and a better advertising exec could have made this movie excellent. "},{"Title":"The Fugitive with major flaws, and none of the fun.","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I wonder if they sold the screenplay as Well, it's The Fugitive, but it's a girl instead of a guy.  They easily could of. (Tommy Lee Jones in the same role, but with a drinking problem)Also, it;s based on a HUGE flaw.  Double Jeopardy.  If you get convicted of robbing someone's house, it doesn't mean you are free to rob their house from then on.  Same with murder.  A crime is a Time, Place, and victim.>  "},{"Title":"Pretty to look at but dreadful plot","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The locations and cinematography are good in this film, Ms. Judd is very pretty and Mr. Jones is strong in his role, but the plot is ludicrous. It may seem sexist, but Ms. Judd is simply not built for the rough stuff she endures in this film, let alone the recoil on the revolver she carries around one-handed. There are too many completely incredible events.  Not least of the plot weaknesses is why the evil husband would choose the approach he does in the first place.  Most interesting is the Jones character and I would have liked more development of it.  All up, this is light action entertainment that is pretty to look at but very unsatisfying beneath.  "}{"Title":"Not a waste of 2 hours... but close!","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Double Jeopardy is the kind of movie I look for each summer. Ala Kiss the Girls, etc., it's the theme that usually wins me over during the trailers. But I should have paid more attention to it's off-peak release date! They chose this date because the other films released that week were easy to rise above.This film would have made half as much if it were up against any real box office smash. The film, although somewhat enjoyable was weak from start to finish.Ashley Judd, exceptional as always, and a surprising performance by Bruce Greenwood as the husband/ bad guy, saved this from being a total flop (don't you just love to hate the bad guys!).The story line moves along at lightening speed during the first 20 minutes... wham, bam, thank you ma'm, she's tried, in jail... then out... all covering six years! No explanation of evidence, sentencing or details of her life in jail. Once out on the street... the character does everything possible to try and return to jail! But in the end justice prevails and she's let off scot-free (no charges for wrecking cars of assaulting parole officers).This is a film that would have benefited greatly by an additional 30 minutes. Most times, directors include too much film and lose their audience in overdrawn scenes and plot lines. But this one could have used some in-depth character development and scenes in jail to show this woman's right to be so bitter and seek revenge.I would not recommend spending the $8 at the theater on this race to the finish. Wait for the video release and hopefully the director's cut with the additional 30 minutes of needed story lines.  I give it a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"First-rate actors wasted on second-rate plot","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  First of all, I should state that I'm a big fan of Ashley Judd's work.  Ever since Ruby in Paradise, Judd has demonstrated herself to being one of Hollywood's best, young actresses.  Given that, I was drawn to seeing Double Jeopardy.Unfortunately, the writing for this film just didn't stack up to Judd's ability.  The thin plot is both routine and unlikely.  I found myself unable to believe some of the key legal points on which the story depends, including the main one regarding double jeopardy.  The characters are underdeveloped and predictable.  Tommy Lee Jones plays a similar, but less convincing role as he did in The Fugitive and U.S. Marshals.Do yourself a favour.  If you want to see Judd in a thriller role, rent the much superior Kiss the Girls. "},{"Title":"Why?? WHY?? WHY!!??","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  With all the talent converging on this film, you'd think that someone could have stepped back and said, I think we got a stink bomb on our hands--let's try and fix it.  But no, the film went ahead, and unfortunately (fortunately for all involved, however), Double Jeopardy was released during that time of year when studios dump their unsalvagable projects, and this film managed to be one of the pieces of flotsam that floated to the top.If you've seen the trailer or the TV ad for the film, rest assured that you know the entire plot.  I was hoping against hope that the film would be a little more engaging, somewhat more endearing, and much more action packed than the commercial, but I was disappointed on all counts.  And because of the plot-revealing ads, all traces of suspense are swiftly bled away, leaving you to play connect the scene until you've seen the last scene (and yes, it is the one with Judd aiming a gun at her husband).  The film traipses along without rhyme and less reason, hoping to distract you from the glaring plot holes by adding periodic kindling to your rage for revenge and giving Tommy Lee Jones wisecrack lines to deliver in his patented deadpan.I can't even begin to ennumerate the volumes of non sequiturs, plot inconsistancies, sketchy leaps of logic, and loose ends scattered about this film.  Ashley Judd wakes up on a boat covered in blood. Fine.  How do the authorities know it is the blood of the husband she purports to have murdered?  Weare not told, though such a procedure is mandatory.  Yet the film demands that you assume the forensics team overlooked that detail The prosecution offers as evidence a tape of a distress call allegedly made by said husband, I've been stabbed. But if she was really stabbing him would she allow him time to make the call?  Shouldn't we hear her somewhere in the background trying to finish the job?  Of course not.  And so on and so on, ad absurdum. In its attempt to raise your miscarriage of justice dudgeon, the film makes the trial, and all subsequent injustices, howlingly and vapidly ludicrous. Even the bad guy, played unconvincingly by Bruce Greenwood, can't even take a lesson from past movie villains.  His inexplicable relapse into the Auric Goldfinger school of I-am-going-to-put-you-in-my- machine-of-death-and-leave-you-to-die-Mr. Bond is inexcusable.  Why do bad guys always leave the death of their foes up to fate?Judd tries hard, real hard, to be an emotional center and to give her quest the gravity it deserves. Unfortunately, the film won't give her time--it's too busy rushing her through the post-murder grieving, the trial, the jail time, and the parole in order to get the the real business of the plot the incredible (as in not credible) quest to track down her undead (meaning, of course, not really dead) husband.  Even turning off your brain doesn't work here the chases are banal, what remains of the suspense is tepid, and the only thing that really looks great is the not-so-subtle plug for Armani and Judd's dazzling entrance to a swank Nawlins shindig.But the logical fallacies don't end here.  Somehow, this flick has made a lot of money and has raised Judd's salary to something like $8 million. But coming from a film where a fat roll of twenty dollar bills appears fortuitously in a tomato garden, I suppose anything can happen. "},{"Title":"Double your pleasure? Double your fun? Not quite, been there, made it already","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Murder is not always a crime. With a tagline like this, I was interested in checking Double Jeopardy out.Libby Parsons has a husband whom she loves, a son she cares for with all of her heart and a friend she can count on.Tommy Lee Jones joins Ashley Judd as they lead a cast of talented actors in Double Jeopardy. I must compliment the choice of actors that was chosen. Everybody's role was suited to fit the particular actor that was chosen for it.Libby is framed framed for her husband, Nick's, murder and is later sent to prison for 10 years. Double Jeopardy gets interesting when her son answers the phone and inadvertantly calls out daddy. Libby becomes steamed and begins her search for her dead husband.The first half of this film was interesting and enjoyable; however, it deteriorated to another version of The Fugitive. The scene I enjoyed the most in this film was the reaction Nick gave Libby when she finally located him. This particular scene is what made Double Jeopardy definitely worth seeing.I thought that Judd's performance was overplayed because it tended to be focused more on the fact that she was betrayed by Nick.Although, Tommy Lee Jones was excellent in the role of Travis Lehman, I question his choice of scripts. I hate to see an actor with the caliber of Jones pick a role that has been done; much less a role the same actor did in a previous film only under ther the guise of different title.The director of Double Jeopardy, Bruce Beresford deserves credit for changing the stereotypical roles of cop and villain. It was a refreshing way to see a female on the run instead of a male.The originality of the film lacked and for that reason I give this movie a C. "},{"Title":"Quit while you're ahead","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If only I'd been smart and left after Ashley's nude scene, I'd have been much better off.  The premise was strained, the details unconvincing.  The catalyst for Tommy Lee Jones conversion to her side was totally superficial. Should've waited for video. "},{"Title":"I want my money back!","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  First Mr. Beresford seems to be directing a different movie than the Writer wrote, then the Cinematographer seems to be shooting a third movie or maybe he was just signing on for the ever lasting Pretty Picture Contest. And if that wasn't enough, the Producers are trying to sell something that none of the before mentioned tried to make.And the most annoying thingWarning; the text below might be considered too revealing.-------There were no big surprises left after I had seen the preview. They were all there. And it wasn't even the action thriller that they tried to sell.Dear Paramount Please, show some respect for the audience and stop revealing all the good stuff in the previews!  "},{"Title":"fodder for the lunatics in the audience","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'm not going to waste my time saying too much about this film. It was, in short, the most predictable film I've EVER seen. The only reason this movie had the weekend success it had, is because people were at their local multiplex, realized they couldn't get into the sold out American Beauty or Three Kings, and opted for this over seeing The Sixth Sense again. "},{"Title":"Mistake","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Really, I should have known better but I guess after a summer like this one, I was desperate for a thriller.What drove me nuts about Double Jeopardy was all of the stolen scenes The Fugitive; Pretty Woman (oh, are you lost? in the dress shop); The Fugitive; Shawshank Redemption (mean nasty old convicts become your best friends when you're innocent anyway and everyone here is innocent); The Fugitive...The other problem with Double Jeopardy is Tommy Lee Jones motivation to decide that Ashley Judd was innocent. One slight comment at the beginning -- after one person leaves such a trail of destruction and illegal acts (obtaining information from someone else's SS#, destroying property, breaking and entering, totaling a car...) I'd rather watch The Fugitive on VHS in Spanish. "},{"Title":"Worn plot that even Ashley Judd can't save.","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Director Bruce Beresford has some excellent work on his resume including Driving Miss Daisy and Tender Mercies.  But his recent films (Last Dance & Paradise Road) are stuck on the same theme of women and prisons. Even with Ashely Judd in the lead, his current film is below average in its writing and plot.Ashley is wrongfully convicted of killing her husband.  When she is paroled, she violates that parole in order to find her son, whom she hasn't seen for six years.  Tommy Lee Jones is the parole officer tracking her down.As much as I appreciate Judd's talents, and the fact she gives 110% to this performance, the plot has been done to death.  Jones could have emailed in his lines.   6/10 "},{"Title":"Not worth the price of admission","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If you've seen the Double Jeopardy trailer do not go to see the movie, because you've already seen everything.  And even if you haven't seen the trailer, still do not go to see the movie, because you will be disappointed.I won't give away any details, in the event that you don't take my advice and actually go to see the movie, but everything in Double Jeopardy just seems out of place.  The plot is so full of holes it could be used to strain pasta, the characters do not act like regular people would, and there are far too many coincidences and oversights (apparently New Orleans is about the size of four city blocks).  Tommy Lee Jones and Ashley Judd do their best to make this movie bearable (and I think they actually do a decent job of acting), but unfortunately you can't put pretty wrapping paper around a rock and call it a gift.  All in all, this movie was definitely not worth the money I paid to get into the theater, or even the gas I used just to get to the theater.  Maybe rent this movie when it comes out on video, but only if there is nothing else in the store. "}{"Title":"Not as good as the preview","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I tell you what if i could have just watched the extended preview i would have been satisfied.  This movie is extremely predictable.  And everything else is completely rushed through , as if it was in a hurry.  I knew the end so when i was in the theatre i just wanted it to end.  And thanks to the movie gods it did.  Just as i planned. "},{"Title":"Preview gave away ALL the surprises","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The story was full of holes (where did all that blood come from and why wasn't the DNA checked) and way too many coincidental happenings (oh look! on the street right there! the truck I've been looking for!)  And, in what has become all too common, the preview gave away EVERY little plot point and surprise.  I found myself simply waiting for what I had seen to happen. "},{"Title":"Okay movie","Date":"27 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is a movie that we got a very long time ago when we still purchased a paper TV-magazine to know what was on TV every night. The last couple of years when we did that we frequently got a DVD as a bonus with it and this is one of those. According to my movie collection database we have had it since 2008 and last evening we finally got around watching it.This is a quite okay movie. It will not blow your socks off but it is fairly okay and worth watching. It is a nice thriller/fugitive style movie to watch on a middle-of-the-week evening. I would probably not have been impressed had I gone to a theater to watch it but watching it as a TV-movie it was quite enjoyable. There are the usual silly moments that tend to be in these kinds of movies of course, starting with the stupid wife who just has to pick up the bloody knife just before the police arrives. Why do all (most) script writers have to put that crap into every movie? I do generally like Tommy Lee Jones even though he tends to look and act pretty much the same no matter which movie he is in. I guess I like stability. The plot is okay. It is a fairly conventional husband frames wife, wife goes after husband kind of story and does not really provide any surprises.One thing that caught my attention was that the car dealer apparently could do a credit check on a woman that was, as was found out later in the movie, dead since three years. I think someone missed the QA-checking of the script in terms of credibility there but then, as I said, the movie will not blow your socks of and the plot is fairly standard Hollywood fare with the usual silly stuff in it. "},{"Title":"Good enough","Date":"30 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I'd consider this film suitable to watch in a Sunday afternoon, which I did. Tommy Lee Jones was chosen well enough to be the right character for the parole officer in this movie, who makes a good duo with the pretty Ashley Judd. This is really not an action movie, but it contains a couple of sudden and enjoyable scenes. How to escape from a ferry, while handcuffed to a car? - there you go - you'll have your answer. I hate it when the action scenes are overplayed. Here you won't have that problem. You have the bad guy, the good girl (wife of the bad guy) and the misguided parole officer, who tries to apprehend the (pretty) good girl). Add an interesting legal aspect and one has quite an interesting outcome, worthy of watching. Nice thriller. Not worthy of top points, but I figure it wasn't even intended to be worthy of them. So it fulfilled its purpose. Only downside the bad guy is simply not interesting enough. "},{"Title":"Lovely Ashley Judd and a good solid thriller","Date":"20 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is probably Ashley Judd's best movie. She is lovely to look at throughout and she acts well. Supporting cast are good too with Bruce Greenwood convincing as her husband. Tommy Lee Jones is well cast too.The plot is good for a non violent thriller drama. Not silly or filled with unnecessary twists and turns. This feel good thriller is good even the 2nd time I watched it. The only thing that doesn't make sense is how any husband could want to get rid of such a beautiful wife!Attractive locations and settings in New Orleans and Washington State - liked the waterfront house.If you haven't seen it - it's worth a watch for sure. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable formula thriller","Date":"20 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Poor old Libby (Ashley Judd), framed for killing her husband (Bruce Greenwood). And he isn't even dead, I bet. When she's released on parole she goes looking for him (with the intention of knocking him off since, as she's already served her time for killing him, and under double jeopardy she can't be tried again for the same thing). Unfortunately, her parole officer (Tommy Lee Jones) is a suspicious so-and-so, and is off in hot pursuit of her when she absconds on the trail of naughty hubby.You probably have a good idea from all this where this movie is going to go, and the likelihood is that you won't be far wrong. But not every film has to be original - indeed, we often find the familiar very reassuring. And this is a reassuring film, assembled professionally, attractively performed, and slickly delivered. There are no huge surprises, but that doesn't mean that you won't be entertained. "},{"Title":"Based on a false legal premise!","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The movie is based on a false premise that is well known A convicted criminal cannot benefit from the crime. Yet in this terrible movie, the convicted murderer gets $2,000,000 from her victim's life insurance policy. The movie gets even worse from there, except that Ashley Judd is beautiful eye-candy.That is the only comment I wish to make since none of the other comments even alludes to this important point. You can also add that the Supreme Court has ruled that even an innocent person does not have the right to escape from prison or run from parole, let alone commit crimes as Ahley Judd does, including stealing a gun from her parole officer and carrying it on a plane (which is not explained).In summary, this movie goes beyond stupid. Every legal point is wrong. So how can any intelligent movie goer enjoy it? "},{"Title":"Did I write this script?","Date":"26 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Double Jeopardy is typical Hollywood kitsch. It's a TV-movie, specially made for housewives who probably haven't got much else to do but watching a tearjerker or two each day, next to their favorite soap opera's of course.Hollywood seems to have a formula for this kind of movies which is used time after time. Normally they haven't got a cast with any known actors in it and then they call it a TV-movie, but this time they were able to get Ashley Judd and Tommy Lee Jones for their movie. Not that it helped the movie to get to a higher level. It's still incredibly predictable.It all starts with the perfect little family. Man, wife and one kid who all live together as happy as possible. They've got a beautiful house at the beach and are going to buy a sailing boat. Of course they first want to make a little trip with it to be sure. And than it all happens. They have a little party and get drunk. Later at night she wakes up, her husband is missing and she is covered with his blood. She finds a knife on the deck and picks it up. Of course the coast guard spots her exactly on the moment that she's got the knife in her hand. His body is never found but they do find out that he had a life insurance worth 2 million dollar. She is convicted of murdering him and has to go to jail. Because she is no longer able to take care of her son, she asks a friend to adopt him. After a few months she never sees him again... her friend has moved and didn't let her know where they are now. She finds out that her husband isn't dead, that he lives with her friend and her son in San Fransisco... She's furious now and wants her kid back and wants to take revenge on her husband... which is exactly what she will do the day she is free on parole. What follows is a catch-me-if-you-can game between her, her husband and her parole officer which is so predictable that you think you wrote everything yourself. Of course she finds him, kills her husband and is reunited with her kid who doesn't ask too many questions about the fact that his mommy came back from the death to rescue him out of the claws of his evil dad...My advice to every person that likes a good thriller only watch it when you are able to switch off your brain for a couple of hours. Otherwise you'll be annoyed by all the flaws in the script and the many sugar sweet moments. The only thing I liked was the funeral with the brass band in New Orleans, that was really cool to watch. But that just isn't enough to save this thriller. I give it a 5/10. This could have been so much better. "},{"Title":"a few too many familiar elements","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Contrived thriller almost plays out like a female version of The Fugitive. Judd is convicted for the murder of her husband and while incarcerated learns that he's still alive and that she can't be tried for the same crime twice. Upon her release from prison, she seeks revenge while eluding parole officer Jones&#x97;who seems to be doing a more sentimental version of Samuel Gerard. If you can ignore the artificial plot and the film's conventional story elements then it's a decent way to pass the time; still, it's awfully derivative and adds little to make it truly memorable. A good showcase for actress Judd, though co-star Jones has done this before and better. **½ "},{"Title":"Jeopardy my a..!!!","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Well the title here is somehow suggesting to me that this film is a thriller and it is in a way, though not in the way you suspect a thriller about a murder to be. It is more about a woman who loses her son and tries to get him back after getting out of jail. This however does not mean the film is bad, on the contrary, it is good and I can very much recommend you to go and watch it. It has nothing to do with someone really being in Jeopardy or something as the title suggests (doesn't it sound like a cheap action flick's title?). But maybe that is because I'm foreign, but hey the title of the film is explained and after that I understood better what this film was about.The fact that this movie is good is especially to be credited to Tommy Lee Jones and Ashley Judd, who make great performances in that film. Tommy Lee Jones is kind of funny in his very own way and Ashley Judd is just so believable I can't believe it. For it does often happen that when someone cries in a movie I think, OH MY GOD, this sucks, the actor stinks, not with her. The whole acting the motives, everything is convincing and real.8 out of 10 "}{"Title":"It has the blood, the twists, and Judd, but that's not enough to survive the clumsy direction","Date":"30 September 2012","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Double Jeopardy (1999)A twisting twisted tale full of improbabilities and routine filming. You'll probably keep watching to see what happens but what happens isn't much different than a hastily shot television drama. Ashley Judd is excellent if not transcendent here as the leading character, and she plays a variety of kinds of woman (the same woman, but in very different circumstances). Tommi Lee Jones is excellent and not transcendent, as well, and is only in parts of the second half in a role that's sort of too familiar if you've seen the much better The Fugitive.So what gives it anything worth the mutton? A promise of clarity and retribution. Judd is accused, we assume incorrectly, of killing her husband. The authorities decide to go along and throw her in jail for six years for murder even though there is no body.Naturally it's not so simple. And the pursuit, after her release, is part revenge and part, Oh, come on. What it lacks in believability it tries to make up for in excess (the cars on the ferry for a start). Give Judd credit, she makes the most of the action. She is steely and determined in a way we like. She's our hero, after all.The sensational follows the unlikely and eventually all is resolved, with a couple last unimpressive twists. Yeah, you get the idea, it's about the twisting and not the terrible fact that this woman lost years of her life and can't get back together with her son. The truth here would be intensely emotional even before the last tear-jerking scene, but this movie is hell bent at being murderously clever we never quite get absorbed.Too bad. Polanski, Hitchcock, or even Fincher would have made this a chilling thriller. "},{"Title":"Worthless MST3K Fodder","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"      Where do I start? The unbeleivability factor for 1. It is just not beleiveable that Ashley Judds character would be convicted without a body. I mean they never even tested the blood on the ship! Maybe it was pigs blood. and 2, I think Judds character is TOO damn stupid to deserve any sympathy from the audience, I mean if you woke up, covered in blood and your spouse is gone and you find a bloody knife on the deck, and you PICK THE KNIFE UP, would you expect us to be sympathetic????? Judd blows her cover to her husband which Anyone can see is the dumbest thing you can do in her position.    Judd is out of Place here, so is Tommy Lee Jones. And I'll point out another flaw, this movie is NOT about Double Jeopardy,True, DJ is a concept that is Discussed but it really has no bearing on the films ending either!!!!     Avoid this movie at all costs, Ashley judd studied in the Hollywood School of Acting... like an idiot 1/10  "},{"Title":"Even besides the fact that the entire premise of Double Jeopardy was legally flawed, the movie still stunk.","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Bad acting, bad writing, and of course the legal flaws, almost made this movie unbearable to watch. If not for the looks of Ashley Judd I may have actually walked out. Notice I said looks, not acting ability.Judd plays Libby Parsons, a woman with a young son and a successful husband. But one night while on board a small boat, she wakes up to find her husband missing, and herself accused of killing him. After being convicted of his murder and being sent to prison, she finds out that he's still alive. So when she gets out on parole 6 years later, she sets out to find her husband, kill the b**tard, and get back her son. I suppose written that way, the movie doesn't sound too terrible. But the name of the movie is Double Jeopardy. As we all know, either from actual knowledge or watching enough cop and lawyer movies, double jeopardy means that you can't be tried for the same crime twice. There are exceptions of course, but in simple English, that's it. So while in prison, a compassionate murderer tells Libby that since she's already been convicted of her husband's murder, she can rightfully go kill and him there's nothing the government can do. Well all I have to say to that is WRONG!!!First, since she didn't really kill him the first time, if she kills him for real, she's not really being tried for the same crime. Different act, different circumstances, different murder. Second of all, she was initially convicted in Washington state. If she kills him in another state, she can be convicted in that state since the two states are separate sovereigns. Third, she could be tried in federal court for Civil Rights violations (think Rodney King beating). Also, if you have a $2 million insurance policy on your husband, with you as a beneficiary, if you kill him, you're NOT getting the money! No insurance company would pay you for that, it's ridiculous even thinking about it. How many more people would kill their spouses if they knew once they got out of jail they're have money waiting for them? And how the hell is she out on parole after only 6 years? Every time a legal issue was brought up it was brought up wrong and it annoyed me more and more. I am the king of suspending beliefs when going to see a movie, but when the main plot point, the title of the damn film, is flawed, it burns me.So, you might ask, all that legal stuff aside, how was the film? Well, it still stunk. Ashley Judd may be one of the most beautiful actresses working today, but I never realized until now how lousy an actor she is. None of her emotions and facial expressions ever matched the scene she was in. Her range as an actress needs to be expanded somehow before I could ever believe that she was capable of any of what happened in this film. And the dialogue? A sampling Do you know who I am honey? They told me you were dead. No, I'm not. As a friend of mine said, If I were 10 years old, and someone I was told was dead all of a sudden turned up at my soccer game, I'd be running the other way in a hurry. The scenes in prison seemed unrealistic. I've never been in a women's prison before, but I can't believe a bunch of murderers, female or not, are going around baking cakes for each other. Tommy Lee Jones was the only saving grace in this film and he wasn't even in it that much.So overall, I thought Double Jeopardy was a waste of time. I apologize if this review sounds biased based on a flawed legal premise, but I think even if I was able to get past that, the movie was still bad. I'd suggest seeing something else instead.  "},{"Title":"Double Jeopardy? I Think Not!","Date":"13 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I admit that I'm no lawyer, but I do think that I understand the concept of double jeopardy and frankly, the title of this movie (and the scenario around which it revolves) just doesn't ring true. There's no secret here, so I might as well lay it on the line. The whole premise here is that Libby is convicted of murdering her husband, but was actually set up by him. She goes to prison, he assumes a new identity. She gets told that once she gets out she can just seek him out and kill him and no one can do anything about it because she's already been tried for his murder and can't be again. Double jeopardy. Wait a minute! Double jeopardy means not being tried for the same crime twice, but surely if he's still alive and she murders him again that's a different crime. She can't be tried for the killing on the boat again but anything else is fair game. So, that just really irritated me the whole way through and made the premise of the movie ridiculous.As to the rest of the movie, quite honestly it came across to me as a sort of Saturday afternoon made for TV movie (except that it was big screen), with a bit of a silly plot and performances that were average at best. In a way it's sort of a remake of The Fugitive, with Ashley Judd playing Libby, the convicted murderer on the run trying to prove her innocence, and Tommy Lee Jones as Travis - as in The Fugitive a law enforcement official (this time a parole officer) out to get her. There isn't anything particularly special about this. At best - 5/10 "},{"Title":"I lost on Jeopardy, baby!  Oooo-oo-oo-oooo!","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Except for the physical attributes of Ashley Judd, I can't think of a reason to recommend this cheapjack revenger. The whole thing reeks of cheesy legal high concept and low production, with Judd playing a woman set up to take the fall for her husband's murder, and her hunt for him after she is paroled. This is the sort of flick you really need to not see in the theater or not rent from the video store so that you can feel that the two hours you spend watching it on a network is all the expense you'll have to incur.I watched it while recovering from the flu . . . and the stuff I was hacking up was more interesting than the movie. "},{"Title":"That what happens when you let Ashley Judd headline a movie","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Don't get me wrong, Ashley Judd is a decent actress (see A Time To Kill, Heat) but that's just silly giving hear lead billing on a movie, unless you have an outstanding script, which this didn't have.The movie revolves around one of the silliest laws on the planet- that you can't be charged for the same felony twice. Early in the movie Judd is unfairly charged and convicted for the murder of her husband. As she starts doing some detective work of her own, she discovers her husband is indeed alive and was behind this horrible act. Trouble is, her investigation work is retarded by her parole officer, Tommy Lee Jones. The good news though is that if she finds him, she can blow his brains out and not be charged for murder. Sweet! Will she find her husband? Will Tommy Lee once again be forced to play an almost identical role as the one of Deputy Gerrard in The Fugitive? If you're unemployed or have way too much spare time, hire it and see. "},{"Title":"Better if done by Hitchcock","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I feel this movie had the potential to be great. The actors were great, but lacking great direction. Now, if Alfred Hitchcock had stepped in as director, this film would have been as good as To Catch a Thief or Rear Window. But no, it sucks because the director sucked. He had no insight on how to make a good suspense film flow correctly. Ans how could anyone not have realized working on this film that you can't take a gun on a plane? I know this was pre 9-11, but even before that you couldn't take a gun on a plane. Was she just so cute that no one thought she would have a gun? Yeah, right!And the whole Matty story plot was sooooo fake. I did not feel the chemistry at all. I don't know whether Judd is a mom or not, but she sure didn't act like a mom towards Matty. And who the heck calls their kid Matty? It was annoying! Also, he was suppose to be 2 years old in the opening scene and he looked more 4 or 5. So it just wasn't cute to have the kid singing his ABC's when he should already know them at 5 (plus, the kid actor looked annoyed he was even in the movie to begin with). This film did a poor job depicting prison and I feel they skipped over the most essential part of the film- her six years in prison. She wouldn't be the same Elizabeth within those six years. The movie could have expanded on her prison life for more than 3 scenes. I feel like the scene where she is running in the courtyard and using the weight machines was just thrown in as an after thought. Oh, she's gotta get tough now so she can kill her husband. Yeah, okay. Lame scene. Plus, we never see any guards???? Were they just at a big summer camp for criminals???The whole beginning scenes were poorly written as well,and once again, there was just NO chemistry between Judd and that Bruce guy. (he is old). Yuck, the idea gives me the shivers. A suspense film is suppose to leave the audience in suspense but the audience knew what was going to happen every step of the the way! It was lame, and so tiring to watch that I got a headache. I would only watch this fluff if you like to watch Ashley Judd. Otherwise, it's a big waste of your time. Try High Crimes instead or a Hitchcock film. I only gave it 3 stars for effort and Ashely Judd. She tried. "},{"Title":"Great Interpretation","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  At first I was a bit skeptical about this movie. I didn't know that itwas possible to develop a full length movie from the hit gameshow by Merv Griffin, Jeopardy! Although I was a bit disappointedthat Alex Trebek wasn't in the film, I grew even more disappointedwhen I realized that the movie was an unbelievable waste. Thelead female character was so annoying that you didn't really carewhat happened one way or another. Tommy Lee Jones was in thissh*t movie, but I honestly can't remember anything he contributedto the film. A terrible waste. I would recommend the TV game showinstead of this full length feature. Alex Trebek is must be madabout this whole thing. "},{"Title":"Predictable, shallow and without any flavor.","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  That is how I would characterize this movie. You've seen it before and you know what's coming throughout the entire movie. I feel like a patrol cop telling the crowd keep moving, there's nothing to see here.Ashley Judd gives another lackluster performance as a well-to-do wife who gets sent to prison for 6 years. You'd think she was sent to the time out corner instead. Judd portrays the same character leaving prison as she DOES when she enters. Wait, I take that back. Her character does do some sit ups to prove that she's tough now. Please .And you'd think this was another in the Fugitive series like US Marshalls was. Tommy Lee Jones needs to watch out that he doesn't make another movie where he's chasing a convict, or that's all he's going to be known for. Jones is a great character actor, and I love his work, but nothing he can do can help this lame duck of a script.The final nail in the coffin for me was the finale, which is shot in New Orleans. I'm from Louisiana, so perhaps I'm more sensitive than most, but few movies get the accents right. One of the few movies that come to mind that does get it right is Heaven's Prisoners. Suffice to say that Double Jeopardy butchers the accent. Not to mention the fact that everything is set in the French Quarter, as if that's the only thing IN New Orleans.Overall, this film is nothing but a series of cliches and cop outs. None of the characters have any depth. They are simply cardboard cutouts set against a paper thin story. If you're looking for a movie to pass the time, or if you need to pacify a teenager for an hour and a half, then this is your movie.  "},{"Title":"I'll take Abstract Art for a thousand","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is about Libby, a rich wife with the perfect life... until her husband disappears on a romantic private cruise for two. The coast guard show up and nab Libby - covered in blood, standing out on deck in the cold night air with a knife in her hand. She tells the police she doesn't know what happened, they don't find his body, and they decide to go ahead and try her for his murder. Why? Because he was loaded, and now that he's dead- she gets all of his money. Though she didn't do it, she's convicted anyway and sentenced to prison. While she's away, she discovers that her husband is not very dead at all and becomes friends with an ex-lawyer who informs her that when she is released she can legally kill him. So, she's released, and she goes on an impossible mission to get her son back.An elegant opening in a gorgeous setting that seems to give way to a slasher-flick subplot reels us in... but like a fisherman with a small catch, which we are, this movie throws away what it's got. After that terrific beginning, it's all a downhill experience. It dangles Libby's revenge in our face again and again, never paying off, making us frustrated, until we don't care about her character. The compensation for this stalling process is ridiculous. This movie will not just try your feelings toward law and order, but your patience as well. On the plus side, it's not very boring. Performances are good. If you like action, you could do worse. If you like drama, you'll get plenty. If you'd rather think and be satisfied, pass this up.** out of **** "}{"Title":"A Wrong Premise and a Horrid Movie","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** This plot couldn't be more lame if it was a circus pony carrying Al Sharpton across the state of Texas.  The premise of the movie has no legal validity, of course, so I didn't see the movie in the theatre or rent it since I had a feeling that it would thoroughly disgust me.  I was right.  I haven't seen this much crap since the septic tank quit working.I like Ashley Judd and her acting is fine in this movie.  The direction is also well-done and the movie has some technical merit.  Neither however can rescue this dog of a plot.  For crying out loud, didn't anyone READ the plot before signing on for this movie?--- Spoiler Warning ---Remember that campy Batman and Robin series from the 1960s where the criminal gets the good guys, but instead of just killing them, contrives a death that lets them free?  Well, believe it or not, they stoop that low. But that's not enough. There is every other plot cliche here, too.  It has the gratuitous good guys turns his back on the bad guy and gets popped, the good guy is going to get it, but the other good guy that got shot bounces back to life.  The only one left out was the hooker with a good heart.  No, come to think of it, there was a little one of those but they spared us the development of that subplot.And, surprise, surprise, mommy finds her 12 year old son after a 6 year absence and, of course, he recognizes her instantly.  Yes, I had tears running down my face, but it was the sadness of knowing that a lot of money and talent was wasted on this horrid piece of cinema, not because I was touched in any way.  "},{"Title":"Double stupidity!","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie with my Mom when it was out in the theaters.  My Mom enjoyed it.  But I ended up ever wondering why I even sat through this celluloid piece of pathetic garbage!  Ashley Judd plays this woman who gets 'wrongfully accused' by her husband who had faked his murder.  Then she goes to jail and befriends her fellow inmates and takes advice from one of them that her husband was still alive, then she escapes and seeks help from Tommy Lee Jones to find him and then gets the privledge of killing her husband. That doesn't make any sense at all if you ask me!  I am so tired of all these 'victimized women' movies.Ashley Judd is a very talented, if not overrated actress whose acting talents were obviously wasted here on Double Jeopardy.  Same goes for Tommy Lee Jones, whose character takes his 'tough-on-crime' additude to extreme measures.  They could've done a better movie that's actually worth watching! Hasn't this 'wrongfully accused innocent victim goes to jail and escapes and seeks help from some tough cop to find the real killer' been used enough? That plot has been so overrused in movies that it's virtually incoherent! Just watch any of those Made-For-TV movies on Lifetime about victimized women and see what I mean!There was even a scene where we see Ashley Judd on the boat and she sees 'blood' all around and she picks up a knife just when the coast guard and police come to the scene. (Sarcasm) Really smart of her to pick up that knife!Double Jeopardy is another movie up on my lists of Worst Movies of all Time.  If there was a section for 'Trashy Movie Genre' this one would definitely be up there!  Double Jeopardy should get no stars!  I should've seen Random Hearts instead. "},{"Title":"Insulting to one's intelligence","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Double Jeopardy has been compared to The Fugitive in that it features Tommy Lee Jones on the trail of a wrongly accused spouse-killer, but there the similarity ends. The Fugitive was a tightly directed tense thriller which kept you on your seat until the end. DJ is about as taut as soggy custard. This film is badly directed, has gaping plot holes, insipid script, totally lacks credibility, features poor acting & is simply laughable in places. It is about as tense as a children's nursery rhyme. Tommy Lee Jones is completely wasted. Ashley Judd is extremely unconvincing as the wronged woman. With the veneer of a low budget made for TV movie, DJ is utterly contrived from start to finish and features the obligatory mawkish rubbishy ending. At least it was over.Some major annoyancesRight from the start it's obvious slimy husband & equally slimy best friend are up to no good and I had not seen any trailers or knew the plot. A good film does not make it so obvious so early on.Ashley Judd does not look or behave like she has spent 6 years in jail. She comes out looking rather fresh. Why didn't she contact her lawyer when she realised her husband was still alive?How could she have been convicted so easily without a body?How convenient that she gets parole so easily. Why does no one hear or see a car falling off a boat? How did she manage to swim so far ashore without being noticed?Ashley manages to get hold of an Armani dress but where the hell is she staying & how can she afford to look so good?In short, don't waste your money on this one.  "},{"Title":"Sloppy but Entertaining","Date":"9 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" After she is framed for killing her husband, who fakes his death, a woman seeks revenge once out of prison. The story is quite far-fetched and little attention is paid to detail. The writers are even clueless about the meaning of double jeopardy, wrongly suggesting that it applies in the case presented here. Despite these shortcomings, however, this is a darn entertaining little thriller, swiftly-paced under the direction of Beresford, who's not known for this kind of film. Judd, on the other hand, has made a career out of this kind of film, and she is fine here. Jones plays a variation on his role in The Fugitive, and there are parallels between the two films. Greenwood makes a good villain. "},{"Title":"Laughably Far Fetched","Date":"13 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The premise of this film is a good one. It is well set up and interesting from the start. It's downhill from there on. While there are slick action sequences and lots of close calls, the possibility of these things taking place is preposterous. First of all, no body and a conviction. It almost never happens. Aren't there any forensics? What about the blood? Was it his. The prison scenes are so antiseptic with the two buddies becoming the immediate friends. Then there is old bulldog Tommy Lee Jones (one of my favorite actors) with his own ghosts. The downfall of the film, however, is that it defies the the law of gravity. The whole thing winds down to where we are supposed to believe that the diminutive Ashley Judd is able to accomplish all this because she ran around in the rain and pumped a little iron in prison. By the way, does anyone know how loud a gun is in a closed space when fired right near one's ear? It's just another one of those questions that makes this whole thing ludicrous. "},{"Title":"Perks Up Once It Becomes Basically Tommy Lee Jones and The Fugitive Part 3","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I went to Double Jeopardy at least expecting some woman-empowerment right-on's and was disappointed. Rather, I spent the first half thinking how much better were such movies as some noir murder set-up or by Hitchcock but director Beresford hasn't learned those crafty thriller lessons.Once Tommy Lee Jones entered, things perked up, particularly once The Chase started.I particularly liked the New Orleans scenes, especially a dizzying cat-and-mouse hunt down Bourbon St. with different strains of local music competing on the street (though I couldn't stay to see the credits to confirm what the specifics were).My older son said that this movie is basically Tommy Lee Jones and The Fugitive Part 3 and he's not wrong.(originally written 11/21/1999) "},{"Title":"VERY FLAWED Concept...NOT possible!","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The problem with this movie is this Even if she served her time for a crime she never committed, upon her release, by killing him in the end, with a gun, in the office (an office, correct?) ... it ISN'T the same crime and she could be tried again for it (hence, it would NOT be double jeopardy).Yes, what Bruce Greenwood's character did was horrible, but the legal system looks at the criminal act and the intent, NOT who the victim is.So the system screwed up and sent an innocent person away for a crime they did not commit? That is irrelavant, just as is the victim's identity. The system would say yes, we made a mistake, but even so, you took it upon yourself to ACTUALLY commit a crime. She would go to prison because this ISN'T THE SAME CRIME and she CAN be tried for it.She would be tried for the ACTUAL crime and circumstances of shooting him, just as she was tried for the crime and circumstances of murdering him on the boat with a knife.All in all this is a fairly engaging movie, but in the end it would have made more sense if she just killed him and got away with no one finding out.Tommy Lee Jones allowing her to kill him in the end because the law says it is double jeopardy is dumb, because it ISN'T the same crime, and she CAN be, and that makes him look stupid. "},{"Title":"Judd's beauty almost overcomes plot","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Ashley Judd is so beautiful that it almost overcomes the flawed plot.SPOILER WARNING!Many people have already noted that the double jeopardy clause of the fifth amendment doesn't work the way they say in this movie. Also, escaping from custody is a felony in most states, and being innocent of the crime one is escaping over is not a defense to the charge of escape. (Not to mention the numerous other crimes Libby commits during her quest.) For the happy ending to occur, it seems to me that there would have to be pardons issued by the governors of at least 3 states. And the studio badly compromised any possible suspense in this film by the trailers and TV ads. I guess they figure that if you don't go see the movie, there's no point in suspense anyway. But it's a distressing trend. This film was still OK in spite of its flaws just because of Judd and Jones. Grade C "},{"Title":"Chasing a child through a graveyard isn't a good idea....","Date":"12 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Judd gets convicted by everyone in the world for killing Greenwood and gets locked away for however long she is sentenced to.Years go past, though we are not really told narratively, but Tommy Lee Jones pops up halfway through, and by now Judd has realised that Greenwood is alive, so goes after him, after all, some woman in jail told her what the films title meant, and she wants to enforce it.Jone helps her by chasing her all across the country, and just letting her go as he gets close to her....It's not a bad film by any means, but Judd seemed to appear in every film in this sub genre from 1997 till about 2003.The sub genre is a woman in peril, supported by some very prolific actor, and another not so prolific, but still good actor in the support, see also, Kiss The Girls, High Crimes, Twisted etc.It's really a film that has to be taken with a large pinch of salt, because of the gaping, gaping plot holes and silly supporting characters who offer nothing but hindrance and good advice.But for a thriller released in January, its fast paced and Jones is as good as always. "},{"Title":"Painful, To Say The Very Least.","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I was forced to sit thorough this cheap garbage that was somehow passed off as cinema. I honestly had to get up midway because it was so unbearable. Unfortunately my companion for that night had the car, so I was stuck and had to go back in and keep watching the mindless trash.This was just so bad. I'm really not exaggerating. On every possible level. There's too much wrong with the picture to mention here, but let's just say, compared to this, Vice Academy 4 seems like Citizen Kane. "}{"Title":"utter, utter tripe","Date":"5 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  watched this on the box the other night while recovering from the flu...wish i hadn't. its so bad it almost gave me a relapse! its a sad reflection on the american film market that this sort of movie makes an awful lot of money. no wonder other trash is churned out. "},{"Title":"Incoherent, inplausible, and bad- even with low expectations","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Are we truly to belive that Judd looks that good, with stylish clothes to boot, on the run?  This movie was really, really awful.  But I think, in a way, one needs to watch bad movies to know when you see a good movie.  So in that way I guess I'm thankful.  Now I just need to see The Haunting for the full bad, bad movie genre. "},{"Title":"A real howler of a movie.","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a truly wretched film.  It is essentially a TV Movie of the Week projected on the big screen.  There is not a thing about this film that is cinematic.  The screenwriting is on the nose and the directing is pedestrian.  But enough about it's merits.  Though Ashley Judd has never looked better, her acting...well, how to put this?  Let's just say she doesn't do anything you haven't already seen Judith Light or Melissa Gilbert do. "},{"Title":"thumbs down","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This might be the most poorly acted movie in history.  Ashley Judd is awful.  The plot is poorly developed, probably so that they could keep the attention of movie dolts across the nation.  Perhaps the only thing worse than Ashley Judd as Libby is the writing.  Spare yourself... Don't see this flick "},{"Title":"A tired, generic thriller, with nothing to sell","Date":"23 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" As I recall, while watching Double Jeopardy, I was resting my head in my hand from boredom, switching hands every five minutes, probably to keep me from falling asleep. This movie is dull. It has its moments of moderate surprise and drama, but these moments do little more than grab your attention, without raising the pulse, (as all good thrillers do). Double Jeopardy is otherwise yawn provoking.This movie doesn't even try to be anything worthy of an audience members time. It's so darn derivative and recycled. I suppose one's like or dislike of the film depends on how many thrillers he/she has seen. I've seen many such films, Ergo I didn't set my expectations too high, but I was still disappointed. Ashley Judd's, performance is acceptable especially considering what little character there is for her to play. It is a role that mostly demands strong facial expressions and being physically fit for close ups and medium shots, (wide shots go to her stunt double). Unfortunately she doesn't save that movie, and for that matter, I don't think anything can. It's a fairly useless thriller, which has no ambition and no ability to generate tension. In fact it barely keeps you awake. "},{"Title":"We find the defendant guilty...","Date":"10 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Ashley Judd plays Libby, a woman wrongfully convicted of murdering her husband, who, as it turns out, is still alive. Therefore, according to double jeopardy, once she gets out of prison, she can kill him and the law cannot punish her. Sound like a good premise for a fantastic thriller? That's what I thought. The result was a sore disappointment. Watching it in my law class, I noticed that I was more and more fascinated by my desk than the film.The film has its redeeming qualities a rather neat stunt is pulled off on a ferry (it delivers minimal, if any, thrills, but is sort of neat), and a complicated car manoeuvre in traffic is successfully pulled off. The redeeming qualities end there.A huge complaint I have is the film's ridiculous premise. An inmate tells Libby about double jeopardy and how she can use it to her advantage, claiming she was a lawyer. I barely managed to refrain from bursting out laughing. Ridiculous! As someone with a slightly above average knowledge of law, the film's premise was ridiculous. You are tried in a court of law on a certain charge based on certain facts. Example you have been convicted of killing Bob Jones on April 16th, 1987. Change the circumstances, and a new charge surfaces. Example You killed Bob Jones on January 27th, 2001. The film's premise is, therefore, hard to swallow, and emerges as preposterous, not something that a mere suspension of disbelief will cure.Now, let me address the film and its problems in general. We open as Mary Sue&#x85; I mean, Libby, is given a present by her husband a fishing boat she's fallen in love with. On the romantic cruise they take, the husband is killed. So far so good. Here is where Libby's Mary-Sue-ishness comes into play she bursts out uncontrollably in tears at all the right (i.e. dramatic/emotional) bits and is cold and emotionless at all the other bits, other than one or two bits of Mary-Sue-ish, giggly laughter. Far from complex, she is a ridiculous cardboard caricature who is hard to sympathise with. After being found guilty (of course), she goes through a ridiculously fast, female version of The Shawshank Redemption (consider two black women bet cartons of cigarettes as to how long she will last in prison. Of course, in the 2 minutes Libby is at the prison, with no transition, they become immense friends, one of the women even making a cake for her son's birthday. When she exclaims she is innocent, the women react with false cheers of support. The six years in prison, where the psychological damage to her could've been shown in a powerful way, is glanced at in passing in a few minutes. We see Libby train herself physically once she finds out that she can actually kill her husband.) She then falls into the hands of Tommy-Lee Jones as her parole officer. She makes the stupid move of trying to break into a school to find out where her son now lives. Tommy catches her, and a chase ensues, where it shows that all of Libby's training has been completely useless. Gosh. A shame, ain't it? Libby naturally escapes custody (in a neat concept for a stunt off a ferry, but one that delivers no thrills). She then goes off to pursue her son. Long and short of it is she eventually kills her husband (who tried to kill her earlier and then one more time right before his death) in self-defence. (Of course, she's painted in rather jolly colours, as she doesn't plan on killing him, giggling with glee when her gunshot misses him.) The film ends on a sickening, syrupy-sweet reunion moment between Libby and her son.The Verdict Alfred Hitchcock, the master of suspense, came up with his infamous bomb theory, distinguishing between shock and suspense. Double Jeopardy walks around wearing the label of a thriller, but its only shocks (not thrills) come from a) gunshots the audience knows are coming, but not exactly when OR b) Sudden, noisy appearances of the bad guy that are obviously coming, but again, the audience doesn't exactly know the precise time. Poor performances from Ashley Judd and Tommy-Lee Jones (who reprises an essentially identical role from The Fugitive, chasing after an innocent person) add to this incompetent mess of a movie.Overall Rating 2/10 "},{"Title":"So very bad","Date":"17 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Dear Lord in heaven do I hate this film! There I said it! To misquote Mystery Science Theater 3000 I want to hurt this film, but I don't think I can hurt it as much as it has hurt me.There is not a second of this film I cared about Ashley Judd's character, even when she was accused of her husbands murder... of course she didn't actually do it but I still would have loved to see her sent to the chair, does that make me a bad person? Anyway, when it all looks like it could be going south in her murder case she asks her BFF to look after her son. Sure her parents are still around but apparently they are such hideous creatures we don't even need to be told why the very idea of leaving him with them is unthinkable.Ashley is found guilty and goes to jail and after a few months both her friend and her son disappear. After tracking down a phone number Ashely calls her (former) gal pal and demands to talk to her son... only to have her son shout Daddy when Ashley's supposedly dead hubby wanders through the door.Ashley then turns to the worlds worst lawyer (who is also doing time... most would consider this as a big clue as to how bad this woman's legal advice would be) who tells her that, because of the legal principle of double jeopardy she is now free to kill her husband, as she has already been found guilty and served time for the crime. I cannot even begin to explain all that is wrong with that statement... just look it up for yourself.Armed with this new and INCREDIBLY incorrect knowledge Ashley get paroled and sets off to find her hubby, her slut former friend and her unattractive child. First stop of course is her parents for money.Hang on! Is this the same parents that she appeared to have cut out of her life and refused to let have custody of her son earlier? Apparently yes... and despite living what appears to be a small and slightly run down farm Ashley's mom comes through big time, handing over her life savings without so much as an I-told-you-so! According to this film people who work hard and will give you the shirt off their back are to be avoided...Anyway, Ashley tracks her husband down (on the way finding out that he may have killed her former friend in an insurance scam), takes a few photos, sends them to the authorities and clear her name. She sells her story for millions and goes on Oprah to promote her autobiographer.... just kidding.Of course what you would really do in this situation is confront your two timing, probably murderous spouse and promise to leave him alone as long as you get your kid... even though it means both you and your child will be on the run for the rest of your lives for breaching your parole.... Oh and did I mention that you agree to meet up to discuss the details of the arrangement in a graveyard? For God's sake, hubby should have gone for broke and demanded she meet him in a fireworks factory, covered in petrol and holding a lighted match! The film drags on to it's conclusion, with the only real entertainment being the discussions you have with your friends as to whether Tommy Lee Jones was actually ever on set, or if they just edited in scenes from his performance in The Fugitive directly into this piece of crap "},{"Title":"A Howler","Date":"15 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I watched this film with my son and we howled at the clumsiness and the transparency of the plot progressions and the stupidity of the characters. I don't usually like to figure out where a movie is going, preferring to let it take me along for the ride. But in Double Jeopardy there is no ignoring the foreshadowing and you have to sit and wait for these dumb-clucks to figure out what's going on or blunder around to move the movie along according to the screenplay (was there really one for this mess?). Examples include Libby picking up the bloody knife just as the Coast Guard arrives to arrest her; Libby learns her husband isn't dead by placing a phone call to her best friend who has custody of her son, where the son blurts out Daddy! as the father enters the room at that moment; Maddy, the son must never wonder why Mommy is in prison after visiting her there; Libby doesn't contact her attorney or anyone else after learning hubby is alive to help her beat what turns out to be a 6 year 1st degree murder rap (6 years?); Libby's confession at her parole hearing, which is held in a gymnasium, with her confession convincing the parole board to release her; her mother (why wasn't she taking care of the son?) digging up money from her veggie patch to give to her fugitive daughter; getting names and addresses to trace culprits using the flimsiest of charades; characters just wandering New Orleans and discovering one another. These are but a few of contrivances used to sell this film. It was good for laughs. I stopped laughing though when I found out this film grossed almost $120 million dollars. There are, apparently, suckers born every minute. As Travis (TL Jones) says to Libby near the end Dammit, woman, if you don't get out of this car and go to your kid, I'm going to have you arrested... for stupidity. Case closed. "},{"Title":"Plot fall apart towards the end","Date":"15 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I must admit I was enjoying the film up to a point where I just couldn't accept to story as realistic. From that point, I get frustrated that the writer couldn't make a better effort to keep it together. I'm asking myself among many other things - Once she found him, why not report him, exonerate herself and put him in jail, and get the kid - She's on the run, and all she asks for is that she get her son, what the.., what then, go on the run with the child ?! - Could hubby possibly believe the final scene, put him in jail, and go into hiding!, why would you do that, report him, get his money from the hotelAnyway, didn't hang together for me. "},{"Title":"A complete flop of a thriller.","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film had me rolling my eyes within the first five minutes.  It's impossibly contrived, melodramatic, and just plain boring.Ashley Judd's character is wrongfully imprisoned for the killing of her own husband (who changes his name, moves across the country, and enjoys the comforts of a sizable fortune).  Out on parole, she discovers that, having already been tried for the murder, the 5th Amendment will allow her to execute him without legal consequence.  A reasonably intriguing premise for a film that has a lot of potential for discussing the ethical dilemma of revenge... unfortunately, that opportunity is wasted for the sake of cheap soap opera drama and stupid plot twists.  Only the most naive in the audience will be able to stomach any of it.To attempt to find a positive thing to say about this trainwreck of a film is difficult.  The best aspect you'll find is probably Ashley Judd, who does the best she can with a character of little intelligence and no development, surrounded by equally imbecilic supporting characters, in absolutely inane situations that require a superhuman suspension of disbelief to swallow.  The worst part is that the film seems to think highly of its own intelligence.  If it were intended as a parody, it may have at least had some comedic substance.  Alas, all the comedy is unintentional.This may possibly be the worst film I have ever seen. "}{"Title":"How does this movie suck? Let me count the ways...","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Actually, that would take too long and require me to relive the horror of having to watch this movie. Kudos to Ashley Judd, who tried so hard to make something out of this absolutely abhorrently bad script.I cannot stress enough how BAD this script was. The writers should not only be fired, but should be forced to rewatch this film over and over until they beg for mercy. They succeeded brilliantly in writing a script that Ed Wood would love to shoot. But this does at least show that even those who have no talent, no inspiration, and absolutely no sympathy for the poor, unsuspecting audience members who must sit through their work - even these men can apparently find jobs in Hollywood.Please, rent ANYTHING else. ANYTHING. (including Gator Bait and any and all sequels. Even those are probably better.)And btw, did anyone else notice that the director and writers were not featured anywhere in the closing credits? Perhaps by the end, they no longer wished to be connected in any way to this travesty of Hollywood. "},{"Title":"They threw out the formula...then they forgot the recipe...","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This thing is half-baked and full of holes.From the failed central conceit (that Louisiana couldn't convict her of a crime she wants to commit after Washington convicted her of the same crime which she didn't commit) to the poorly-cast children, Double Jeopardy stands as a symbol of getting a second helping of something you didn't order in the first place.Ashley Judd is predictable.  Tommy Lee Jones is wasted after his first scene.  The direction is random.  The cinematography involves inexplicable camera movements and jarring focussing changes (which, given the widescreen format, result in funhouse-mirror geometric distortion effects).  The screenplay, while occasionally hitting plot points, prefers to cut across them.  Every move is telegraphed, save the inexplicably convenient coincidences.  And just how much money did that old bat bury beneath her tomatoes? "},{"Title":"Waste of a rental...","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The movie had some plot, but was inappropriately distributed throughout the scenes. A horrible drama attempt by the cast. Ashley Judd makes Tori Spelling look like an oscar winner. Tommy Lee Jones could've contributed more, but unfortunately the script was dull enough for him to even star in it. He's a good actor, but disappointed me in this film. There is no suspense. I predicted each scene. They made prison for women look like a playground. I mean come on, they're styling each other's hair and eating chocolate cake. She was convicted of murder and she goes to sleep-away camp! The only good part was the sex scene...I give it a 10/10 (1 point split between story and acting, 9 points for Ashley's breasts) "},{"Title":"Ashley Dud strikes again.","Date":"7 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This film is fairly substandard. It boasts a reasonably talented cast who all do their job well, but the script is lacklustre, with certain situations seemingly implausible and the others derivative of other films of this ilk (which again usually star Ashley Judd or should I say Ashley Dud, bar 'Heat').As a thriller it doesn't really work. There's no real suspense that builds and after the first 45 minutes I was expecting the film to pick up pace until the final resolutions of the film, but instead it meanders along and I soon found myself becoming more and more disinterest with the characters and their motives as time drew on. I gave this film 4/10 (2*) as it is watchable fair, but if /I were you I wouldn't go into this film expecting much more. "},{"Title":"Love Ashley Judd but let's have some real suspense for a change","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I like Ashley Judd as well as any red blooded American boy might. Pretty, sexy and smart, especially when she talks dirty.But please, Mr Screenwriter, how about something a little riskier and a little more realistic. It's a foregone conclusion that Ashley is going to win and get her boy, but does she have to lay waste to everything and everybody that gets in her way? And suffer no adverse effects? Ashley was innocent to begin with. I'll give you that. However, her very short (6 years) prison stay for MURDER is questionable. She certainly is clever in finding leads on her dead husband, but how lucky can a girl get? Doesn't anyone else get any good fortune, even a bad guy? Interesting that Ashley knows exactly where the hinges are in her casket so she can blow them off easily. Also, her wonderful and stupid husband decides to kill her off but doesn't. He just stuffs her in a casket alive. Doesn't he know that she can easily get out of that one? But then that would be the end of the movie, right? What got me the most was her gross lack of gratitude to her parole officer. He saved her life literally twice and helped her to get her child and all he gets is thank you? And that only after she hit him over the head with a pistol right after he saved her life in the sinking car and while he was treading water and destroyed TWO of his cars and many, many other things. I don't suppose that he was in any danger of drowning was he? That would have put a new wrinkle on Ashley's plight now wouldn't it.We all sympathize with Ashley's character, but Tommy and the public did not do anything to justify the wake of destruction that she created.C'mon guys, lets do these things right from now on. Please? "},{"Title":"Film Making By Numbers","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" At the beginning of this film the heroine, Libby Parsons, is leading such an ideally happy life- a handsome, wealthy husband, a young son, a beautiful home set in magnificent scenery in Washington State- that we just know that she is headed for disaster. The crisis comes when she and her husband Nick are spending one weekend together on their yacht. Libby wakes up to find herself covered in blood and Nick missing. To make matters worse she is arrested and charged with his murder, the presumed motive being to profit from his life insurance. Although no body is ever found, Libby is convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment. While in prison, Libby comes to suspect that Nick is still alive, that he faked his own death and that he framed her for the crime in order to start a new life under a false name with her best friend Angela, to whom Libby entrusted the care of her son.The title Double Jeopardy relates to the rule of law which states that the same defendant cannot be tried twice for the same crime. It normally relates to situations where a defendant has already been acquitted of a crime, and means that he cannot be tried again for that crime even if fresh evidence of his guilt comes to light later. It also means that a defendant who has been convicted of an offence and punished cannot be re-tried and given a second punishment. The film-makers here, however, seek to give the doctrine a radically new interpretation. It is seriously suggested (by two characters who are supposedly legally qualified) that Libby, having been convicted of a crime which never actually took place, is now at liberty to commit that same crime in reality- in other words she has a licence to seek her husband and kill him.This is not an interpretation which any lawyer would place on the double jeopardy rule. (I note that no legal adviser is listed in the credits). I wondered if the film-makers had simply found an impressive legal-sounding title (possibly inspired by the classic film noir Double Indemnity, which concerns a woman who actually does murder her husband for insurance money) and then tried to concoct a plot which would fit it. Certainly, Libby, on being released on parole, does try and track Nick down, but we are never sure if she really does intend to kill him or merely wants to be reunited with her son. The novel legal doctrine is never actually put to the test in court.The obvious lack of care taken with the legal aspects of a crime thriller is symptomatic of what is wrong with this film. The whole thing is a derivative example of film-making-by-numbers, full of implausibilities and plot-holes. Why does Nick evolve such a complex plot in order to arrange his own disappearance? Why was a woman convicted of such a bloody murder given parole after only six years in jail? How does Libby manage to escape so easily from her probation officer? Why does he follow her all the way from Washington State to New Orleans to try and track her down after she jumps parole rather than leave that task to the police? The answer in each case is simply because the plot requires it.It was doubtless a blow to the filmmakers when Jodie Foster had to withdraw from the film due to her pregnancy, but I doubt if even an actress as gifted as she could have saved this film. The main problem is not the acting (all the actors, including Jodie's replacement Ashley Judd, were perfectly adequate) but the implausible plot and creaking script. Tommy Lee Jones has given some good performances in films such as The Fugitive and Heaven and Earth, but here, as Libby's alcoholic probation officer (and a former law professor)he seems wasted.The director Bruce Beresford is one of those foreign-born directors who seem to get trapped in a rut on moving to Hollywood. In his native Australia he was responsible for some original and challenging films such as Breaker Morant, an intelligent exploration of the morality of war; since moving to America in the 1980s he has made some good films (notably Driving Miss Daisy)but too much of his output is standard formulaic Hollywood fare. Double Jeopardy falls firmly into that category. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Dreadful, Predictable, Little Legal Research","Date":"23 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I guess I should say, out of an abundance of caution, that this contains a spoiler in the last paragraph, although it doesn't really since this is a spoiler only in a very general, broad sense. I doubt anyone reading this would really figure out exactly what happens, any more than one can surmise from simply reading the plot of this thoroughly boring, predictable film.This movie is simply dreadful. I gave it 2 stars simply because I know that, however bad this movie is, there are many worse. I just couldn't bring myself to give it more.The acting by Tommy Lee Jones is pretty good, as I would hope, and he is the only really good point about the whole movie.Otherwise, the basic plot is tired and it is thoroughly predictable.The one twist that they try to throw in, about double jeopardy protecting someone from being prosecuted twice for the same crime, is poorly used, poorly researched, and a rather weak addition which alone cannot save the otherwise lame plot. This is especially true since someone may also be able to kill another in self defence, a fact which, considering the bad husband's tendency for violence and self-preservation, logically could obviate the need to rely on the double-jeopardy protection at all. Therefore, by only turning to double jeopardy rather than self-defense to make the film original the makers are making only a meaningless, superficial change. Moreover, anyone with any legal education or knowledge of US government will understand the meaning of the title from the start and realize where they are going. Finally, had they really done their research, the makers might have discovered, and utilised, the fact that in the U.S., general police powers (for handling crimes such as simple murder) are vested in the states, and that while each state must apply the double-jeopardy rule for all crimes/convictions within its boundaries, they do not all apply it where the original crime and conviction occurred in another state. The makers ignored this point and yet they could have utilised it to make a much more interesting movie with an unusual ending. "},{"Title":"Dumb Hollywood Chick Flick","Date":"5 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This struck me as similar to one of those dumb disease of the week chick flicks . Poor Angela she`s gets convicted of a murder she didn`t commit and gets sentenced to life imprisonment . Forgive for noticing but when murderers aren`t getting their ass fried for killing someone aren`t they getting thrown in jail for 99 years or life imprisonment without parole , whatever one is longer ? Angela gets paroled after six years ! Sorry but this gives dramatic license a bad name The rest of the movie plays out in a similar manner to THE FUGITIVE with those cheats that only seem to happen in these type of movies , y`know like when the fugitive is looking for something that will clear their name the forces of law and order walk in and there`s been a time lapse which means the fugitive is now driving off in their car making their escape even if there`s not been enough onscreen time for them to make a getaway .Tommy Lee Jones as always gives a very convincing performance but considering he`s more or less playing the same role he did in THE FUGITIVE that`s hardly a compliment . DOUBLE JEOPARDY plays out exactly like THE FUGITIVE except it`s made for a female audience which explains why female IMDB voters preferred this to male voters    "},{"Title":"Let's print money!","Date":"5 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" OK, let me explain Double Jeopardy. First you make a film, let's call it 'The Fugitive', which turns out to be a great success. So then you go back and make another, although a title for this second one's a bit tricky - let's use 'US Marshals'.This is where Double Jeopardy comes into play. Even though the integrity that 'The Fugitive' established has been somewhat undermined by 'US Marshals' you can see, from an entirely single-mindedly mercenary point of view, that you can make a huge stash of cash from another film. And because of Double Jeopardy, you don't have to worry about making it interesting because you've already neglected that in the second, 'US Marshals', although everyone thought it was OK - because they thought they were still watching the first, 'The Fugitive'. Still with me?Great, so all you need is to use one element common to all the films - let's call it a 'Tommy Lee-Jones', or 'Best-Supporting Oscar' for short, add some new twist... like making the fugitive a woman (although an actual love interest is a bit complicated). The only problem is the title, after all, you got stuck for one on the second film! Any ideas? 2/10 "},{"Title":"Stock LMN Movie That Made the Big Screen (astoundingly)","Date":"24 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Double Jeopardy is straight off the boiler plate formula mass-produced for the Lifetime Movie Network. The only mystery here is how an accomplished director (Bruce Beresford Driving Miss Daisy) and big name, very successful acting professionals (who must have their pick of A-list scripts) got suckered into making this movie. Possibly blackmail? And how this movie got distributed as a big-screen, box office release instead of going straight to the LMN where 100,000 others exactly like it air daily is another head-scratcher. Putting top name stars in the cast doesn't make this screen-worthy any more than putting lipstick and a ball gown on a pig makes it a prom queen. And by the way, the double jeopardy law doesn't mean someone wrongly convicted of murder can then really kill the alleged victim and not be prosecuted. If you like LMN movies, you will be fine with this one. If you find them as big a time-waster as I do, skip it. Do something productive with the two hours of your life this piece of crap will rob you, like organize your dresser drawers. "}{"Title":"Utter garbage","Date":"13 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Let's get the obvious problem out the way. She would not, no way no how, walk free at the end. Even IF (and that's a big if) the murder of her husband actually qualifies as double jeopardy, she committed a pile of other crimes. She violated parole, stole a car, caused tens of thousands of dollars in property damage, assaulted a federal agent, resisted arrest AND was in possession of AND used a hand gun despite being a convicted felon. With that list of charges she would have gone to prison for far longer than she had the first time around, especially considering her prior record. I realize there has to be some suspension of disbelief in movies but this is just too much. "},{"Title":"A STEAMING PILE OF DOG POOP","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I saw it on a plane and wanted to jump out.  At one point, I blurted out for God sakes, come on.  Film appreciation can be subjective.  In this case, however, I'm sorry, if you liked this movie, YOU ARE WRONG.  IT'S POOP.  ABSOLUTE POOP.  The script and acting are lousy, but more importantly, THE DIALOG SEEMS TO HAVE BEEN WRITTEN BY A 4 YEAR OLD.  It honestly doesn't seem like a professional writer could have written it; I think you could pick a slow 5th grader at random, and he or she could do as good a job.  I'd rather watch a Fear Factor marathon.  If you hooked jumper cables to my genitals and offered a choice between flipping the switch and watching this movie, I'd probably say GIVE ME THE JUICE.  Give me a hair sandwich, a jalapeno enema, make me have sex with an old lady, just don't make me watch THE WORST MOVIE I'VE EVER SEEN, DOUBLE JEOPARDY STARRING ASHLEY JUDD. Thank you. "}]