[{"Title":"A powerful story and two inspired performances","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"30 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Films as intelligent and well crafted as this are hard to come by.  `Hilary and Jackie' is an exceptionally well done character study of two real life sisters.  Jackie (Emily Watson) is a world-class cellist and Hilary (Rachel Griffiths) lives a normal middle class life.  The story is rich in character development depicting the sisters starting from their childhood when both were musical prodigies.  Now that they are adults, they envy each other's life.  The story follows Jackie's career and explores the sisters' relationship, including the deep resentment and enduring love they have for one another.  Director Anand Tucker does a wonderful job of presenting the story.  He induces great feeling from each scene and lays the raw emotions on the screen without embellishment whether pure or turbulent.Emily Watson was superb in the lead role.  Her's was an extremely complex character and her command of the range of emotions Jackie required was phenomenal.  Lovers of classical music will appreciate the rich soundtrack and Watson's realistic cello renditions.  Watson was nominated for best actress by the Academy in 1999 for this performance and I felt she was most deserving of the prize that ultimately went to Gwyneth Paltrow for `Shakespeare in Love'.  Paltrow's performance was clever and charming, but had nowhere near the power Watson delivered in this film.  Emily is such a talented actress, however, that I have little doubt eventually there will be some other envelope with her name inside.Rachel Griffiths also gave a career performance as Hilary and she was nominated for best supporting actress, an award I felt she won hands down.  Griffiths' tortured performance was gut wrenching and inspired.  She played Hilary with deep sensitivity and handled her emotional conflicts brilliantly.  The Academy's choice of Judy Dench was again perplexing as the Shakespeare juggernaut rolled on.For those viewers who appreciate a powerful and disturbing drama, great acting, complex characters, terrific classical music and extraordinary character development, this film is a must.  I rated it a 9/10.  Don't miss it.  "},{"Title":"Musical genius, destroyed by multiple sclerosis","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"34 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I've read the 54 reviews here, and agree with most, both positive and negative, but I have a different perspective.  Of all instruments, cello speaks to me most deeply.  I do not play, I sing (deep bass, centered below the bottom of the bass staff, presently studying music in college after retirement), but still the cello resonates within my soul.  I grieve that I never got the chance to see Jacqueline in her prime.  But more so, that MS brought her down and killed her.My wife has MS, is about 2/3 the way through the course of the disease. Its pace for her is much slower than the 20 years it took to kill Jackie. Slower, but just as bitterly relentless.  The devastation of the disease is portrayed effectively in the film even though it is compressed in the telling.  Some critics challenged the portrayal of incontinence, of tremors, of puzzling mental behavior.  Those portrayals were quite accurate and the challenges unwarranted.The one portrayal I would challenge is the final scene of Jackie being fed reclining.  As I understand it, at least from current writings on the subject, the manner in which that was done would guarantee (aspiration) pneumonia and death because of the damage MS does to the swallowing reflex which uses the vocal cords to keep contaminants out of the lungs.  I hope that portrayal was inaccurate.  Other than this one glitch, I've found the movie haunting, invading my thoughts at quiet times and while drifting in and out of sleep.  Sorry critics, I give it a 10, for the ballet of bond and competition between the sisters, for the portrayal of the musical genius of both of them, for the tragedy wrought by MS, for the powerful telling of the tale.....  "},{"Title":"Entertaining and moving story of two real-life sisters.","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"19 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  It is a pleasure to see a film that has believable characters and an engrossing story which both entertains and enlightens. Hilary and Jackie tells the story of two sisters, Hilary and Jacqueline Du Pre, from their early years as devoted sisters and fledgling musicians, through their divergent life choices as professional soloist and housewife.Jacqueline's career as cellist takes off just as Hilary decides to marry and raise a family on a rural farm. The music is integral to the development of the story. Director, Anand Tucker, uses it to comment on the action, much as the piano performances were used in Shine. The digital stereo sound highlights the richness of the music combined with emotionally gripping sound effects.Emily Watson shines as Jacqueline in a varied and multi-faceted performance that may well earn her another Academy Award nomination.  As the quieter more sensible Hilary, Rachel Griffiths is also effective in a less showy but subtle portrayal.The key dramatic sequence comes at the film's center where Jacqueline leaves her husband, pianist and conductor, Daniel Barenboim, to stay with Hilary and her family. The surprising favor and request she asks of her sister will not be revealed here. Suffice it to say, this is not a film for children.The powerful final scenes will remain long in memory. The fine music should encourage those not familiar with the careers of Du Pre and Barenboim to sample their recordings.  Put this fine film on your must-see list. "},{"Title":"Strange Sisterhood","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Hilary and Jackie is a biographical film about two contemporary English sisters, Hilary and Jacqueline du Pré. Both are musical prodigies as children, but as they mature into women, it is Jackie, the cellist, who moves on to international fame, while Hilary opts for husband and family on an English farm. The film covers the complex, and troubling relationship between the two sisters, and Emily Watson and Rachel Griffiths give brilliant performances in the title roles. What was the Academy thinking when they were both passed over? And the music! It's always in the forefront, and helps move the story as much as the actors and screenplay.Not to be missed, this is one of the more enjoyable (although not uplifting) movies of 1998. Well worth the cost of the rental.  "},{"Title":"Troubling and compelling","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Jacqueline du Pre is remembered as the beautiful, genius cellist who tragically died of multiple sclerosis at a young age. But this film, though a biopic, avoids the easy conventions of the tear-jerker. Instead, it portrays a talented but capricious young woman who found her rise to fame as difficult to handle, in some ways, as her subsequent decline. Three things lift it out of the ordinary fine acting from the entire cast; a concerted attempt, in the construction of both plot and soundtrack, to genuinely convey the importance of music in her life; and an intelligent screenplay that uses the viewpoint of her sister Hilary, along with that of Jackie herself, to show her behaviour in two different lights. The veracity of the events has been disputed; but this is a complex, and ultimately moving, film. "},{"Title":"Wow - Heavy subject, but worth it!","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  This heavy subject matter is so well done, it left me wanting more!  The acting is superb. I have always loved Rachel Griffiths and she doesn't let the viewer down in this one either.  She pulls this one off fantastically and IS Hilary du Pré!  Emily Watson's performance is unbelievable and should have been recognized with a multitude of awards.  It is amazing how well she acts in this.  One truly believes that SHE has Multiple Sclorosis.  I was amazed at how well she played the scenes.  I just can't say enough about this film.  I highly recommend that if you want quality writing and acting and are prepared for some realistic yet somewhat disturbing subject matter about life, RENT this film! "},{"Title":"Brilliant; 21 Awards;  but factually flawed.","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  A superb film, on many levels.  Any film that has won or was nominated for 21 awards must be worthwhile!BUT - BE SURE TO READ the IMDB external reviews, viz. 'The Australian' and 'James Berardinelli's ReelViews'. These articles point out the factual errors (as well as praise).I hope that this does not lessen the movie's greatness for you.  It IS an excellent movie, sensitively done and a vehicle for health, family, sexual issues, etc.Just don't take it as the absolute truth about Jacqueline du Pré. By the way, neither was the film 'Shine', about pianist David Helfgott. "},{"Title":"an interesting study of a sibling relationship","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Hilary and Jackie is a film that can be appreciated on many levels.  The performances of Ms. Griffith and Ms. Watson as the title characters were superb, but so were the actors that played the parents and husbands, and the two young actresses playing them as girls were terrific.  All the people in the film were interesting.  The film gives insight into the life of a musical genius with its rewards and triumphs as well as conflicts and sacrifices.  There is also a psychological aspect at the heart of this film.  From the beginning the two sisters have a bond, almost a symbiotic relationship, yet there is also intense competition.  To make the presentation even more interesting the relationship is presented in two acts, the first told from Hilary's perspective and the second from Jackie's.  Whose is more real?  Does it make a difference?  The final scenes as MS is taking its toll on Jackie are gripping.  Both actresses were deserving of their nominations.  This was great entertainment!  Three and half stars!!!   "},{"Title":"An elegant production but not without its eccentricities.","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Hilary and Jackie tells of two sisters who share a love of classical music and each other but take contrasting paths through adult life. A much lauded film worthy of its critical acclaim, H&J does have a peculiar twice-told tale approach to its presentation which tends to make it interesting but so complex as to dilute its effectiveness. Nonetheless, this British film with a typically stiff upper lip approach to its sentimentality, is well shot, scripted, and acted. A good watch which will be a little over the top for many.  "},{"Title":"Well-structured and engaging character piece","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" As a child Hilary was the talented musician on the flute and the younger Jacqueline was encouraged to keep up if she wanted to accompany her sister on trips to musical events. So Jackie practiced hard on her cello to do so, gradually becoming better than her sister. As adults Hilary is now very much in the shadow of her brilliant sister Jackie, who is booked solid for shows. However where Hilary finds happiness and support from her partner and husband Kiffer, Jackie grows increasingly isolated from others. The pair's relationship drifts apart but comes together again to produce one traumatic moment in their relationship.I'm sure it has been done many times but I still found this film's structure to be pretty clever. The central traumatic act in the narrative occurs halfway through the film; up until then we follow things from Hilary's point of view and then in the second half we jump backwards and work up to it again (and beyond) from Jacqueline's (more or less). The effect is that the first half of the film is engaging as it develops along lines we don't know while the second film is engaging as it underpins the reasons for Jacqueline's character and where she goes from there. I put of watching the film because I had no knowledge of the characters and no real interest in their music, however now that I have watched it I am glad I did as it is well made and interesting. It is very character driven and evenly paced, which will annoy some viewers but for me it worked really well and produced a story that didn't require you to know the people involved because you felt you did by the end.Watson leads the cast really well, bringing out the innocent of her character as easily as she does the spite within Jackie. Griffiths yet again shows her talent in taking on yet another accent and strange character and pulling it off. They work well together although their best scenes are early on. Support is good from Frain, Morrissey, Dance, Imrie and others but the film is lead well by the main two actresses who work well with the material given them.Overall this is a well paced film that will annoy some but is heavy in quality. The character development in the script is strong and the cast respond well to it. Tucker controls it all well with a good eye for a scene and some imaginative visual touches and brings out a film that is well-structured and engaging even if it won't be to everyone's tastes. "}{"Title":"A Portrayal of Decisions","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  It must be understood that this film is quite controversial in the fact that it has been a little more than a decade since the death of Jackie. Does this film portray a spoiled brat? I would have to say No. The director chose to portray both sisters in their separation and their reunion. Much of the first part can be categorized as Jackie being too spoiled yet we understand the reasons behind her madness, homesickness. Jackie must have known about her illness or else she would not have made so many references towards the fact that she is a slave to her talent. A talent that was derived from practicing, not pure genius. A talent she built from the foundation. If you can see behind the madness that Tucker is portraying, then you will understand that it is not madness at all, but humanity he is portraying.  "},{"Title":"Much ado about an emotional young girl!","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  This film was overly long, a one sided story told by one of the sisters from her point of view.  I can't help but notice, that  this sister, Hilary, seems to usually come off as the good one in the story, while her sister has severe emotional problems.It seemed unusual to find two sisters, brought up together so closely, to be so different emotionally and with apparently very little in common.  I have to wonder if the story as told from Hilary's point of view is accurate. Accurate or not, the story of a young girl, Jackie, who could not control her passions and emotions is hardly worth spending over two hours to watch.Only the most devoted classical music lovers will recognize the music, most of which was written for the cello, and some of which I thought was outright jarring in its performance.Most of all, the subject was relatively trivial since Jacqueline Dupre never matured into a real artist and her life story will be of little interest in the context of history.I did not come away with any sense of improved insight into anything, except to wonder how they could raise the money to make this expensive, overlong and self important movie. "},{"Title":"Hillary and Jackie deals with the negative affects of fame and stardom, especially when you have been driven relentlessly to that stardom.","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  The movie starts off with a few shots of Hillary and Jackie, the two sisters after whom the film has been named, playing on the beach as young girls, which demonstrates the closeness that was felt between the two sisters. This is also a myth that is demonstrated throughout the film; that siblings are extremely loving and caring towards each other. Obviously, this is ideal, but it is rarely ever true, especially to the extent that Hillary and Jackie are.The negative affects of stardom are hinted at early in the film when the girls first enter into competitions, and Jackie, the younger sister, is shown driving herself constantly to be as good as her older sister so that she can compete with her. Later in the film, Hillary puts her musical talents on the proverbial `back burner,' and settles down with a husband, planning on a family life. Jackie, on the other hand, continues playing her cello for larger and larger audiences, becoming a more and more successful musician. Unfortunately, before too long she is confined to a wheelchair which, if I remember correctly, is the result of a stroke. I think that this misfortune was meant to be seen as a possible and maybe even probable consequence of a relatively typical young girl who drove herself too hard. This is an example of the theme that, unfortunately, genius is often associated with madness. There was a lot of emphasis on the sky and the water in the first few scenes. The audience's attention is called to the beautiful sunset, as well as the calm ocean, conveying a sense of peacefulness and freedom. Later in the film, after Jackie has begun her descent into madness, there was a lot of rain and overcast skies. This kind of weather usually gets a rather gloomy, depressing reaction. Another element of cinematics that I noticed in this film was the way that Jackie's descent into madness was presented. The film's audience would see her playing beautiful music on her cello for a large on-screen audience, and then there would be a close-up of her head, and almost all of the sound would be cut out, except for a few deep, under-water sounding hums and gurgles. This showed that Jackie, although playing her cello outstandingly, was drifting in and out of reality. It was a method of foreshadowing that something was about to go very wrong with Jackie, and the moment that this is known for sure is when she finishes a concert and is unable to stand up on her own, needing to be carried out. This cinematic technique is very similar to that used in the movie `Shine,' with Geoffrey Rush, one of my personal favorites.Hilary and Jackie is an excellent character study that is presented as part of an engaging drama filled with beautiful scenery as stunningly convincing performances. It is a very realist film, and it's effects are very well achieved through the quality direction, story, and cinematography. Don't miss this one.  "},{"Title":"Great actors, good story, wonderful music, dud movie.","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  More than two years ago, I read that Emily Watson would be appearing in this film, and I've been looking forward to it ever since.  Someone else said he was expecting a chick flick and was pleasantly surprised.  I expected something quite different from a chick flick and was disappointed. (Says something about expectations -- as if we didn't know that already.)With two suburb actors, wonderful cello music and a fantastic story, how come the movie is such a dud?Somehow, it seems to me that had this been directed by Ang Lee it would have lived up to promises.  His ability to handle family dynamics is needed here. The annoying use of swooping camera shots that seem to plague everything Channel 4 does tends to make me think they have some flash equipment to pay off by using it every chance they get.Despite the film's failings, Rachel Griffiths gives her usual superb performance.  It's many years since I stopped imagining there was any justice in Awards, so it didn't surprise me that she was overlooked this year.  Some years ago I was in America and heard someone on National Public Radio describing how acting ability has little to do with Academy Awards. For women, it has to be a character who is in command of her life with the actor's ability of little consequence.  (For men, the character has to have some sort of fragility.)  I'm reminded of his comments every Awards.  Judi Dench fitted the formula this year.One day both Emily Watson and Rachel Griffiths will be recognised.  I hope they don't have to do it the way Kate Winslet did.  "},{"Title":"Sibling Rivalry meets Rashomon meets disease of the month....","Date":"23 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" ....a simplification perhaps,but not an absurdity.Hilary and Jackie presents a version of the life of Miss Jacqueline Du Pre,an extravagantly gifted English cellist whose career and, ultimately, whose life was cut tragically short by M.S.It could have been a moving tribute to a considerable musical talent but it turned out as an exploitative sensationalist hatchet - job worthy of the sleaziest tabloid newspaper. The dreadful signs and symptoms of the final stages of Miss Du Pre's disease are graphically portrayed with the same glee as beggars once used to display their sores and deformities for the delectation of the public. In much the same way that Lady Sings The Blues salaciously bared Miss Billie Holiday's very private demons,so this movie is happy to desecrate the memory of a much - loved musician in the name of profit. No matter how good Miss Watson and Miss Griffiths are,they are still participating in a film whose only purpose can be to smear the memory of young woman who was revered by a generation of concert - goers. No amount of subsequent declarations of undying love from Miss Du Pre's guilt - ridden siblings can change that. All we are left with is some cello music that the unwary might think is played by Miss Du Pre.Don't be fooled - it isn't. "},{"Title":"Love the music, pass on the players","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Music biopics, at least those concerned with classical music, tend to be pallid things; the lives of composers and performers are often uneventful compared those of politicians, generals, artists and even actors. Amadeus made a drama out of aspects of Mozart's brief life and Ken Russell had fun with Tchaikovsky in The Music Lovers but with most musicians the drama is in their performance. This movie uncovers the rather sad relationship between Jacqueline Du Pre, the brilliant cellist, and her older sister Hilary, also a musician (flautist) of talent. After acquiring public acclaim as a child prodigy, Jackie married another prodigy, the pianist and conductor Daniel Barenboim, with whom she frequently performed. At the pinnacle of her success, in her mid-twenties, she started to show signs of multiple sclerosis and was soon forced to retire. Her last 15 years were a decline in fits and starts to a vegetative state.Not a pleasant tale.  And it seems the gorgeous blonde Jackie was not a particularly likeable lady. So grimly competitive was she towards Hilary that at one point she insisted on sharing Hilary's husband with her, even though she was still married to Barenboim.  The story is taken from a book by Hilary and their brother Piers, so one might expect it to be the story from Hilary's point of view.  The film attempts to put some balance into the portrayal by first giving us Hilary and then Jackie but the result is still a pretty dire picture of Jackie, who is portrayed as vain, self-centred, immature, foul-mouthed, cynical and not terribly bright. As Daniel Barenboim is still very much alive (and able to sue) his part in the drama is very lightly sketched in - his alleged neglect of Jackie after she becomes ill is only alluded to by one telephone call. Towards the end, Hilary and Jackie became estranged, though it is not clear why (Hilary's marriage apparently survives) but there is a reconciliation of a sort.The story is nicely realised with lots of music, including part of the original Du Pre/Barenboim recording of the Elgar cello concerto, the performance for which they are justly famous. As Jackie, Emily Watson is the full-on talented gorgeous blonde brat, a bit like Tom Hulse's Mozart in Amadeus but easier to understand. Rachel Griffiths does a good plainer, smarter sister but perhaps lays on the English reserve a bit thick (she is of course Australian). As their father, an amiable Colonel Blimp figure, Charles Dance has rather a small role but steals a couple of moments, as does Hilary's exasperated flute examiner, Professor Bentley, played by Vernon Dobtchev.  The character of the girl's musically ambitious Mother (Celia Imrie), obviously a key figure, is oddly underdeveloped. Piers is also kept in the background. As Barenboim, James Frain bears an uncanny physical resemblance to the young Argentine virtuoso, but as mentioned is a shadowy presence also.Perhaps the book told the story better and what we have here is a summary of it with some nice music thrown in, and some sumptuous locations. Still when you're sitting on a plane in business class and it's a choice between Hilary and Jackie, Meet Joe Black (the Devil as played by Brad Pitt) and some movie about a gorilla called Joe (another re-hash of the King Kong Story) it passes the time. Those poor b******s back in economy are stuck with the gorilla.   "},{"Title":"A good film","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Hilary and Jackie is a good film based upon the famous cellist Jacqueline Du Pré's (and her sister's) life. In the beginning it is a very fascinating story, and Jackie's life is definitely interesting. However, the director/editor makes the mistake of leaving the linear structure of the story telling, by leaving the story at the most interesting point, just to go back and re-tell it from Jackie's point of view (we saw it from Hilary's point of view first). Some people might say that this is good -- I do not agree. Sure, there are facts in Jackie's story that are absolutely crucial in explaining her very odd behaviour in the film, but that could still have been told linear. A bad choice, really, but the film is still rather engrossing and both Emily Watson and Rachel Griffiths are wonderful. (6/10) "},{"Title":"Events not emotions","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I'm amazed that the writer and director could take over two hours of the sensationally dramatic and traumatic lives of H&J and instead of presenting us with a vast, detailed landscape of passion, deceit, love, sibling competition, family loyalties and a host of other topics, they managed to find a narrow, faltering meandering path that deliberately seemed to avoid the dramatic and added not a jot of insight to the sister's lives (the collapse of Hilary's musical career was ignored) and various relationships.The start was far too slow and the long drawn out end  unnecessary. Much more interesting to scrutinize in detail the period from teens to late twenties but the director insisted on a thud by thud full life account, no matter how uninteresting. I thought this was a film I'd sob through - I "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  The dull true story of two self-absorbed people with prodigious musical talent.  Well acted.  Ineptly written.  Unrelentingly self-important. Enlightening on absolutely no level. Why tell this story?I know I'm in the minority, but I can't be the only one not fooled by this nonsense. "},{"Title":"A cruel, unprovoked travesty","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Note The following is a condensed version of my Amazon.com review, to fit the word limitIn terms of raw ability and potential, Jacqueline du Pré was arguably the greatest cello talent in modern history. At her height in the 1960s, concerts with her and Barenboim would make the world forget (for a while) Rostropovich and Casals. For listeners of classical music who kept up with her releases and watched her performances, she seemed to be an embodiment of talent -- dynamic, joyous, ethereally gifted, tragically cut short by multiple sclerosis. To those of us who kept Jacqueline's recordings in our psyches, her death was agonizing particularly for the sense of loss -- for what *could have been* (the breadth of her repertoire having been severely limited by MS).This loathsome and abominable film, based on the controversial memoir by du Pré's siblings (A Genius in the Family), viciously insults and debases Jacqueline's memory. The errors of omission and commission are too many to name here, but the portrayal of Jacqueline in this film has been condemned by her friends and colleagues (including Rostropovich) as a vicious travesty of her character. Everything about this movie is -- as a previous reviewer stated -- iniquitous, gross and vulgar. Nothing here reminds one of the sensitive, joyous, brilliant musician that is seen in video reels and recalled by her acquaintances. Instead, the depiction is based on an exclusive (but loose) focus on a very dubious memoir, focusing on the gratuitous and doubtful details of her sex life and relationship with her sister, Hilary (who obviously has a chip on her shoulder and happens to be the author of the memoir upon which this is based). Clare Finzi, Hilary's daughter, wrote and contested the film account of events as a gross misinterpretation, which I cannot let go unchallenged.To add insult to injury, the director doesn't even care about accuracy, stating that it (truth) doesn't exist due to divergent viewpoints. (One wonders what he would have made of Holocaust denial.) It's the height of hubris and irresponsibility to popularize sensationalist claims against a person's character without any concern for truth or respect for their memory. A New York Times critic posed the question of whether the film was a travesty or painful truth, which is not the primary issue at all. W. K. Clifford famously said that if we cannot ascertain the grounds for a belief, we have no business in believing it. I would add that we have even less business in popularizing heterodox and unsubstantiated beliefs to a mass audience -- qualifying this posthumous attack on Jacqueline du Pré's character as a vicious and appalling act.Taken at face value then, this film is worthless, totally worthless. The response may be that biopics have no obligations to factual accuracy -- that this is the exclusive province of documentaries or books. But a film can be both fictional and offensive (for e.g. denying the Holocaust or defaming war veterans). Those who admired Jacqueline du Pré and studied her life and work do not take this film seriously as fact. Nevertheless they will watch it with a sinking feeling, until they can't bear to have their recollections maimed any further by emetic (and completely fictional) scenes that have nothing to do with the cellist they adored. There were several times during the viewing in which I literally wanted to gouge my eyes out -- but even if I did so, the scenes would stay in my mind forever.Then there are those who -- noting this -- will still enjoy the movie. In that case they don't care anything for the real-life Jacqueline du Pré at all (and probably wouldn't have even if they didn't see this movie, so that's no loss). But others would do better to peruse the biographies of her by Carol Easton, Elizabeth Wilson and, yes, the du Pré siblings (if you read between the lines). Or better yet, listen to her music and watch the documentaries of her which contain clips of her life and performances. These were directed by Christopher Nupen who, unlike Tucker, actually knew and cared about his subject matter.Good biopics are done with a serious respect for the subject's memory, concern for truth, and historical substantiation. _Pollock_ is one of them, _My Left Foot_ is another. This one isn't. It would have made a decent _Forrest Gump_ or _Good Will Hunting_, if the director had the integrity to use fictional names and locations. Why on earth did they not just leave it at that and left Jacqueline du Pré's memory in peace? She did nothing to deserve such defacement, nothing at all. "}{"Title":"The biographical book is not up to much and the film is up to even less","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I have before me a 1965 vinyl LP record with a beautiful portrait of the then twenty-year-old Jacqueline du Pré and her cello. On it she plays the Elgar and Delius Cello Concertos, classics in her repertoire which have never been bettered. Indeed, years later, the gran maestro Mstislav Rostropovich on being asked why was it that he had never made a recording of the Elgar Concerto, said that a young English woman had already made the definitive version to which he had nothing to add. I also have various remastered CD recordings - with or without her then husband, Daniel Barenboim as accompanying pianist or orchestra conductor, ranging from Paradis and Saint-Saëns to Fauré, Franck and Dvorák, as well as Sir Edward Elgar's beautiful Enigma Variations.Jacqueline du Pré was born just a few months before me and we thus celebrate 60 years on this iniquitous planet. Which is the best that can be said about the film Hilary and Jackie - iniquitous, gross, vulgar............ When I learned she had got multiple sclerosis and had stopped playing her cello, I cried for a week; and when she finally died, another week. She shall be remembered for her exquisite music, not for the trashy version of a film like this one.I am sorry, but I just could not bear seeing the film to the end. It had nothing to do with the Jacqueline du Pré whom I loved as a sensitive, intelligent, brilliant musician. Everything which this film lacks.As the Spanish actor Paco Rabal once said No god could be so cruel.This film is cruel.Even today, I show the LP recording with the beautiful portrait to my teenage students in an endeavour (mostly wasted) to persuade them to stop picking their noses.I give this film a three out of ten - ONLY because there are fragments of her own music in it; as for the rest of the film - ZERO. "},{"Title":"fascinating characters, unique relationship and top acting talents","Date":"11 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" The du Pré sisters are exceedingly close and musical child prodigies. Younger sister Jacqueline (Emily Watson) becomes a famous globe-traveling cellist. On the other hand, Hilary (Rachel Griffiths) struggles under a strict demeaning teacher and loses all of her confidence. She marries the charming Kiffer Finzi (David Morrissey) and lives an ordinary live. Jacqueline marries Jewish pianist Daniel Barenboim (James Frain).The sisters and their relationship are fascinating no matter how real to their true lives. They're brought to life by two of the best actresses around. To top it off, I love the Rashômon style of storytelling. The two different takes on the events are compelling and heart breaking. The last act is a bit too long. It would have been better to wrap up the movie quicker after Jacqueline leaves the country home. "},{"Title":"A Moving Story and A Stunning Performance","Date":"9 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Emily Watson is nothing less than astonishing in this film and what she does is nothing less than the performance of a lifetime. Nominated for an Academy Award (and outrageously not awarded it), Watson IS the character of Hillary Dupree and no one in the audience can deny that fact as she disappears completely into the soul of the cellist. In fact, she mastered the cello totally to play this role and throws herself into the passion of playing with a fire and realism unsurpassed in the history of cinema. While the story is interesting and quite moving, it is Miss Emily Watson who shines like a Supernova here and captures the hearts of audience members. She creates a complex character of flesh and blood and passion that lights up the screen every time the camera focuses on her lovely image. A performance of incredible power that is cinematically historic and artistically magnificent. This is true talent that goes far beyond that to which simple words can ever do justice. "},{"Title":"Of Genius, of Love, of Loss, of Sisterhood, of Understanding","Date":"30 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" The death of the cellist Jacqueline du Pré in 1987 was the cause of an unusually large amount of public grief and attention in Britain; the passing of a classical musician is normally marked by little more than an obituary in the broadsheet papers and possibly a brief item on the news. Du Pré, however, was someone the British had taken to their hearts. Part of the reason was her special relationship with the Elgar cello concerto, a work which has always played an important part in British cultural life; there may be room for disagreement with all three parts of the analysis, but at the time of her death I remember her being described as the greatest interpreter of the greatest work by the nation's greatest composer.The main reason, however, was the sheer tragedy of her life. She was a youthful prodigy who reached the top very early on; her famous recording of the Elgar concerto with Sir John Barbirolli was made when she was only twenty. Her marriage to the pianist and conductor Daniel Barenboim made them a Golden Couple, the Dick Burton and Liz Taylor of classical music. And then, while still in her twenties, she was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis. She gave her last concert in 1973 at the age of 28, after which her condition quickly deteriorated. By the time of her death aged 42 she had become paralysed and was confined to a wheelchair. The film was based on a memoir written by Jacqueline's sister Hilary and brother Piers and concentrates on the relationship between the two sisters. Hilary du Pré was also a musician, in her case a flautist, but was much less famous than her sister. Even so, the film pays them equal attention, being divided into two sections, the first telling events from Hilary's point of view and the second from Jackie's. Hilary was the older of the two and during their childhood and early teens was regarded as being at least as promising as Jackie. Eventually, however, it was Jackie who achieved greater prominence and Hilary seems to have given up performing as a professional after her marriage to Christopher Finzi, son of the composer Gerald Finzi. Such a scenario could easily have led to bitter jealousy and rivalry, but in this case appears not to have done so; according to the film the sisters were devoted to one another as children and remained so as adults, even though Jackie seems to have done her best to live up to the old stereotype of artistic geniuses as highly-strung, eccentric and temperamental. Hilary, who was probably not a genius, seems to have been much more placid and level-headed, which enables her to cope with her sister's foibles. When Jackie announces that she wants to sleep with Christopher, Hilary acquiesces, believing that this will help her sister's complicated mental state, and even persuades her reluctant husband to consent to this unorthodox adultery as therapy arrangement. Of the main actors I was least taken with James Frain as Barenboim, whom he plays with a heavy foreign accent; the real Daniel Barenboim speaks much better English than this. The others, however, are all much better, especially Emily Watson as Jacqueline and Rachel Griffiths as Hilary, both of whom were nominated for Academy Awards. Both lost, Watson to Gwyneth Paltrow in Shakespeare in Love and Griffiths to Judi Dench in the same film. In both cases I would disagree with the Academy; Paltrow's performance was not a particularly distinguished one and Griffiths' contribution is much more substantial than Dench's brief cameo. The two actresses seem exquisitely well suited to their roles, with their contrasting styles of acting- Watson's more demonstrative, Griffiths' more restrained- bringing out the contrasting personalities of the two sisters. An adjective commonly used about Elgar's great concerto- which we hear at several key points in the movie- is autumnal, and the director Anand Tucker seems to be trying to reflect this in the look of the film. Autumnal tones- dark reds, oranges, browns, yellows- predominate throughout much of the film, and most scenes feature a prominent object in one of these colours, often Jacqueline's dresses. Only towards the end are these colours replaced by more wintry greys, whites and pale blues, indicating symbolically that Jacqueline's autumn has now turned to winter during a period of her life which should have been her spring and summer. The film ends with her looking back at her childhood, seeing herself and Hilary playing on the beach as young girls.Hilary and Jackie was not perhaps the greatest film made in 1998; my vote for Best Picture that year would have gone to Peter Weir's astounding The Truman Show. Nor is it perhaps the greatest ever film about classical music to my mind that must be Milos Forman's equally astounding Amadeus. It is, however, beautifully written, acted and directed, a riveting psychological portrait of musical genius, of love, of loss, of sisterhood and of understanding. I am surprised that we have not heard more of Anand Tucker since. 9/10 A goof. The film implies that Jacqueline du Pré died during the night of the Great Hurricane, 15th - 16th October 1987- we even see that notorious forecast with Michael Fish denying that a hurricane was on the way. In fact, she died a few days later, on 19th October. This may, however, have been a deliberate change to make the story seem more dramatic. "},{"Title":"I don't usually like drama, but this one is special","Date":"22 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" This is the real story of a cellist (some sort of musical instrument) player, as described by her sister. Although I'm by far not a fan of anything musical in movies, this one is real, so real, so close to the human nature, it's a gem. Rarely seen this on screen, both the script, directing and acting. Because, this is not only about the magical, almost hard to believe acting of Emily Watson, it's also about an unbelievable directing and, I guess, a very deep and complete script about human emotions. Note that I'm mostly talking about the second half of the movie where the action is replaced by some more emotional detail. Emily has this emotional play that is simply stunning. I've first seen her in Equilibrium at the moment of her death (mostly the only good scene in the movie), when I understood how deep emotionally this person is. But credit must as well go to the movie director, and I really want to point this out. Just like in the music industry where the credit goes too often to the interpret, and not to the music writers. In this movie, the credit goes equally both to the directing and the actors. Rare gem, if you can understand the human nature or have experienced something more or less similar as the leading role. "},{"Title":"Emily Watson is Nothing Less than Stunning","Date":"19 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" One can not help but be overwhelmed by the power, the stunning brilliance, and incredibly amazing performance by Ms. Emily Watson that assuredly deserved an Academy Award and which shames the Oscars forever because a Paltrow, Berry, or other flunky has received a statue and Watson has been brutally robbed. This is acting at its absolute finest and a role so perfectly realized by Watson that it can never be forgotten by anyone who has seen it. Never in the history of cinema has any actress so completely captured the very soul of a character and transferred it so expertly to film. It is indeed a film for the ages because of what Watson brings to it, the fire and passion she ignites the screen with, and the unbridled superbness of craft she puts forth. One is almost blinded by such brilliance and I was not the only member of the audience to stagger from the theatre upon first viewing of this film, breathless with astonishment and trembling with emotion as I tried to find words to express the depth of my feelings to my evening's companion. I could barely speak the word Emily and could see from my companion's eyes she was equally affected by what she had just witnessed and we shared the awe in silence as the dazed audience around us wandered as if numbed into the night. Rarely has a performance touched me in this way and yet with Emily Watson it is par for the course due to an unequaled talent that few if any other actor can begin to approach. I felt pummeled by her work, bruised by her electric might, and singed by her passion. That night was one I will never forget. I have never seen an audience literally struck dumb by a performance in a cinema. Since seeing this film I have found Watson routinely splendid and spectacularly superb in role after role. There is no doubt she is the single greatest living actor working in the English language today and this film serves as a perfect showcase for her magnificent genius. "},{"Title":"Involving Memoir","Date":"31 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Directed by Anand Tucker, Hilary and Jackie released in 1998, is an involving film reportedly derived from the older sister, Hilary's memoir of her life with her younger sister from the 50's through the 80's. Right away the movie succeeds pulling in interest with great scenes of the characters as children, and the dynamics and feelings involved with the mother pushing her talented girls toward their instruments and talents. These were good foundation scenes for the 2 actresses, Emily Watson and Rachel Griffths to continue and build. Without going too much going into detail the story effectively looks at several forces which evolve and morph childhood into adulthood, and the pressures involved with adulthood. (spoiler) The movie is certainly interesting, however the pacing slows a bit and as the sisters become more distant, so too does the movie. Nevertheless, there were deserved nominations for the actresses. 7/10 Recommended. "},{"Title":"Fairly Standard Biopic with Good Performances","Date":"21 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" True story about two musician sisters, one a cellist and one a flautist, and the mental illness that plagued the latter (played in an Academy-Award nominated performance by Emily Watson).Rachel Griffiths is the cellist, the more grounded and dependable sister through whose perspective the story is told. There's really not a tremendous lot to distinguish this film apart from the solid performances of the two lead actresses. This film came so closely on the heels of Breaking the Waves that I remembered thinking it was already beyond time for Watson to do some light comedy, or at least play a character who wasn't mentally unhinged. She would soon delight me in films like Cradle Will Rock and Gosford Park. Grade B "},{"Title":"Powerful emotional drama.","Date":"24 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" It is the almost-bio-pic of British Cellist Jacqueline Du Pre (1945-1987) and her elder sister Hilary (a Flutist). It's about the true love the sisters had for each other and how fate lifted Jacqueline to the top of fame while pushing Hilary to the bottom of it and how it affected their lives. Though the movie is about a great, talented musician Jacqueline, it is not a musical film.I haven't seen such a good real-life-account for a long time. This one is very truthful and not deviating from real-life emotions. The movie is based on the book written by Hilary. There are controversies over this book raised by Jacqueline's fans about her depiction.The movie is mostly the events, emotions and psychological account of its characters Jackie and Hilary. It's a bit of a musical too with some good sound tracks. Jackie (Emily Watson) is the star performer (even on the screen). Hilary comes next. The director has amazingly made this account. When we see Hilary's account we could feel a crushed musician's sadness and when we see Jackie's account we could feel the loneliness and the complex love of Jacqueline with her Cello as well as her sister Hilary.If you are Jacqueline's fan you can watch it only if you don't expect any musical treats of her from the film. As I am not a classical music guy I do not know what I missed about her music.Watch this powerful emotional tragic story. "},{"Title":"Goes from bad to good","Date":"20 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Hilary and Jackie gets off to a weak start, but by the end of the film it has become quite engaging. In fact, the last hour or so of the film is good enough to almost warrant a recommendation, but the first 30 minutes are too rough for me to do so with a good conscience, and the middle hour simply isn't engaging enough.The film tells the story of two sisters, Hilary and Jacqueline DuPre. Hilary is a flautist, while Jackie is a cellist. The film chronicles their lives as children, where they were torn between being best friends and competing with each other, and their adult lives where jealousy and alienation both tore their relationship apart and also made it stronger.The problem with the film is not the actors, but the director. Hilary and Jackie is a very multi-layered drama, but director Anand Tucker has a hard time keeping it all straight. The result is a film that wants to tell a story, but lacks the focus to tell it in an effective manner. The result is a poorly-focused film that struggles to get its point across.The acting, however, is magnificent. Emily Watson is terrific as Jackie. She has a love/hate relationship with her cello-playing. One one hand, playing the cello is something that she's good at, but on the other hand, it alienates her from what she wants in life. Although Watson has the more showy part, Griffiths is by no means a lesser performer here. Griffiths is torn between helping her sister, and living the life she wants with her husband and family. Based on his reputation and his stiff performance in The Water Horse (ironically also starring Emily Watson), I didn't think that David Morrissey had the capacity to act. Fortunately, I was wrong. Morrrissey gives an energetic performance as Hilary's husband Kiffer. He loves his wife, but sometimes that comes at a price. Likewise, James Frains is a far cry from his performance as the villain in Into the Blue. He's also a musician, and his relationship with Jackie is an example of who romances between artists can be very difficult.There's some good stuff here; the music is beautiful, and the scenes where Jackie plays are effectively executed. But it's just put together quite well enough to warrant more than a see it if you must verdict. "}{"Title":"An insightful (if overstated) beginning completely bottoms out in the second-half...","Date":"10 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" In 1950s London, the real-life du Pré sisters--Hilary, a promising flautist, and Jacqueline, an animated, intense cellist--share an ordinary/extraordinary closeness. They are practically telepathic in their thoughts, yet a rivalry over their musical talents is always bubbling under the surface. This extends to their adult lives, as Hilary becomes a devoted wife and mother while Jackie flails away, alternately in contempt of the cello and yet attached to it as if by force. Jackie's neediness, which parlays into an off-putting promiscuousness, nearly breaks the sisterly bond, with Jackie desiring to 'share' Hilary's good-hearted husband. It is at this point in the picture that Hilary and Jackie becomes an unfortunate muddle of different melodramatic themes, yet the psychotic undercurrents of Jackie's behavior don't seem to set off any alarms on the screen. As flaky Jackie, Emily Watson (who resembles a young Susannah York) is focused and brave, but she is unable to help us reach this troubled soul (the built-in tragic story-arch doesn't help much, either). Rachel Griffiths has a far less showy role, however her character is one we can relate to (the grounded sister with a firm sense of responsibility). The film is extremely well-produced but, despite some dialogue or situations which ring false, the earliest scenes in the movie are best. It loses its way in the third act, becoming a tangled mess of sad episodes. ** from **** "},{"Title":"On the music in Hilary and Jackie","Date":"19 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Does anyone know the title of the small piece of music which the young actress playing Jacqueline du Pre at about age 10 plays at what is apparently a regional, or perhaps a national, recital in Great Britain -- about 15 minutes into the film? As shown, Ms. du Pre just knocks their socks off (as she must have done in real life at that age - my own reaction while watching the film was stunned amazement), and (somewhat to her astonishment, and to her sister's chagrin) she receives a more-than-well-deserved standing ovation.I had thought it was from the Elgar Concerto, but can't find it there (don't mind, though, since listening to the real Ms. du Pre play that entire concerto is simply breathtaking). Thought it might be from one of the Bach pieces excerpted for the film, but it's not. Now, it may be in there (the Elgar, the Bach, one of the others), and I'm just missing it, but I sure haven't found it anywhere I've listened, and would love to obtain the original piece.Thought the film was great (not sure about all the who's sleeping with whom stuff later on, and yes, perhaps the telling of Ms. du Pre's life story - condensed - is not totally accurate; yeah, I get that), but all of the actresses portraying Hilary and Jackie over the years were great, and I'd watch Emily Watson read the Manhattan phone directory verbatim for four hours straight, she's that incredible -- if for some reason (you're a hermit, etc.) you haven't seen Breaking the Waves, I envy you your first time watching her in that film; also check out The Boxer, where Ms. Watson plays opposite Daniel Day-Lewis (although Brian Cox does pretty much steal that movie).Thanks for any assistance anyone might have on that little bit of music from Hilary and Jackie. "},{"Title":"Sensationalist Jacqueline du Pre bioflick","Date":"14 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Jacqueline de Pre was an exceptional cellist. I know this because I've heard her recordings. This film, in classic biopic fashion, looks to take material detailing another side of her life - specifically a book by her siblings - and turn that into a film that illuminates, humanises or sensationalises her life with, it must be assumed, the best of intentions.Hilary and Jackie takes a view of Jacquline du Pre that makes her out to be perversely, belligerently needy. This may be true of course but I do not feel that Anand Tucker's film cross-refers this part of her life with the music making. Instead we get a picture of a argumentative, pitiful, blinkeredly adulterous woman almost free of context, culminating in a dramatisation of her later stages of MS.I think that Emily Watson does and admirable job and is more than matched by Rachel Griffiths as her loving and long-suffering sister. This is just a rather narrow-minded movie that really does suggest it's very difficult to make a biopic about musicians, whose achievements consistently defy re-appropriating in cinema. 4/10 "},{"Title":"I have no idea how much of this film is true--but it is still excellent film making","Date":"6 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" When this film debuted, there was a bit of controversy because some friends and family swore that the life of Jacqueline du Pré had been misrepresented and twisted in this movie. Considering that the story was written by her sister, Hilary, and her brother, it is certain that there is a lot of subjectivity to it--but this still didn't make this a bad film. However, as several people looked rather bad in the film (such as Jacqueline du Pré herself and her famous husband) and others looked more innocent (such as Hilary's husband--who is apparently NOT quite the nice guy he seems to be in the film), it's not surprising that the film ruffled a few feathers. This really is a shame, as I'd love to know the true facts behind the story (from a totally neutral source) although despite possible flaws, the film style and acting are marvelous and this film is exceptional.One of the elements of this bio-pic I really enjoyed was the non-linear film style. Instead of a by-the-books retelling of the story, after showing the early lives of the two musical prodigies, the film shows what happened from Hilary's perspective. Jacqueline comes off as rather selfish and possibly schizophrenic in this segment. However, when the story later backs up and shows Jacqueline's story, you realize that there is much, much more to the story and Jacqueline is more of a pitiful person--someone you can't help but feel sorry for and care about--though in the first section she was far from likable. This was very creative film making and I love when films like this and HE LOVES ME, HE LOVES ME NOT show an entirely different perspective that help the viewer to see a whole new context for the first half of the movie.I also really appreciated Emily Watson's performance, though I must admit it was hard to watch at the end without shedding some tears. Her performance was clearly the standout one in the film and was truly compelling. Additionally, the rest of the performances all around were excellent and quality abounds with this film.There's a lot more to this film, but I really don't want to spoil it any more than I have. Give this one a look--it's well worth it. By the way, this is NOT a film for little kids--the subject matter and content are rather adult at times and it's best to leave this one for an older audience. "},{"Title":"A very good character based emotional drama","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I put this film on whilst I was doing something else, expecting I could get on with what I was doing and not really pay attention. Needless to say, I didn't get anything done as once the film started going I was gripped and couldn't take my eyes off it. Hilary and Jackie is a biography of the cellist Jacqueline du Pre and her flautist sister Hilary du Pre. At the beginning, both are childhood virtuosos. When they grow up, Jackie goes on a world tour and Hilary stays home to start a family. What follows is a very interesting and gripping story with exceptional acting. The director has also done very well in particular with some of the editing in the music scenes and in the way the film is structured, which was very interesting to watch. As for the acting, Emily Watson in particular was outstanding (I do wonder if I'll ever see a film where she puts in a bad performance.) but it also must be said that Rachel Griffiths and David Morrisey also impressed. Another thing, as it is a musical biopic, you expect good music. This did not disappoint. In fact the film on the whole was so brilliantly done, the only thing I found disappointing was that I didn't get my work done, and I can't really criticise it for that can I? "},{"Title":"Absorbing biopic about a complex relationship","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I caught this film by pure chance.  I hadn't heard of it, I didn't know the story at all despite is being a dramatization of a true story about famous classical musicians.  But I found myself completely absorbed and thorughly convinced by the performances and the script that this could well be a fairly accurate reflection of the relationship between the two du Pre sisters.  It made me reflect on how much some of us will tolerate from others in our relationships and how much some of us will ask of our relationships, particularly when those relationships are based on blood rather than friendship.  An unexpected gem. "},{"Title":"Absolutely brilliant","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is intelligent, intense, shocking, and overall a brilliant film. I am a musician, and I thought Emily Watson's performance was incredible. She obviously studied the real Jackie very closely and did a wonderful job of conveying her unique playing style.  Rachel Griffiths was also phenomenal.  Some people feel it is slow-moving, and perhaps it is, but it is beautiful and realistic.  Don't expect excitement and suspense, or hilarity, or dramatic Hollywood epic sadness.  It is a phenomenal, gorgeous movie, and deserves a 10 of 10! "},{"Title":"Wonderful, touching, intense...","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  The first time I heard about Hilary and Jackie was when the leading actress Emily Watson was nominated to the Golden Globe. I didn't know what the film was about, I just didn't care about it. Some time after, I heard about it again when Emily and Rachel Griffiths received Oscar nominations for their roles. Then I knew that the story was about a famous cellist who had to stop her career because of a serious disease. For some reason, I wasn't very interested in seeing the film and I decided to wait for it on video. But my friend, who saw it on the movies, didn't stop to praise it, saying that it was wonderful, marvelous, great, one of the best films ever. Of course it wouldn't be a bad one, but even with that I wait for the video. Many months passed, and I watched it this morning. All I have to say is that... my friend was extremely right.Very few films can do to the audience the same Hilary and Jackie does. It is at the same time touching, sad, beautiful and intense. I'm not fond of biographical movies, but this one is an exception. Director Anand Tucker did a great debut, doing a great work with the camera and lights. There are many wonderful, memorable, remarkable scenes, things that we are not used to see in those times of crappy blockbusters as The Mummy. I can only say that this film will remain in my memory for some time.All the acting of the movie is superb, specially Emily Watson, who is a real joy to watch. She is much better than any of the other nominated actresses last year, with the exception of Cate Blanchett. And look who they gave the Oscar to Gwyneth Paltrow! Shakespeare in Love is a great film, but Ms. Paltrow's performance doesn't come any close to Ms. Watson's perfection. As the cellist Jacqueline Du Pré she showed emotion and strength in a very difficult role. Along with Jodie Foster, Emily is the greatest actress of the '90s. But we can't forget Rachel Griffiths. She is worthy of as much recognition as Watson. I mean it! And she should have also won the Oscar.Hilary and Jackie has a very well written screenplay, divided in some parts, including one called 'Hilary' and other called 'Jackie'. The 'Hilary' part tells the story by Hilary Du Pré's point of view, and the other one, of course, tells the facts by Jackie's point of view, getting some obscure things clear. The story of the movie was very controversial. Some people claim that they showed a bad portrait of the famous cellist. But, in my opinion, the director and the writer did their jobs very well.Hilary and Jackie is a serious must-see for everyone, even if you have never heard about Jacqueline Du Pré or if you don't like classical music. An unmissable, wonderful film! "},{"Title":"A classic","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is probably one of the best I have seen in the past two or three years, if not the best.  The plot has immeasurable depth, and it becomes even more interesting because it actually happened.  The richness of the scenery and the brilliant cinematography is enhanced by the beautiful soundtrack.  The repetition of Elgar Cello Concerto is an effective dramatic device, as is the portrayal of the viewpoints of the sisters DuPre.  This movie could appeal to groups other than music aficiandos or people with a penchant for torrid romances.  This is most likely one of the highest quality independent films every made.  "},{"Title":"Genius, Eccentricity and Torment","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Hilary and Jackie is an excellent movie, thoughtful and complex. The acting is great in all the roles, not just the eponymous characters of which we heard so much. Not that it matters, but this represents another injustice in the Best Actress Oscar category; I contend that Emily Watson far exceeded Gwyneth Paltrow, if only because this was a much more serious role in a much more serious movie. Helena Bonham Carter was robbed in a similar fashion last year (and some wonder why more people don't take these awards seriously). This is a study of genius, the eccentricity and egotism that go with it, and their effect on those around the genius. We learn that the genius is in torment also, in ways that no one else sees. But in this family, the ties are so strong that they survive the damage the genius does. The film also nicely creates the world of classical music performance and celebrity at the highest levels in its depiction of Jackie's career and especially her relationship with Daniel Barenboim. Equally interesting, by contrast, is the way in which Hilary reconciles herself to a life of domesticity when her talent proves to be less than her sister's (she marries Kiffer Finzi, son of the distinguished British composer Gerald Finzi). There are some pretentious moments, for example, the opening. And the course of Jackie's disease is telescoped. She seems to be diagnosed and to die in a period of about six months. In fact, about 12 years elapsed between the time she was forced to stop performing and the time she died.Overall, I highly recommend this movie. If you don't like it, maybe you'll like the Elgar cello concerto... "}{"Title":"Inside this dumb movie, there's an intelligent movie trying to get out.","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Hilary and Jackie was an interesting story, that is, I'm sure the lives of these two people was interesting, but it should have been tackled differently.Story isn't enough to make a good movie. There are a few key pieces to the movie, the beginning wrapping around to the ending, the split of the movie into Hilary's point of view and Jackie's point of view and the weird relationship between the sisters.The beginning was interesting and near the end, I was dying to find out what the woman wispered to Jackie on the beach when they were small. When the end finally came, I was left asking if it was some kind of science fiction or time travel/space warp movie. It made no sense to me at all.The splitting of the movie into two points of view worked in some cases, but not in others. Just not enough effort was spend trying to make the dialog work from both sides. In the end, to explain Jackie's reasons for acting the way she did, they had to change Hilary's dialog altogether, add lines etc... Where it did work was with pieces of the movie that we never saw from Hilary's perspective in the first place. This means to me that it should never have been split up into two perspectives.Finally, the weird relationship between the sisters and the sharing of Hilary's husband... just strange. I didn't get it. It isn't the sharing of a husband, it's that neither Hilary or her husband wanted it to happen, but they do it anyway. THEN, the most dumbfounding event is that Hilary is then scared that Jackie will find out that she's continuing to sleep with her own husband! Hilary is SHARING, maybe someone who wrote the movie should look that up. There has to be a limit to what one person will let their sister get away with.All in all, I can't recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Great Cinema","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Hi,I think Hilary and Jackie is a great, in German I would call it Erzaehlkino, that means a film, which has the main purpose to tell a story. Telling part of the story twice, once from each side, gives a great inside in the very complicated relationship between Hilary and Jackie. And the play of the two main actors is also really great - so it is nearly a perfect film. 9 out of 10.Best regardsMarc  "},{"Title":"Absolutely moving!","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I have watched Hilary and Jackie for three times so far and each time, I got more out of it and love it even more. It is my favourite movie this year so far. The success of the film is mostly brought by the perfect performance by Emily Watson(Breaking the Waves, The Boxer). I was really shocked by her glamour and her incomparable acting ability. She should have got the Oscar this year instead of Paltrow in Shakespeare in Love. Another contributing factor for the success of the film is the beautiful music (Elgar's and Dvorak's Cello Concertos are powerful). You will definitely love Hilary and Jackie more if you are a classical music fan. Overall, it is a masterpiece! I give Hilary and Jackie 9.1 out of 10! "},{"Title":"The closeness of English families  correctly depicted","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I went to see Hilary and Jackie because I am so bedazzled by the wonderful Rachel Griffiths of Muriel's Wedding.  I enjoyed the film, which I felt was made with potential lawsuits in mind; but nevertheless, I realised that American audiences with their confrontational litigation mentality, could never understand the sharing of one sister's husband with another in a close family relationship.  Ye gods! Better keep it in the family than have her going out to a bar and picking up a one night stand!  I am British, I do understand.My only gripe about the film was the casting of James Fraine as  Daniel Barenbaum.  James is this year's brunette, and a very good actor, but he simply did not fit the part. He did not look like the real Daniel Barenbaum. We are talking about people who are still aliveHaving seen Jacqueline DuPre on the Dick Cavett show (oh how I miss that show) when she was in a wheelchair and bloated from medication, I really sympathised with the awful fate that befell her.  It was the worst horror story, and in the movie, it did not appear that she had much support from her family.  I have not read the book;  whatever, this film served as a horror story of what if.  What if I went down with a dreadful terminal illness that would take 20 years or so to run its course! "},{"Title":"A cello movie that's a stirring watch?!","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I did not expect to find Hilary and Jackie such an absorbing and fascinating watch. What makes it so good is because of the superb acting by Emily Watson and Rachel Griffiths, both of whom received well deserved Oscar nominations for their sublime performances as the title characters. Although Watson had the meatier part, I think Griffiths really holds her own, as the more subdued and thoughtful sister. The soundtrack is quite wonderful. "},{"Title":"touching","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  it was a touching movie as it described the relationship between two talented sisters in a detail and moved way and what impressed me would be the music of cello. the wonderful music is comparable to te music of shine . i bought the soundtracks of these two movies and i discovered that how importance of music in a movie. it can impress the audience and also lead the development of the script. when i listen to the soundtrack, the scenes of this movie appear in my mind. i cried at the ending when i saw this movie. hilary loved jackie so much !! when jackie died ,  hilary is burst into tears. however, the audience should be told what disease jackie suffered from. actually, i don't know what happened to jackie, i just know she had disease. in general,  it is a great movie that no one could miss it .  "},{"Title":"One of the better docudramas","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Hilary and Jackie (***) is an absorbing if exhausting experience to watch. At times it put me in mind of a Ken Russell extravaganza with its flamboyantly visual use of the camera and sound effects, and the steady stream of passionate music that envelops the soundtrack.  The script is based on a book by Jacqueline du Pre's brother and sister, Piers and Hilary, and they apparently had some old wounds and resentments to air (Eugenia Zuckerman, a close friend of du Pre, called the film mean spirited). Piers scarcely emerges here as a person in his own right, and Daniel Barenboim, DuPre's celebrated husband, has been strangely silent about his distant portrayal in the movie (in which it is implied that he loved her more as a musician than as a wife).  But in Rachel Griffith's steady performance Hilary emerges as a sympathetic if passive character, usually overwhelmed by the talent and demands of her tormented but selfish younger sister.  Emily Watson throws herself into the part of Jackie with the same self-conscious dedication she displayed in Breaking the Waves, but I kept feeling in both performances that I was watching a talented drama student going through a two-hour acting exercise.  She has yet to draw me in.  The storytelling style is interesting.  Part of the film is told from Hilary's perspective, and then the film retraces some of the same events as told from Jackie's point of view.  This is an innovative new way to approach the docudrama, a genre that's best approached as fiction based on fact.  Some of the film's scenes are mystifying  at one point, late in her illness, Jackie receives a call from her husband and gets suspicious when she thinks she hears a baby's voice in the background.  We do indeed get a glimpse of a baby running around Barenboim's room, but it's never explained whose it is. Anyone have an explanation? "},{"Title":"One of the best films of 1998","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  The relationship between musical powerhouse Jaqueline DuPre and her sister Hilary is dangerous at times, nearly telepathic.  The sisters are brought to life by Emily Watson in a passionate performance and Rachel Griffiths who is the human center of the film.  Hilary and Jackie is unflinching in its ways of letting us get to know the two women.The frightening aspect is that all this is real.  The screenplay written by Frank Cottrell Boyce is well-structured and based on Hilary and Piers du Pre's memoir.The performances are riveting.  Emily Watson got the most attention with her orgasmic cello-playing and emotional devastation, but I think Rachel Griffiths gives the most beautiful supporting performance I have seen for a long time. "},{"Title":"A near perfect character study","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  This incredibly strong film is driven by the hypothesis that genius can be ultimately alienating. Jacqueline du Pre is show almost as a slave to talent; a talent which both sets her apart from her family and introduces her to new glamorous world of celebrity. This is then tragically taken away from her with the onset of MS. It's classic drama anyway, but even more distinguished for the following reasons. Firstly, the screenplay divides the film neatly into two halves; Hilary's point of view, and then Jackie's. It's an interesting approach; with our initial perceptions of Jackie's devisive prima donna becoming more sympathetic throughout the latter half of the film as key events are repeated from a different perspective (the dirty laundry scene, for example). Secondly, music is used thoughtfully and continuously throughout the film, giving it an almost orchestrated rhythmical structure. Finally, the acting is just superb. Emily Watson's virtuoso performance is nothing short of stunning, flowing from spoilt brat to kittenish flirt to little girl lost fluidly and with subtlety. Rachel Griffiths provides a solid and effective counterpoint, yet her character develops also throughout the course of the film. It's this strong development of such complex characters that makes this film such an emotional tour-de-force, and if I have a complaint, it's that it does seem to drag a little towards the end. However, 'Hilary and Jackie' is immediately engaging, thought-provoking, meticulously scripted, outstandingly and ultimately, uplifting. Best film I've seen so far this year?               "},{"Title":"Competent film biography with excellent performances","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Anand Tucker's feature filmmaking debut Hilary and Jackie recounts the story of British cellist Jacqueline Du Pre, a brilliant musician whose life was cut short by multiple sclerosis in 1987 when Du Pre was only 42.  Centering on the unique relationship between Jackie and her sister Hilary, Tucker's film features outstanding performances by Rachel Griffiths and Emily Watson. Falling short of the overall quality that made Shine a critical darling, Hilary and Jackie applies many of the same cinematic techniques (although Tucker might have been cautioned to avoid so many shots in which the camera dizzyingly circles the performer).  I was rather pleased with the movie's uniquely divided structure, which convincingly explained Jackie's unusual behavior by shifting to her point of view in the second half.   "}{"Title":"Sisters forever.","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  A truly great film. I expected a chick flick and instead I got a wonderful exposition of how two sisters could compete and love one another so completely.  I have trouble finding the words to describe the power of this film.  Do not wait for the video.  You do not want to be distracted.  Get into it.  One of the best of the year. "},{"Title":"magnificent performances with no exceptions","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Whenever Channel Four Films associate themselves with a film, it seems like it is a guarantee of high quality. This time they are merely the distributors, but still... the formula works!This film is quite a controversial one, especially since it refers to a true story and the real life survivors do not agree between them on the interpretation of things. It refers to the relationship of the Du Pré sisters as they grew up together only to follow different routes as adults. Jacqueline Du Pré (Emily Watson - The Boxer (1997), Breaking the Waves (1996)) became the famous cellist, while her sister Hilary Du Pré (Rachel Griffiths - Bettina in My Son the Fanatic (1998), My Best Friend's Wedding (1997), Jude (1996), Muriel's Wedding (1994)) became a mother and a housewife. Although the film became known for what was supposedly catalytic to their relationship, the event of Jackie sleeping with Hilary's husband, it seems in the actual film that this fact was totally irrelevant. It seems like it is the different nature of the two sisters, as well as their different experiences, that separate and/or connect them.The unknown director Anand Tucker manages to extract magnificent performances from his cast with no exceptions, notably from James Frain (Daniel Barenboim, Jackie's husband), David Morrissey (Kiffer Finzi, Hilary's husband), Charles Dance and Celia Imrie (Derek and Iris Du Pré, the parents). The very interesting story line, told independently from either sister's side, is of course decorated by wonderful classical music, another subject of controversy between the owners of Jackie's recordings and the publishers of the film's soundtrack. For the exceptional sweetness delivered to eyes and ears, 7 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"Wonderful acting, intensely moving, heart-stirring music","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  This film, which has caused enormous controversy in the UK, especially among music lovers, because it appears to question the myth of Saint Jacqueline the Martyr, is a thoroughly intelligent portrayal of the story of sisters Hilary and Jackie Du Pre, and the strains imposed on them and the whole family by the demands of Jacqueline's genius.  The story is rather less edifying than the previous golden girl view, but is all the more moving and true to life.  Jackie is seen to take out the intolerable stress of her meteoric rise to fame as the world's greatest cellist on her singularly ill-equipped, rather ordinary suburban family, and in particular her long-suffering sister.  The film is ultimately extremely sympathetic to Jackie, and we come to understand how impossible it must have been for her, first of all to find herself gifted with a genius of divine, god-given proportions yet with none of the emotional strength and stability needed to cope with it, and then at the height of her musical powers to be tragically struck down with, of all unbearably ironic things, multiple sclerosis.All this is of course intensely painful to watch, and Emily Watson as Jackie gives a stunning performance, for which she richly deserves an Oscar - though for all sorts of the wrong reasons she is unlikely to be the winner. Her portrayal of Jackie's physical movements (famously exaggerated) as she plays the cello is quite eerie in its exact likeness to the original.   She also takes us with the fearlessness which is a characteristic of this actress through the agonising progress of the disease which slowly and cruelly destroyed Jackie, bringing home with terrible poignancy what a truly appalling tragedy it was and remains.Rachel Griffiths as Hilary turns in an equally beautifully acted performance, and it is good to see that she too has been recognised with an Oscar nomination.  To see this feisty Australian, who in real life has a hearty down-under sense of humour to match, become a retiring, slightly downtrodden English girl, with a perfect BBC accent, is a delight in itself, and she brings a lovely subtle understanding to the part.Celia Imrie as the Du Pre mother is also excellent, as are James Frain as the conductor Daniel Barenboim and David Morrissey as Kiffer, Hilary's husband.  My one gripe - not, it seems, shared by many critics - is that I thought the two young girls who played Hilary and Jackie as children were toe-curlingly awful - quite sweet-looking, but very poor actresses.As for the music - if you don't fall in love with Elgar's Cello Concerto after seeing the movie, and rush home to listen over and over again to the CD, all I can say is - you have no soul.All in all, I'd say you'd be mad to miss this film.   "},{"Title":"Needed a big box of tissue","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Being a musician, this film touched me deeper than perhaps the same film would dealing with a different art form.  Just minutes into it I was sobbing and continued to do so, off and on, until the credits rolled.  It was extremely well done, in all aspects. I highly recommend it!    "},{"Title":"Full, rich character development-Wonderful!","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  It was a pleasure to see a movie with full, rich character development and not the usual Hollywood hype of violence and sex. I felt so much a part of both girls - could empathize with each one as their story was told from each viewpoint.  Additionally, the music was beautiful. "},{"Title":"A moving if rather worthy three-in-a-bed love romp.","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  There is an inherent worthiness about serious biopics of artists of any sort; as if any criticism of them will identify you as a fool. There is also a proverbial problem that these pictures have in dealing with 'genius'. In general genius manifests itself as a sort of disorder. Here that disorder is both psychological and physical. DuPre was blessed with her ability and thus cursed with mental illness and M.S. The movie makers are spared the difficulty of dealing with the roots of her art, they simply point to the perceived price paid and that must serve as insight.That said, this picture works well most of the time. I agree with those who have pointed out that the time scheme is unclear. I was amazed when, we were told it was 1987. I was convinced we were still in the era of bell bottoms and fondue, when Michael Fish (well known British Weatherman) turned up to plant us in the 1987 hurricane. Most credit goes to Rachel Griffiths, who deserves an Oscar - and just might get one. "},{"Title":"Music performer","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  It is too bad that the music in this movie was played byCaroline Dale and that they do not used the original tracks ofJacqueline... She was not only beautiful lady but one of the bestcelloist ever existed. But I can understand Dani. "},{"Title":"A fascinating look at two extraordinary sisters","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  The central issue in this film is the shifting patterns of the relationship between two exceptional sisters, cellist Jacqueline du Pre and her sister Hilary, a flute prodigy who abandoned music for a more conventional domestic life.Emily Watson is wonderful as the mercurial Jackie, striking a complex balance between genius and victim.  The later scenes, dramatizing the effects of muscular dystrophy, are devastating.  The part of Hilary is more complicated -- especially since the script is based on her memoir of the relationship, an account that many British critics denounced as self-serving.  The wounds that her memoir has opened are reflected in the fact that Jackie's husband, Daniel Barenboim, has apparently prevented the producers from using most of her recordings for the soundtrack.But the movie as a whole is sympathetic to all the players and, despite an excessive reliance on swooping circular pans, packs a considerable emotional wallop.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful performances are the highlight of this fascinating film about two sisters.","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Although the summary (one sister chooses fame, the other family and an ordinary life) could sound like a TV movie of the week, there is so much more to Hilary and Jackie.  Two viewings have only increased my enjoyment. It explores the complexities of an ordinary, happy family in which one member rises to fame.  It convincingly depicts the adult relationship between two very different sisters.  In a wider context, it shows how different people react to the possibilities and temptations of the changing world of the 1960's - and begin to realize that simple answers aren't possible.  It is beautifully filmed, and I would not want to chose which performance I liked better - both Emily Watson and Rachel Griffiths convincingly inhabit their roles.  Go see it!  "},{"Title":"Rachel Griffiths highlight of film","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I only have a few things to say about this film. First of all, I found the directing and script to be very convoluted. For example, by the end of the film I had no idea that Jackie was 42 years old. Did you? Perhaps the makers of this film could have come up with a better way to present the time lapses. Anyway, the second thing I have to say is I really enjoyed Rachel Griffiths quiet craftsmanship in this film. Her portrayal of Hilary du Pre` is the kind of performance that is too often overlooked. Griffiths displays such startling restraint in her performance which is so hard for most actors to do. So many times I see these big, over the top performances that just do not impress me. Life is filled with small, unique gestures and far off glances, not huge, dramatic hoopla. Rachel Griffiths is a truly gifted actress and the highlight of this film. Oh yeah, Emily Watson wasn't too bad either.  "}{"Title":"the price of sisterly love","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Hilary and Jackie is a film about the price of fame and fortune on the bond between two sisters. One is forced to give up her ego, and almost her marriage in order to please the `gifted`sister. But the price is too much to pay for an extraordinary artist. We are faced with the idea of how society treats talented people--how they are excused from ordinary civility and appropriate behaviour because they have an extraordinary talent.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful surprises about Jacqueline Du Pre's life in film","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Hilary and Jackie provided wonderful surprises about the life of Jacqueline Du Pre which I could never have  imagined existed. Just knowing her through recordings I viewed her like George Washington on Mount Rushmore. The film brought her to life and removed all preconceptions and misconceptions about her and her sister, Hilary. An absorbing and beautiful film with  Oscar worthy performances of Emily Watson and Rachel Griffiths.  "},{"Title":"Emotionally Compelling","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie portrayed many emotions between siblings masterfully.   I found myself at one moment despising the sisters and then feeling deep sympathy for both.  The ending was quite heart wrenching and left me emotionally undone.  Take kleenex and see this movie. "},{"Title":"wonderfully tragic","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  A wonderful film supported by the great perfomances of the lead actresses. A note of merit also goes to James Frain, who I did not know, and to the director who gives a solid and assured direction even though sometimes indulges too much in unecessary camera aerobics. A direction that creates an accurate and passionate atmosphere of the time and place in which is set. Deserved an oscar nomination for best picture in my opinion.  "},{"Title":"Good, but there were some disappointing scenes!","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  `Hilary and Jackie' is based on a true story. It's an interesting movie about the lives of two sisters. They like each other a lot, but suffer from different situations in their musical life. What I like about this movie is that the story is well told and there aren't bad or good characters, just humans who show real emotions and frustrations.Emily Watson is terrific. Her academy award nomination was well deserved. She really succeeds at playing a very complex and physically demanding role in this movie. Her character reminded me of her performance in  `Breaking the Waves' which was somewhat similar. Rachel Griffiths gives a pretty good performance as well; she really knows how mature her character is. She is able to be very convincing as a woman who'd give anything for her sister. `Hilary and Jackie' is not a romantic movie. The acting is outstanding, but there could have been better character development. For instance, the director could have shown the real reasons why Jackie hated the cello or why she behaved in a strange way.  The story is tragic and appealing, but sometimes it lags without having the need to. Some of the disappointing scenes are Jackie being disturbing and they made her look really bad in the movie. Jackie's behavior was the most disappointing thing in this movie, instead of showing the great artist she was, they showed her as a neurotic and naughty person.  In Addition to that the movie really doesn't need to devote so much time to showing Hilary and Jackie's lives as little girls. It wasn't necessary. The movie has some flaws, but it is worth watching. 7/10  "},{"Title":"Good for a one time viewing only.","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  It is interesting just because it is based on a non-fiction story. It is worth watching once, but there is little to make you interested in watching it again. The movie starts off fair, drags alot in the middle, and then gets somewhat interesting with the change Jackie has to go through. Rating 4.5 "},{"Title":"Outstanding!","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is a compellingly human, intensely deep and agonizingly sad film. Seldom has the close and loving relationship between sisters, with the inevitable conflicts and jealousies, been so well portrayed. This would be a story worth telling even if it had been done poorly. But the photography and editing are exceptional; beautifully composed and hauntingly lit shots, sweeping panoramas of sand and sea, busy  moving takes, each wedded to the strong emotions of the particular moment. This is the cinema's equivalent to a haunting concerto, an epic poem or a delicate watercolour. When so many bad films are made, it is a joy to experience one which is truly superb!   "},{"Title":"A classic","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is probably one of the best I have seen in the past two or three years, if not the best.  The plot has immeasurable depth, and it becomes even more interesting because it actually happened.  The richness of the scenery and the brilliant cinematography is enhanced by the beautiful soundtrack.  The repetition of Elgar Cello Concerto is an effective dramatic device, as is the portrayal of the viewpoints of the sisters DuPre.  This movie could appeal to groups other than music aficiandos or people with a penchant for torrid romances.  This is most likely one of the highest quality independent films ever made.  "},{"Title":"Oh, dear!","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  It was sad to see the gifted Emily Watson in so dreadful a movie. Particularly sad was the fact the the Jacqueline character was the least convincing of the personalities in the movie - the character never came to life for me, in spite of Watson's efforts.The scenes where she was pretending to play the cello were uniformly embarrassing.  The cello is the most physically involving of the instruments in the orchestra. Instrument and player are joined in a deeply physical enterprise. Hard (probably impossible) to simulate.  Watson's efforts were embarrassing.The husband-sharing episode probably occupied a third of the movie by the time all the nudge-nudge and emoting were done - far more than it merited.The opening scene, with its pitifullycute little girls, referred back to in the ending, was just a tacky little bit added on,with no relationship to anything else in the movie. The partial split in the movie, telling part of the story from Hilary's and part from Jackie's point of view, added nothing. I could go on and on. Whoever scripted, directed and edited the movie should find another line of work. The book itself should probably not have been published.The story isn't about a gifted musician. It's about the untalented sister of a gifted musician. Too bad.I'm saddened that Emily Watson had anything to do with the whole sad enterprise. "},{"Title":"A bad biopic.","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Based on a self-serving and, by many accounts,  inaccurate book by the attention-starved brother  and sister of cellist Jacqueline du Pre.  It was  excruciatingly embarrassing watching actress Emily  Watson trying to replicate du Pre's performance  style.  And what on earth was the point of showing  du Pre losing bladder control and, in the end,  spazzing hideously out?  To show us that MS is a  horrible way to die?  Duh.  The movie almost seems  to relish the indignities and agonies the disease inflicted on du Pre.  You feel dirty after watching it.  Not even the soundtrack snippets of du Pre performing the Elgar cello concerto made it bearable. It was nice to see Nyree Dawn Porter again, as Dame  Margot Fonteyn.  I haven't seen much of her since  The Forsyte Saga on PBS, if anyone remembers that. "}{"Title":"Great Work From Rachel Griffiths","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  It's ridiculous that Judi Dench won the Best Supporting Actress Award at the Academy Awards for her eight minutes in Shakespeare In Love. Judi Dench said as much in her acceptance speech.Australia's Rachel Griffiths in a fair world would have blown Dame Judi right out of the dressing room with her performance in Hilary And Jackie. Griffiths is just terrific playing Hilary, the legendary cellist Jacqueline du Pre's older sister in this fairly absorbing film.Jacqueline du Pre was a master cellist who died a premature death from multiple sclerosis in her early 40's in 1987. She was truly a remarkable musician, proven by a remarkably sensitive and moving piece I heard some years ago on the ABC. It was with the memory of that beautiful music that I approached this film.Hilary And Jackie could have been very touching. There's nothing much worse (and much better as a film subject) than a musical genius lost too young and unfairly.Witness The Glenn Miller Story, The Al Jolson Story, Amadeus, The Music Lovers, The Coal Miners Daughter, What's Love Got To Do With It and many other successful films about musical greats to see how successful musical bio pics can be.But bio pics make their mark by painting their subject sympathetically. Instead Hilary And Jackie marks Jacqueline du Pre as being spoilt, irresponsible and  less than gracious regarding her gift for music. Whether or not this is true is moot (her family have hotly disputed the film), but it sure deflected my enjoyment.And Hilary And Jackie treats the sisters and their family remarkably superficially, even within the time constraints of a film which deals with a whole life. This may possibly have been caused by the fear of law suits from the still living family (perhaps the film needed to be made a couple of decades later) but  for what ever reason it was impossible to become sufficiently empathic with Jacqueline to really care when she dies. Hilary And Jackie seems to bounce off  and around the two sisters rather than delving in as it should.We don't even hear all that much music in Hilary And Jackie. The thrust of the film was to do with a spoilt sister demanding to share her sister's husband, and that was not all that interesting.But still Hilary And Jackie is well worth seeing if only to view the performances as the two sisters of Emily Watson (Breaking The Waves) and especially Rachel Griffiths (Muriel's Wedding, Amy). I was struck particularly by  how much these two looked like each other. It was something to do with the set of their mouths, even though they look completely different.You'd swear that these two were definitely sisters. Melbourne girl Rachel Griffiths was outstanding. "},{"Title":"An unengaging screenplay with uninspiring script","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  As the first scene unfolded I immediately suspected that this would not be a film I would rave about.  The two little girls were far too cutesy and the artiness of the scene, more pretentious than impressive.  And so the story continued - I didn't care about the sisters, they were so twee and unengaging.  This seemed to be due more to the script they had to work with and the surreal elements than Emily Watson & Rachel Griffith's acting - which was fine and gave the film a little more authenticity than it would otherwise have had.   I didn't get a sense of the genius I felt I was supposed to be in awe of.  As Jackie's health deteriorated, I found myself quite detached and uninterested about how it would all end.  If anything, I was relieved with the final outcome and only wished it would've come sooner.  "},{"Title":"Yet another in a series of fine classical music films","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  On the heels of SHINE and THE RED VIOLIN comes another fine film about classical music, though in structure, it also borrows from Clint Eastwood's Charlie Parker biopic BIRD.  There's been a lot of criticism of how Jacqueline du Pre is portrayed in this movie; not of Emily Watson's performance, but how she is written.  Admittedly, I don't know much about her, but having performed myself, I identified with this character a lot, especially when she says because of her talent, she didn't get to choose her life.  The unhappy artist is a story we've heard over and over again, but here, we see someone who is insecure, thanks partly to her being overlooked initially in favor of her sister, and lonely thanks to her talent.  She says she's like a freak, but she's treated more like a museum piece; admired but always from afar.  So even when we may find her behavior childish or even reprehensible, we understand her.Watson continues to grow as an actress with this performance; she still shows the emotional range of BREAKING THE WAVES, but it's now tempered with impressive craft.  Griffiths, an underrated actress, is also quite good, being subtle where Watson plays it big.  The music is great, and both actresses are convincing playing their respective instruments.  If there's a weakness in the film it's that some of the dialogue is unintelligible at times. "},{"Title":"A Must See","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Everyone should see this film.  A universal story about the pain that can accompany the granting of wishes, and the strength we get in our lives when we choose our futures instead of having them bestowed on us.  "},{"Title":"An intense, intimate, and sophisticated biography of the sisters Du Pre.","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  This great picture is a biography of the Du Pre sisters, one of whom, Jacqueline, was a world renowned cellist, and the other, Hilary, a well known flutist. Because Jacqueline was cut off, by MS, at the height of her career, and died in her early forties, one would hope that such a picture would be more than a tear-jerker. It is much more. It is a very well constructed, sophisticated biography of the two sisters, with a little sexual titillation tossed in as a necessary part of the character development of Jackie. Interesting, too, is the Rashoman aspect, where critical scenes are viewed from the perspectives of the sisters. The acting is great all around - the parents, the husbands, the childhood versions of the sisters, the teachers, etc. A must see! "},{"Title":"The Cello Sisters","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  An insight into the world of classical music and musicians told in the story of 'Hilary and Jackie'. Cleverly presented in a sort of Quentin Tarantino fashion from two perspectives, it makes one of the sisters endearing and the other appear to be uncouth. As a follower of classical music, I liked it. "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I had been looking forward to seeing this film, having heard a lot about it, so I was perhaps disproportionately disappointed when I did see it.  I found it unfocused, confusing, dull.  I couldn't figure out specifically what was wrong until a few nights ago when I happened to see Emily Watson on the Charlie Rose show, were she mentioned that this was director Anand Tucker first movie.  That is what is wrong with the film - it is amateurish, a first effort. "},{"Title":"A Heinous nightmare","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Having seen MS. Du Pre on many occasions and watching this ludicrous maceration of her I felt like I was watching DePalmas Sisters or Cronenberg's Dead Ringers.. What a downer and what a poor job of displaying the joy and wonderment of music prodigy.. Instead it is all expressed as an amalgam of arrested development in a Goyesque, penumbral sick mist..  Definitely see because there aren't a lot of films about these things but don't expect anything of note other than the scene where the young Jackie reflexly plays the cello on a ruler.   Shine was far better....the film industry however stil can't get its act together about classical music.  "},{"Title":"Salacious corruption of the essence of musical inspiration","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  While the psychological aspects of the peculiar relationship between the du Pre sisters (and the sisters' relationships with their parents) is fascinating and could have become fodder for a gripping film, this one was tired and banal.  I understand that the real story was fascinating and there for the telling, but the film makers chose to take a thin, sensational, superficial and non-musicianly view of classical music when it was, in fact, a major part of the substance of the characters' consciousnesses.  If classical music had been portrayed without all the vapid stereotypical laziness and unawareness that the film makers fell prey to, and instead had been portrayed authentically as an integral part of the sisters' emotional makeup, this could have been more than the soap opera with the Masterpiece-Theater-clip-on-bowtie-false-patina-of-culture that it ultimately is.Enough already with, among other things, the obligatory young classical musicians getting down playing the Kinks' You Really Got Me, the absurdly caricatured martinet of a flute professor, and the pretentious and arty mother.  This isn't what classical music is about -- although someone seeing this picture would never know that.As a former professional solo cellist who now produces rock albums (recently worked with Jagger, Richards, Page, Plant, Clapton, Van Morrison, etc.), I find it more than obnoxious when classical music is so poorly portrayed on screen.  This is just the latest in a series of abortions, including, but not limited to, The Piano and Shine.Also, while the cinematography and art direction looked beautiful, so many liberties were taken with reality that it was laughable to anyone who knows anything about actual classical music presentation and made it thoroughly unenjoyable to watch.Better to rent (or better yet, go see if it is playing anywhere) 32 Short Films About Glenn Gould. "},{"Title":"the story of two First Ladies (just kidding)","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I was only semi-familiar with Emily Watson (and not at all familiar with Rachel Griffiths) when Hilary and Jackie came out. When I saw it a few months later, I was blown away by both their performances. Showing the relationship and struggles between two musical sisters, the movie gives one a sense not only of how each sister envies the other, but of the strain under which a person in the musical world operates. Specifically, Jackie starts considering sabotaging her own violin just to relieve herself of the pressure. And I never could have predicted the grave ending.Anyway, it's a movie that I definitely recommend. It's music to anyone's ears (and eyes). If it started Emily Watson (happy birthday, Emily!) on a streak of playing women under stress, then so be it.Oh, and the comment about the story of two First Ladies? When Whoopi Goldberg hosted the Oscars the year that Watson and Griffiths were nominated, she jokingly described this movie as such. Did Emily Watson deserve an Oscar for her role here? Maybe, but I thought that Life Is Beautiful deserved everything (I can't believe that Shakespeare in Love won). "}{"Title":"Absorbing and Beautiful","Date":"21 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" From the first scene I knew this was a very special film. I relaxed and let it flow over me.Hilary and Jackie are sisters who share a special bond. Hilary is the star of the family until Jackie decides she will not be outdone and becomes a world renowned cellist.Hilary's talent wanes and she marries and settles for a family life in country England. Jackie travels the world.It is being able to witness the dynamics of the relationship between these sisters that makes the film remarkable. The acting is superb and given the fact that this is based on the biography A Genius In The Family by the real-life Hilary Du Pre and her brother, the story is even more absorbing.The soundtrack is beautiful with music by Elgar and Bach.A truly satisfying film which I would recommend to those who love a good story, good music and wonderful acting, direction and cinematography.10/10 "},{"Title":"Characters kept true to the end.","Date":"3 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  So many movies fail because the characters are not kept nutty to the end, mean to the end, kept in their true character.  This movie is an example of keeping one sister extremely nutty (I love my cello, I hate it, I want your life, I want my own life, I want to make music when I can't).  The sharing of the husband is keeping the other sister in character, she will do anything to make her sibling happy.  Even at the risk of losing her own happiness.  The ending is just heart wrenching.  To think this wonderful musician is dead before 50 and probably was never truly happy.  Always chasing around the world with her music when she just probably wanted a family, and to think her husband wanted the same thing, except he got his.  This movie is a TEN.   "},{"Title":"Moving","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I watched this film on the advice of my then girlfriend (now fiance) and loved every second of it. Various o***ions on the narrative organization of this film cannot downplay the meticulous, brave, and sublime approach to the filmmaking. Every scene is perfectly presented with all of the elements working together to achieve the maximum emotional impact. From the lighting, to the acting, to the mise-en-scene everything is working together in this film to extend the viewer into the minds and hearts of the characters. Whether you enjoy the film is a matter of taste. However, for anyone that loves film, you have to respect the filmmaking. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Everything about 'Hilary and Jackie' was beautiful. The music, the portrayal of the sister's close friendship since childhood, the two versions of the story all created a mosaic of Jacqueline du Pre's life. Probably the best aspect of the movie was the Elgar cello concerto, which was played during different scenes of the film. It was Jacqueline's best-known work, and it's only fitting that it was used the way it was, making a bittersweet and melancholy tale. I loved it and highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Acting and writing make this a must see","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I enjoyed this film immensely. All the actors were perfect in their roles. Emily Watson and Rachel Griffiths should have won the Oscars they were nominated for. Totally convincing, both of them....and deeply touching. And to answer the previous reviewer No, there are no limits to the talents of James Frain. He is an excellent and extremely charismatic young actor, and just gets better project after project. I thought he played Barenboim as a very sympathetic character, and I loved seeing he and Emily working together again. In short, the story is very well written, and effectively shows both view points. The acting could NOT be better....and the music is simply glorious.  "},{"Title":"An exceptional tale of two sisters","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I am an American movie-goer who really enjoyed this movie; Thestory of two musically gifted sisters becoming endowed withthemselves,  their talents, and their illnesses. There are a few reviews posted here discussing the  pointlessness of this film, criticizing details, and even postingdownright negative reviews. However, I promise that if you enjoygetting to know a cast of characters (decidedly different thangetting to know the actors), this is a fabulous movie. Hilary &Jackie has a solid plot, but isn't about the story. It is about thecharacters; Real life sisters given unique talents under extreme,yet common, circumstances.If you have any empathy at all, this movie's ability  to place you ineach sister's very different shoes is remarkable. Both Hilary's andJackie's viewpoint is understandable, yet I couldn't help but havean opinion, which shifted as each scene progressed. IndeedJackie was very ill, and Hilary unusually accommodating.  Maybethey shared their illness, to varying degrees, which again, waspresented as a very touching insight into their psyche. Theflashbacks were very effective, and the entire production extremelywell done. Their mother couldn't look any more like the two of themcombined. Bravo!Can you tell I liked it? Let me add that each actor's performancewas remarkable. However, Emily Watson's performance was trulyextraordinary. I can't believe another reviewer criticized her celloplaying scenes. Although not a cellist, I found her scenes with thecello to be extremely believable, relevant, and profound. The bestAmerican actress up for this role would have never portrayedthose scenes with a fraction of the dedication.If you are looking for an interesting, thought-provoking, well-donecharacter study of a movie, Hilary and Jackie is top notch, nomatter how the actress might hold her bow.p.s. Are there any limits to the talent of  James Frain? Why isn't hea household name??? Maybe he didn't study enough the fingermovements of a musician??? "},{"Title":"Fantastically, beautifully sad","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  A wonderfull portrayal outlining the life of one of the worlds greatist cellists, Jaqueline De Pre. The uncanny illness that stole the magical gift from her is dramatised exceptionally well with Emily Watson (as Jacky) offering a modestly beautifull display.  The story, once seen, can never be forgotten. "},{"Title":"Awesome drama without being melodramatic or contrived...","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  It doesn't get boring as many dramas can, it doesn't overdo anything that I can recall (I just watched it, but you never know...), and it bounces along quite nicely.  Even though it is a chickflick, it has enough real entertainment value for anyone with an eye for a good tale.  If this doesn't choke you up at least once, then you can safely say that you are dense, shallow, insensitive, already numb from some other movie, or whatever.  I gave it a 10 and I am very picky and jaded (usually).  See this movie. "},{"Title":"Good vignette, but no real story","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is a good vignette-- a lovely, well done chunk of (evidently) a real person's life-- but there's not much of a story here, in the sense of traditional dramatics. I was enjoying the cello music, and some of the scenery in England, but I kept waiting for something to happen. Before anything could happen, the movie was over. Doesn't that make Hilary and Jackie more of a visual aid of some sort? Something for school or The History Channel or A&E's Biography series? A nice bit of video filler for cable, but a puzzlingly incomplete movie. "},{"Title":"What's the point?","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I would like to agree with the reviewer who said that seeing Jackie's emotional problems played out was hardly worth a two hour movie.  What I found to be totally bizarre was one comment praising the picture and putting down Americans for a perceived inability to appreciate that whole spouse sharing thing.  What kind of bizarre culture would condone that sort of thing.  I mean anyone who saw the film and has any kind of perception could see that Hillary was not at all comfortable with telling her husband to nail her sister, though she did it anyway.  What a weird  story.  If my family members acted that way I damn sure wouldn't tell the whole world.  And I'm glad I live in a country where that kind of crap isn't prevalent.  I dare say a lot of people in England feel the same way.      "}{"Title":"The closeness of English families  correctly depicted","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I went to see Hilary and Jackie because I am so bedazzled by the wonderful Rachel Griffiths of Muriel's Wedding.  I enjoyed the film, which I felt was made with potential lawsuits in mind; but nevertheless, I realised that American audiences with their confrontational litigation mentality, could never understand the sharing of one sister's husband with another in a close family relationship.  Ye gods! Better keep it in the family than have her going out to a bar and picking up a one night stand!  I am British, I do understand.My only gripe about the film was the casting of James Fraine as  Daniel Barenbaum.  James is this year's brunette, and a very good actor, but he simply did not fit the part. He did not look like the real Daniel Barenbaum. We are talking about people who are still aliveHaving seen Jacqueline DuPre on the Dick Cavett show (oh how I miss that show) when she was in a wheelchair and bloated from medication, I really sympathised with the awful fate that befell her.  It was the worst horror story, and in the movie, it did not appear that she had much support from her family.  I have not read the book;  whatever, this film served as a horror story of what if.  What if I went down with a dreadful terminal illness that would take 20 years or so to run its course! "},{"Title":"English Patience","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Wild &#145;60s cellist sensation (Emily Watson) tours the globe, marries Daniel Barenboim, is struck with MS, and longs for the domestic English country life--and husband--of her sister (Rachel Griffiths) and children, which the latter gives willingly.  Segmented into three `parts', this chronicled family drama draws much of its emotive power from Edward Elgar's CONCERTO FOR CELLO AND ORCHESTRA IN E MINOR, OP. 85, Watson's sizzling performance as Jacqueline du Pre, director Anand Tucker's dreamy tracking and shuffled flashbacks, and composer/conductor Barrington Pheloung's rich, seamless accompaniment.  The cello on the non-du Pre portions of the soundtrack is by Caroline Dale.  A few nods to the Kinks, too.  "},{"Title":"cinematic masterpiece","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  H&J is not a representation of a book or a previous movie; it is a cinematic masterpiece standing on its own.  While unable to closely identify with most of the themes of the film, I was finally moved to tears by the orchestration of cinematic images.  The ending is one of the most powerful I have ever seen.  If you like real cinema, don't miss H&J!  "},{"Title":"Gerald and Marsha Love It!","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Gerald and Marsha, film reviewers for KOTR FM, loved this biopic of the life of sisters Hilary and Jackie du Pre. Emily Watson demonstrates that she is one of the great actresses of our time, if her performance in Breaking the Waves left any doubt. Rachel Griffiths is fine and affecting in the role of Hilary.This is a story of love and human relationships that will touch and entertain as the sisters compete and mature.  "},{"Title":"One of the best movies of the year.","Date":"19 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I would like to think of this movie as a film about love which is distinguished from romance.  So, it is very sophisticated and emotionally powerful.  It is one of the best movies of the year. "},{"Title":"Lack of integrity","Date":"29 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" This film features solid acting with one exception. The actress portraying Jacqueline du Pre is embarrassingly incompetent at imitating cello playing.The story line provides a voyeuristic look into the personal lives of Hillary, Jackie, and their spouses. The film's director claimed not to be too interested in sticking to the facts in this biopic dealing with the lives of many people who are still alive. The late Jaqueline du Pre's husband, Daniel Barenboim, refused to assist with the film and refused to allow any of his late wife's recordings to be used on the soundtrack. So one is left thinking one is hearing du Pre play on the sound track until the closing credits. A cheap deception.A movie supposedly about a great artist that only insults her memory and insults many people still alive. "},{"Title":"Tabloid Headline taken too seriously!!","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Come on, people. This is after all a tabloid material presented by Jacqueline's siblings AFTER her death. I'm sure they made plenty of money out of the husband-lending scandal. Probably they needed cash. My old man once said, 'Don't speak ill of the dead.' Didn't you feel somewhat awkward that Hilary was depicted like a saint, an ever understanding, self-sacrificing sister? Well, she certainly took best advantage of being the presenter of a scandalous material to the public. Well, never mind, the fat lady's laughing now. ?Having said that, the plot is strangely plausible and appealing. It doesn't matter whether the story is true or not, but it's quite disturbing in an artistic way. I was quite happy with the acting, camera works, and yes the music. But the most important lesson is, 'Don't die while your stup*d sibling's alive.' "},{"Title":"Genial masterpiece","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Hilary and Jackie is impressive, marvellous, striking, perfect. And it's not so hard to know why it's the real and tragic story of Jacqueline Du Pré, that was the most famous cellist of all the times and had to stop playing because of the sclerosis, that killed her. The movie begins with Hilary and Jackie with about 7, 9 years old. This part is really fun and interesting. After 25 minutes they're already being played by Emily Watson and Rachel Griffiths. We have 5 more minutes and after one scene where Jackie and Hilary talked a lot in the night and slept in the same bed, the screen gets black and the word Hilary appears. You don't understand it and even forget but after 1 hour, everything gets black again and appears the word Jackie. Now, we are back to the bed, almost all the story is told again, explaining many points that were strange. Like why did Jackie sent her clothes to her mother for cleaning, how could she be so rude if she hadn't written any letter? Then, in the second part, they show that Jackie was in a Spanish hotel and when she asked about a laundry, the servant insulted her. It's so cool, because at the beginning you sometimes think that Jackie is crazy or bad but at this second part, the director, Anand Tucker, explains every single thing.  Well, if the screenplay was already very touching, it got better with the amazing classical songs used in the movie, with the great cast, the sad cinematography, remarkable scenes and some details. Yes, single details made a big difference in Hilary and Jackie. One different camera-move, one song playing in the right moment, something unexpected happening, or just one super-sad-and-touching scene. For example Jackie is alone in a big black space, there's no sceneries, only she is being illuminated.  She starts to play a song and some seconds later, she lets the arch of her cello fall. Then, in slow motion, they show the arch falling, falling, till it beat in the floor making a violent noise. With this and the horrified face of Emily Watson, Anand Tucker represented the moment that Jackie realized that something was wrong with her, and that that thing would affect her carrer. Another example one orchestra is playing a very beautiful and sad song and at end, Jackie's  husband, Daniel Barenboin, the maestro, say It's your turn. The camera shows Jackie for the first time in the scene and she's almost paralyzed in a wheel-chair. She beats in a small drum. That's the unique note that she played in the whole concert but all the audience stands up and claps hands to her. This movie is great.Is it necessary to say that Emily Watson was great too? Well, she was. Emily was amazing, you could look at her and think that she was really playing the cello. She was so good in that movie that I'm now a big fan of her. For me she's the best actress alive. Rachel Griffiths was great too, as all the cast (specially the girls that represented the young Jackie and the young Hilary).  You may think that I'm exaggerating, but in fact, Hilary and Jackie is the best I've ever seen. It's unforgettable. It's so unforgettable that I'm doing this comment 6 months after I watched it! I had to think about the comment during 6 months because I didn't know what to write. This movie is so dense and interesting that you can't express yourself in a good way, everything that you write about it is not enough! About Emily and Rachel, I'm not exaggerating again, both were nominated for the Academy Awards. The music? If you watched or will watch the movie, you're going to agree with me.The best word to define Hilary and Jackie is GENIAL "},{"Title":"Shows `Shine' up for what it is - glitter","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I wish the guy behind the camera would keep the bloody thing STILL and perpendicular to the ground - is it too much to ask? - rather than circling Jacqueline like a satellite in near orbit whenever she picks up the cello.  It's mainly the music scenes that are weakened by this treatment.  If we were allowed more of a glimpse of what music-making was like - rather than what it's like to run around the stage like a restless child - the film would have been about twice as good.Even so, it's better than `Shine'.  -Okay, so that's faint praise.  It's SO MUCH better than `Shine' that if I were Scott Hicks watching it would have made me squirm in my seat; I would have felt vaguely like a fraud; I would have called my distributors and asked if `Shine' could possibly be withdrawn from circulation.  H&J has a good story, knows full well where it's going, and even has a couple of seemingly trivial but jolting surprises for the viewer.  (I'm not sure I should be commenting having only seen it once.  I'm ALMOST certain the film plays fair with us, but I'd need to watch it again to confirm this.)  We maintain a certain distance from Jackie throughout the whole film, now and then moving close but not too close.  Our distance from Hilary is even more variable.  (Rachel Griffiths IS as good as everyone says, by the way.)  This is something I like about the film - it proves that we're able to be constantly involved in a story without having pick one of the characters and spend our time, so to speak, in bed with them.A word of warning.  We should of course be sceptical that the film corresponds to reality at every point, but in an important way this story not only isn't true, it couldn't possibly be true.  I don't think it matters.  It really isn't our business to pry into the lives of the real Hilary and Jacqueline Du Pre, anyway. "},{"Title":"Numbsville","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  This was THE definition of a snoozer.  The acting was OK, but the story in itself was a little too weird.  Unless you hold an extreme fondness for classical music, over dramatization, and guys who sleep with two sisters at the same time (like a guest on Jerry Springer), there is really no need for you to see this one. "}{"Title":"Am I alone in hating this movie?","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I found it pretentious to the point of offensiveness. A real effort to sit through. "},{"Title":"The short life of Jacqueline Du Pre, as told by sister and second-fiddle, Hilary","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Being an amateur musician I was a little shocked that, until viewing the film 'Hilary and Jackie' 1998, directed by Anand Tucker; starring Emily Watson and Rachel Griffiths, I had not had the good fortune to listen to any of Jackie Du Pre's masterful cello work, which now can be heard only through electronic means. I am sorry I never saw her in concert. The world is a poorer place when fine musicians die; for that reason I am very glad I came across this movie and gave it half a chance. My music collection will be richer in content for the Du Pre CDs I am planning to purchase.Rachel Griffiths never disappoints, and she does a splendid job in this film as Hilary Du Pre. Emily Watson's portrayal was somewhat hysterical as a professional musician suffering from multiple sclerosis. It is extremely tragic that this talented woman was cut down by this disease; however, I have trouble believing that her outlandish behavior was caused solely by the MS as the screenwriters would have us believe.Imagine this story having been written by Jacqueline instead of Hilary and Piers; it makes me wonder if Jacqueline would have described her existence as having been largely circumscribed by the MS. Probably not. Most people who have MS, even symphony musicians, maintain their dignity and manage their emotions, at least publicly. I would venture to say that musicians of Jacqueline Du Pre's caliber might develop self-centeredness as a result of precociousness or just sheer dedication to perfection, not to mention the many thousands of hours practicing, alone, with just an instrument for company. At times she must have felt as though the instrument had been permanently chained 'round her waist, with the bow simply a natural extension of her arm. Talk about love/hate relationships. If her MS actually played into the eccentric behavior portrayed in this film that would be a disappointment. I would rather imagine Jacqueline Du Pre happily performing her beautiful music to an appreciative audience, and managing her illness off-stage.Maureen Adele Compton "},{"Title":"Disappointed in What Should Have Remained Hidden","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie left me with a bad impression of the cellist.  Must we know everything about an artist?  Is nothing to remain private?  She left her beautiful music behind for generations to enjoy.  Now, her brother and sister, through the book and the movie, have shared with us what should have remained hidden.  Jackie tells her sister that she wants to sleep with her husband, the sister actually agrees, and the husband allows himself to be talked into it.  I don't buy the idea that she was is such emotional need that only a screw with her sister's husband could help.  The fact that she ended up with a particularly dibilitating form of MS is, of course, a tragedy.  But etched in my mind as I listen to her recordings will always be the tragedy of this terrible threesome.  "},{"Title":"Disappointed in What Should Have Remained Hidden","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie left me with a bad impression of the cellist.  Must we know everything about an artist?  Is nothing to remain private?  She left her beautiful music behind for generations to enjoy.  Now, her brother and sister, through the book and the movie, have shared with us what should have remained hidden.  Jackie tells her sister that she wants to sleep with her husband, the sister actually agrees, and the husband allows himself to be talked into it.  I don't buy the idea that she was is such emotional need that only a screw with her sister's husband could help.  The fact that she ended up with a particularly dibilitating form of MS is, of course, a tragedy.  But etched in my mind as I listen to her recordings will always be the tragedy of this terrible threesome.  "},{"Title":"6/10 doesn't work","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  It's amazing, with this story, it seems almost impossible for them to screw up, but some how they managed to do it.  First off, everyone is miscast, especially Emily Watson, who verges on camp in some of her scenes.  Secondly, the direction in which the director took the film is very uncalled for.  What's the point in repeating scenes from different points of view?  It didn't fit this film. Worth a watch, but disappointing. "},{"Title":"Not a great movie but worth watching","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  While this is a movie worth seeing, it doesn't deserve the high ratings most gave it. There is a great story behind this movie but it does not develop well. It jumps around so viewers are left hanging. Emily Harris' performance was not as awe inspiring as some believe. I saw Jacqueline du Pre perform several times and I knew her. I have a number of recordings made by her. Emily Harris is not my choice to play her and there was no resemblance between Jackie and Emily Harris.For one thing she did a poor job faking as cellist. Obviously she did not understand the fingering of a cello or the bow work. One would have thought that for an actor whose main role was that of a cellist would have spent more time learning just the fundamentals so that she could do a realistic fake.Perhaps a better director would never have shown an inept actress playing the cello. Better yet, show close ups of hands (a real cellist) and the bow work but never show Ms. Harris herself playing the cello.The film was unreal in that it really compressed the time period that Jackie du Pre was ill because she suffered at least 12 years from the disease. Personally the movie would have been better off not showing the more agonizing scenes of her illness. It was enough just to show that she had it and how it affected her career rather than deal with the morbid scenes.But if one knew nothing about Jackie du Pre, the movie is worthwhile watching for no other reason than the viewer learns about Jackie who was a marvelous person as well as a cellist. Too bad Harris does a bad job of portraying her. "},{"Title":"Magnificent Blend of Music, Art, and Sisterly Love","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Emily Watson is utterly brilliant and Rachel Griffiths in her own understated way may actually be better in this devastatingly magnificent opus by Anand Turner.  There is little background music here as the music is interwoven seamlessly into the fibers of the women's beings.  No false notes are struck as the sisters explore the inner and outer reaches of the depths and limits of sisterly love.  This is one of my five all-time favorite films. "},{"Title":"A deeply moving film about the World of Classical Music.","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Hilary and Jackie is a very moving film, based on a book by Hilary and her brother Piers, A Genius in the Family An Intimate Memoir of Jacqueline Du Pré. The film depicts the life of cellist Jacqueline Du Pré, played by Emily Watson, and her flautist sister Hilary, played by Rachel Griffiths. Both actresses are superb in their roles; one can really feel their relationship, as it unfolds. Classical music fans can glory in the magnificent music of the sound track. Their story is stranger than most fiction and is fascinating to observe. On several occasions, the same scene is shown twice once through the eyes of Jackie and once through the eyes of Hilary.The sisters' loving and competitive relationship is touchingly portrayed in the first part. As a younger sister, Jackie strove for success in order to be able to perform with Hilary but then she surpassed Hilary. Hilary, discouraged by an arrogant and insensitive flute teacher, married. Jackie, whose teachers were encouraging, went on to become a world famous cellist. When they went their separate ways, Jackie was overwhelmed by the rigours of fame and longed for the simpler life that her sister has chosen. This longing imperilled Jackie's marriage to Daniel Barenboim, the renowned pianist and conductor. Jackie developed unusual personality disorders and then left Daniel to return to Hilary and her husband. Jackie had many things to try to work out with her sister. In the end, Jackie became crippled and died of Multiple Sclerosis, in 1987, at the age of 42. Her incapacity and death was a great loss to the world of classical music but she lives on in her recordings. "},{"Title":"Insane Jelousy in the Family","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" The problem with Hilary and Jackie is that it is based on a book by someone who is insanely jealous of her sister.If you want to see the real Jacqueline Du Pre, see the video Remembering Jacqueline Du Pre. Not only does it show her playing the Elgar Cello Concerto, it has her playing the Trout quintet with people who loved her Daniel Barenboim (Du Pre's husband), Itzhak Perlman, Pinchas Zukerman and Zubin Mehta.These people have all denounced this film as a pack of lies and they should know since they were the ones close to Jacqueline during the time in question, not her sister. There is nothing in this film that helps to appreciate the artistry and talent of Jacqueline Du Pre. The film makers gloss over the tragedy of her succumbing to MS and concentrate on sordid episodes that are probably distorted, if not completely false. The production quality is what you would expect from a made for TV film, although Emily Watson shows considerable talent.I rarely give out the lowest rating possible, but this one gets a 1/10 for being despicably repulsive and attempting to discredit one of the great artists of our lifetime. Instead of watching this film, go out and buy a copy of Jacqueline Du Pre's recording of the Elgar Cello concerto. It is one of the greatest recordings of all time! "},{"Title":"Genius and Jealousy","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Jaqueline du Pre was one of the greatest cellists of all time. She possessed an astounding musical genius. Her sister Hilary was a very ordinary flautist (despite the impression given in the film). Many people suffer terribly in life due to the shadow cast by a talented sibling.  The pain and difficulty of being the sister to such genius was clearly  devastating for Hilary. This film is testament to that pain and the depth of her jealousy.  While that in itself is understandable, the attempt by Hilary to redress the balance by the book and film Hilary and Jackie is to my mind  sad and pathetic. Even the title resounds with this pitiable suffering in its claim to their equality, with Hilary given prominence.The facts as presented here must surely be viewed very cautiously in the light of them being presented from Hilary's view point. The insultingly stereotypical caricatures presented  do little to further Hilary's case.The magnificence of Jacqueline du Pre's playing is monumental and as such her private life is of little or no importance. When this insignificant film is long forgotten, the legend of Jacqueline du Pre will live on.Close your eyes and listen to the first couple of minutes to her recording of the Elgar or the Schumann cello concerto. That after all is what it's all about. "}]