[{"Title":"There are eight million stories in the naked city, and we'd allbe better for seeing this one","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  The Cruise isn't so much of a film as it is an awakening.  It is the story of one of the most unique, interesting, brilliant, and bizarre men in the most unique, interesting, brilliant, and bizarre of cities.  The man is Timothy Speed Levitch.  The city is New York.  Timothy Levitch is a twentysomething New York City Bus Tour Guide.  This is a good thing, because Levitch likes to talk, and talk, and then talk some more.Levitch is a philosopher with a unique perspective on life  He views all the worlds materials as having a symbiotic relationship with each other in a way not so much cosmic as intertwined.  This leads to his belief that The Brooklyn Bridge not only is one of his best friends, but the only friend who hasn't let him down.  He also feels that he has had an on again off again relationship with New York City, and he has an ongoing battle with the anti-cruise forces.  See, the anti-cruise forces are those that impose conformity on Levitch.  Among others, these include his Grandmother, the police, and the city map grid.All this may appear to be the ravings of a misguided lunatic, and at first glance Levitch surely fits the bill.  Wearing something akin to Elton John's wardrobe, Levitch was a sight to behold at the premiere.  However, there is more to him than that.  You might not agree with Levitch after seeing this documentary, but you can't dismiss him either.  He is often brilliant in his analysis of the inanities that we pass for our daily reality and routine. In his brilliant critique of the city grid system, when he says why don't we just rob all our imagination and wonder, we tend to agree.  According to Levitch, we often do.Levitch is just as fascinating on his bus tour, speaking with a vast knowledge of NYC at a pace that demonstrates his nickname, speed, perfectly.  He mentions famous names and apartments in rapid fire succession, fascinating quotes, and interesting bizarre stories that hurl at you so fast that the tour must seem like a trip into another universe. And that is exactly the point of his tale.  In one of the opening sequences, he says that the goal of the city tour is to change your view forever.We see him talking and mingling with people, completely stripped of self conscience and convention that pervade our interactions.  You see both a man full of insecurities, but also a man fully comfortable with them.  In fact, you could even say he revels in them.  Without those insecurities, he might not have the hatred of the anti-cruise forces that he, and the audience, have so much fun rebelling against.This is never more true than in a fascinating scene when he stands with his friend the Brooklyn Bridge and verbally accosts all those who have done him wrong.  These include women who have spurned him, students who picked on him, and many others, including his parents.  The footage is breathtaking, hysterical, and sad all at the same time.  It shows a man who may or may not have come to peace with his reality, who also fully understands that the world has not.That scene, and the last one, where Levitch decides whether to open a door that leads to top of a skyscraper, considering the risk of the alarm going off, are the best in the film.  That last one, which clearly demonstrates how and why Levitch has made the unique choices he has made, is all the more powerful, once we've gotten to know him.The triumph of the filmmakers is in finding the material to begin with. Levitch is absolutely fascinating, and the filmmakers have brought this to the surface.  They are smart enough to know they have a winner, and their style is for the most part unobtrusive.  They show Levitch just being Levitch.  Where the film has triumphed is at the editing level.  The film's flow makes sense, and the footage they capture brings us the essence of the man.After these 87 minutes, we feel like we know Levitch.  We have seen him laugh, cry, scream, and talk, and talk, and talk.  We have gone along for the ride.  While we may not be fighting the anti-cruise forces after we've seen this story, we did for these 87 minutes.  As the saying goes, There are 8 million stories in the naked city, and we would all be better for seeing this one.  "},{"Title":"Timothy Speed Levitch is more than just a New York crank.","Date":"10 November 1998","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Timothy Speed Levitch is more than just a New York crank, he's a spokesman for the genX drop out philosophy; find the space you are happy in, forget the rest. Forget the conventions, forget the rules. He's cruising because he's in love with everything that is creative and destructive in himself. That's what a romantic does. And he is the quintessential modern romantic.The Cruise has been criticized as for being a purely sympathetic portrait of Levitch-- but that's what makes it so exhilarating; we are brought to Levitch's way of seeing; we don't come to judge, but to cruise.When I try to think of flaws in this movie, I come up with virtues that we don't get enough, that  Levitch's secrets are not revealed, that we are left wondering about the reactions of those pastel-visored tourists... these mysteries actually augement the movie's charm.I should have given it a nine. "},{"Title":"Beware the Anti-Cruise","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This movie is just fascinating to me. It is essentially just a documentary that follow a quirky New York tour guide around. Then you begin to listen to what he is saying and you get under his skin in a weird way. You realize that here is a man with an absolute joy of life and a philosophy that truly does work for him. As strange as he may be, we should all be so lucky to have it all figured as as he seems to. He speaks in a flowing stream-of-consciousness style and seems to enjoy using multi-syllabic words. We watch as he lectures his tour groups on various aspects of New York history and landmarks and on only one occasion do we see anyone sort of laughing and mocking. No one else seems fazed by him at all. Is this just New York? He is a philosopher of the city. His philosophy reflects living in an urban jungle of steel and concrete. He feels the city as a Native American might feel the woods. This movie is highly recommended. Seek it out. "},{"Title":"What fun!","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I am a bit surprised to see the negative reviews on here because I thought the film was an absolute blast! The film follows an eccentric tour bus guide in New York City who speaks in a unique style with a wealth of knowledge about his beloved city. There is no more, on the surface, than that central premise.However, the gentleman starring in this feature is a more interesting character than one might imagine could exist in such a position. Not only is he quite extraordinarily intelligent, but he has a very unusual perspective and form of delivery that is extremely engaging and fun to listen to.I found myself not wanting the film to end as I grew to respect some of his ideas more and more. His oddball posture is so unique that it feels as though the movie front-loads viewers with strangeness, only to allow the more relatable side of him to slowly show itself as the film rolls forward. However, his ideas are simply more accessible as his delivery becomes more familiar to the viewer. A second viewing of the film showed me that I was too overwhelmed, in the beginning of it the first time around, by the sheer idiosyncrasy to pay attention enough to follow his line of expression.I highly recommend this movie to anyone who likes unique characters or really good contemplative and philosophical conversation. "},{"Title":"A Natural Born Poet","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This little film could also have been a great story for The New Yorker. When I saw Tim Speed Levitch, I thought, Wow, I know this guy! He's every New Yorker I've ever met - tough, effete, gruff, wise, silly, profane, provincial, cosmopolitan, neurotic, eloquent, voluble, accessible, insecure, indomitable...A few pointsI hope Speed wasn't fired by Grey Line (like he was afraid he'd be) for his choice comments and his non-regulation livery.Grey Line should wise up and charge a premium for the Speed Tour and give Tim Levitch a fitting raise.More than anything else, The Cruise is a portrait of a natural-born poet in his element.  "},{"Title":"Genius or Nutcase?","Date":"10 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" It's hard to tell. I was the Assistant Music Supervisor on this film and the reason it was shot in B&W was because Bennett Miller made the film on about $5,000 - It had nothing to do with trying to be Arty. I saw the rough cuts of the film, and they were great because they gave you more of a glimpse into Tim's life. I ran into him on Wall Street this spring (2005), where he was shooting something. We chatted for a few minutes, but he was predictably vague about what he was doing and trying to comprehend the Tim-Speak. The WTC scene is a little spooky to watch these days, but it's my favorite scene in the film for posterity reasons. "},{"Title":"A Cruise Worth Taking","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Part Allen Ginsberg, part Woody Allen with a sprinkling of Harvey Fierstein and Albert Camus Timothy Speed Levitch takes you on a unforgettable tour of NYC - The genuineness of his love for NYC, it's history, it's culture is infectious- There is an alluring innocence about Levitch though you can't help wondering what the issue or issues are that darken his soul; is it drugs, his sexuality, mental illness? Add Levitch to the long list of highly actualized, highly troubled human beings whose struggles illuminate the journey. The scene of his visit to the grounds of the twin towers is haunting and you wonder if this film could have been made in post 9/11 world "},{"Title":"A fantastic ride with an unforgettable character ,  who is the GenX's Woody Allen","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  For anyone who has spent any time with New York or New Yorkers, this film is a must see.  After you spend 90+ minutes with Timothy Levitch, you have to love the guy and hope that nothing tragic ever happens to him. I'd love to see him make a successful transition to the late night talk show circuit.  Timothy Levitch is just a precious, complex jewel of a person. May he live long and prosper.The director had a very cooperative subject, who is very comfortable being his unaffected self. "},{"Title":"Living Organism","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I really well spoken film. To think that the point of this film is that the world sucks is to completely miss the point. This is a celebration of New York city. A celebration of civilization. Yes, there are rants that seem pessimistic yet remain intelligent. Speed is poetic. Cinematography requires more for a city with such aesthetic qualities in its landscapes and architecture. At the same time, Speed's vocals make up for anything the camera loses and/or misses. I suppose this movie is more about Speed's interpretations and the way He sees New York than how it could be seen through a lens. It's his lens that we are permitted to see through. "},{"Title":"An exhilarating portrait of a fascinating man.","Date":"7 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" The Cruise is a 1998 documentary film focusing on Timothy Levitch, a tour guide for bus tours of New York City who became a local celebrity due to his unconventional and idiosyncratic commentary on the city. The film follows Levitch as he provides psychedelic interpretations of the city to tourists, philosophizes on life and accosts those who have wronged him-all at a frenetic pace.Levitch's love for the city is obvious, his passion admirable and his philosophies interesting.Overall, The Cruise is an exhilarating portrait of one of the most fascinating men to ever walk the Earth that's both hysterical and poignant. 8.5/10 "}{"Title":"exhilarating","Date":"3 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  what a perfect movie. yes speed levitch is definitely pretentious, but his passion is undeniable. i found his nasal voice and odd ambling walk (he almost seems like he's walking with clown shoes on) fascinating. if for no other reason, watch this movie if you need to laugh, because there is such a childishness about this man, and his persistent illusions of the world around him, that you can't help but marvel at his whole vocabulary, his worn jackets, his philosophy of the cruise and the anti-cruise. you will never meet a person quite like him, but you should at least imagine what it would be like. best of all, he is a real person, and this portrait of him is exquisite.  "},{"Title":"Beauty, Depth, Honor and more - the mind of a postmodern mystic","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This film gives a breathtaking look into the life and insights (these terms seem bland when referring to speed levitch) of a person who seems at peace and in turmoil all at once - and absolutely reveling in it.  In my mind, the artists who created this film about such a genius artist are due as much deep respect, even gratitude, as is Speed Levitch for living so fully honest.  To me, Speed Levitch embodies Nietzche's sovereign individual and the type of individual we can all learn so much from.  His words are at times mind-blowing, heartbreaking and joy-inducing all at once.  This movie is as rare as the Speed Levitches in this sleeping world of non-emotive zombies. "},{"Title":"New York at its quirky outsider insider best, but it's not so engrossing after awhile","Date":"3 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" The Cruise (1998)Who is Timothy Speed Levitch? A New Yorker, most of all. If you're a New Yorker, you know what I mean.He's a quirky individualist who is the tour guide on one of those buses with an open second layer on top, and he rambles with idiosyncratic abandon about different aspects of the city. It would be fun to have him for your real tour guide, but I don't do tour buses, and of course the movie is all most of us have instead, so you do get something here of the man's style and his love of the city. Eventually it becomes more than a weird love letter to New York, and we come to see how a man is coping with being alive in the city and making sense of the systems that he finds insidious (including the justice system, which he once negotiated as an accused). If you like documentaries, and you like New York, and you appreciate oddball people, this might just be a great little movie. Overall, I found it too narrow, too dependent on liking the main and only character, and too unexceptional (actually) to take off.Don't look up until after you're dizzy. This is just after he tells a boy on the bus that it's fun to stand between the twin towers and spin until you get dizzy, and they you can look up and it seems like the two buildings are about to fall on you. In a way, this defines fully half of the man, his boyish lack of restraint, his joy for life. He layers lots of facts about New York City into this zany fun outlook.I didn't get swept up by his monologues partly because I've known too many people like Levitch, at least in pieces, just by knowing lots of artists and others who want to do their thing and the world can take it or leave it. His freewheeling theories are really not that strange, either, and the self-aggrandizing hidden by a veneer of humility is a bit too much about ego. Listen to me, he says, and we have to listen, even when it's not really so interesting. Don't get me wrong, I find Levitch to be an attractive kind of person, someone who is alive on their own terms, who has theories about how that world works that can't hold water but are functional anyway, and who is actually happy amidst all the grey sadness.Still, I got a bit restless and bored by the not-so-brilliant after all chatter. Yet, it occurs to me that other people may not have run into these kinds of people, and this movie is a great entry point, and hopefully one that makes you appreciate all of them, Levitch in particular. Really, I wish I was more like him, and maybe in my own way I am, though I lack his unselfconsciousness. But what I mean is we are all secretly wishing we could just throw out all the worries we have and live what seems to be a very simple life, giving people pleasure on these bus tours and therefore seeing New York yourself, and lots of different kinds of people, every day you go to work.It's not enough for a great movie, but it's unique enough and unpretentious, and filmed with a low-budget accessibility (by the director), you should give it a shot. You'll know after ten minutes what the flavor of the whole movie is, and even much of the content. "},{"Title":"Unconventional","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Alright, So Mr. Levitchs did talk like he was some sort of cocaine addict, standing on a sub-way in the inner-most city of New York and yes he tried to preach wisdom into every tourist sitting on the double decker buses, but so what. He's just a man with something to prove. Everyone in life has something to prove and this is just his signature way of doing so. Levitchs is more than a tour guide he's an artist, and an abstract one in this case. It's been said To create, sometimes you must rebel. And that's exactly what he was doing. The red shirt he was complaining about wasn't about art but what he believed in and how to stay true to himself. Creative people do not feel the need to conform to society's standards. They often swim against the current and flow with their own way of thinking and living. They have original ideas that literally turn the world upside down and right-side out.  And thats exactly how I saw Timothy Levitchs. Does it really matter what you think about the man? Not really. I believe Mr. Miller had a bigger picture for this movie. You would not just see Tim Levitchs as a deranged man but an average (or more than average) man understanding more than what society expects. reviews are reviews. judge this movie for yourself. watch it. "},{"Title":"life is a cruise","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Excellent documentary, would recommend to anyone who has ever questioned existence. This documentary follows around one unique individual in his quest of self-discovery. Operating as tour director on one of New York Cities double decker tour buses, Timothy, the lead character comments on history, life, and New York. His unique viewpoints allot for New York City being alive and if I remember correctly a woman. Very entertaining with enough truth and quirkiness to generate like from most any crowd. The best feature of this film is its raw honesty. Beyond that, The Cruise is a fuin ride. I would even go so far as to recommend buying this one. "},{"Title":"The Cruise","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" Timothy Speed Levitch has one of the most beautiful and poetic minds I have ever heard displayed in a film such as The Cruise. Not only is he true to the New York state-of-mind, he's true to a desolate part of the Universal Mind, as well. As far as his voice is concerned, I think it's insatiable and charismatic. His voice adds to his character and to the diatribe of the film, too. I don't believe that this film was made for everybody, if it had been, it would have been massed produced and on DVD. However, this film is for anyone who sees the darker side of life, but seeks something more. This film is funny. The people who watch it should laugh, but be so thankful it didn't happen to them. "},{"Title":"Fantastically interesting","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" The Cruise follows a man with a lot to say. An incredible amount to say. Timothy Speed Levitch never stops talking, and he even has found a way to make his living while talking; he is a tour bus driver in Manhattan.Many reviewers seem to think that Levitch is full of himself, full of self-pity and full of hot air, and I think all that is certainly true. What he is also is a fascinatingly interesting character brimming with ideas. He might be full of manure, but he never bores.The picture looks great for video, as it is presented in black and white, which is unusual for video but definitely adds to the presentation here. "},{"Title":"HE IS ALIVE","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Levitch is the modern embodiment of Ginsberg, Stephen Jesse Bernstein, and a little Eric Bogosian for good measure.  If you catch only one of his rants or sayings, you might write him off as just a cliche dispenser but if you take in his existance as a whole, you see the beauty and wonder of his mind, his sayings, and his outlook on life. There were fleeting moments when my cynical side got the best of me where I wondered if this guy was just pretentious and a bit immature but within seconds I was always back on the page with him.  What he says borders on being hackneyed cliches and brilliance.  Either way, that he is genuine is never in doubt, which ultimately is all that matters he is on the journey.  To me, that is the whole point of life, whether or not you come up with your own shining world changing philosophy or more likely, make an amalgamation of everything you know, into your own personal philosophy, the fact that you are thinking and feeling and not afraid to do so and terrified and confused all the same, is the essence of truly being alive. "},{"Title":"A provocative and satisfying night on the town.","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Timothy Speed Levitch is an interesting person in an interesting town. We follow this eloquent, thoughtful, and passionate guide for Gray Line tours in New York, catching him at his best and worst moments. This is the kind of movie you can sit down and lose yourself in, despite any conventional elements of plot, action or romance. The plot is Levitch's meanderings through the city. The action is his refusal to wear Gray Line's red blazers and his struggle with an alarmed emergency exit. The romance is his love of NY, exhibitionism with tourists, and eroticism he finds in terra cotta building facades.The Cruise is a glimpse into the life and mind of a rather extraordinary citizen of the times, as he fights what he calls anti-cruise. Anti-cruise can be described, in a very limited sense, as convention, conformity, and oppression of different levels, and Levitch's fight is at once provocative, amusing, and always insightful. His fight is neither rancorous nor glorious--it is not the Braveheart fight-to-the-death crusade, but rather it is the day-to-day struggle against his career, aspirations and memories, and this makes it all the more identifiable and inspiring. Levitch has the uncanny ability to crystallize ideas which remain unspoken or indeed semi-formed in the conscience-at-large, and furthermore to plant the seeds of still greater ideas.This movie may not be at the top of your to see list, but it should be.  "},{"Title":"Pathetic and amusing","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  A well done, extremely funny documentary that leaves you wondering if it is actually staged.  The plot of a neurotic  NYC tour guide operator is full of acute observations of life,  by a person who may or may not be deranged. He is a romantic, but not in a classical sense.  Rather, he fills you with a sad humor and made me draw a comparison to another misguided societal interpreter, Ignatius Reilly (of Confederacy of Dunces fame).  "}{"Title":"Terrible, Worst movie ever","Date":"27 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" This is probably the worst movie I have ever seen. It is about some random gay? hippie guy and he just goes around New York City acting stupid, saying weird things and making sexual noises. He is very weird... He just wants attention. Don't give it to him. Ridiculous. This is really all I have to say, but I have to put 10 lines in here for some reason, so I will just write some more. This guy talks about having love affairs with everything. He acts like he just wants to have sex with everything he sees, from the World Trade Centers, trees, buses, everything, except people. Don't watch this movie unless you have to for a class or something like I did. "},{"Title":"Good if u can get past subject's speaking voice.....","Date":"21 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  You will enjoy this period piece on a slice of Manhattan even more as the years pass. Lots of quirky New YAWK types and plenty of the sights and sounds of the big apple. Unfortunately, there is one sound in the movie that could just possibly ruin the whole experience of this movie for you and that's the subject of this video's speaking voice. Let's put it this way, he makes Woody Allen's speaking voice sound like butter. Seriously, our TOUR GUIDE in this flick has the most god awful speaking  voice I've heard in years. He's got this whiny, squeaky, nasally drone which is of course, totally ironic since he makes a living speaking to hundreds of out of town tourists each year. I almost turned the video off when the it  first started because the guy's voice is just so annoying. But if you can persevere and get past his voice, you'll enjoy the slice of New York life that this video offers.  "},{"Title":"relentlessly pretentious","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"6 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I loved the idea of this film! I love New York and stories about the creative and eccentric people that live there. But from the opening scene I knew that his nasal whine would irritate me, and it did. I made it through this movie even though I was tempted to turn it off a few times. There were several moments that were amusing and artistic (several comments on the tour bus; spinning in between the Twin Towers), but overall I found it to be annoying and pretentious. I guess I am getting bored with unambitious schlubs whining about the world and how much it sucks. It just seems trite to me at this point. There is a difference between living in a rebellious state, and TALKING endlessly about it like you are the most important person in the universe. And the guy in this film seemed like the latter to me. Many of his monologues were just ridiculous, and I did not care about his point of view at all. I more enjoyed watching the people around him, than him. "},{"Title":"Bennett Miller's The Cruise","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"10 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Do not be fooled by the video box cover that tells you this is theman Woody Allen wants to be. Timothy Speed Levitch is a tourbus guide who waxes philosophical about how the tour buscruise is a lot like life, and man, there are anti-cruisers out therewho want to put your own personal tour through life down. Ieventually came to immensely dislike Levitch and this waste offilm.Levitch is not in love with New York City. Levitch is in love with hisown voice talking about his love of New York City. The entire filmconsists of a camera following Levitch around as he spouts hisown twisted life philosophy, and wondering aloud why everyonecannot be more like...him. There is no dramatic thrust here, themost suspenseful scene involves his distaste for the new red shirthe must wear as a uniform. I think it is red, this is in black andwhite for no other reason than to be artsy.Levitch once spent time in jail, and this had a profound effect onhim. I do not know what he was in for, we never find out. Levitch'sorigins are also a mystery. Is he a native New Yorker? A newarrival who got caught up in the excitement, no matter howfringe-like his existence is? We never find out.The film makers leave us with over an hour of Levitch's rantingsand ravings, and his pithy, self-serving comments while takingbored tourists around in an open air double decker bus. He istrying to change people's souls through the tours, when in allactuality, they probably just want a picture of the Chrysler Building.Levitch is so self-involved, to the complete ignorance of everyonearound him, I do not think I could take five uninterrupted minuteswith him. He uses many long multisyllabic words, incorrectly, andoveranalyzes everything- from the indestructiveness of a cockroachto the style of some plants on a New York sidewalk. He comesoff as one of those kinds of people who would break wind, thendiscuss the cosmic repercussions of such a wanton act of hisown bowels.There is an infamous scene where Levitch rants on the BrooklynBridge, covering the gamut of anger towards a childhood bully tohis mother's own menstrual blood. In the background, you can seethe twin towers of the World Trade Center, shrouded in fog andlooking half the size they once were. I thought to myself wow,Levitch had a bad childhood like everybody else, yet there arethousands of people in that center who never did get a chance torant about past wrongs. They were snuffed out, and we are stuckwith this self pitying loser tour guide telling me how tough he hadit. Sorry, Timothy. Sorry, Bennett. I ain't buying it. Cruise past TheCruise.This is not rated, but contains profanity and some sexualreferences.   "},{"Title":"The Cruise","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" The world's worst movie. I bought it based on the wonderful job Bennett Miller did with CAPOTE. The comments on the packaging were intriguing and I thought this would be an interesting tour of New York City especially with the Twin Towers mentioned in the blurb. Instead what you get is a pretentious, annoying, self-indulgent, non-sensical, faggy monologue by the tour guide. You hardly see New York at all. The black and white doesn't work at all. The camera work is beyond bad....kind of like a home movie. I can't believe I wasted my money buying this piece of crap. How could Bennett Miller think this was a movie worth doing. Couldn't he tell after the final edit that it was junk? It certainly doesn't take much talent to direct a movie if that's what gets directed. I want my money back! "},{"Title":"Documentary of Lameness","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This is a documentary consisting of moments from the life of a NYC tour guide.  The guide in question is an annoying pseudo-intellectual who is image conscious enough not to be a Trekkie, but not image conscious enough to be filmed describing how architecture gets him horny (complete with gyrations and moaning).  The only interesting element of this documentary is to see if he can come up with something even more pretentious in the next scene - and he always does.  His narcissism is mediocre.  "}]