[{"Title":"Inspired by...?","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"79 out of 96 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" There are many deviations from the accepted facts of Jeanne d'Arc's life as set out in her trial documentation and the writings of the time. This said, the central question of whether she was a saint, an inspired lunatic, wholly mentally ill, or simply a headstrong girl determined to grab her chances while she could is well asked. Many of the comments here assert that Besson makes it clear that the Maid was simply mentally ill, yet I read the film as deeply ambivalent about what was going on. Were her visions the hallucinations of a schizophrenic? Were they given by God? What's the difference? More questions are asked Why does an omnipotent, omniscient, all-compassionate deity allow terrible things to happen? What is the meaning of kingship - to own or to serve? What is the difference between taking the lives of individuals and killing en masse? What's the difference between Christianity and the earthly institutions of that religion? Where does conviction end and fanaticism begin? Jovavich's Jeanne is plagued by the difference between her idea of utter submission to God and the consequences of doing so; by doubt over the veracity of her visions; and by the gap between her ideals of the divine rights of kings and realpolitik. She is constantly on the verge of a nervous breakdown - is this a manifestation of her mental illness, or of her burning for God? And where's the difference between the two?The film raises more questions than it answers, and that's as it should be. It is something of a shame that Besson's film takes liberties with the facts as we understand them (though history is more often about our interpretation of events than the events themselves), but in terms of raising important questions on the nature of faith, it succeeds beyond measure. "},{"Title":"Milla was simply breathtaking as Joan","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"69 out of 100 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Some movies would probably try to make a more divine spirit out of Joan but at least Besson examines all possibilities as regards to what inspired her. I think it was as honest a film you could make about Joan. Her quest for revenge combined with tremendous belief in the forces above that ignited her fire. Through Dustin Hoffman the viewer can question her motives and get her response. And what a performance! Milla was simply breathtaking as Joan. "},{"Title":"very impressive and intelligent leap in time","Date":"28 April 2005","Score":"57 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Joan of Arc the legend which was described as saint, warrior, frantic, heretic etc. is brilliantly played by Milla Jovovich. This movie isn't the typical hero stuff you would expect. It has many sides to think of and gives you space to make your own thoughts about the character Joan of Arc. And that is exactly what I liked the most about the movie. You can almost feel what this very young woman must have felt to be on the battlefield at this age, fighting for her vision, faith or whatever it was. Intoxicated by the battles and her mission to fight the war for god, for France. Besides from that you will see a lot of battles. Great visuals and good to memorable acting.Most people seem to get the movie wrong. They probably wanted a clean hero saga or some documentary movie, I don't know. This movie is something different. Sometimes you have to read between the lines, make your own thoughts. But as I said, that's what I like and that's what I want from a good movie.10/10 "},{"Title":"A fresh feeling take on the classic tale, one that focuses on visual style rather than historical information. *** out of ****","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"44 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  THE MESSENGER THE STORY OF JOAN OF ARC (1999) ***Starring Milla Jovovich, John Malkovich, Faye Dunaway, Dustin Hoffman, and Pascal Greggory Directed & co-writer Luc Besson   Running Time 141 minutes   Rated R (for graphic violence, rape, and for language)By Blake French	Some classic stories just can't be updated. Example William Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet re-released in 1996. However, one of the greatest tragedies ever told, the story of Joan of Arc, has just been proven possible to be relateable even with time as its enemy. Luc Besson has created a fresh-feeling new version of Joan called The Messenger, a historical epic that, for better or worse, concentrates mostly on visual style and realistic war scenes rather than answering questions we don't already know about the characters in focus here. 	The historical Joan of Arc was a poor young French woman, who believed that there were spiritual signs that ordered her to be a messenger to aid the King of France to victory on the battle field. According to The Messenger The Story of Joan of Arc, Charles VII, married to the bitter Yolande D'Aragon, was very grateful of her assistance at the time, especially when Joan explained that God has sent her to lead French troops to war with the English and be victorious. 	The visions seen (or imagined) by Joan are clearly brought to life here, with more effective qualities than ever before in a Joan of Arc picture. They are filmed with many unusual special effects, bizarre camera tricks, and a beautifully crafted atmosphere of imagery. In use with these elements to the credit of the depicted scenes, they do a good job of expressing the spiritual dream-like moments through Joan with an imaginative feeling of majesty and revealing emotion. The style, camera, and direction all contribute to making these sequences of the best material in the production.	The film was shot in the Czech Republic, as well as the country of France. Cinematographer Thierry Arbogast captures the courageous historical time period flawlessly in these locations. The battle scenes may get little off track at times; some sequences are meant more for brutality purposes rather than a strong, focused narrative story. 	The actors interpret their characters with a precise energetic edge. Milla Jovovich has the ability to be a believable Joan of Arc, but does push the limit on convincing us. Some of the film's efforts are straining toward the idea that Joan was somewhat mentally retarded-and Jovovich does a great job presenting that. Other familiar faces found in The Messenger The Story of Joan of Arc include John Malkovich as King Charles VII, and Faye Dunaway as his spouse, Yolande D'Aragon. Also the legendary Dustin Hoffman inhabits a brief but appropriate role as the Grand Inquisitor, and Pascal Greggory is The Duke of Alençon.	There are scenes in this movie that make the audience stare at the screen in awe, but also scenes that make us ask ourselves questions. Although much of the production is spent on developing Joan's character and motives, the film still doesn't manage to answer some questions being asked by viewers pondering minds. We never learn if the visions Joan experienced were a calling from God, or just a figment of her intellectual imagination. Was Joan really crazy, or only near eccentric? Were the physical objects that Joan felt were signs from a higher spirit actually what she thought they were?  An ulterior source could have been Lucifer deceiving the trusting Joan. Or did the French actually triumph in battles because of the spiritual strength accorded by Joan, or was luck the element present?  And I personally would have like a little more explanation of the Grand Inquisitor character. The Messenger The Story of Joan of Arc is a serious dramatic tragedy, and it takes itself as that all of the time. Luc Besson has constructed a movie that is ambitious and inspiring, with no room for the compromising or modest. I recommend the picture weather you're a new comer or a veteran to the Joan of Arc mythology.  Even if you already know the story of Joan of Arc like the back of your hand, this telling might just surprise you.Brought to you by Columbia Pictures.  "},{"Title":"imperfect but interesting film","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"29 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  If it were not based on a true story, Luc Besson's `The Messenger The Story of Joan of Arc' would be a tale filled with credibility gaps a mile wide. Since it is, however, a recounting of one of the world's most famous stories of military triumph and personal tragedy, the film actually generates the most interest when it concentrates on just those mind-boggling historical incredibilities.Joan was, of course, the deeply devout, illiterate peasant girl who, spurred on by what she claimed were visions and voices sent directly by God - assuring her and France of a glorious victory over the advancing forces of the invading English army - managed to convince a desperate monarch to have her lead an army into the field, despite the fact that she brought with her no previous battle experience or even a rudimentary knowledge of the use of weapons in combat.   We first see her as a young girl, strangely obsessed with religious piety, attending confession daily, running through the woods in a mad frenzy of ecstasy, encountering strange, inexplicable visions along the way, and, eventually, being driven to an intense hatred of the British by the rape and murder of her beloved older sister.  We see the French royalty, so driven to desperation by the seemingly inexorable encroachment of the brutal British onto their native soil, that they lend credence to this child and give in to her demands, sending her out to lead the troops into what turns out to be some truly miraculous routs and victories.  But glory is, more often than not, an ineffable entity that is lost as quickly as it is gained &#150; and Joan learns tragically that, once her original goal of restoring the French monarch to his throne is achieved, her services are no longer of value, and she is allowed to be captured by the English, tried by the Catholic Church, and burned at the stake by the English government for the crime of witchcraft.Given this fascinating and astonishing series of events, it would be difficult to make a film completely lacking in interest and insight.  And, indeed, `The Messenger' is, perhaps, a better film than many of the harsh, almost bitter reviews by many critics would indicate.  The first half of the film is a rather conventional telling of the tale.  The warrior Joan often comes across as a shrill, petulant adolescent who somehow never convinces us that she is, indeed, someone all these military strategists would follow. But, about midway through the film, the screenwriters, Andrew Birkin and writer/director Besson, begin to apply some psychological depth to the character.  After a particularly sanguine encounter with the English, in which hundreds of decapitated and limbless corpses strew the blood-soaked ground, Joan breaks down in despair over the horrifying inhumanity of the sight.  From then on, her actions arise from a paradoxical conflict occurring within the very core of her being - between the righteousness of her pious cause, the pacifistic teachings of Christ and her single-minded devotion to her king and country.  When she is finally captured and held in prison before and during her trial, she begins to question the veracity of her visions and to ponder whether the motivation for her cause really lay in divine inspiration or an obsession for personal glory and power.  We're a long way from the astute psychological insights of Carl Dreyer's classic silent film version of the story, `The Passion of Jeanne d'Arc,' but `The Messenger' does take occasional time out from its action sequences to attempt to explore the question of whether Joan's miracles were the product of divine intervention or of mere happenstance and chance coupled with a determination and passion borne of insanity.  Unfortunately, casting Dustin Hoffman as the Voice of Conscience who visits her in her cell and speaks for the side of reason as she descends more and more into seeming madness, renders much of this otherwise fascinating section faintly ludicrous. Every time his overly familiar face and voice arrive on the scene, we are immediately thrust out of the context of the story and find ourselves tempted to giggle out loud &#150; hardly the tone one wants to establish as Joan of Arc marches grimly to the stake.   Also, much of what he utters rings false in the context of the film's era; he sounds like he is mouthing psychobabble that would not arrive on the scene for at least another five hundred years.In terms of dialogue, historical films have always it seems had to face an inevitable Hobson's Choice  should the writers employ language that reflects the reality of the time, thereby making the characters sound stilted or dated by today's standards, or should the authors resort to the use of more modern vernacular, enhancing the immediacy of the story, perhaps, but also possibly creating an uncomfortable and awkward sense of anachronism that weakens the verisimilitude of the film so painstakingly established by the elaborate set decoration and costume design of the film? The writers of `The Messenger' have, for the most part, taken the latter course, leading to mood-shattering declarations by the characters such as `she's nuts!' and `I'm gonna kill that f------ bitch' along with a barrage of four-letter word expletives with which no contemporary PG-13 or R-rated feature could ever do without.Those with a queasiness when it comes to movie violence had best be forewarned  the battle scenes, though expertly shot and edited, register high on the bloodletting scale.Of the performers, none matches in quality the exquisite photography, art direction or costume design that adorn the film.   Milla Jovovich is, at best, adequate as Joan, rarely giving more than a surface interpretation of the complex psychological struggles occurring at the root of her personality.  John Malkovich, as the would-be French king, for whose throne Joan lays her life on the line, has his moments, but the part is not really big enough in the context of the film to allow him to create a multifaceted performance.  Faye Dunaway brings a cool, subtle intensity to her role as the future king's manipulative mother-in-law.`The Messenger' emerges as an ultimately unsatisfying mixture of faults and virtues, yet, because it has such a fascinating story to tell, the film is far more interesting than the brutally hostile reviews that greeted the work's initial release would lead one to believe.  "},{"Title":"An amazing movie","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"38 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie. It's visually stunning and the casting and acting was superb. The story was already layed out (approximately), so Luc Besson concentrated on Jeanne herself, the person and what she was like and why she did what she did.I have to admit to putting myself in Jeanne's place, feeling what she must have been feeling along the way. I think without that, it probably would have been a much duller movie, although probably entertaining.The battles scenes, of which there were many, were graphic and brutal. Dismemberments, swords and maces swinging, lots of pain and death. The ensuing desolation at the end of a battle were weighty and gave a a horrible look at the conditions of the time.My final impressions... Joan of Arc, if the portrayals were accurate was a driven young woman, deeply religious and deeply confused who was probably at least partially insane. If she were alive today, no doubt, she would be treated with common drugs and would lead a normal life. I felt very sorry for her and her situation and for the way that she was treated. I know people would argue that there is no need to feel this way, because she was clear and sure of her purpose. I don't feel that this was ever the case and she was sure only that she was going crazy if she didn't do something.Movies don't usually move me this way and I'm really amazed. "},{"Title":"Beyond all expectations...!","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Milla Jovovich may have been the only woman who could have portrayed a 'Joan' believable enough for such a film and approach as that taken by Luc Besson, one which stops just short of suggesting some sort of 'shamanic visionary' as opposed to a character labelled everything from 'deranged schizophrenic' to 'lesbian', simply due to attire, while 'hearing voices' (all historical facts). The key ingredient the eyes. Not since Faye Dunnaway's unforgetable portrayal in The Eyes of Laura Mars (1976), who coincidentally co-stars as an excellent Yolande d'Aragon herewith, has someone captivated an audience simply by a look or a glance. Spell-binding, riveting, and as true to the historical record as one can expect for this most noble of French heroines, while adding a plausible childhood, Besson, Jovovich, an excellent supporting cast and the film were all but ignored for the honours they so richly deserved.  Rating five stars (of five) and a film I'll never forget! "},{"Title":"France's Tragic Teenage Warrior Messiah","Date":"19 August 2008","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I found Luc Besson's take on the story of Joan of Arc thoroughly compelling. Like all of Besson's films, The Messenger is highly stylized, nicely cast, and visually powerful. The film is also forgivably anachronistic in terms of language while developing a strong period feel through sets and costume. Joan was, of course, the deeply religious teenage girl who lead Prince Charles' army to improbable victory over the invading English at Orleans and helped re-consolidate French sovereignty. Joan considered herself God's appointed messenger, and France apparently saw her as an avenging angel. Today, she is commonly regarded as a schizophrenic. She was canonized in the 1950s, 500 years after her death. Regardless of whether God or insanity was the source of her strength, power, will and incredible courage - there is little ambiguity about her role in the salvation of France nor the fate that awaited her afterward. In general, the acting is quite good. Jovovich's much-maligned performance is actually very good and exactly appropriate for what Besson was trying to do with the film. Comparing Joan of Arc to her other Messianic role as Leelu in the Fifth Element is, frankly, ridiculous. I believe that the problems people find in Jovovich's performance are problems those same people bring to the film. Malkovich and Dunaway are phenomenal. Tcheky Karyo and Vincent Cassell provide excellent support. Besson strays from what we think we know about the details of Joan's story, but only to present the truth of the big-picture more accurately. His film steadfastly refuses to answer the questions many people will bring to it * Was Joan schizophrenic? * Was she a catholic messiah or divinely inspired prophet?Why is Besson so careful about accurately presenting the ambiguity of the story? I think he wanted to make a moving film, but not a film which would unsubtly challenge its audience's beliefs. If you do not believe, you will tend to explain Dustin Hoffman's character as a manifestation of Joan's psychological problems. If you do believe, you may want to think of him as Satan, am angel, perhaps both. Thus, Besson, who is a deeply spiritual person, makes a powerful statement about faith through his metanarrative while maintaining an appropriately unevangelical position. He took similar paths in his more uplifting films The Fifth Element and Angel-A.Highly recommended for Besson and Jovovich fans. Not a biography - avoid this if you must have the plain facts! Mildly recommended as a piece of historical fiction. "},{"Title":"Starts Off Extremely Well","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"30 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" If you are wondering about Luc Besson's vaguely heretical The Messenger The Story of Joan of Arc, try to imagine a cross between Excalibur and Heaven's Gate. It looks great but the basic story gets lost in the histrionics and excess. There really was a very religious young girl who was considered a savior to France during The Hundred Years War. Although things may have eventually sorted themselves out the same way without her. Three years after her birth, the new tactics of the English archers were responsible for arguably the most one-sided battle in military history at Agincourt. The result was credited to Henry V's piety and he got a great passage in Shakespeare. The French aristocracy was almost wiped out by the battle and the English became solidly entrenched in France. Fourteen years later a new generation of French nobility was beginning to assert itself and it was the English and their French allies who were having leadership problems. Both countries were Catholic at the time and both claimed that God was on their side, a bit like the football player who thanks God for the victory over another team that apparently God did not favor. Although there are records of both of Joan's trials (her Condemnation Trial and her Rehabilitation Trial) both proceedings had their own political agenda and should be taken with a grain of salt. Besson's film seems to follow the generally accepted version of the story but takes obvious liberties with Joan's mental condition and visions. There is no way to prove or disprove any of this so it is probably as plausible as any other speculation. What hurts The Messenger The Story of Joan of Arc is that Besson's best scenes are at the very beginning and set too high a standard for the remainder of the film. Jane Valentine is wonderful as the young Joan and Besson shows that his directing skills with young actors was not confined to Natalie Portman's performance in Leon. This early stuff features some of the most interesting scene juxtaposition that you are likely to see in any film. IMHO it gets off to a better start than any film in cinema history. And the sequence where the young Joan is standing on a hill watching as the English burn her village is as visually stunning as anything ever filmed.But once Milla Jovovich's grown-up Joan takes over most viewers will find it difficult to stay focused on the story. It's not miscasting, Jovovich is noted for aggressive and daring performances (see The Dummy) rather than subtlety and nuance, making her a good fit for the take Besson wanted on Joan's personality. The problem is that while a viewer could identify with the young Joan, the older Joan is just repellent. Her story should be inspirational and tragic. Instead it is a bunch of comic book battle scenes and comical melodrama. But it is worth watching for the production design and the beginning sequences. Then again, what do I know? I'm only a child. "},{"Title":"A mesmerising character study","Date":"10 February 2016","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I love epic historical movies, both old and new (although I must admit I lean towards the latter - the more realistic, more visceral ones, like Braveheart or Gladiator). The story of Joan of Arc has been put on the silver screen countless times, and most versions are good. With such a captivating story, you cannot really go wrong.In Luc Besson's take, however, it's not Joan's trial that takes centre stage, as in, for example, Carl Theodor Dreyer's classic (The Passion of Joan of Arc, 1928), but Joan, the self-proclaimed godsend, the driven, suffering, obsessed warrior, and the very human core of her actions. The film remains wonderfully ambiguous throughout and leaves it to the audience to decide which of the different interpretations they believe to be true.But it is Milla Jovovich's riveting performance that truly makes this movie. She's literally possessed in her role, playing with such fervour, such delirious passion that you cannot but believe and follow her. It is indeed one of the most visceral performances ever in the history of cinema. "}{"Title":"Delicious ambiguity - possible spoilers","Date":"21 July 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" The scenes of combat are visceral and exciting but I'd have to say that this movie is genius if for no other reason than the fact that the incredible degree of ambiguity in the film remains completely and utterly unresolved up until the very end. It would qualify as an example of Tzvetan Todorov's FANTASTIC, where the reader (here the viewer) hesitates upon deciding if the events and phenomena witnessed in the work may be explained realistically or if they are due to the influence of magic and the supernatural, except that in this film there is a tripartite locus for the fantastic hesitation either Jean is mad, a complete schizo who hallucinates all of her holy encounters, or she has indeed been chosen by Christ as a hero and a martyr for France (in which case Christ comes off looking not so nice to Jean a la book of Job), or a third possibility, the supernatural is indeed present, but in the form of the devil, who has beguiled Jean working exploiting her megalomania to make her his agent of unholy carnage upon the earth (the sheer goriness of some of the battle seem to support this satanic hypothesis). The balance and ambiguity between these three possibilities is never sacrificed and the viewer is allowed to decide for themselves an excellent and unique film! "},{"Title":"A deliberate inaccurate depiction of Joan of Arc","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  How can one say that this is an honest and open-minded approach to Joan of Arc's character? The reason for her revenge is not historically accurate. Joan is portrayed as a raving maniac who eventually makes the viewer wonder why she would ever be canonized a saint. This movie is in short a huge time waster. The Ingrid Bergman version is the movie to see if one wishes get a more realistic glimpse of Joan's true character. "},{"Title":"I'd rather be burned at the stake than watch this film again.","Date":"15 December 1999","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The only reason I'm spending the time to post a comment here is to warn you not to waste two and half hours of your life on this film, like I did.Even though I had heard mixed reviews, I went into the theatre with a very positive attitude about this film, since I've enjoyed Besson's past films, as well as the work of many of this cast.Looking back, I should have followed my gut instinct and left about a minute and a half into the film pretty much any time a filmmaker uses a Gothic typeface in titles and expository text and then adds something ridiculous like blood running over a map, you can bet your life that the rest of the film will show the same stupidity, lack of taste, and disrespect for the intelligence of the viewer.  The murder/rape (in that order) a few minutes later confirmed my first impression, but for some reason I stayed.Maybe I stayed because I teach classes on film and watch a lot of movies, and I am more than willing to give ANY film a fair shot (and sometimes two or three).  I wanted this film to succeed.  But it falls down on so many levels that I felt my own calling from God, as it were, to wage a small battle against it.The reviews published by the San Francisco papers, NY Times and Chicago Sun-Times (Ebert) give a pretty good summary of what's wrong with this film, even though I think their two stars ratings are quite generous.To summarize my own thoughts on the film, I feel that the script doesn't know what story it's trying to tell, and Besson and Jovovich seem to have no sense at all for the complexities of Joan's story, as it has come down to us.The acting is as overwrought and void of subtlety as any I've seen in a long time.  The only highlights are a couple of performances from supporting characters (who unfortunately are shackled by the poor screenplay) and Dustin Hoffman's appearance toward the end of the film (way too little, way too late to save the film).  I felt particularly saddened by the clownish performance John Malkovich gives, although I can't help but think/hope that he was forced to do it by Besson.  (I wondered while watching the scene where Joan tells Charles about her revelations whether Malkovich was mocking Jovovich . . . and the whole production for that matter.)Everything else you see in the film (art direction, costume design, soundtrack, special effects, even the look of every single supporting and bit player, etc. etc.) is as cliche and unimaginative as the screenplay and acting.  It feels as if Besson and Co. sat down and said, What is the absolutely most stereotypical image that the average moviegoer who knows nothing about 15th-century France or Joan of Arc or who has never thought about spiritual things in a meaningful way will expect when he or she sits down to watch this film?  And then, having done little thinking themselves, they filmed it. "},{"Title":"The absolute worst movie since the remake of 1984","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The concept of the story of the Maid of Lorraine was prime material for a epic of Ten Commandments proportion. Unfortunately it opened on the heels of a TV mini-series which may have stolen some of its thunder. The cinematography was excellent and the battle scenes were as gory as those in Saving Private Ryan - probably very much as they actually were. Most of the supporting actors were excellent. The poetic license that was taken with the real story took away from the intent of the movie. The mystical scenes where Joan was hearing voices or getting spiritual revelations were more like Natural Born Killers meet the Dark Ages. Oliver Stone must have been consulted on these. The historical inaccuracies were abundant, such at the disgusting rape of Joan's sister, which she, in actuality, did not have. We know little of the appearance of the relevations she had, but I am sure they were nothing like depicted - which evidently had some hidden meaning that the average movie goer will never be able to figure out.The movie was destroyed by the Mila Jovovich as Joan. Most of the scences with her resembled footage from the Blair Witch Project more than a portrayal of St. Joan of Arc. She has little acting ability and her overdone performance absolutely ruined the movie. I do not feel that someone as strong as Joan and as religiously committed would have continually been on the verge of hysteria almost to the point of having a seizure.I still do not know what compelled me to sit through the whole movie. I have not seen anything this bad since the early 1980's remake of 1984.Had the movie paid more attention to historical data, de-emphasized those speculated vision scenes, and used a legitimate actress - like Leelee Sobieski in the TV mini-series - this movie would have been a great success.This movie portrayed Joan as a confused, hysterical, psychotic. The real Joan would have never been able to accomplish what she did, even to the point of being martyred with such spiritual and confident serenity if she was actually like the movie Joan.Use your bonus rental at your favorite video store rather than pay good money to see this bit of glitzy trash. "},{"Title":"In poor taste and a complete work of fiction","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"19 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Besson's version of the story of Joan of Arc offended me on many levels. The opening sequences of the movie feature the gruesome murder and rape (in that order) of Joan's sister. This was completely unnecessary and untrue. While it is fact that Joan's town was raided several times and on one occasion burned by the English; Joan of Arc had 2 brothers, but no sisters. This alone was enough to ruin the movie for me, since Besson proceeds to build a case that all of Joan's actions and her descent into insanity were caused by the horrific death of her sister.Besson also inexplicably created a sinister tormentor for Joan, played by Dustine Hoffman. Hoffman's character who continually played the devil's advocate to a clearly insane Joan, was just plain annoying, confusing, and yet another fabrication. Besson's Joan was never seen having the visions of St. Margaret, St. Catherine, and St. Michael which the real Joan of Arc was reported to have. Instead she saw a twisted and almost demonic Christ figure and the strange Dustin Hoffman character. For Besson to portray a saint and a French national hero in such a manner was purely offensive and in poor taste. Had Besson actually bothered to base his story on historical fact I may have felt differently. If you see this movie, regard it only as a work of fiction, for it bears little in common with the real Joan of Arc other than her name and that she freed Orleans. "},{"Title":"poorly executed...","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" One of the few times I generally was embarrassed to actually be in a theater. The story of Joan of Arc generally appealed to me but the direction this movie took did not and this mainly due to the fact the storytelling itself is flawed. Milla Jovovich's character Joan describes the screenplay of the film to a letter, dazed and confused throughout. It interesting though how the story also tries to balance itself by introducing new ideas on what is and is not divine and even this element was clumsily and randomly introduce as plot elements, from Faye Dunaway's character fumbling with the vile of blood to Joan herself seeing visions Dustin Hoffman's performance was fair but totally unnecessary the film could have limped on without him. Joan rationalizing with herself would have been much more believable then this. As far as the cinematography goes it's quite nice, brilliant in fact along with the score. I was really was expecting much more from this film and Besson which usually makes excellent work, unfortunately this is a dud. "},{"Title":"A disgrace to the Joan of Arc","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is, perhaps, the worst telling of the life of the Joan of Arc to ever be placed on celluloid.  What makes this such a bad film?For starters, Milla Jovovich's portrayal of the Joan of Arc herself is much more if a caricature than anything else, and a purely annoying caricature at that.  She plays the role with a completely one-dimensional fanatical gusto that is sometimes comical, but is more often grating.Second is the direction and the screenplay.  The first few minutes start off looking like something that would not be out of place in The Sound of Music.  Then the graphic violence comes in, and then there is the very out-of-place moments of comic relief, and so on and so on.  This film jumps between these three categories and more so unevenly that it feels as if it has no direction at all.And the comic relief mentioned above?  I found the scene (near the beginning) where a woman is killed and THEN raped to be disgusting enough, but the way that it was played for laughs was tasteless beyond words.  I'm no prude (I actually did find some redeeming values in Salo, actually), but that scene was just plain sick.All in all, this was one of the rare moments when I was watching a movie that I actually started to find myself growing increasingly impatient to see the conclusion.  I actually started to want to see Joan of Arc being burned at the stake, because that would mark the end of the movie, and my suffering through this terrible piece of cinema would finally be finished.If you must see a Joan of Arc movie, see Carl Dreyer's silent masterpiece The Passion of the Joan of Arc, and accept no substitute.  But avoid this version at all costs. "},{"Title":"Simply awful. Poorly written, overacted.","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This movie ranks as one of the most disappointing films of all time.Jovovich's acting was terrible. I grew to dislike her more every minute. The character she portrays is more psychotic than heroic. She comes across as someone who would suffer a nervous breakdown over a trip to the grocery store, not someone who could inspire an army.The script was laughable. I don't understand why they didn't try to use more period language. I cringed at some of the lines (Everything will be fine.)Why stars like Dunaway and Hoffman would appear in this film is beyond me.  "},{"Title":"Not History, just fiction","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This piece of trash is totally without merit. There are many inaccuracies about The Maid. I have extensive knowledge of her life, and this movie must be about someone else. On the DVD, Milla Jovovich has the gall to say that the producers uncovered so much information about The Maid, that I am prompted to ask Then, why didn't your husband use it? (She was married to Luc Besson during filming.)Joan's sister was neither raped nor murdered by any raiders.There is no history of Joan breaking into a church and drinking wine.Joan was close to her parents, and left them, sadly, when she went to Vaucoleurs (sic).Joan never killed anyone, nor tried to. The Conscience is a creation of Luc Besson; no evidence that such a personality ever talked with Joan.If you want to know more of the truth about Joan, read the book by Regine Pernoud, or even the movie Jeanne la Pucelle, starring Sandrine Bonnaire, is adequate. "},{"Title":"THE MESSENGER THE STORY OF THE LUNATIC OF ARC (AND TWO IGNORANTSFROM FRANCE)","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I saw a comment that said that if Joan of Arc could see this movie, she would turn in her grave (if she had some). I must fully agree with it. Although I am no Joan's biographer, the facts that I know from her life were so deformed here that I wonder why Frenchmen didn't burn the director on a stockpile instead of her. By the way, I must laugh, when I remember the concealment around the filming of Besson's Joan in northern Moravia. No man including Martians could get there. Why did they actually hide there? Perhaps they wanted to keep back from people, what a trash they are just shooting.Besson and his exwife allegedly undertook a deep investigation (only Gods know, where) and this French-Ukrainian collaboration resulted in a title, where Joan of Arc is demythicized and depicted as a furious psychotic, who runs through the screen with a staring look and even beats her soldiers with a fist (yes, here it is really possible). Poor villagers at the trial in Rouen probably lied and Besson with Jovovich revealed a big historical fraud. One thing that I can't understand is why there are so many people that can call this unbelievable garbage a moving masterpiece. Maybe there is a lot of ignorants, who know nothing about the historical reality and maybe they have only a foggy idea about the position of France, but despite that I can't believe that somebody could think that French soldiers could follow a lunatic like this.I am very sorry for director Marshall, who also planned a movie about Joan, but he was probably forced to put off its realization because of this silly emanation that was quicker. The Joan with Leelee Sobieski was certainly better, but Leelee simply lacks enough charisma (Although otherwise she is a very pretty and sympathetic girl, of course.)Maybe Besson will soon make a similar biographical movie about Mother Theresa, where he will definitively demythicize her as a deviant monster abusing little Indian children. I am looking forward to positive comments on this exciting masterpiece.  "}{"Title":"Now i know what a Besson film looks like...","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Being French, i used to make fun of Besson and his films, although i never had seen any one of them in a theatre. So i went to see his Jeanne d'Arc, which had received rather good critics, even from his usual enemies. What a bore! It is really awful! You can actually see 3 parts in the movie. The first one is when Jeanne is young. It is completely silly, full of horrible special effects when she has visions. Then come the battles, the less worse of the parts. too bad Besson feels like he has to show us a head or arm being cut with a sword every two seconds. Finally, the trial, with the conscience explaining us in an hour what we'd understood in a minute. despairingly long. Perhaps i'll give besson another chance in 20 years. till then, i'll know what i make fun of. "},{"Title":"The Mess-Anger The story of a bad movie","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Luc Besson was about to become one of my favorite film directorsof all time before he came up with the mediocre 5th Element andthis just plain awful Joan of Arc movie. My worst fear was thatheroin chic in her late 20's supermodels wouldn't do goodteenage virgins. My worst fears were problem true Jovovich hasto be the worst Joan yet, with most of her representation comingfrom the school of over-acting. She's screaming and burstinginto tears in almost every line she uttered. Of course, thescript didn't help her at all.The main problem in the script is the lack of characterbackground and/or motivation. If there was any, it was toovague. Joan evolves from a screaming warrior, to a reluctantcheerleader, to a peace advocate, in minutes. You don't care forneither character, including the leading role, at any timeduring the movie. Actually this is the Joan of Arc movie whereyou can't wait for her to burn.I'm sorry about Luc's fans, but he should keep doing moviesabout French professional assassins rather than this. Earlierthis year, a mediocre CBS mini series you could watch for free,beat this movie to a pulp.      "},{"Title":"A Good story ruined.","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The story of Joan is a good one on its own.  To take the legend and twist it not only to unglorify Joan to a raving lunatic, but also to unglorify God is just a waste of time and money.  The special effects were so laughable.  A man's head was cut off with blood spurting out and all I could do was laugh.  The visuals reminded me of the likes of the bad drug trip scene in Easy Rider.  Haven't special effects been updated since then? Lastly, isn't it time we did away with useless rape scenes?  It would be enough to have family members killed off and a village burned to make a leading character angry enough to want revenge.  Seems to me that Besson has some personal issues to seek counseling for. "},{"Title":"What a stinker...","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie is just painful.  I got halfway through and I had to stop watching.  The dialogue is pure schmalz, as is half the imagery.  The opening montage of the girl running through the flowers made me want to gag.But the lowest note of this movie?  The laughable (and cringe-worthy..) acting by Milla Jovovich.  She rages through this movie like a mad woman possessed, she tends to scream and glare at the camera a lot.  To be brutally honest, she's more suited to roles where she doesn't have to speak much and just has to look pretty, like in The Fifth Element.If you want a fulfilling movie experience about Joan of Arc, I highly recommend the TV-movie version starring Leelee Sobieski.      "},{"Title":"waste of money","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I couldn't wait to see her get burned at the stake at the end of the movie. Knowing this would eventually happen was the only thing keeping me from walking out.  The casting was awful and the direction was uneven.  Do yourself a favor and dont waste your life watching this garbage. "},{"Title":"What a waste of production and actors!","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I was expecting an average movie, at least, but certainly I never expected such a waste of time.  Joan of Arc is portrayed as a crazy woman, weak sometimes, violent others, but not as a strong woman as you would expect of someone who lived what she did. When you see so many good actors acting badly, you really have to think there is a problem in the direction of the film.  The worst part of the film is Milla, I just can't believe Joan could have anything to do with her.  "},{"Title":"A poor attempt at a historical film","Date":"28 August 2007","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This is the worst version of Joan of Arc I've ever seen - and I think I've seen them all. If you know the real history of Joan of Arc, you'll be very disappointed.Instead of portraying Joan as a sane, sensible, highly intelligent young woman who rationally planned and led a series of brilliant military campaigns lasting multiple days to save France from the English (her profile according to historical records), this film portrays her as a mentally delusional girl suffering from weird hallucinations and irritating emotional outbursts with totally irrational, impulsive military leadership. Since quite the opposite was true according to historical facts as we know them and I don't enjoy watching a raving, irrational female take over leadership from calm, rational people, this is a film I would not bother to see again.The acting was mostly well done (her part was often overdone) and the special effects were on par. That said, I don't think it's a film worth watching, especially if you hope to see a genuine heroine.It's a shame they couldn't have portrayed Joan as the intelligent, rational person history records her as being...one who answered so ably in the heresy trials that they couldn't find any fault with what she said. A better version of this story would be the one with Leelee Sobieski, also circa 1999. "},{"Title":"One of the longest 160 minutes you'll ever experience.","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This film is totally without any redeeming features.  It is slow, tedious and woefully over-acted.  If should accidentally rent this thing from the local video library I can assure you that the best part of this movie is rewinding it at the end. "},{"Title":"Milla Jovovich good as crazed zealot","Date":"13 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This is Luc Besson's grand take on the heroine Joan of Arc. He takes on his legendary historic figure with lots of gusto.Milla Jovovich certainly has the crazed intensity of a zealot. Sometimes, it drifts towards camp. Considering she got the job because she was married to Luc Besson at the time, it could have gone a lot worst.The basic storyline is well known, and this follows it without much deviation. The best parts of the story happens midway in the movie. That's where the big battle scenes occur. Certainly the battles are big especially for using real action in modern movies.After the battles, the story drags as she gets captured and tried. It may be better to climax the film with the big win in Orléans. Keep the slower parts as a postscript. "},{"Title":"Didn't feel too bad when she was burnt.","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Obviously everyone knows that Joan was set up in the end and burned for wearing men's clothing.After two hours of her running around, screaming, crying, and acting the idiot, I was looking forward to her being betrayed and burnt.  Sounds bad, but it's true.  I would think that if she was given charge of an army of men at the age of 16, she would have been a little more strong willed. I found myself being pulled from a great respect for one of the most influential and amazing women, to a true detest for this blubbering child wailing like an imbecile.  One of the scenes, (the first fight of Orléans), she just sat on her warhorse, wailing and spinning about as everyone fought.I truly am not this cynical about everything, just was really disappointed after hearing so much about this movie. "}{"Title":"Just a great movie, not a document! and a message of tolerance.","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  If you really want to know the story of Jeanne d'Arc, you should better take a book... then you will learn that we do not know a lot of things about her. But the Luc Besson's movie never aimed to tell the << true >> story, but A story, it is very different. If you can't understand it, so you don't even understand what is cinema.As a movie, I find it great. The story is moving in a different way. And the violence is necessary. The story to be told IS violent, but I do not think the entire movie is violent because the end of film annihilates this violence. The last confession is there to tell us that everybody can be blind when one has a cause to defend, this is a message of tolerance to the people who act badly, One has to understand them and know that they suffer too. "},{"Title":"Intentions of God","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Great style given by Besson. Rather than depicting Joan as just one dimensional historical figure this film tried to show the person behind this heroine, sometimes looking deranged, fanatical and even crazy.While some of the events of the movie were made up to look more like Hollywood propaganda this film DOES SUCCEED in peeling away the mythology and mystique to show the human face behind this legendary icon. Although the events occurred in the onset of the movie are simply not factual, from the moment she was captured and the cross referencing that took place during the trial are closely based on the actual trial of Joan. Her convictions and faith were questioned through torturing but she had held them all the way through. The subtle portrayal of God himself was conspicuous. Joan was manipulated and ultimately burned at the stake, that is God let these things happened to her after she fulfilled his mission. One would think that God should have rewarded her for defeating the English, but rather he let her die at the hands of them.But still Joan of Arc carries the message of God with her even after centuries has passed. One does not know his true intentions even those that have been chosen by God. "},{"Title":"Great looking but awkward drama","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I know next to nothing about the Joan of Arc story, but I've liked Luc Besson's work, and the trailer was terrific, so I was looking forward to this movie, even after the bad reviews.  As might be expected from a Besson film, it looked incredible.  The battle scenes were all well-handled, and as the warrior Joan, Jovovich was quite convincing.  The rest of the movie was something else again.It seems to me Besson and his co-writer, Andrew Birkin, were trying to do what Kenneth Branagh did in his version of HAMLET; look at the lead character not as an icon, but as a normal human being, and try to explain their actions and behavior in that context.  Admittedly, since I am unfamiliar with this story, I am more receptive to this approach than those who hold Joan as an icon, but I would have been more than willing to watch a movie which handled this material well.  Unfortunately, once Besson established which way he wanted to go, he seemed unsure of how to get there.  Most of the drama is handled on a third-grade level(especially her trial), and we never really get into what made Joan tick.  Though the scenes with Dustin Hoffman were involving, especially since he was so good, they too fell short in explaining Joan.  And Jovovich can't quite access those depths yet.The rest of the cast is okay.  Malkovich and Faye Dunaway are playing types, but they play them well enough.  Tchecky Kayro(I know I'm not spelling that right) and Vincent Cassel lend a sense of gravity to their roles as soldiers.  But all in all, this is a movie whose reach was beyond its grasp. "},{"Title":"It's not awful. though it's unsatisfying","Date":"15 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This French big budget attempt to compete with Hollywood is for the most part a disappointment. Certainly, it's not as bad as it could have been. The production values, for one thing, are solid; you really feel that you're getting a fairly realistic glimpse into the dirty and primitive medieval past. The battle sequences are also well done, showing that warfare has always been a hell on Earth. The movie also attempts to make the interesting argument that maybe the real Joan of Arc had not gotten the actual word of God... though this isn't examined to as great a depth as I would have liked. But that's a small problem compared to others found in the movie. The main problem with the movie is that for the most part it's too long and too slow, though there are curiously some important details here and there that are not examined in enough depth, not just the one I mentioned earlier. Another problem is that Joan in this movie often comes across as abrasive and obnoxious. I can believe that the attempt was to make her human and flawed, but director Luc Besson went too far in this direction in my opinion. Not a terrible movie, but you'll be tired and wishing for it to end some time before the closing credits start to roll. "},{"Title":"In the worst possible taste, ever.","Date":"4 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" If you're a fan of history themed movies, trust me, this ISN'T the one for you. Compared to hits such as braveheart, gladiator & patriot this falls miles short. The acting itself is simply awful, Milia jovovich comes out as a emotionally insecure renegade rather than the savior of France. & same goes for the other characters, Duke of Alençon & the Dauphin charles are portrayed as if they're mentally unbalanced. Nothing like men soldiers would want to follow into battle. Filming was in the worst possible taste too, where's movies braveheart and gladiator give the audience a feeling for the characters, this leaves them cold. No inspired battle scenes, Just crack a few jokes, charge into the battlefield screaming like maniacs, chop off few heads & the war is won in minutes. That just about sums up the Message of The MessengerSomething to watch if you want Jeanne de arc looking like project ALICE of resident evil. My recommendation 2/10 "},{"Title":"So good it made me want to give Ultraviolet another try","Date":"4 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" My first Milla Jovovich movie was Ultraviolet, which has spawned more worst movie ever threads on IMDb than any other. Well, I wouldn't call it that bad, but still... it hardly gave me any faith in Milla's career as a dramatic performer.So I popped this flick in the DVD player not expecting much. Sacrée merde! What a surprise. It seems, stripped of her futuristic-mutant-motorcycle-riding-vampire persona, she's really quite good. This film--probably the least glamorous of her entire repertoire--really gives her a chance to show her full dynamics. I can't say much more without giving away the plot, so I'll drop it for now.Now on to the director Luc Besson. For the first half hour or so, he seems to suffer from I wanna be Kenneth Branagh syndrome (which is almost as painful as the avian flu). We get a dozen scenes of someone running down a corridor with the camera chasing behind. We get a dozen overhead-camera-twirly shots of someone lying on the ground. We get so many crane shots, you start thinking you're on a construction site. What's wrong with all this? I'll tell you. When the camera swings & sways too much it detracts from the actors' performances. Sure it adds visual drama, but so can a good fireworks scene (with just as much subtlety).But suddenly, right around the halfway mark, the camera man simmers down. The whole tone of the film changes, becomes darker and more intense, relying on the power of the actors instead of the gimmicky camera-work. This works brilliantly, especially when Dustin Hoffman finally steps in.This is the break that takes the movie in an entirely different (and possibly offensive) direction. It looks like some IMDb reviewers weren't too happy. I'm sure plenty of others got bored (because the swordfights stop). But me, I thought this change of mood was what made the movie. Suddenly it becomes a spooky, psychological thriller with a lot of great dialogue and a ton of good acting. THIS is the payoff.My biggest gripe with the movie is that after seeing the 2nd half, I kept saying to myself why the hell did Besson waste so much time getting here? There were a few too many insignificant fluff scenes in the beginning (like the virginity test lol) that should have been replaced with more of the powerful Milla-Dustin dialogue toward the end.I won't comment on historical accuracy, religious sacrilege, lack-of-realism or the fact that there were a few too many American accents for 15th century France. These flaws fall by the wayside if you're instead paying attention to the complex conflict brewing in Milla's character. This is really her movie, and a damn good one at that. Like my title implies, it's good enough to make me want to give Ultraviolet another try. "},{"Title":"Good Movie - Existential Theology","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  When God (Dustin Hoffman) challenges Joan of Arc's (Milla Jovanovich - spelling ?) understanding of finding a sword in the field, what he does is say that reality is what we want to see - not necessarily what is. Jean Paul Sartre would be proud - Kirkegard would roll over in his grave.A young girl confused about her purpose in life could not lead the French to victory - God is not wishy washy about what he calls us to do. But beyond the weak theology; this is an excellent film - well written, great acting - yes I even enjoyed Hoffman's portrayal of God.This story surrounds Joan of Arc's quest to drive out the British from 15th Century France to establish Charles the VII as king of France. In the process she also avenges her sister's rape and death at the hands of a British soldier. Joan's possible self doubt and confusion is well portrayed by Jovanovich.The good news is that there is no gratuitous nudity.The bad news is that there is much blood and gore - but I have seen worse (such as Saving Private Ryan.There is also much use of the F--- word which is derived from the 17th Century reason for punishment of people For Unlawful Carnal Knowledge. So the use of that word I believe is anachronistic.Even though; I enjoyed the movie and recommend it to mature audiences.Andy Smith "},{"Title":"Great all round movie","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I absolutely love this movie. I remember the reviews being harsh at the time of release which was expected considering the subject matter. Personally i always get something out of Luc Besson films as they are so beautiful to look at with sweeping camera shots that give an epic feel and this is no different. The humour contrasts very well with some shocking scenes that balance the film very well. Credit must also be given to the costume and set crew as the attention to detail is fantastic. This is a film to get lost in (like any good film in my view) and enjoy.Forget about the historical events and enjoy filmmaking at its best.8/10 "},{"Title":"Sometime it is great to be surprised&#133;","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I wanted to see this one at the movies, but after hearing it was no good from what I considered good sources, I decided against it.  Having seen it at the DVD-rental store many times, often almost grabbing it, but deciding against it remembering how horrible it was supposed to be.  Finally one day, finding nothing else, I rented it.  And I loved it!  It is great, finding jewels unexpectedly like this, as when one watches as many films as I do, the only great films you see are the newest ones.  After watching it, I went to the user comment area here on IMDb and tried to find out why people have given it such low rating.  Further more, this was an Oscar performance from Milla Jovovich, but apparently the film wasn't even nominated (based on what I can see here on IMDb).  This film is in the category, `either you get it, or you don't', or `either you love it or hate it'.  I didn't know anything about Joan of Arc, and maybe that is why I liked it, watching it as a film rather then historical documentary.  The film leaves me with a comfortable feeling.  Before I watched it, I was afraid that we would see some saint of a woman, and how un-human and holy she was in what she did.  Instead we see a young woman, plagued with the notion of purpose, extreme determination, while never fully understanding why or what is happening.  Joan of Arc is much more of a hero to me after seeing this film, because the film is about her as a woman, rather then some supernatural being.   9/10 "},{"Title":"Simply a magnificent, as well as educational, film!","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  In my opinion, it is a blessing to have a writer/director such as Luc Besson in the industry.  This movie, The Messenger Joan of Arc, is simply one of my favorites, with great performances from Milla Jovovich (one of my favorite actresses and I'm still doubting whether I spelled the name correctly or not!)  I feel this is excellent, as well as educational, for I never would have known as much as I know about Joan of Arc if I had not watched this film.  I can't wait for Luc to come out with some more movies that I just may be able to catch in theaters!  Thanks for reading my response and have a great year. "}{"Title":"Great movie!!!","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  (Spoilers ahead)Ok, maybe it ain't all that accurate (neither is the Hurricane for that matter, only Rubin Carter is still alive, and Joan lived 500 years ago, so who's to say what's accurate and what's not) but it's not a documentary, it's Joan seen through Besson's eyes, and it's a great vision. About the facts that people complaint about, here's thisThe sister some say she didn't even exist (some say the same about Joan), but I think she was a symbol, for the whole country, Joan felt her homeland was being murdered and raped. Makes sense. And she perceived the british as nothing but demons (the rapist couldn't have possibly been more repulsive).Her erratic behavior not everybody reacts peacefuly to God's presence (remember the apostole Paul was terrified at the sight of Christ, and was even left blind for a while). A traumatized teenage girl (war can drive anyone insane, especialy civilians who are atacked), God knows how she will react, or interpret such message (remember Francesco of Aziz didn't fully undestand God's message to him until years after). Acting nuts like her is what it takes to inspire an entire army to fight, come on, you don't get that by acting doped and philosophical (like most saints are portraited), and those who think a saint can't be violent or enraged, remember Christ at the temple angrily chasing the salesmen away and wrecking their businesses.The demonic Christ vision well, that means not that Christ is a sick f$%#, but that Joan was starting to doubt that God would wish such carnage (maybe she afraid that feelings or rage and combat-rush were clouding her judgement, and therefore twisting her mission).Dustin Hoffman yes, he looks like a jedi knight (or a sith lord when he's in the shadows), but he's not Satan, God or Torquemada for that matter. He's the personification of Joan's doubts, insecurities and fears (the fear of seeing what we want to see and rationalizing things is real, and who's never doubted himself?).And one last thing I personally don't buy that God actually sent someone to save France from England. Think about it, what exactly made France so innocent and England so evil? NOTHING. This ain't Israel and the philisteans, please!!! France was as sinful and as filthy as England, and as every other nation of that time, so don't sell me that story. I'm sick of movies that portray England as nothing but an evil empire. Come on, later they'll say they were nazis, or something. England was no saint, that's for sure, but neither was France, or even Israel (before Christ, and especially now). "},{"Title":"Yet another 'historical' drama that makes the English look bad!","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Spoiler she gets captured by the English and is burnt at the stake!!!I don't know much about the true historical story but this film is so full of holes!Firstly, the English are portrayed as mad lager louts with thick northern accents and say 'b*stard' and 'f*ck' all the time. At this period in history they ALL spoke french and the difference between the two countries was like someone from London and someone from Birmingham!Where are the historical documents to support those stone balls being dropped down shafts and where did they gain their amazing momentum to fly horizontally for about 100 metres! And why were the french so stupid to stand in front of the holes all the time?Oh, yeah, what about the bloke in the long orange wig? Why was he the only one with long hair?Why did the presence of Dustin Hoffman cause Milla to start doing a 'rainman' impression? As a kind of homage? While were on the subject, she can't act anyway, she turns the whole film into a comedy.Avoid this film unless it's the only thing on and you're drunk!I'm writing this as the credits are rolling and even the closing title music etc. is completely hilarious! A cheesy poem indeed. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Screenplay","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  A very clever screenplay theologically, psychologically, historically and dramatically almost perfect. You can look at the story of Joan of Arc in all these four ways and Besson did it all four ways. And made a movie that satisfies you and makes you wonder, no matter which of the four is your favorite.This film was a big surprise for me since it had more depth than I could hope for, more energy than action, more drama than spectacle (although it didn't exactly lack spectacle!) Dustin Hoffman and Mila Jovovich give brilliant performances. I rate this movie 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"She never shined so much","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  We are already used to the original depictions Lus Besson did of humans on screen. How would he do with real events this time? I'm happy to say he suceeded. We are somewhat used to the regular automatic pilot depictions of Joan's life, the woman who loved god above all things and believed she was sent to save her people from the clutches of the British. But here we are entitled to a much more personal point of view Besson's eye for Milla is particularly sensible, and we notice she as a particular shine no other character has. Therefore, we establish an empathy with her which starts even when she is only a child. The movie has a great period detail, and some incredible sequences, but, for some reason, it is the film by Besson that grabbed me the least, I can't explain why, although that isn't saying that I didn't like. In fact, I think there are things about this movie I haven't seen nowhere else, specially all the scenes where Joan hallucinates and has visions of God. This movie is totally different from all medieval adventures we have seen so far, and its shots are Luc Besson's own. The all-stellar cast helps a lot, and Dustin Hoffman turn out welcome at the end. The battle scenes are a wow!Thierry Arboghast's cinematography helps a lot to establish a cool look of medieval times, specially when fire is concerned. Eric Serra's score reaches depth levels he has never reached before. A great film altogether, which deserves to be seen with the heart willing to take whatever we get from it. The title song My Heart Calling is one of the most beautiful Eric Serra wrote for the movies. I recommend it for Besson fans who will like certainly, and to all the others who aren't, just for the fun of a different depiction of Joan's life.  "},{"Title":"Horrible beyond the ability of words to convey","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  In my entire life, I have only walked out of one movie in the theatres; with all the others I figured that, since I'd paid for it, I might as well, at least see all of it.  This movie was so bad it drove me out of the theatre.  Not only did I leave early, I spent the next hour sitting around in the lobby of the theatre because I was driving some friends who didn't get the sense to walk out until there was only a half hour left in this monstrosity.  You know what?  Waiting doing nothing in the lobby was far better than this hideous film.Where do I start with what was wrong?  How about the acting.  Milla was so far beyond awful it cannot be described properly.  She spends the entire film shrieking.  Not yelling, not shouting, literally shrieking, in a piercing, whiny nasal tone of voice that gave me a splitting headache (literally, not figuratively) after five minutes.  Whether you believe that Jeanne D'Arc was touched by God or not, she undeniably had the charisma to inspire her men.  I cannot believe that the men wouldn't string this version of her up!  And don't get started on how she apparently has an orgasm every time she rides her horse.The historical accuracy was non existent.  The Dauphin was a teenager, no older than Joan, and he is played by a forty-six year-old man!  The guys was three times too old!  Then we have a scene were Joan rides her horse up to an English fort, jumps the wall, rides around shrieking like a spastic harpy while the English sit around with their thumbs in their noses, and cuts the rope, lowering the gate, allowing her forces to attack.  Nothing remotely like this ever happened!We are also treated to demented concepts of medieval warfare, with giant erector-set type tubes shooting huge granite marbles out of forts into attacking men.  Real medieval warfare was terrible enough, why add this nonsense to it, making it a humourless joke.And here's a question if the point of the movie was to be that Joan was just a revenge-obsessed lunatic, why did they show her getting a literally un-survivable arrow wound, instead of the much less lethal one she actually recieved?This movie is an insult to the French people and to Christians, both of which I can live with, as I am neither.  But it is also horribly made, inaccurate, an insult to anyone with a functioning brain, boring, and, above all literally painful to try and sit through! "},{"Title":"Very good Braveheart-style historical movie","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Yes, the similarities to Mel Gibson's Braveheart are scary ) Both movies feature big battles, historical aspects, nice main actors and even similar endings. If you - like me - do like such really big movies, like Braveheart or the latest The Patriot, then you'll love Joan of Arc, too. The only thing that I can imagine people would find annoying or boring is this religious stuff, that lead Joan's deeds and actions. Dustin Hoffman as her conscience was fab! I really like Milla Jovovich since 5th Element and director Luc Besson even longer. The only thing I personally found annoying was this terrible 'cut' at about 3/4 of the movie. I've been so much in all these battles and fights and suddenly she was arrested. It seemed that they made a a little cut in order to keep the movie 'short' ) 8 or 9 points out of 10 for The Messenger - Story of Joan of Arc. "},{"Title":"A simple, realistic portrayal of Jeanne d'Arc.","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  If Luc Besson were a door-to-door salesman, I would be his sucker any minute.  His film, The Messenger, may yet be the most psychologically accurate account of the story of Jeanne d'Arc.  Besson attempts to rationalise her actions and with stunning reality.Behind her armour, Besson speculates that Jeanne d'Arc is simply another victim of war, so tramatised that her questionable sanity led her country to victory, at least for a while.  He also went on and modelled the other characters as people who care about nothing but themselves, not common even by to-day's standards.Beyond its value as a psycho-drama, however, the film is simply supported by a series of fight scenes with lots of armour, impressive siege weapons, and blood and gore.  Besson focused too much into Jeanne's psyche that there was not enough time for the characters to develop, including Jeanne herself. As a result, the film seems empty, the plot linear, and the acting mechanical.The way Besson divided the film, I often could not help myself but to associate it with George Orwell's novel 1984.  There are striking similarities between the two work, both in structure and context which makes me wonder if this is where he drew his inspiration.Despite the use modernised language (that is, fudge, sheet, etc.,) The Messenger is reasonable entertainment for those who thrives on realism, but are not too interested in any in-depth post-movie discussion.  "},{"Title":"Good battle scenes, but too much screaming","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  If you like stereotypes, by all means go see this film. Or if you just happen to like gore, if you love those severed limbs and heads; it's rather more graphical in this respect than 'Saving Private Ryan'.On the other hand, they could have found a real actress to play Joan; a top model is nice, but can she act? Not, unless you count the volume of her voice as a plus. John Malkovich was very good as Charles VII, one got the distinct impression he was laughing at the director. Dustin Hoffman seemed rather bored as God, or Satan, or Joan's conscience, or whatever he was playing. The script was easily done, just get the most fanatically patriotic French history books, gloss over the details and forget about any sort of 'balanced' point of view. Well, at least they had no lack of catsup... But chrome plating was invented 450 years after the film period. Or were the swords made of stainless steel? Equally anachronistic, I fear.I give it a four out of ten, there are many other better ways to spend two and a half hours.  "},{"Title":"Well...","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The Messenger (or Joan of Arc) is the kind of film that is difficult to form a solid opinion about. At least I felt that after watching it. It's a very strange, quite unusual biographical epic, with many good things and some bad things.After a small explanation of the situation of France that time (the war with England for the French territory), the film starts showing a pre-adolescent Jeanne (or Joan, as you wish) confessing in a church of her village. She claims that she has some visions in which a boy tells her what to do. Some minutes after, in a field, she has one of those visions and, when she 'wakes up' the English soldiers are destroying her village. She sees her sister being killed, then raped by a soldier, and after the funeral she goes to live with her uncles in another village. Jeanne seems very shocked with everything, but continues having visions. Some years pass, and Charles VII, who is to become king, is told that a young woman who claims to have visions in which she sees God, is coming to see him in order to be a soldier of the French army. He seems a little confused with this, but the only way for him to become the king of France is to win the war against England, and for that he has to accept Jeanne as a soldier. She cumplishes her mission and faces the English soldiers. In the middle of all that, she continues having visions and things starts to get confusing and dangerous for her.The story is not so hard to follow as in other epic films (as Elizabeth), but the film is quite. The first one hour is very interesting, but then come the battle scenes and these are just tedious. They show many headless bodies, blood, but can't escape from being boring. It's the worst part of the film and I felt tempted to leave the movies. However, the last 40 minutes are very beautiful. The ending is wonderful and lets us with many questions about who was Joan of Arc in fact and what her visions meant.The acting in The Messenger is great, specially from the supporting actors. John Malkovich, Faye Dunaway and Dustin Hoffman all give solid performances. And there's Milla Jovovich. Well, her acting is another thing on the film that is quite difficult to form an opinion about. She shows talent in the scenes of visions, but she can be annoying when she yells. Overall she did a pretty decent job.The Messenger has everything an epic should have beautiful costumes, wonderful art-direction, good music, beautiful photography, etc. Luc Besson's directing is also efficient. But I still think it's difficult to say what I really thought of the film. For now, I give it a nice 7/10, because I wasn't really disappointed, but of course it could have been much better. "},{"Title":"Mila delivers in spite of film","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  There a a few strengths to this film that are overshadowed by many weaknesses.  For one, Mila Jovovich gives an excellent performance.  She portrays a manic, self possessed and self righteous woman acting out the will of a higher power she nonetheless makes Joan an interesting character to watch and empathize with.  Luc Besson delivers with his excellent cinematics and camera work.  Between his direction and Mila's performance this is a truly beautiful film.However, the dialogue for nearly everyone except for Mila and Dustin Hoffman is very flat.  At times the dialogue is full of modern anachronisms that are very distracting and cheapen the whole ambiance of the film.  It seemed as if the film was trying to be hip while portraying an important historic drama.  There are too many examples of this to quote here, but suffice it to say that poor dialogue ruined an otherwise good film.See the Messenger for Mila, see it for good direction in film, but be prepared to groan when the talking starts.6 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Who has the words to contain the power of this film?","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  If Milla Jovovich does not receive an Academy Award as well as the film garnering the Palm D'or at Cannes, then I will be absolutely shocked. This is a movie with such terrible impact that half the audience was in tears. I can not speak to the authenticity of the history but anyone will see that the theme and message were crystal clear.  A must see. Without reservation, I can give this film a rating of 10 and I thought that I'd never do anything so extreme, but this film deserves a 10. "},{"Title":"This Devil does not wear Pravda","Date":"1 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" What a terrific performance from the lead female, bursting with faith and power; worth a look for that alone. And magnificent battle scenes and costumes is another highlight of this movie. The story is about the real life Joan of Arc who whilst still a teen and hearing voices from God went about saving medieval France from the clutches of the invading English,but then again politic are politics....HoweverOn the negative side many of the actors are very English and are meant to be French so that causes a bit of a problem as the whole film is in English;plus give certain actors costumes and frills and they camp it up no end, and at times this picture is almost Pantomine stuff.And the worst of it is that Dustin Hoffmann plays some spook meant to be the conscience or Devil in Joan and he nearly ruins the film with his conceited hey-look-at-me-what a star-I am. Well Dustin I got a message for you and it don't come from above You very nearly destroy this film and you ought to stick to the likes of being Mrs Robinsons' Toy Boy as you are out of your depth in this one despite you believing otherwise.Hence I have taken two votes off for the appalling Dustin and my vote is6/10 "},{"Title":"Worth the time to see","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I have seen a few other adaptations of the Joan of Arc story. This one was the best. I liked the special effects. The acting was convincing. This movie kept me interested the entire time I was watching it. You must see this movie. "},{"Title":"Joan of Arc as An Hysteric  Possible Spoilers","Date":"21 September 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I'll credit Milla Jovovich with an excellent performance within the framework of Luc Besson's interpretation of the tale of Joan of Arc. Besson borrows quite a little from other writers and directors in this film but his chief borrowing is from 20th and 21st Century psychiatry. In the end, he tells viewers through Joan's visible conscience (portrayed by Dustin Hoffman) that her voices were the product of hysteria and that the Messenger from God simply told her what she wanted to hear. To make this approach credible, Besson introduces the murder and subsequent rape of Joan's elder sister, which she witnesses when she is 10 years old through cracks in the door to the closest where she is hiding. Hysteria is a modern and plausible explanation for religious visions, but there is no historical evidence to serve as background -- and I found the modern day psycho-babble more than a little jarring, even though Dustin Hoffman does his best with the role. Fay Dunaway also performs very effectively but John Malkovich is John Malkovich, not the Dauphin. Despite acting that is generally good, I found this to be the least satisfying version of the Joan of Arc story that I have ever seen, and I've seen most of them at one time or another. "},{"Title":"Stylish but lacking in substance &#150; factual or otherwise.","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  With France at the mercy of English invaders, a young woman, haunted by visions from God, approaches Charles VII and begs him to give her an army on the basis of her visions.  He yields to her faith and soon battles begun to be won due to her inspired approach to the war.  However with the English on the retreat and Charles crowned King of France, the tone of the country changes and Joan is desired more by the English for revenge than she is by the French rulers for her victories.I came to this with an awareness of the bad reviews and I must admit that many of them have been rather harsh.  Perhaps it is your expectation &#150; I had no hopes that this would be anything other than a film and am already very accustom to `historical' films being far from the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth.  So all I expected was a reasonable film which was watchable and, in fairness, that's all I got.As often is the case with Besson, the substance is very much second to style and thus the story is historically very dubious at best.  Happily the style and delivery of the film is all and he does direct it well.  The battle scenes are exciting without being as grand as we've seen it done elsewhere.  When it comes down to the politics of the beast then the film falters a bit and Besson can't deliver something that is compelling.  The last 30 minutes are a real drag and are only really redeemed by one (surprising) factor.  Contrary to the other reviews here &#150; that factor was Dustin Hoffman.While I agree that another actor could have done better, Hoffman does a good job on the most part.  His cynicism helps dispel the myth that had been build up in the previous 2 hours and is quite refreshing to have questions asked instead of just fighting.  He is a strange choice but I think his New York sceptic approach works (despite being set in medieval France).  He certainly works better than many others in the cast.  Jovovich is a beautiful blonde-haired, blue eyes peasant girl with a perfect accent and mannerisms &#150; one would have hoped she would have at least tried to be a peasant rather than a warrior princess but ho-hum.  She can't carry the role for the majority of the film and is not a good enough actress.  However other better actors also flounder with Malkovich just having a laugh, Cassel almost being a warrior clown and Dunaway looking sinister behind the scenes.Overall this is stylish enough to watch once but for God's sake don't expect a really good film, a thoughtful film or one that bares anything but a passing resemblance to the real Joan D'Arc. "},{"Title":"What happens when Braveheart meets Snow White? (spoilers!)","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The product is the Hollywood version of the Joan of Arc story. Judging from his previous works, Luc Besson had such potential with The Messenger.  The bad things (casting the lead role, minor discrepancies and spaces in history, and explicit gore) outweigh the good things (supporting cast and beautiful scenery) by far.Milla Jovovich is a very talented actress, but Joan of Arc she is not. As the wife of Luc Besson, she seemed to be the best choice for the part. She was very entertaining as the bandage-clad, red-haired alien Leeloo in The Fifth Element. Her wide-eyed portrayal of Joan in The Messenger made her seem more like a crazy wench suffering from premenstrual syndrome than a visionary with a mission from God. A better choice for the Joan of Arc role would have been Claire Danes. At least she would have been sure to keep her hair color consistent throughout the movie.There is nothing in the history books that indicate that Joan's sister Catherine was raped and killed by English soldiers in the attack on the village. Although it was the most realistic scene in the movie, it most likely never happened.  It was presented that Joan used the brutal death of her sister as an act of self-serving vengeance, not simply being chosen by God through her visions to lead the French to victory over the English. Other research reveals that Joan was raped while in prison, just so she would not die the virgin martyr.The movie makes a big leap from Joan's childhood to stalking the Dauphin. The last scene of Joan as a child is her escape from the back of her uncle's wagon to return to the church. The very next scene is her meeting with the Dauphin Charles VII. What happened to her during those eight or nine years between scenes? How did she develop a bond with the people who were so willing to accept her as a messenger of God? Joan's army had great respect for her from the beginning, but no explanation was given as to why.What about the brutality of war? The blood and gore depicted in this movie had no purpose other than pure shock effect. Wolves devour the entrails of a dead peasant. Young Joan witnesses the bloody impaling and rape of her sister's dead body while trapped in a closet. Soldiers heads are lopped off in blood-spurting glamor, twice, in the midst of the yawn-inspiring battle scenes. The fighting scenes lacked the camaraderie, fluidity and intestinal fortitude portrayed so well in Braveheart.The supporting cast did an excellent job trying to salvage what was left of the movie. Jane Valentine, who portrayed Joan as a child, gave a radiant performance, much more so than her older counterpart. John Malkovich did a superb job, as always, convincing the audience he belonged there. Faye Dunaway precisely performed the role of Charles VII's manipulative mother-in-law. Even though the Dustin Hoffman scenes required spectators to look up his nose the whole time, he played the part of Joan's conscience with his Oscar-winning ability.The country scenes were absolutely breathtaking. Who would not love the opportunity to run freely through tall grass, fields of flowers and unadulterated forests? This was the best part of the movie. It is good to know that places like this still exist in the world, unscathed by modern technology.Overall this movie lacked transition, a strong lead character and a sensible plot. It was the longest two hours and twenty-one minutes I have had to sit through in a quite a while. I give it a D+. "},{"Title":"Not the greatest war movie, but a good movie, and a somewhat true-to-facts portrayal of Jeanne d'Arc","Date":"14 August 2004","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Luc Besson usually makes spectacular movies; Leon, The Fifth Element, etc. Joan of Arc is no exception. It details the life of Jeanne, the maiden of Lorraine, who in and around the year 1431, helped France defeat England, and win a war that has lasted for almost an entire century. The plot is great, and it has a very good pace. I am almost never bored when watching this film, despite the fact that it's fairly long(about two and a half hours long), and I've seen it at least half a dozen times. What I've found to be great about the film is the re-watchable quality it has; I've seen it many times, yet I haven't grown tired of it. Up to the very end, it always has a scene or two that you can look forward to, either because it's exceptionally well done, has very good cinematography, has great acting and/or dialog, or every one of those qualities. The acting is great. Every single actor gives a great performance, even the child actors were convincing. The performances that impressed me the most, however, were those of Milla Jovovich and Dustin Hoffman, as Jeanne and her conscience, respectively. They never cease to amaze me. The characters were well-written and credible. I particularly liked the way Jeanne was written as having a very notable temper and being very decisive. I also very much enjoyed the various supporting characters, the best being La Hire and The Conscience. I liked the way the film seems to question Jeanne's sanity; whereas most believe that she *was* in fact, sent by God, this film sits down and asks the question, if she really was, or if the signs and miracles weren't all in her head, and caused by everyone wanting to believe it. The very last scenes especially puts doubt in the viewer. It was quite a gutsy move by Besson, to question his own country's hero. I will admit, the film does really make it seem more like she is crazy rather than sent by God, but it doesn't feel like Besson is pushing his view onto us, telling us that that's the way it was; it feels more like he tries to make us question it. The action and the war scenes were very well done, very chaotic and disturbing, very intense and bloody. This isn't the best war movie ever made, nor is it the most factually accurate; it might not even be the best retelling of the legend of Jeanne d'Arc. But I have found it to be a thoroughly enjoyable, well-acted, well-choreographed, well-done film that makes you think. And that's good enough for me. Several scenes are quite memorable, as are some of the lines. All in all, a very enjoyable war-drama, with an authentic story and some well-done battle sequences. I recommend it to fans of the actors, of Luc Besson's other work and of war movies/dramas in general. Just don't expect a full-out war movie; it's two hours and thirty minutes long, and I don't think more than forty-five minutes in total are spent fighting. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Pretty bad, for so many reasons","Date":"18 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" 1429. While the war between France and England (the Hundred Years War) appeared settled in 1420, in England's favour, the death of King Henry V of England reignites it. England occupies large areas of France and appears set to take the whole of it. Into this moment of crisis rides legendary Joan of Arc, a teenage girl who claims to be lead by divine visions.A pretty bad telling of the Joan of Arc story, for so many reasons. Most noticeably, the performances are almost universally hammy. Milla Jovovic only got the part of Joan because she was married to director Luc Besson at the time, and looked the part. Her acting is all over the place.John Malkovich is okay in his role. Dustin Hoffman can't act badly, but here he gets a character that makes for some of the weirder, more pretentious moments of the movie.Supporting cast largely overact French soldiers are generally gung ho, laugh-in-the-face-of-danger heroes, English are brutal, one- dimensional villains. With such bad acting on such a wide scale one can only think that this is how Luc Besson wanted them to act.On that note, a very irritating aspect of the movie is how the French are portrayed as wonderful heroes and the English as mindless thugs. The whole movie amounted to nothing more than pro-French, anti- English propaganda. I know the director is French, but I didn't know the English and French were currently at war...Quite a lot of padding too, drawing out the movie. So many scenes that seemed unnecessary.About the only positive parts are the battle scenes. These are well staged and are quite gritty and realistic. "},{"Title":"Messenger Story of Milla Jovovich.","Date":"19 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" The Messenger Story of Joan of Arc (1999) Dir Luc Besson / Cast Milla Jovovich, John Malkovich, Faye Dunaway, Dustin Hoffman, Vincent Cassel Epic spectacle about mixed translations and emotions. Milla Jovovich plays Joan and she leads France in their battle against the English. She is guided by a voice that she assumes is God but it is never explained how that sword got in the field. The King of France is played with vast confusion by John Malkovich who is unsure whether Joan is a messenger from god or just plain crazy. Director Luc Besson lavishes in production as indicated in his previous film The Fifth Element. He creates menacing battles that become repetitious and predictable before bowing out to corny details in the climax. Jovovich conveys bewilderment after witnessing the destruction of her home and her quest for justice through violence. Whether she is nuts is played out in long sequences before she is torched in the famous ending. Malkovich is well cast as the King of France who attempts to make sense of it all yet seems pulled in two directions and at a loss to the outcome. The real let down is the limited screen time for veterans Faye Dunaway and Dustin Hoffman who are unfortunately underused and are capable of superior work. It presents the aged doom of Joan as it asks viewers questions regarding sanity and betrayal. Score 6 / 10 "},{"Title":"Descent and Fair take on a Patriotric Frenchwomen","Date":"11 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This movie is a descent historical interpretation of the events of the French wars with England as seen through the prism of the deeply devout Joan of Arc. With all its movie sensationalism I wish to believe that at the heart of the film is the view that a patriotic young girl fought to save her country from rape and ravine at the hands of invaders. This might seem to most naïve as the French were just as violent as the English and the notion that Joan was incapable of cruelty is hard for many to see.Towards the end we see her conscience reminding us that she was capable of self criticism and felt sorrow for her actions. Whether the true Joan felt like this, a moral individual is hard to tell with definitive proof but the one thing that this movie does demonstrate is how all of the characters were bound by their religion including the Dauphin, the ecclesiastical court and the Knights. All used religion for political gain while Joan was certainly motivated by the love of her fellow Frenchmen and Frenchwomen. "}{"Title":"Too much fiction, not enough history.","Date":"12 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Historical records conflict with this presentation. All scenes concerning her family and childhood are completely fictional. Joan was depicted as weepy and fearful. She was not. Nor did she ever at any time show disrespect to Charles. I have the impression that the intention here was to portray Joan as a hysteric or as a schizophrenic. In real life she claimed to hear voices, but tried to keep that private as much as possible. She did not display any of the other symptoms of a person who was schizophrenic. Of course many movie producers think that fiction is more interesting than fact. The result here is that there are very few facts in this movie. However, the quotes from Joan's letters were accurate as was the historical time line. Leelee Sobieski's portrayal in Joan of Arc (also 1999) is more realistic. "},{"Title":"Potential to be so much better...","Date":"9 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I have been waiting years to see the film, a devoted fan of Joan of Arc, and I finally saw it tonight. It went from bad-to great- to terrible.The good 1. The other significant characters that actually sound French or are French. 2. The visual effects. 3. Depiction of medieval times. 4. Much of the acting of the Dauphin, Dunois, La Hire, Aulon, and Joan at times, as well as the English. 5. Much of the dress/uniforms. 6. And lastly, the battle scenes WERE GREAT! I always fully appreciate long- lasting, realistic medieval battle scenes and warfare. This was the best aspect of the movie in my opinion. The Bad and The Ugly 1. Terrible choice making Milla the young French maiden, inferior to the prior Joan of Arc film's choice. 2. John Malk. as Charles 7th, he's way too English not French at all. 3. The Hollywood sacrilegious depiction of Joan's visions. Hollywood sacrilegious depiction of Joan's so-called Conscience who unmistakably is the Devil. 4. Canchon is depicted as barely involved in the trial or hearings, and is depicted far too sympathetic and kind towards Joan, which goes against any written accounts of the trial. 5. La Hire cursed once more after his oath to God, which is blatantly inaccurate. (He honored his oath for the rest of his life) 6. Nothing from the Duke of Burgandy's mother, who loved Joan and wanted her to become a Burgandian princess. 7. Where was Jean Metz??!!! Her right-hand man??!!?!?? 8.THE ENDING!!!!! TERRIBLE! JOAN IS LED BY Satan TO DOUBT HERSELF, BELIEVE HIS LIES, CONFESS HER SO-CALLED SINS TO Satan, THEN ALLOW Satan TO PRAY OVER HER TO HEAVEN?????!!!! WHAT???! AND THEN, SHE SIGNS THE RECANT LETTER FROM CANCHON, WHICH SHE NEVER DID! AND SO THE VIEWER, WHO MAY HAVE NEVER READ ANYTHING ON JOAN OF ARC BEFORE, IS LEFT TO CONCLUDE THAT EITHER JOAN WAS A HERETIC AND SHE CONFESSED/SOLD HER SOUL TO Satan OR SHE WAS A CRAZY LUNATIC THE ENTIRE TIME!!!!!!!!! IS THAT THE LASTING IMAGE LUC BESSON WANTS TO GIVE A HEROINE WHO ACCOMPLISHED MORE IN HER LIFETIME THAN HE EVER WILL IN A 1,000 YEARS???!!!! HE CERTAINLY DISHONORED AND DISRESPECTED THE MAIDEN OF ORLEANS, AND I PRAY ONLY A DIRECTOR WITH INTEGRITY AND HONOR REDOES THE NEXT JOAN FILM. LUC HAS SPIT ON HER GRAVE. (OH, and nowhere to be seen daring assault LA Hire and generals led onto Rouen to try to save Joan and remove the English from France. Or the confirmation of prophecies Joan had given in the following years.) "},{"Title":"Was the life of Joan of Arc this boring?","Date":"6 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" It seems to me that there must be more to the life of Joan of Arc, a figure about which I have heard all my life, than is portrayed in this film. Perhaps it is a difficult subject to dramatize, although the summary sounds dramatic enough to me. What comes through here is rather a critique of religion and spirituality and mysticism. The result is Joan of Arc as misguided child, Joan of Arc as psychotic young woman. These criticisms for what they are worth do not help make the film entertaining. While I was initially taken by the historical detail, I ended up spending most of my time wondering how France could have fallen for this child. Hunger Games, for a modern example, presents a much more credible heroine who is used by the powers that be for their own ends. That to me is an interesting story that has emotional content. Joan of Arc the film raises interesting questions but it is not entertaining or moving and I suppose in the end when a girl gets burned at the stake I want to be moved. I think the film could have been improved by a more faithful treatment of the history which I must believe was more interesting than this film for the name Joan of Arc to come down to us so prominently through the ages. "},{"Title":"Casting and other issues make it better with the sound turned off.","Date":"8 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" The film opens terribly with small, fast-scrolling revisionist history in an ersatz medieval script superimposed on a nearly featureless map of a northern coastline, presumably somewhere in Europe. French place names compete for our attention as blood seeps over the obscure territory, presumably representing English invasion. All this when a simple date would tell us as much as we need to know. Then there is a wonderful series of establishing shots, rendering all the previous text unnecessary. Here is medieval agrarian France, here is the title character, here, her conflicted relationships with the Church & God, the ambiguity of what is real, what is visionary. A melange of differing accents alerts us that we are dealing with an ensemble cast. Then John Malkovich, Faye Dunaway, and Dustin Hoffman remind us again. Americans in medieval France...hmmm. Of the three, Dunaway seems the most at home in her role. Hoffman...does anyone ever forget he is watching Hoffman? Jack Crabb is the last role I saw as a character and not Hoffman-in-a-role. My point isn't to disparage his acting, but that the casting director has placed too-high-profile actors in supporting roles. With Hoffman, the question is never what will the character do next, but rather, what will Hoffman do with the character. Milla is nearly perfect for the part - wild eyed volatile delusional virginal zealot, not much different from her roles in other films (Fifth Element). But one almost waits for her to go off on a rant in Ukrainian. Has a French actress ever played this role in an English language film? I liked the props and most of the sets. Much of the photography is beautiful, but there is a visually disturbing lack of roads leading to some of the castles. And in the end, the story runs down without reaching a memorable conclusion. Or maybe I dozed off. "},{"Title":"Not really my taste, but it seemed well done","Date":"20 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I didn't really enjoy seeing a movie with a lot of fighting. That's just not what I'm looking for. The Leelee Sobieski miniseries was more my taste, and I really liked her in it.Jane Valentine did an impressive job as the young Jeanne and I was hoping for a family movie, but those first few minutes, while entertaining and even humorous, weren't typical of what this movie had to offer.Milla Jovovich did a good job when she was frightened, and this may have been how this Joan of Arc was supposed to be. Because she kept seeing visions of a bearded man who was always disappointed in her efforts, even though she seemed to be doing everything God had asked her to, and she even accomplished some great things. But one thing about Jovovich stood out to me when she was angry, she seemed more like a spoiled child than one of the greatest women of history.Dustin Hoffman stood out more than anyone else, as that bearded man who seemed to appear only to Joan and did nothing but criticize. I didn't recognize him at first, but later even with the hood I realized I knew that face. And as always he impressed.There was humor occasionally--how could there not be? This young girl thinks she can tell these tough men what to do in that day and age. But this was a historical film about a time of war and it's pretty much what one might expect. Not my taste, but it will certainly be good to someone. "},{"Title":"The Messenger fails to follow historical facts about Joan of Arc","Date":"30 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This movie about Joan of Arc is filled with misrepresentations about Joan's life. Her sister was never killed by the English. Joan is portrayed in battle as nervous and almost hysterical, whereas she actually was cool, calm, and collected, making quick, sensible tactical decisions in battle and had the ability to inspire and lead her troops, which led to her raising the siege of Orleans, the victory at Patay, etc. Her commanders, like the Duc D'Alencon, were amazed at her ability to place artillery and troops in the siege of a castle.One of her most famous quotes was, on the occasion of the English retreating toward Paris, Have good spurs! When her commanders asked her, you mean retreat? And Joan responded, No! Chase them, for that you'll need good spurs!Joan never intentionally killed anyone in battle, as she testified at her trial. She did have a sword but always preferred to carry her white standard (banner). After the Battle of Patay, she comforted a dying English soldier, and had him be confessed before he died. She charged the English once with the French mercenary, La Hire, and her horse could have trampled somebody in that case, but that was just war.It is implied at the end of the movie that Joan did all her deeds out of her own pride and for revenge, something totally contrary to the record of her trial in which she never renounces that her voices were from God. Her trial, a mockery by the English who feared and hated Joan, was, by the King's request, reviewed 25 years later in the 1450's and declared null, due to all the legal errors, and Joan was completely exonerated. Many who testified at this nullification trial, like the Duc D'Alencon, knew Joan and fought beside her. This movie is really a fantasy with some good special effects on medieval warfare. I'm going to try the 4 hour TV version with Leelee Sobieski and see if it's any better. "},{"Title":"Joanie, We Hardly Knew Ya","Date":"20 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Milla Jovovich performs Joan of Arc fairly well - at least at first - but her incessant trembling, stammering, and hysterics eventually wear pretty thin. Luc Besson could have avoided that pitfall. John Malkovich, usually a favorite of mine, is particularly bad as Charles VII. He seems to be just reading lines. Luc Besson should have avoided that.The story is over-long and confused at times, and having many of the players so closely resemble each other exacerbates the confusion. The battle scenes are faithful to the era, but wind up being dull due to the gore overkill - perhaps they are just too many and too long. Annoying also is the text on screen that was too small to read and in an archaic font.For a fantastic and presumably true tale, this movie fails to cash in on the inherent excitement. It took me three days to watch 3/4 of the picture, but I gave up and did not finish, because it made me not care about the ending, which I obviously knew. The stars are for production values and Jovovich's valiant effort. "},{"Title":"When action takes over meaning","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This is not the best film by Besson. In fact it is in many ways incredibly naive and superficial, even in its desire to look and sound profound. Profundity is not only political gibberish diplomatic slang. And it is that kind of language that reduces the attitude of the French king to be and then king to opportunism. And it is that kind of language that reduces the attitude of bishop Cochon to servile non-commitment. And it is that kind of language that reduces the attitude of the English to vengeful cruelty. It is also very superficial to reduce simple people to blind believers of anything that sounds iffy, godlike and slightly insane, like a girl leading an army or hearing and listening to divine voices. But all that must please many simple minds indeed. It is a shame because the subject deserves a serious film, a serious approach. Shakespeare forgot to write this play. He could have written a masterpiece on the subject. Besson just writes an average action film, some kind of medieval peplum film.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Paris Dauphine & University of Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne "},{"Title":"Humour, treachery, loyalty, great acting and a few miracles thrown in for good measure","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Another great outing by Luc Besson. This movie is a great work that deserves much more credit than it has received.Milla Jovovich is one of the most underrated actors of the last few years. Through her we have a great insight into Joan's frailty and doubt as they bubble to the surface during her progress from village girl to leader of France's armies all before her 17th birthday.With a cast including Faye Dunaway, John Malcovich, Dustin Hoffman, and Tchéky Karyo among others we are treated to a well balanced set of loyal and treacherous characters who revel in Joan's ability to be victorious and writhe at her inability to stop, as well as her increasing popularity.We are taken through Joan's inner turmoil coming through during her trial which is in stark contrast to the confident messenger she portrays in front of her judges. Dustin Hoffman who, as the cloaked figure seems to be her final tormentor and possible executioner, turns out to be the last person in her shrinking world to show her any selfless compassion.Luc Besson's humour is what truly breathes life to this movie including a classic scene with an English army leader tormenting the French over their Frog whore's death only to find himself running for his life from her a few minutes later as she commandeers a siege tower that she has no idea how to use.For those that complain of Luc Besson's flexibility of the known facts, you're better off reading the encyclopedia rather than watching movies. For goodness sake it's a story about a girl that claimed to be a messenger of God&#133;facts are not that relevant.This is a very inspiring movie.8.5/10 "},{"Title":"A good historical picture of Joan of Arc","Date":"27 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This film is a historical portrayal of the famous story of Joan of Arc, a young girl who pretends to be a man so she can fight in war. Joan believes that she is being driven by God, and the film portrays her devout religious visions that enable her to want to fight the English. As the famous story goes, it is not a very happy ending for Joan. This is a pretty good film, although it is slow in places and a lot of the religious visions could have been edited out, and this would not have subtracted from the story at all. The cinematography was also done well, and the different camera angles and general use of the camera helped to understand Joan and her feelings. It's a good historical picture, but it is a long film to sit through, and it could have been edited further. "}{"Title":"A fine film","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" By no means a perfect film but you have to give it a lot of credit for trying to do something different with the material. I love the visual mystery of it all and the at times abstract images. For some reason it feels like there may have been a lot left out during the editing process, but a lot of these types of films have that feeling. Milla Jovovich hit a career high in The Messenger that she has never really lived up to since. What is brave about this film is that fact that it takes such a famous historical figure and does not try to deify her or make her a larger than life hero. She questions herself at every corner. She is confused half the time. Joan of arc in this film never seems to be sure of herself and is not above changing her mind at the last second like in the scene of the retracted confession. Granted, narratively this film can be a bit muddled, but as texture and atmosphere, it is hard to beat. Luc Besson has a sly wit that seems out of place here, for example the scene where an English guard asks What is she doing cut to the French fighters I don't know! The score for the Messenger is very unique, with a combination of abstract synthesized sounds and large scale orchestra and choir reminiscent of a biblical epic. I must be honest in saying that I did not entirely like this film when I first saw it in the theater, but it stuck with me, so I went back for a repeat viewing and found I liked it a lot better than I thought. This is a very unique, although not entirely successful take on a very old story. "},{"Title":"Not an Accurate Portrayal","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Over-used camera work is not the only thing bad with this film. It tries to come off as fresh and true, when it is, in fact, neither. Very early on it will show Jeanne in a closet will her sister is being raped against it. This never happened, and so the memories of it and actions resulting only serve to pepper the film with more and more fiction. Besson turns the story of La Pucelle into the story of Besson Needs An Epic Under His Belt.Milla Jovovich obviously did little research, or she would have found out that Jeanne's hair was as black as ink. Perhaps she had spent too much money on coffee to cause her spastic behaviour...all in all, her performance could have been a lot better had she known more, and had it been directed and written by someone other than Besson, who should never be allowed anywhere near historical films again. "},{"Title":"Good entertainment with a solid historical background","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I've always been a great fan of historic drama's, but the medieval times are not really my favorite. Normally I prefer the period between 1900 and 1950 or the Roman / Greek times when I want to watch such a movie. Only when I'm almost sure that the movie that I'm about to see, and which isn't situated in one of these time periods, will be better than average, I'm willing to give it a try. That's also the reason why I saw The Messenger The Story of Joan of Arc.When in 1412 a girl called Jeanne is born in a small village in France, the Hundred Years war with England makes life very difficult. She grows up as a very religious young woman who confesses several times a day and at the age of 13, she has her first vision when she finds a sword in a field. When she returns home with it, she finds the English looting and murdering her town. Many years later, she is convinced that it is her holy duty to be ridding France of the English. That's why in 1428 she meets Charles, the Dauphin of France, who is so desperate that he accepts all help, even when it comes from a 16 year old maiden with a divine mission. After she successfully liberated Orléans and Reims, the Dauphin is crowned traditionally in the cathedral of Reims. From that moment on he doesn't need her anymore, since his wishes are satisfied, and after he betrays Jeanne d'Arc, she is imprisoned by the Burgundians. They organize a trial against her under English law, but can't force her to confess about her divine visions which she has had continuously since childhood. Condemned of witchcraft and being considered as a relapsed heretic, she is sentenced to death and is burnt alive at only 19 years of age.The story is of course what it is. Because this is a movie that has been based on a biography, which already exists for a few hundred years, much can't go wrong. Only when the writers had added a lot of new elements to it, which I don't think they have done, this could have become a really awful movie. Now I had the feeling that they followed the original story pretty well and that's why this has become a more than decent movie. Sure, by today's standards this story isn't very believable, but that's not what you should keep in mind when watching it. If today someone would claim that she was sent by God to free us from evil, she would end up in a straitjacket and a mental hospital pretty soon, but all this happened in the 15th century, when people were much more religious and still believed such claims.When it comes to the battle scenes, you can expect a lot of brutal violence. A lot of dismemberment, people being hit by a large number of arrows or cut into pieces with a sword,... you will not be spared of anything of that. Personally I don't have any problem with it, because that's the way it was at the time, but I'm sure that not everybody will be able to look at it. But the entire movie isn't made up by such scenes of course. The most remarkable ones are probably those in which she has a vision. The way those were shot is really very nice and give it that extra mysterious feeling. Also worth noticing are the nice costumes and decors, which give a good impression of the time shown in the movie.The direction and the performances by the actors are the last thing that I want to tell you something about. I already knew that Luc Besson knows what a good movie should look like, but an historic drama is still something completely different from a Sci-Fi movie like The Fifth Element, in which you can let your imagination run freely, or a completely over-the-top comedy like Taxi. But what he did looked nice and that's what's the most important. Of course he also had a nice cast to work with. With people like Dustin Hoffman, Faye Dunaway and John Malkovich he had some very famous and talented actors to his disposal. But even the other actors, with Milla Jovovich on top, were much better than average.In the end this is a movie that offered plenty of entertainment, nice shots, a good story... and that's why I find the current rating of 6.3/10 too low. I would give it a rating of at least 7.5/10. In my opinion it doesn't deserve any less. "},{"Title":"The Enigma of Joan Continues","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Did Besson cop out by not taking a clear stand on whether or not Joan of Arc was inspired by God or not? The use of Dustin Hoffman's presence in this film seemed to me to be Besson's own musings about the fifteenth-century French peasant girl. 'Maybe she was, maybe she wasn't'. Overall an excellent portrayal nevertheless. The two most powerful images in the film were undoubtedly - the first time that Joan impatiently takes her own Communion and pours the dark red wine into her mouth too fast and it spills down her chin - the scene from above where Joan is lying in the tall grass of the meadow with her arms spread out (as if in a representation of Christ on the cross) and a gleaming sword is seen in the grass just off from her outstretched hand. I had CHILLS all over when I saw this. Definitely an IMAGE gem from Besson! "},{"Title":"failure","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Wow, what a failure of what could have been a fantastic movie.  The Legend of Billie Jean was better!!  At least they had their accents right in that film!  It was hard to tell who was English and who was French, when everyone sounded like they were from the Midwest US. No English accents, no French accents, but I think one of the English guys had a Scottish accent, possibly? How about the scene where they are all smeared w/ blood after she releases a prisoner.  In the next scene she's absolutely covered in blood! I had to repeat it twice just make sure I really was seeing it.  Notice she's blonde in the beginning?  After she's captured she's brunett.  The voices in my head told me the acting was great, as was the vision.  But I felt like I was losing it w/ all the flaws in the movie. "},{"Title":"It's all about interpretation...........","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  There seems to have been some scathing comments about this film on the IMDB. I'm no expert on Joan of Arc and so I can't comment on the historical inaccuracies. As for the performances? That's a matter of opinion or taste.I like this film a lot. I watched it as a film, rather than as a historical document, and as such, I think it scores highly. Jeanne is portrayed as deluded, fanatical, and flawed. Is it accurate? Probably not, but then again name me one film that has EVER been historically accurate. Titanic was criticised by the family of some of the liner's crew. JFK was criticised for it's assumptions, deletions, and inaccuracies. Braveheart? Cleopatra? Don't let's get started on them......It is impossible to make a film that accurately represents historical events. Those events are gone and the best information we have is cloudy memories or historical documents written from cloudy memories.The best the film-maker can do is provide an interpretation of those events and entertain and/or challenge the audience. So you didn't agree with it. So what? At least it made you think and there ain't enough of that nowadays. "},{"Title":"A Joke....","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The film itself, as a FILM is not all bad. But the portrayal of Joan and the accuracy of the story is a disgrace. Joan is portrayed as a screaming, raving and at times downright annoying lunatic whose visions are all delusions. The Film is not accurate enough in the dialogue or the scenery to be taken seriously either. The makers of this should be ashamed of themselves. Mila did a good acting job, but she was nothing like Joan, more something like a mental patient. Someone needed to tell the makers of the film that Joan didnt have blonde hair either.Hopefully, one day, an ACCURATE film about Joan will be made.*out of *****  "},{"Title":"VISUALLY GRIPPING","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I found Messenger The Story of Joan of Arc to be a complex and compelling movie. I had just finished a short historical paper on Joan of Arc a week earlier, so when I happened upon this movie on television I paused. I found myself enraptured with the warm richness of the photography in this film. Once my senses were captive, I settled into the story. I anticipated that the movie would unfold in a predictable way, but it does not. Frankly, I was rather jarred by the added twists and experienced some uneasiness, but I continued to watch. Later, I realized how brilliant this version of the story is; it shook me out of my complacency and made me ponder down paths rarely trodden. It features a fine performance by Milla Jovovich. It is rare for a 'model' to transition into acting in a satisfying way, but I find depth in Milla. She is able to communicate vulnerability in a very believable manner. I was surprised and gratified to see her add dimension to the character, displaying a steely core of passion and resolution. I highly recommend this movie for those individuals that can tolerate the unexpected and enjoy ruminating on a movie later. "},{"Title":"interesting interpretation","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie is very well directed and has impressive battle scenes,costumes and locations.The interpretation of Joan of Ark as played by Mila Jovovich is interesting and succeeds in the part of being a fearless and couragious military leader that soldiers followed.The part about her divinity is more controversial and the movie does not really explain it.I didnt like the fact that everybody spoke English and i think the movie loses enormously because of this.All in all however, i think it is a powerfull movie and tells an impressive story but i dont know how much it has to do with historical fact. "},{"Title":"WOW!","Date":"2 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I have seen the movie twice within a week, and will see it a couple of more times. I was shivering through the whole movie, it was so real for me. ... how 'clean' Joan was. First, at the beginning of the film it turns out that she had been to the priest for the third time that day, to confess. Later on the knights do not understand her when she says 'I want to confess. I have not confessed ... today yet' - if you really pay attention, for the environment this is very strange. And, at the end of the movie, she confesses her 'crimes' again. What I want to point out that she had a very strong conscience and she intended to keep it clean. This makes her a candidate to be Saint - as she was given this title 500 years later.This movie IS about reality, the betraying of Joan included. This is what I liked the most (the film being so real).Further on, every split second of the movie is communicating something. If you watch closely, the faces, the looks of the actors, the music, are constantly telling you a part of the story, a message. Perfect timing features the cutting of this film. The conflicts are precisely designed. The actors are perfectly matching their roles. I admit, that the ending is a bit long, but basically it stresses the suppressive behavior of the inquisition of that time.Milla plays just perfectly. In this version of the Joan of Arc movies she is what she is and that is it. Luc Besson had an idea in mind and she realizes it.If you like Luc Besson, Milla Jovovich, Eric Serra, history, middle age, or if you are a rebel, this is a must for you.The more you appreciate art the more you are going to like this movie.Finally this movie is fine art in itself, a classic piece. But you have to like the style Luc Besson paints...  "}{"Title":"A walkthrough","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Whatever impact this movie might have had was ruined by the uninteresting and boring script. Same old story with new actors, most of whom are unable to play their roles. Jovovitch (Joan of Arc) pants and grunts heavily every time she rides a horse, and seems to be unable to talk most of the time (probably trying to express some strong emotions, but mostly making the listener tune out before the second word). Whatever Dustin Hoffman did in this film will never be explained. The final scenes with him explaining some things that happened earlier are the best this movie offers (gave me a laugh), but its not enough. "},{"Title":"Braveheart meets The Devils!","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Joan of Arc was a French peasant girl who believed she received messages from God and who somehow was given control of an army in the Hundred Years War.  How this came about is unfortunately no clearer after watching this high-budget, glossy but misfiring film.  Sadly it fails on every front the court scenes are unconvincing, the battle scenes are logically scrambled, while the trial scenes are anachronistic and simply hysterical.  The dialogue is pretty rotten too, for example, every character is introduced complete with a description of their attributes (e.g. meet my bravest archer etc).  Milla Jovovich is frankly out of her depth as Joan, over-emoting in every scene.  The rest of the cast is much better, though the decision to use Americans as Frenchmen and Englishmen and Englishmen sometimes makes you think it's a different war altogether.  While stylistically, the film is pretentious, incoherent, and ultimately dull.  Beaten by even Braveheart for historical accuracy, Joan of Arc resembles Ken Russell's The Devils but fatally without that film's sense of fun. The only liberation comes with the end. "},{"Title":"I don't get it...","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This was a watchable enough movie, I guess, but Milla Jovovich looks NOTHING like Joan Van Ark.  John Malkovich plays a lousy Gary Ewing, and I don't know what old France has to do with Knots Landing.Before you attempt to correct me, and tell me that this movie was supposed to be about Joan OF ARC, stop and think, whose life is represented more historically accurately by this movie? - and then I think you'll arrive at the same conclusion that I did. "},{"Title":"Phantasy distortion for consumer appetites","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Ever since 1899 the Maid of Orléans has been the subject of all kinds of films, most of which are hazardous incursions into make-believe, but only a couple of which have been more or less historical attempts at being accurate.This film ventures into the blown-up tremendism so beloved by US audiences, and ends up being an unpalatable action flick with lots of effects and lots of stunts and lots of blood, Ms Jovovich destroying medieval English armies single-handed.Luc Besson should have known better; next time he should try it with an all-European cast and film it in the beatiful valley of the River Loire, and adhere more strictly to historical facts easily available in any Parisian archive.Forget this rowdy commercialised nonsense, and try another version made the same yearJoan of Arc (1999/I) (TV)...aka Jeanne d'Arc (1999/II) (TV) (Canada French title)with Leelee Sobieski and Jacqueline Bisset helped along by - unbelievably - Peter O'Toole and Shirley MacLaine, in a much more intimist and historically contextualised version. "},{"Title":"Good, but not Besson's best work.","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is a good film. I wouldn't venture to say that it's the best, because it's not. It's definatly worth seeing for history buffs (though I would heavilly question it's historical accuraccy.) It does however have a heafty dose of one of the things I dislike about Besson's work, there sometimes isn't enough contrast between tension and a lack thereof. This is especially the case in The Messenger. I would recommend this, but be advised Besson's other works (The Professional, Nikita) are much, much better.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I truly thought this film was great. I was astonished to see that it has such a low rating!The script was very good. The film was intense throughout. Milla Jovovich did a great job in acting. Her facial expressions were right to the point, her despair was genuine and her sheer cries during the battle were chilling. The battle scenes were superb too. There are little films that give you such scenes with so much people fighting against each other. There was so much blood that it was shocking. You thought 'Saving Private Ryan' was shocking enough? Then watch this. You get arms chopped off, throats slitted, head bashed and any kind of gore you would imagine. I have to make myself clear though, I am anti-war.One thing I have to complain though, as Jeanne was so religious, she would not have said 'Oh my God' upon seeing all the dead and wounded in the field.  "},{"Title":"Bad depiction of a great person","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Since I read Mark Twain's Personal Recollections of Joan of Arc, I have deep reverence for Joan. I don't know what these people were trying to do when they made this movie. It is historically incorrect and full of profane remarks. As far as my knowledge is concerned, Joan never doubted about her cause, neither when she was leading the army nor in the court. Her rock solid confidence and high morals were the attributes that made other people believe in her leadership. She was patriotism and courage embodied.I wish if somebody take the historical facts and make the movie as such without inducing any nonsense.  "},{"Title":"Crazy Lady, Crazy Film","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  (The first observation is a compliment, the second a criticism)Things to like about this film1. Joan is quite plausibly in a state of psychological distress throughout the story, and comes over as quite human as a result... she's not some simplistically-presented figurehead.2. The Battle Scenes - if you like battle scenes, that is.  I do, and the bit with the flail is lovely.3. Dustin Hoffman's thorough deconstruction and destruction of Joan's advocacy of nationalist warfare in the name of God.  I bet he didn't like Braveheart either.Things to laugh at in this film1. LOAD THE PORKY-PINE!!!  Historically accurate I'm sure - it doesn't make this particular war-cry any less silly.  What next, 'Fetchez le Vache?'2. That English warlord who sounds pretty Scottish to me.  There's a guy who obviously didn't even watch Braveheart.3. That bloke who played Weedy David in The Fifth Element.  Standing him next to Jovovich for so much of the film's duration conjures inappropriate comparisons.  Like if Braveheart had Max Von Sydow as Edward Longshanks and Sam J. Jones as Wallace...  Which would probably have been fab, now I think about it.4. Vincent Cassel as the smouldering Eurocrumpet Gilles de Rais.  Also an alleged sadistic mass-murderer of children (de Rais, I mean!), but at least he wasn't English, eh?5. John Malkovitch.  Is 'Being John Malkovitch' a film at all?  Is it not rather a very short review of his acting style? "},{"Title":"A brilliantly shot masterpiece","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  People are understandably split on their views of The Messenger Joan of Arc. To some is is jumbled, incoherent and badly acted...To others, myself included it is brilliantly shot, well told, emotionally jerking AND WELL acted! Two things drew me to getting it on DVD - Luc Besson as director, and Milla Jovovich playing Joan. Besson's real commitment to filming, especially in the action sequences really paid of, giving fantastic gritty and beautifully shot violence, the next minute balanced up with politics, intrigue and a lavish French court. As the featurette tells us, Luc and has camera had to wear armour in the battlescenes as they were right in amongst the action! They put their lives on the line rushing through firey gates as well! Milla gives her strongest performance yet as Joan, capturing the tormented young maiden perfectly. One that feels like she has been chosen by God...until Dustin Hoffman's conscience character forces her to think of possible alternatives. Hoffman is superb and makes a small character his own completely. Some people say that his 'psycho-babble' is out of place in the setting, but when balancing it with the fact that it is a Besson film looking into religion and self-belief, it really hits home. Perhaps Milla's best scenes are towards the end when she starts to put across the confused, frightened and yet resolute character of Joan while under trial and when at the stake. Malkovich and Dunaway  give admirable performances with Dunaway playing almost a pantomime Evil Stepmother to perfection. Apart from a few 'cheesier' moments, this is quality moviemaking, beautifully shot and strongly acted. "},{"Title":"An Insult to Joan the Maid","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Granted I understand that some people who saw this movie had never studied the life of Joan Of Arc. But if people came to see this movie in hopes of being more educated on the life of this treasured saint, then this is the WRONG movie for them to see! This movie, in my opinion trashed every inch of Joan's character.Now see I have grown up loving the story of Joan of Arc, so I take stuff like this personally. We all have seen movies of legendary heros such as Braveheart, The Patriot and Rob Roy...and people come out of those movies feeling patriotic because the men in the film were portrayed truly as heros...they were heros. This movie, although advertising Joan's story as a historical epic was completely deceiving. The writer made Joan look like a complete lunatic, and after sitting through 3/4s of it I was just begging for them to burn her at the stake to just get it over with. Not that I was glad that they burned the real Joan of Arc. It was the reason that Joan's character in this movie was so wacko and skittish, you just wanted to put her out of her misery. Of course, I don't blame Milla J. for acting accordingly. I think she is a moderately creditable actress, and plays this part well. She plays it well as a catalyst from the writing. The writing here is the problem as well as the over all vision. She plays Joan the lunatic well. So it's not her fault that Joan was protrayed this way. However, if I had been in the film I would have challenged the writing a bit.I normally am not the type of person to seem so critical about a movie...but I just felt that this movie was an insult to the real Joan of Arc. Historically, and period-wise the film was accurate. But the portrayl of Joan of Arc (Who was a true hero) was completely deceiving!  "}{"Title":"Impressive","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Clearly a Besson movie (compare it to Le Grand Bleu and Léon).The camerawork is beautiful and adds very well to the drama. Dialogs are well balanced and strong. A great peace of cinema that grabs you and you don't realize it takes 2.5 hours. The only drawback I could find is that the French actually should have spoken French.I regret I haven't seen it at home and not in a cinema theater, which would have been even better. Not a masterpiece, but pretty close to it...  "},{"Title":"Messy epic.","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  4 out of 10French Braveheart with a woman is what a lot of people are going to think of when they hear the historical premise.  This is actually the only film I've ever seen that focused on the life and death of Joan of Arc, so there's not much for me to compare to.  As for the historical facts, I know little other than the fact she was under the age of twenty when she lead the French army against the English and was eventually burned at the stake.As a movie on its own, it's not particularly good, marred heavily by director Luc Besson's overuse of wide-angled cinematography that's probably more fitting for Monty Python than a serious drama.  Pretentious imagery is all over the map, with unintentionally hiliarious scenes of Jesus Christ speaking to Joan, shouting What are you doing to me, Jeanne?  On the bright side, the battle scenes are good, the performances are decent (though Milla Jovovich kind of overdoes her part), and there's only great scene where Dustin Hoffman (as the Conscience) speculates where Joan could have gotten her sword from (you'll understand when you see it). "},{"Title":"Interminable","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I love Luc Besson, and I love Milla Jovovich... but JOAN OF ARC is just dreadful.  Both director and star find themselves way out of their depth in unfamiliar waters, and the result feels like a terribly expensive hack that drags on forever (in its 158 minute international form).Luc Besson is an inventive and visually interesting director, but his style proves totally inappropriate for a historical epic that takes itself so terribly seriously.  The camerawork and the performances he elicits don't fit with the subject matter, and the dry script rarely manages to evoke any sympathy for the characters.  Battle sequences should be spectacular, but feature bad gore effects and terrible camera motions that make the movie feel more like a cheap TV production.If you want historical epic, check out the Korean war movie MUSA instead (1000 times a better movie).  Let's just try to forgive JOAN OF ARC as an embarrassment Besson had to make. "},{"Title":"Well done Mr. Besson","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie manages to handle a religious theme without being tomoralizing or kitschy. The acting is first rate and thecinematography is state of the art. If you can stand some rudeknight fights and powerful battle scenery, then come and enjoy thiswell done movie. I especially enjoyed Dustin Hoffmannsappearance as the dry commentator and mirror of Joan's pureconscience. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A fine, affecting movie.","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Luc Besson's take on St. Joan as a confused, possibly schitzophrenic, religious fanatic whose victories against the English having as much to do with revenge for the murder of her sister as her religious beliefs is certainly interesting.  He portrays her not as a great fighter, but as a flawed but inspiring leader and lateral thinker.But not a leader in the same sense as, say, Mel Gibson's William Wallace in Braveheart.  She believes she is following the signs of God, though her motives are dubious to say the least.  You feel that she is just using the French army for her own murderous revenge and not just the good of her country.As a result, the long and very bloody battles against the English do not have the same sense of victory as in Braveheart.  In fact they leave a bad taste in the mouth, as they are meant to.Milla Jovovich is simply stunning as the angry, confused teenager.  I have only seen her in Resident Evil and have grown to love her style of acting, which is a crossover between theatrical and naturalistic.  She can portray kick-ass strength whilst showing great vulnerability and naivity.  A fine actress, though not to everyone's taste it seems.Even Dustin Hoffman, an actor who never fails to irritate me, (except in Midnight Cowboy, his finest hour), gives a terrifically restrained performance as Joan's inner conscience, and is excellent as a result.Faye Dunaway gives a fine understated performance, yet, surprisingly enough, it is John Malkovich who lets the team down somewhat.  Though he doesn't spoil the movie, you know he's done better work elsewhere.As a movie, it moves along at good pace, though anyone expecting a feel good movie like Braveheart beware.  Joan of Arc is not a heart-warming tale of an underdog country's victory over the tyrannical English.  This is a very affecting portrait of a flawed individual who may have used the lives of a few thousand countrymen to do battle with her own inner demons, who by chance helped lead them into liberation.A fine movie with enough good performances for repeated viewings.  "},{"Title":"Interesting Movie","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  First off, I have to say that I am, by no means, any kind of history expert or history buff in any way, I know very little about the true Joan of Arc.  With that said, I shall continue with the review.I thought Messenger The Story of Joan of Arc was pretty good.  I wouldn't say it was one of the best movies I've ever seen, but it was worth my time.  I thought the story was fairly interesting, a bit odd, and I have no idea how much of it is true, but it was interesting nonetheless.  As I said I have no idea how much of this is actually historically accurate, but if this is true to the real Joan of Arc, then I've got to say, that woman was INSANE!  The way Milla Jovovich portrayed her was just crazy!  She was one insane, blood-thirsty woman!  Also, I think it's funny that she is revered as such a great hero/warrior when (according to the film) she really didn't do much other than lead the army to battle and run around with her banner/sword.  Very strange.The actors all seemed to do a pretty good job.  I'm not a huge fan of Milla Jovovich, she's ok I guess, but she seems to over-act way too much.  John Malkovich, Dustin Hoffman, Tcheky Karyo, Vincent Cassel, Faye Dunaway and the rest of the cast did a fine job with their roles.  I don't know why though, but I'm not much of a fan of Faye Dunaway either.Overall, I thought it was a good movie, very graphic and quite bizarre at times, but still pretty good.  I hope that you like the film.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"an insult","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  this movie was horrible and an insult to the saint. i haven't seen milla in anything else but this movie definitely didn't leave me with a good impression. if you want to see a better jehanne movie, watch the one with leelee sobieski, though not historically accurate, a good movie. "},{"Title":"This movie was simply stunning","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Milla and the ensemble cast take the story of Joan of Arc to another level.Religious violence tempered with humanity as Joan realizes just what she has started with her war against the English king. I was taken in by the rampaging yet deceptively naive Joan (played by Milla) and went with the tide (as did the others following Joan) only to find myself alone and uncomfortable at the denouement. Luc Besson has shown us both sides of Joan - devout yet vengeful-humane yet terrifying.  Congratulations to the cast and crew on a truly satisfying movie "},{"Title":"You'll cheer when Joan burns!","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Utterly awful.  I hardly know where to begin.OK, I'll begin with the French accents, as they provide the most consistant distraction throughout.  Why does a movie about French people (and directed by a French director) have French people speaking English with French accents?  Does the director think we are too stupid to understand that Joan of Arc was French unless she sounds like John Cleese in the French castle scene in Monty Python and the Holy Grail?  Why not have the actors either actually speak French (See Luc Besson's earlier film La Femme Nikita for proof that he knows how to do this) or speak un-fake-accented English (See Kubrik's Paths of Glory for proof that an un-fake-accented English speaking French army can be believable.)And then there's Milla Jovovovovich, playing pretty much the same part that she played in The Fifth Element. Bug eyed and blinking at the same time, trying to out-ham John Malkovovovovich with her gasping...hiccupping...delivery...featuring...long...pauses...between...ever y...word. Only 45 minutes into this two-and-a-half-hour monstrosity and you'll be wanting to set her on fire yourself.  (SPOILER ALERT - She dies at the end. Skip the first two hours and twenty minutes and go straight to this part. You'll be glad you did.There's more, of course.  There's the Big Lug Warrior With A Heart Of Gold character, always sure to induce nausea.  There are the Severed Arms, Legs And Heads during the battle scenes, which do not even match Monty Python and the Holy Grail's realism.  There's the Ambient Electronica Background Music, terribly out-of-place in a movie set in the fifteenth century.  And there's a cloaked (as if to hide the shame of appearing in this heresy) Dustin Hoffman, not even bothering to phone it in.  All of which ads up to...Zero Stars, Three Thumbs Down, And the Giant Turkey Weiner Award for this ill-conceived, tragically miscast, terribly acted, and inapropriately scored travesty.  "},{"Title":"Superb.","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I was very interested in England and France history, since I saw BRAVEHEART (1995). It was an excellent movie and I really enjoyed it. This movie JOAN OF ARC (1999) was a great bought. I also enjoyed this movie very much because it has a good actors/actress's. Specially Milla Jovovich and John Malkovich. The Story was nice and the directing was good. What can I also expect ? Nothing, but some popcorn.(4,5/5) "}{"Title":"way too long, very strange...","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The thing that bothered me the most in this film, was the fact that Joan's hair changed colour so many times. sure, a trivial matter. but did they have hair dye in those days? i don't think so. when she's a little girl, her hair is brown, straight. then later on in the film, mainly in her visions, she has long, curly very light blonde hair. then she has dark blonde hair... then she has dark brown hair again. what's with that?i don't really know the true story of Joan of arc, but this movie portrayed her as completely self-absorbed, schizophrenic, and generally crazy, not the kind of person who deserves canonisation. Also the character's personalities seem to change really dramatically. for instance when Joan comes to the king's palace she seems timid, and unsure of herself. the king seems good-natured and also timid. then  Joan get's an army, and she's very suddenly extremely tough and domineering, knows exactly what she's doing. what the?? towards the end of the movie the king completely changes his character too. before he trusts joan, and then suddenly he hates her, and he becomes a conceited, mean person. for example, he didn't think his crown was nice enough. i mean.. i'm sure time may have changed who he is and his personality, but they don't have any indication in the movie as to why he'd become that way.i did think milla jovovich was good as Joan though, and if you have 3 hours to kill and nothing more exciting to do then sit on the lounge watching a boring movie, then go ahead. watch it. "},{"Title":"Besson Sucks","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  this movie was boringly long, 2,5 hours waiting...Bad acting, bad casting, bad storyline, no historical interpretation whatsoever, strange action scenes and the worst the butting in of director Besson in his own movie..No, regret watching it... "},{"Title":"History in Perspective","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  It is 1429, you are a disowned, disinherited son of dead French king. You have only a few months, few weeks, few days, few hours before you lose everything.  All of this sad state of affairs brought to the French by the invincible Henry V (Henry V had died about 10 years before the coming of Joan) who had forced your father to renounce you and married your sister (the offspring of such union would be the future king of both kingdoms). Again, it is 1429, and the English is reducing France to another Scotland, another Wales, another Ireland.  The English only have to cross the river Loire into southern France, and France's existence as an independant kingdom would be ended.  Only a lone French detachment at Orleans clings tenaciously and stubbornly denying the English passage to south France. In comes a girl, who has come a long way from an area that had already declared Henry VI (son of Henry V) the true king of France.  What would you do?  Would you have had her executed?  Be truthful, most people would have. This girl claims that she can save France.  Again, what would you do? It is a testament to the scheming, intriguing, and back-stabbing mentality and brillance of mind possesed by Charles (future Charles VII) that he saw and opportunity to snatch victory from the jaws of defeat.  It goes without saying that French led by Joan, won at Orleans. However, it was more than just a mere military victory.  It was a moral victory.  Up to the this time, the English was always viewed as morally superior to the decadent French.  Not after this.  After this, the English were viewed as degenerate bastards, worse yet, stubborn fools. And it only took one girl to do this.  Joan of Arc (should I say Charles VII working in the shadows) undid in two years, nearly all that which had taken Henry V over 10 years to accomplish.If Mr. Bresson had put more of a devilish, conniving character of Charles VII into his movie, in addition to portraying the pompous, glory-seeking, but intolerant and bigoted character of John, Duke of Bedford, it would have made his film more understandable and perhaps enjoyable.  But doing this would mean changing the title of the movie to Charles VII, Savior of France, also starring Joan of Arc, and would you have paid money to see this?  Be truthful.  Plenty of people paid money to see the first Batman movie, which should have been titled The Joker also starring Batman.  Fiat Lux in Tenebris. "},{"Title":"Not as good as Léon but a breathtakingly visual work of art","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Trademark in almost all of Luc Besson's movies is the repeated quality that his films are visually sensational experiences and The Messenger The Story of Joan of Arc makes no exception. It's a true visual work of art and a real pleasure to watch. That still doesn't take away the fact that this film is an extremely violent, very dark, dreary and cheerless picture. Milla Jovovich handles the leading role splendidly. I have to confess that I find her very attractive and charming, she's certainly one of my favorite actresses. She's not as enrapturing and gorgeous in the role of Jeanne d'Arc as she was in Besson's The Fifth Element where she played a character called Leeloo but she's nevertheless quite cute in this one too. John Malkovich makes just another excellent, stylish performance as Charles VII. When it comes to Luc Besson's works I guess this isn't his best achievement. It's clearly better than The Fifth Element but perhaps not as great as his more modest project Léon. I've seen this movie twice and I can assure that even though it's not a masterpiece it's undisputedly worth a look. "},{"Title":"A strange tale of a strange girl (minor spoilers)","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The Messenger appealed to me for reasons that I really can't define. I like odd movies, I admit, and this is one of the stranger ones. The first half of the movie is about Joan of Arcs upbringing and her development into the character we know. The second half is about the trial and how she was burned. The first half moves along briskly, while the second half unfortunately does not move at the same speed.What intrigued me about it is the fact that most researchers today agree that Joan of Arc was a schizophrenic, and suffered from severe mental problems. When you think of this in light of the movie, it actually becomes rather interesting.Those of you expecting a Fifth Element 2 can totally forget that. Milla does a great job here, and I was deeply impressed by her confused portrayal of a confused woman in a confused era. "},{"Title":"It HAD potential","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  If Mr Besson the Director doesn't believe in GOD and wanted to make a movie about what else could have inspired a simple French Peasant girl to take up arms against her English overlords than one has to be honest and deal with facts. Joan of Arcs part of France was NOT invaded by the English but by the Burgundians who were allies of the English; Her village was never destroyed by anybody and her sisters and brothers all outlived her. All her family did except her father who died when she was captured. So revenge is out. Why did she do it then? Many Christians (including Catholics) don't believe that GOD acts the way Joan claimed and so there is plenty of interest in a study of this young woman -- but really! This is just a sex and violence exploitation not a serious dramatic study of a fascinating character in history. "},{"Title":"Top but could have been better","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  My misses is of the opinion that this movie effected me so much because Mila was in the lead. This said it is a fantastic movie and bravely done with a French director portraying one of his country's heros as a bit of a fruit-loop. I really wanted this to be a ten out of ten movie, but it falls short, mostly due to the disjointed battle scenes. You never really get a feel of the heat of the battle. The performances by Jovovich especialy are good with Hoffman standing out in a show stealing cameo.Watch this and Joan will be in your head for days afterwards. "},{"Title":"perfection","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  From thrillers, dramas to science fiction Luc Besson has finally proved the depth of his talent with this historic masterpiece. Expect excitement, tears and laughter as Besson takes the audience into the heart of French history with both faultless accuracy and realism. Milla Jovovich has taken the leap from average to great by her captivating role as Joan of Arc. Along with strong support from Hoffman , Dunaway and Malkovich the only thing missing from this film were the academy award nominations. "},{"Title":"Interesting, yet very flawed","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Luc Besson's film about the life of the relatively recently sainted Joan of Arc is remarkably muddled.  It is never seems to know what it wants to say about it's heroine.  That isn't necessarily bad if it is intended but in this film it doesn't work.  Visually, of course, it is beautiful, but Luc Besson can do that in his sleep. It is the muddled content that I have a problem with. We are given no real window into the mind of Joan, and the manner in which we experience her religious revelations doesn't really allow us to question them in the way many of the other characters do.  It could be argued that in certain key sequences Besson does encourage us to doubt her visions or at least her interpretation. So I will leave that aside. And maybe I am also hung up on the films lack of perspective on Joan herself. It never takes a clear stance on what it thinks of her. Great hero? Or maybe flawed angry woman (whose main goal is revenge) who so wants to drive the English out of France she will find the signs from God to do it. I think this latter vision is the one we are intended to adopt.  The only really inspired portion of the film (the talk between Joan and God) leads us to this postition.  I wonder if the whole idea for the film didn't start with this scene between Joan and God (who is played wonderfully by Dustin Hoffman, critical, somewhat cruel, witty (a trait not often allowed by screenwriters), maybe caring in the way of parents).  I wonder if the film might not have played better as a 45 or 30 minute short film revolving around the key scenes with God and Joan. I have one other complaint, and this one may seem petty. Why not go with the French language for a film about french history instead of English with french accents? "},{"Title":"The Wrong Messenger","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Milla Jovovich is a good looking young woman, that's for sure, but she's definitely not the right actress for playing Joan Of Arc. I'm not impressed by her performance and the religious dimension of this movie is very weak. Some scenes like the battle of Orleans and the coronation in Reims among others are very spectacular, but Luc Besson's movie looks too modern for a medieval epic. "}{"Title":"Not nearly the debacle people made it out to be","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Okay, so maybe Milla Jovovich wasn't the best choice for the lead.... Most reviews I have read treated this movie as if it was an all out disaster. Sometimes blasphemous, sometimes painful to watch, sometimes a bit too strange, but always captivating, this is a movie that deserves to be recognized. There's some stunning cinematography and startling dream sequences. The costumes, set design, and battle scenes are as good as anything found in Braveheart. In the end, this is kind of a feminist Braveheart on acid. And yes, it does run a bit too long, but the burning at the stake scene at the end is worth the wait, as wretched as it may be to imagine. Give it a shot. It deserves to be watched and beheld, if not beloved. 7/10. "},{"Title":"strange movie","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I didn't know all that much about Joan of Arc outside of the fact that she was supposedly a disturbed peasant girl who created a forgettable disturbance in her time period. At least I didn't actively dislike her until I saw this movie. If it was the intention of the director to present her story impartially, he sure didn't achieve it. The acting was really good, but Milla's depiction of Joan comes across to me at least, as that of a clinically insane teenager. I found the movie absorbing, but by the middle of the film I really grew to dislike Joan intensely. Joan in the movie as depicted seemed arrogant, stupid and hysterical throughout the movie. If you can watch this movie without thinking of Joan as a full fledged psychotic, my hat is off to you. This movie is very well acted and the sets are great and it did have an emotional impact. I am not sure if it was supposed to get the viewer to dislike this historical figure, but it certainly accomplished this for me. "},{"Title":"A classic, illustrious and frequented story","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Messenger... French born director got tricks enough to make a good movie a lot of money, a good casting (including Besson' Ukrainian wife top model Milla Jovovich), good decor and natural locations, costumes, sound, special and visual effects, stunts, location managers and a large crew (the film is a big joint production with participation of two countries and many people). This movie, called in Spain Juana de Arco de Luc Besson, has got a good photography in color too. But let me said just one thing. There was excessive and illustrious cinematographic preceding about the Orleans´Maid. It is inevitable for cinema fans remind previous versions (the Dreyer one, Fleming, Bresson, Preminger...). It was not easy to get a product of similar quality because they are masterpieces written with gold letters at Story of Cinema. The results of this ambitious movie are, in my opinion, nearer of Dutch Paul Verhoeven' Los Señores del Acero filmed in Spain in 1985 than Danish Carl T. Dreyer' La passion de Jeanne D'Arc (1928).  "},{"Title":"Impressive performances and beautiful imagery","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I'm not really well-versed in Joan of Arc's history, and since I'm smart enough not to watch movies to learn history and believe everything they say, I watched this to enjoy the sets, costumes and acting.I was really impressed with Milla Jovovich's performance, particularly when she is in her cell and is wrestling with her conscience and when she is in front of her accusers.  When her Conscience turns her thinking around to trap her, the expression of realization on Jovovich's face is heart-breaking.  All of a sudden she realizes that God may not have spoken to her at all.  Perhaps she's a bit too fidgety and neurotic in her movements, but so is Bette Davis and she's a legend!  Since Joan was such a young girl, heard voices, and had led a successful campaign against a powerful enemy, she can be as schizo as she wants as far as I'm concerned.With the exception of John Malkovich (who I have yet to like in a performance other than in Dangerous Liasons), I thought the supporting cast was extremely well-chosen.  Vincent Cassel, Tcheky Karyo, Faye Dunaway, and Dustin Hoffman as a wry Man in Black were all extremely interesting to watch.  Different accents abounded (or none at all), but sometimes accents detract from other things the actor is trying to do, like...oh, I don't know...ACTING.On the whole, I thoroughly enjoyed myself and I give this movie 8/10 "},{"Title":"Could have been so good, but ruined by Besson","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The Messenger was *almost* good. In fact, it was actually quite good, but Besson's directing, usually superb, totally ruined this movie.The plot was well done and the visuals were outstanding. However, the acting was extremely bad, the casting was very weak, and what really frustrated me about this movie, and made it *really* hard to sit through, was that every 30 seconds or so, particularly in the beginning of the movie, I noticed something, either on the forefront or in the background that was just *wrong*. Generally, little misgivings do not break a movie for me, but there were *so* many in this one. A few examples from the beginning of the movieA) When the sword is bestowed upon her, and she runs back to her village in a frenzy, she's holding the sword *by the blade*, in *one hand*. If there was any sort of sharpness to the sword (which there obviously is, as the next scene shows the sword running through her mother), it would have seriously cut her hand, if not chopped a few fingers off. B) The child who plays Jean speaks flat English, Jovovich speaks with a French accent.I'm limited to 1000 words, so 2 examples should give you an idea. Little things like this *abound* in this movie, evidence of bad direction. Now, to the acting, with the accents the characters used, this movie could have been set anywhere, from Jovovich's good French accent, to Malkovich's flat American words (*can* he do a voice other than his own?), to even some of the Nordic accents some of the French advisors use. The plot was good, and enjoyable, but this might be the most pooly directed film I've ever seen. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Sensational Jovovich in grand movie","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  For being a film that is slightly above average, it contains performances that alone saves this film from being too light on the subject. Milla Jovovich is simply sensational as Jeanne D'Arc, the savior of Orléans, who went to war against the English after having received a message from God.The most exciting part of this film is not the war itself or the intricate dealings that led to Jeanne D'Arc's demise - but the dialogue between Jeanne and her own conscience, aptly played by the Man with the Voice, Dustin Hoffman. Did she really receive a message from God, or was it the need for revenge that spurred her visions. Did she not enjoy the taste of blood in battle? Very interesting twist indeed, and that, together with Jovovich's amazing acting, keeps this film from falling into the average. "},{"Title":"Intelligent Interpretation","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  An intelligent interpretation of the life of Joan of Arc. If you are more of a 'direct' history story then you would probably not like the film. Gods apparitions are vague but realistic, battles are chaotic, the hero is confused. At the end this is more of a philosophical interpretation than an adventure. I loved it but i would recommend it to a mature audience. "},{"Title":"Less Than I Expected.","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  When I heard about this movie, I was very willing to see it. So I did. Unfortunately, I just did not like it.I expected much more from a story about a heroine. This Joan of Arc did not even come close. The biggest problem with this movie, I think, is the casting. For example, throughout the entire movie, I wanted to tell Milla Jovovich to calm down, because she seemed so uptight all the time. I had always imagined Joan as being an emotionally strong woman. Milla Jovovich would have done much better as a damsel in distress.I did, however, like Dustin Hoffman's performance. His role was very interesting in the way it was presented in the movie. It was certainly one of the film's stronger points.I will admit that the costumes and scenery were quite good, but the story left much to be desired. The dialogue was shallow. I also did not see the need for so much unnecessary gore.I think this movie had the potential to be much better. "},{"Title":"Like a slow history lesson at school","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  In the year of 1422, England decides to invade France, and horrible battles await. At the same time, a young girl gets a message from heaven. She has been chosen to help the king of France against the English. And that girl´s name was Joan Of Arc. She´s the messenger of God. In the past, Luc Besson has made great films, but these days he is light years away from his old self. The Messenger is actually really bad compared his old classics La Femme Nikita and León. The massive battle scenes are impressive to look at, but the script Besson has written is quite dull and does not get anywhere. There are no likeable characters whatsoever and the dialogue is not very intriguing.The acting is not very impressive either. Milla Jovovich gives it her all in the title role, but she´s not believable as Joan. Instead she becomes irritating when she is supposed to lead her forces in the battles. Jovovich can be good when she gets the right type of roles, but this does not fit her at all.  John Malkovich, Faye Dunaway, Tchéky Karyo and Dustin Hoffman have all been in far better movies and delivered far better performances.In spite of a promising beginning with beautiful settings and the violent battle scenes, that reminds a lot of the rawness in Braveheart, this is a new low from Luc Besson. A film that runs to long, and during the last hour you are way to bored to actually care how things will end up for Joan Of Arc. It could have been an exciting way to learn something new, but this feels more like a slow history lesson at school.* * out of * * * * * "},{"Title":"a feeble effort all round","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Besson's weakest film by a mile, a totally unconvincing portrayal of Joan's life and France at that time. The plot struggles to develop as you feel the film going round in circles. It's a mixed bag of mystical nonsense, ineptly performed political machinations and gratuitous gore. If you're hoping for battle scenes reminiscent of Braveheart forget it. Besson attempts to tell a grand scale story with unsatisfying small scale scenes, there is little tension after the opening. And the beautiful cinematography and taught direction so typical of his previous films is in little evidence here. Milla, as Joan, is hopelessly out of her depth as she squeaks her battle cries to the army in her command (she was mildly irritating in Besson's Fifth Element, she's a royal pain in the neck in this). Perhaps the only intriguing episode in the film is the arrival of her 'conscience' played by Hoffman - a kind of quasi zen buddhist master mirroring her selfishness. Indeed this would have been all the more intriguing if the script had made more out of the aura and holiness around Joan in her attempt to deliver Jesus' message to the English in a fervently catholic France "}{"Title":"Pretty, but not very new","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  If the Americans and Mel Gibson can make beautifully dressed, nationalistic, dodgy battle re-enactment claptrap, why shouldn't the French? It's like Braveheart meets Man for All Seasons at Eurodisney. Come back Ken Russell, all is forgiven! "},{"Title":"This is NOT a Documentary!","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I cannot believe that so many of the user comments on this film have totally missed it's point. Luc Besson's film is not meant to be historically accurate, and he didn't set out to make a documentary. He set out to make an interpretation of the myths surrounding a period in medieval history which is poorly documented, and poorly understood to this day; and he did an excellent job in doing so.Anyone who knows Besson's films should know that he has a unique and possibly brilliant imagination. Imagery and fantasy are a mainstay in all his films, and one either lives with it or avoids them completely. And he has never cosied up to Hollywood and its blatant commerciality either. He came close with the Fifth Element in using Bruce Willis and Chris Tucker, but he made them do it his way, make no mistake.Directors and film-makers need to be allowed their artistic license, or personal touch. Hollywood and its disciples may not like it this way, but wouldn't we rather watch films made by creative people rather than accountants and men in suits? "},{"Title":"If a fan of Luc Besson, but this was bad","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Okay, the performances were great all around as in all of Luc Besson's films, but this movie was terrible.  There was a neat concept, but dialog, character development, and the pace just did not feel right at all for what Luc Besson normally does.  I was very excited when this was to come out, but left very disapointed.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  By directing this film, Luc Besson proved that he's made a big mistake by involving himself in Hollywood system. He's more successful in directing movies like Leon, The Big Blue, La Femme Nikita. He can not be a good director in sci-fi movies and epics like Messenger the story of JF. Please somebody tell him. "},{"Title":"History lesson à la Besson","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Because of reading so much bad critics in various magazines, I avoided to watch this film at the cinema. Finally I borrowed it on video and I must say, that it´s no masterpiece like Léon, but it´s much better than the heavily overrated The 5th Element. It seems that director Luc Besson was occupied in the first place to put his wife Milla Jovovich on a show. And, yes, she´s really convincing as the French heroine and saint. An other great performance is given by Dustin Hoffman, whose appearance gives this movie a very mystical touch. However, other international stars like John Malkovich or Faye Dunaway seem to be not fully stretched in their roles and the battle scenes are sometimes a little bit badly choreographed. To make an inevitable comparison with other movies of this kind, I would say that Joan of Arc is not as good as Braveheart, but it has got much more values than The Patriot. (7/10) "},{"Title":"Dustin to the rescue","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Was he God?  Or was he Satan?  Whoever Dustin Hoffman's character was supposed to be, he saved The Messenger from a cliche ending.  Joan's agony of faith as her execution neared became the most interesting part of the film thanks to the shadowy personage who visits her in her dungeon.  The games-playing in these scenes, which Hoffman and Milla Jovavich enact so well, makes them prime material for student actors.  Then there is the portrayal of the opposite voices of Joan's conscience ... God and Satan ... that few actors could have carried off so powerfully as Dustin Hoffman.  These scenes are truly memorable.  Much of the rest of the film is confusing.  I had a hard time understanding who were the French and who were the English in those battle scenes.  There was a nightmarish quality to the depiction of Joan's visions, which conforms to the film maker's image of Joan as a possibly demented young woman.  From what is known or suspected about the historical Joan of Arc, I think the producers and the director of The Messenger have presented us with no more or less true a Joan than can be expected from events that occurred 570 years ago.  They are within their prerogative to make her the Mad Maid of Orleans if they choose and at that they have been successful.  At the finish, however, as Joan is burning at the stake, they relent somewhat by flashing the Cross as, ostensibly, the last thing that Joan sees on this Earth.  Does this establish that Dustin Hoffman's character is God after all, or is the Cross simply one more freakish image thrown at a dying and tortured mind?   "},{"Title":"Watch out!","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Ever see a movie that you thought was so-so, but one aspect of it knocked it off that fence, solidly landing it in the realm of crap? This was that kind of movie, and the stick that shoved it off the fence was the ridiculous characterization of Joan of Arc.For one thing, Joan went into battle in full armor carrying...a flag. That's it. In one scene she brandished a sword, but throughout the movie she scampered about the battleground with a damn flag instead of a weapon. In fact, several times she freaked out about her flag, Where's my flag?! I must have my flag...! Even for the crazy person the film made her out to be, this was nuts. Then there's Joan's dialogue. In one scene, as she prepared her men for battle, she uttered the inspirational and heroic lines Watch out! Be careful! I'll admit to not being Joan of Arc expert, but my guess is that it wasn't this sort of behavior that made her beloved by the people of her country.The fact is, the movie seemed as though it's purpose was to show Joan as a mentally unstable kid who didn't even take part in the battles and fighting which have made her famous. I don't know if that's true or not, but I know that when I watch a movie that's supposed to be about a heroine fighting for god and country, I expect to see her fight.Dustin Hoffman was pretty good, Mila was ok, given what she had to work with, and the battle scenes and wardrobe were very well done. But on the whole, the movie was a loser. "},{"Title":"deeply tedious","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Honestly, what a let-down this was. The supporting characters were so much more vivid and interesting (Faye Dunaway, Timothy West) than the main protagonists. It was quite bold to use the modern vocabulary and perhaps some viewers needed the odd French accent to tell who was who but this was at odds with the medieval settings and costumes.I gave up and went to bed early..... "},{"Title":"A Moving, Underrated Picture.","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  *Warning Major Spoilers*I had never been that big on war films, so I thought I would hate this. But, surprisingly, I thought this was an engaging watch, worth anyone's time.In 1412, a young girl called Joan is born in Domrémy, France. The times are hard The Hunderd Years war with England has been going on since 1337, English knights and soldiers roam the country. Joan develops into a very religious young woman, she confesses several times a day. At the age of 13, she has her first vision and finds a sword. When coming home with it, she finds the English leveling her home town. Years after that, in 1428, she (now Milla Jovovich) knows her mission is to be ridding France of the English and so sets out to meet Charles, the Dauphin. In his desperate military situation, he welcomes all help and gives the maiden a chance to prove her divine mission. After the successful liberation of Orléans and Reims, the Dauphin can be crowned traditionally in the cathedral of Reims - and does not need her anymore, since his wishes are satisfied. Joan d'Arc gets set up in his trap and is imprisoned by the Burgundians. In a trial against her under English law, she can't be forced to tell about her divine visions she has had continuously since childhood. Being condemned of witchcraft and being considered as relapsed heretic, she is sentenced to death. Joan d'Arc is burnt alive in the marketplace of Rouen on May 30th, 1431, at only 19 years of age.Yes, The Messenger The Story of Joan Of Arc is a movie that has its disgusting parts (including a real-looking decapitation and a rape scene) and the coarse language doesn't suit the film, but the film certainly has more good things than bad. The acting is excellent, Dustin Hoffman is the stand-out playing Joan's conscience, John Malkovich is, as always, brilliant and Frances McDormand is underused as the King's step mother. Milla Jovovich has gotten alot of bad-mouthing that she doesn't deserve. She is excellent as Joan, she pulls off a truly memorable performance in my opinion. Luc Besson is a star director, this film assures he is going to be taken seriously in the future.I highly recommend you see The Messenger The Story of Joan of Arc. Sooner is better than later.I rate The Messenger The Story of Joan of Arc 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Most of all, interesting.","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This has some very interesting elements in it, it's kind of like a merging of an intellectual existential study of faith, doubt, religion, hypocrisy and God, and putting in an epic battle format. In some ways, it seems appropriate to do it that way, since Joan of Arc seems to be a very complex individual. I find it fascinating that this movie inspired so many people to share their ideas about it, both positive and negative. Personally I found this to be compelling, and one that reinforces the notion of faith giving one strength.And the one thing that comes through about Joan is her enduring and powerful faith in God. There are those who found it to be atheistic in tone, I didn't see that. I saw a person of faith whose beliefs are sorely tested, particularly in the face of death--and the realization of abandonment by practical politicians. Milla J. hasn't had many parts where she actually needed to act, like in the Fifth Element. But this one requires much of her, and all in all, I think she did a credible job. This movie takes a little effort, and it's not a great one by any stretch. But it if you give it a chance, it will make you think. "}{"Title":"Not as good nor as bad as many would say.","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  On the pure basis of Was I entertained? I have to say I was. The movie was a decent watch that kept me interested. On that level The Messenger is a good movie. The visual aspects along with the majority of the cast certainly helped this along. So it wasn't a horrible film. Taken as a story simply and not historical epic, it's fine.On the other hand, history it certainly is not. I apologize to all who take the we just can't know stance, but yeah, we can know a lot more than one might think. There are records, evidence, artifacts, and documents that when combined and analyzed as a whole can provide us with a relatively accurate idea of Jeanne D'Arc's life and times.For story purposes, portraying Jeanne as a borderline psychotic is a good move. It adds some element of tension to the character and the events that happen around her. To say that it presents a historically accurate picture is pure balderdash. Jeanne was far more involved than just a visionary battle-maven.I write this all to simply say, Those who say this is a horrible movie are being far too critical. And those who say it's a great historical epic are engaged in some wishful thinking. It's a good movie but not good history. "},{"Title":"A watchable mess.","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  First of all, I'll admit that I've never been that big a fan of writer/director Luc Besson. The only film he's ever made that I've ever liked has been The Professional and even that film had it's fair share of problems. I've always found his directing style to be overactive and stylish to a fault.So when I sat down to watch The Messenger, my expectations weren't very high. The best way that I can describe the film is that it's a complete mess in every way, but still somehow remains watchable. It's definitely not short on spectacle, but I'm not really sure what Luc Besson was trying to do with this film.WARNING SPOILERS The most curious choice had to have been protraying Joan of Arc as a borderline nutcase, instead of a valiant and courageous leader. Milla Jovovich's performance is all over the map, and John Malkovich acts like he would much rather be doing laundry. The movie seems to be serious one moment, to having it's tongue seriously in it's cheek the next. In the instance where Joan's sister is raped by an English guard after she is run through with a sword is an exercise in bad taste, mainly due to how the actors were directed to play the scene.As in most of Luc Besson's films, there are some breathtaking scenes (purely on a visual, not narrative level.) But those scenes can't lift this film above it's huge faults.A really awful film, but somehow it manages to remain watchable.rating4 "},{"Title":"I'll have the stake, please!","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Well, Besson certainly blew this one, n'est ce-pas? This might have been an interesting film, but the casting of the lead in such a film is important, and Jojovic couldn't act at gunpoint. It definitely needed serious editing, especially in the first 1/2 hour. I still don't get Besson's take on Jeanne was she a visionary or in need of Prozac? It would have been nice to see a follow-up on Vincent Cassel's Gilles de Rais character he went on to become (allegedly) one of history's worst mass murderers. "},{"Title":"A breathtaking and Powerful portrayal of Joan of Arc","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Truly one of the most moving and well done films I've seen in many years. Luc Besson did a marvelous job at putting this film together from script to edit. With a powerfully passionate performance by Milla Jojovich, The Messenger whisks me away willingly each and every time I experience it. Script, direction, cinematography, music, edit and performance are masterfully sewn together seamlessly to enhance one another strongly. A gather of qualities we fail to find often enough in films today.Milla portrayed Joan far better then any other actor I could imagine. Truly her best performance to date. This to me, is the ability and passion every actor should take note of. The intensity in her eyes, facial expressions and body language projected commanded and directed this story with, and the lack there of, any spoken word. Simply, this film moved me deeply. "},{"Title":"A film that dares to challenge","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  A movie that dares to challenge what its trying to represent always makes the best viewing experience, because it radiates intelligence.  Luc Besson has the courage to do just this in The Messenger.Other movie versions usually represent Joan as nothing more than a 2-dimensional character who seems to tremble with awe at the very sight of a bible.  We can't see the deeper emotions that Joan felt for her people simply because most movies depict her as a demure, delicate heroine.  Luc Besson managed to made his Joan more 3-dimensional, and as the result she becomes more human and edgy.  Only in this version can we see how angry and upset Joan is on how the English treated her people.This movie will definitely annoy those who are religious and held Joan D'Arc in the highest esteem.  By questioning Joan's heavenly motivations is like commiting a travesty.  But there are already other dozens of movies about her, therefore it would be silly for a director to remake a movie which is just like the ones before!Joan D'Arc was definitely a heroine who fought for the freedom of France.  But was her intention really divine, or was it really something else?  When this question was raised, the story became more interesting, because it started to challenge the viewer's minds.  At the end it doesn't matter how her intention came about, because she is still one cool chick who inspired France to liberate themselves.  A champion of freedom.  Isn't that what Joan D'Arc is supposedly all about?  Or have we forgotten that in the thick midst of religious dogma? "},{"Title":"This movie like most of Besson's work is c**p!","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I rented this movie with high hopes(Missed it in theateres thankfully). I was appalled. I figured after that miserable piece of cr**p film 5th Element Besson would have learned something. Let me describe the moment that stuck with me throughout the film(SPOILER) Joan returns to her village to find it under attack by British soldiers. When she returns her mother lets her hide in the closet. As a result 3 British soldiers enter and begin raping her against the closet door. The one who is raping her gets annoyed with her fighting back so he runs a sword through her and continues while his comrades look at him dumbfoundedly. Now I know how this sounds but some how this scene came across like it was trying to be funny! I was shocked. I have a sick sense of humor but even I have my limits. Basically this film is unintensionaly funny all through out. Future filmmakers can use it as a reference for the don'ts in directing. "},{"Title":"English or American","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Joan's accent changed from English at the start to American at the finish. She was French for goodness sake!So much blood and guts in this film and Joan did not put up much of a fight in the court but then, she was a peasant girl!  "},{"Title":"An Excellent Film","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The people that insist on bashing this film are close-minded, self-centered morons.  First thing first, NO ONE REALLY KNOWS THE TRUE STORY.  She died over 500 years ago.  No one that's alive today REALLY knows what happened. So all you people moaning and groaning over how this depiction wasn't accurate, well, you can go jump in a lake, because you weren't there, and neither was anyone else that's with us today.How many movies exist about Vietnam and WWII?  Are they all the same?  Do they all tell the EXACT same story?  Nope.  How about the story of Wyatt Earp?  There are several movies about him, and they're not identical.  And that's because no one really knows.  To bash the director for showing his particular interpretation is simply ignorant.  If you believe that every history book is 100% accurate, then I've got a whole briefcase of Rolex's I can sell you.Granted, the acting lacked in places, and the attempts at humor weren't all that humorous, but it was still a good film.  The cinematography alone was outstanding, and I thought it was an excellent angle to take on Jeann's life.  It was probably the best interpretation I've seen or heard so far. It explored all possibilities.  But in today's world, we all know that she was probably just a psychopath.  Yeah, she led battles that the French weren't supposed to win but did, but hey, who thought we'd would beat the English in the Revolutionary War?  Seriously, she was traumatized as a child and she went nuts, in all likelihood.  That seems to be the most believeable explanation, anyways.  But the crazies make the best warriors, don't they? ) "},{"Title":"Good, but could have been better...","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  When you have a subject like the story of Jeanne D'Arc(she was French so I use her French name), you can do a lot of things. Besson tried to make an epic movie with an ending which would analyze what happened. This is a very interesting approach, but I personally believe that the movie could have lasted 20 more minutes. Besson spent too much time fighting and not enough time analyzing. But the fight scenes are still very well shot, as is the rest of the movie. Something that I found strange is that Besson is a director which has a style of his own. I believe I could recognize a Besson movie just by the style of it. But not this one. It is his most American movie to date, and I didn't feel his style as much. Then again, maybe it's just because Jean Reno didn't have at least a cameo... Let's return to the directing. It is very dynamic and appropriate for the movie. The acting was a mixed bag. For example, Milla Jovovich was perfect in some scenes, but in others, she was not totally convincing. Faye Dunaway was not bad, but she was not very good either. Malkovich was good as Charles VII, and I like the way he portrayed him as a coward and a puppet with no will to decide on his own. Still, I think he could have been even better. The only one who was perfect was Dustin Hoffman. When Jeanne was fire, he was ice. I liked the scenes he and Milla had together, has Besson tried to give use a choice between Mad Jeanne and Saint Jeanne. I think he believes in Mad Jeanne, but he doesn't close the other theory. The supporting cast was okay. Still, I think this movie could have been better with a longer period in the prisons. All in all, if you are interested in history, this is a movie you should see.74%  "},{"Title":"Delightfully ambiguous","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Critics have been harsh on this movie but for the life of me I can't see why. The film was a wonderful exploration of the Maid of New Orleans and the life she lead. It explored the question of whether she truly saw the visions or whether she was delusional. More importantly it didn't answer the question, instead putting forwards the facts and raising the doubts in a delightfully delicious way. Dustin Hoffman's performance was superb.The omnipotent ones (the film critics) were harsh on Milla Jovavich's performance yet I thought she played an uneducated but passionate farm girl perfectly. She was supposed to be ignorant of most matters - but strong in faith. A faith that Besson questioned subtly but well.Ignore the critics. See and save this one.  "}{"Title":"this movie should be nominated for the Razzies.","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I am sorry but the best part of this movie is the credits. The only awards it deserves is the Razzies. Yes, the movie is visually stunning in both special effects and cinematography. Yes, the movie might be more historical acurate than others. Yes, Milla Jovavich looks the part. However, the acting SUCKS. They could not act in it to save their lives! Milla ought to go back to being just a model and make-up covergirl and relish that her only acting triumph is Blue Lagoon Two. Ah, but she is Luc Besson's girl, so her acting career is insured. For now. Well, enough of the acting. One more thing is the scene with Joan's sister and the soldiers(hope no spoiler there). There is no call and no reason for that scene. Period! Allin all, I think that Besson should stick to writing and give up the directing bit. "},{"Title":"Milla Jovovich Irritates, Luc Besson Disappoints","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  We all know the story already.  For some reason, God thinks that the French should be spared the oppressive force of the English (why God 'mysteriously' gives up the French to the Germans countless times in later years is another question all together).  Joan is appears to lead them to victory.  Besson, who has created a number of memorable films, tries to spin a great epic in the manner of 'Braveheart'... but it's hit-and-miss.  I was hugely disappointed.Milla Jovovich, who was very good in The 5th Element, is practically unbearable here.  She should probably win an overacting award.  And her strained voice sounds like a teenage boy just entering puberty... very grating.  I can't imagine anyone following the real Joan if she had the same personality and demeanor of Milla.  They'd get too tired of her whiny, holier-than-thou attitude.'The Messenger' would make a decent rental, but not a purchase. "},{"Title":"PU","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The armor, scenery and especially the men in this film are fine and worthy of note.  Mila however, I found to be simply terrible as Joan.  Overlooking the fact that she is far too old, it seemed to me that she  portrayed the fanatical Joan just as she was the fifth element.  She is a poor actress at best.  I was also sorely disappointed in John Malchovich's performance.  A first for me that he has not shone.  Faye Dunnaway was her marvelous self, however, and perhaps worth the price of a PPV.  I watched this movie with several people varying in age from 22 through 52 and no one liked this film.  I was the only one who saw it through to the bitter end.  Nuf said. "},{"Title":"visual candy but one dimensional on many levels","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  To be honest...I'm not a fan of institutions like the Catholic Church...I also haven't known any prophets or saints.  If anything, I could more easily relate to the concepts of martyrdom and mental illness.  With that said...I like movies that have a point and that are meaningful.  And I don't feel like I need to be spoon-fed the deeper meaning.  But I feel like I missed the point to the Messenger because the movie made almost no impact on me in any way other than being nice to look at.  To me, the film seemed like a fixed fight but such is life (especially for Joan) because young Joan seemed a lunatic from the start.   Honestly, it appeared to me as if the film was trying her again...but this time as a lunatic instead of a heretic.The Messenger was visual candy but one dimensional on many levels.  Besson is a talented director but the Messenger was uneven.  In contrast, Carl Dreyer's The Passion of Joan of Arc despite being 70 years older picks up where Besson's film stops.  I don't know what Besson was actually trying to say about Joan of Arc because he depicted her so seemingly one-sidedly as hysterically mad.I was surprised at how one-dimensional the characters were -- including the 3 Academy Award Nominees.  John Malkovich was funny in his role but came across as prissy spoiled brat, which I'm sure, was affectionately accurate. Faye Dunaway was also just a bit too overly obsessive in the scenes she had. Dustin Hoffman was merely condescending.  These three are some of film's finest actors...but Besson presented their characters with too a narrow POV and in so made the actors themselves look bad.  One-dimensional characters such as these are an example of bad fiction.  I didn't understand the point of any of the characters since they were flatter than most of the characters in the Hollywood Blockbusters.  Given the cast in The Messenger, I assumed this was going to be an actor's movie but Besson, I feel, sold his principal actors short.  "},{"Title":"Dustin Hoffman saves the day","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  If your a teen grrrl, you'll love this film. Those of us older, less filled with teen angst and with knowledge of the Joan of Arc story will find most of the film cliched and irritating.If you make it through the first 2/3 of the film, you'll find Dustin Hoffman's character adds some decent, thoughtful insights into her story. This alone elevates the film from appalling to OK.  "},{"Title":"Difficult re-examination of a legend","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The Messenger is based on a true story.  (It's worth pointing that out for those who don't know it; otherwise, who would believe it?)  In medieval France, an illiterate peasant girl, claiming to be guided by voices and visions, leaves her village to become a military leader, a tragic martyr, a national hero, and a bona fide saint.  The filmmakers succeed in offering a plausible scenario for this odd tale as it unfolds in a desperate, demoralized country, ruled by a frightened, disorganized elite who possess just the right mix of gullibility, cool calculation and deference to popular opinion.  The world of the Middle Ages--superficially so primitive and alien to our own--comes to life in a tapestry of recognizable motivations and personalities, and one is convinced that fundamentally society has not advanced in the last half-millennium as much as we would like to think.  Joan of Arc herself is portrayed as being apparently quite insane, which lends this film a dark intensity that might appeal only to fans of the mad genius genre.  Except, she's really not that much of genius--she's just mad.  It's her sheer single-minded fanaticism that moves armies.  That is a rather unsettling perspective as we ourselves leave behind a century that has given us Hitler, Stalin, and Mao, and towards the end, the film bogs down considerably in its very awkward but well-intentioned attempt to address the paradox of a warrior saint.  The answer to the riddle will likely anger Joan of Arc's modern-day admirers, be they of populist, socialist, feminist, or French Catholic variety (I sat in stunned indignation as the final credits rolled), but it's certainly food for thought.  Jovovich, as Joan, does perhaps the best she can with her character's one-dimensional fixations, but the other actors are free to be more appealing, including the affable French actor Tcheky Karyo as the bemused, exasperated, but loyal commander who is forced to work with Joan, and Desmond Harrington as the prim and serious young officer who befalls a thankless job as Joan's personal attendant.  John Malkovich is good at being John Malkovich, which works out fine here in his role as the half-baked and insecure Dauphin.  Overall, The Messenger may be too uneven, ponderous, and dark for most tastes, but if you like political intrigue, brutal medieval battles or historical soul-searching, it might be worth checking out. "},{"Title":"Don't you trust me?  God spoke to me in a dream.","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie could have faired better without so much time spent on Jeanne's (Joan of Arc's) formative years.  Less time and effort should have went into the greusome battle scenes  and more time spent on getting the best possible performances out of the actors, especially Jeanne(Milla Jovovich) and Charles VI (John Malkovich).  Did we  really need to see all the various ways to better kill someone in a movie about a girls faith in God and her countrymen's willingness to follow her?)All I saw John Malkovich do was whine and carry on like a snivelling child. Dustin Hoffman's character was not needed, and the director had no clue how to best show Jeanne's faith and devotion to God appear believable.  Even the greatest actors need a good director to bring out the best in them.  So if anything goes wrong in a movie, it is ultimately the director's fault. Otherwise, it was a decent movie.Charle's brother and his knights were my favorite characters.  How else do you act when your brother sends you this seemingly crazy girl, who is either recieving Godly vissions or possiblly suffering from halucinations (caused by brain tumors,maybe?), to lead your troops against the much larger Brittish army of invaders?I gave it a 6 out of 10, because I liked King Charle's brother and his elite guard so much.  (10 being Godfather quality, 1 being Manos, Hands of Fate or Ace Ventura >take your pick, both Ventura movie's sucked< bad.) "},{"Title":"The Messenger is a beautiful film to look at, but beauty, as they say, is only skin deep.","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Luc Besson (director) creates fantastic images of early 14th century France -- so bright and clear, they're almost surreal.  The movie traces Joan of Arc's (Milla Jovovich) life from childhood mysticism through her almost cult status as a populist leader of the French armies against the English, through her imprisonment, trial, and death at the stake.  While I'm admittedly not that familiar with the historical Joan (I have a few memories of learning about her in French class many years ago), the movie to me plays heavily on the voices she hears, and the effect they have on her.  Certainly, the voices she sees drive her and France to great things. Yet, the movie loses steam about halfway through, and drags on to its inevitable end.  I found myself wishing they'd just get on with it.  "},{"Title":"Why's everyone ragging on Milla?","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Everyone's saying how horrible Milla was in this picture.  I feel it necessary to remind those people that Milla was simply acting out a script that was given to her by someone else.  She was someone else's version of Joan.  Do people think that she simply showed up on the set everyday and made up her lines as she went?  No.  As I said before, she was given a script.  Someone else's interpretation of Joan.  And I think that she did a fantastic job with what she had.  She portrayed Joan the way she was supposed to.  I think that Milla is a wonderful actress.  I also think that people are getting her Joan mixed up with the Joan they have in their heads. The truth is, no one really knows Joan's true personality, so it's totally open to speculation.  You can think that Joan was similar to the Leelee version or closer to Milla's Joan, or you can think that she was somewhere in between, like I do.  In any case, all this to say that you shouldn't knock Milla's performance because she did do a great job with the the material given to her, you have to admit. "},{"Title":"Supporting cast succeeds star.","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Well thought film detailing the life of Joan of Arc a woman no one in France really did not know how to take. After seeing her sister murdered than raped, Joan grows up to become a messenger of God to the dauphin of France. Meanwhile, France is getting pounded on left, center and right from the English and Burgundians.Milla's portrayal of Joan was extremely strange, from one minute she was whining, the next she was screaming and acting totally out of it I guess the result of hearing voices. Because of this, the French army are far more enjoying to watch. The dry jokes, and the fun wit of the men seem to show far more acting talent than Joan of Arc herself. Otherwise the film is great, the battles are good, the conspiracy against Joan was even better. When the dark, shady figure shows up, the movie is at its best as everything Joan believed is literally laughed off. Good movie, should have got another Joan. "}{"Title":"Gorgeous epic, an excellent Joan and glorious medieval battles","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Well, either the people like or hate The Messenger. I really love it, it´s one the best movies I have ever seen. Milla Jovovich acts as an excellent, emotional Joan of Arc and the epic battles let us remember medieval glory and honor. So we fight for the maiden of Orleans! "},{"Title":"Good movie but awfully flawed","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I will start off by saying that 'The Messenger' or 'Joan of Arc' (as it is known in the UK) was a solid piece of entertainment. Milla Jovovich was brilliant as Joan and the camera work was dazzling.  I did feel the movie was terribly let down by the following flaws thoughA) I cannot believe for a second that 15th Century soldiers used to shout things like 'Go F*** yourself' or the numerous other 20th century phrases & vulgarities used throughout the film.  I feel it just hinders the authenticity of the story.B) Why on earth did half of the French people in the movie speak with English accents, at times I didnt know who was fighting who, I am sure that Mr. Besson could have cast some French actors in the roles.C) The writers did really go over the top with making every Englishman in the story to be the most evil person alive.  Im sure that we were bad back then, but to portray every English person as snarling, torturers & rapists... give me a break.Gripes aside, I must say I was very entertained by the film, but I couldnt help to wonder what the movie COULD have been like in the hands of another director. (Sorry Luc)(The version I saw was the International version). "},{"Title":"Juvenile Filmmaking...","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  You can certainly see a gem of a great film in here. Unfortunately, it is almost completely obscured by bad acting, over-direction, wretched dialogue, and completely nonsensical battles scenes. Jovovich was fine at times, but impossible to believe in the battle scenes. Far too many of the directorial touches were obvious and pointless. The movie ended up being more successful as a comedy than a serious film. Things only improved towards the end with the entrance of Hoffman. Otherwise, it was quite the mess. "},{"Title":"An epic disappointment","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie really can't decide what it is.  Is it a tale of a girl's struggle to reconcile faith?  Is it an action film based loosely on historical events?  In battle, Joan runs around and screams, confused and shaking most of the time.  Do we sense her torment at the momentousness of what she is leading?  No.  Instead our fearless director gives us a battle with no sense of  direction or staging.  Just running around--slicing and dicing.  He also throws in some comic relief in the form of larger-than-life soldiers who can scare away two English soldiers with just a growl (that's original).  And what of our supporting cast of accomplished actors?  They stand around most of the time acting eccentric but lack any characterization.  Joan is much the same.  There is a shallow attempt to give her motivation and some music video-esque visions, but she sings one tune throughout the entire film and Milla Jovovich lacks the acting arsenal to bring weight to the character.  There is some redemption in her conversations with Dustin Hoffman's character, but, unfortunately, that character is unnecessary to this film.  Basically, The Messenger comes off as a film with no center, no clear purpose, and turns a powerful conclusion into something you just want the film to get over with so you can get on with your life. "},{"Title":"Other films on the Jeanne story","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Another viewer says I watched this movie mostly because me and my brother  have a small argument over which Joan of Arc movie   we bothered to pick as our fav.  The Leelee   Sobieski version or this version. Along with these recent films, it's worth mentioning two major icons of film history that deal with Jeanne Dreyer's 1928 La Passion de Jeanne d'Arc (http//us.imdb.com/Details?0019254), and Bresson's 1962 Le Procès de Jeanne d'Arc (http//us.imdb.com/Details?0059616). "},{"Title":"Yuck!","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie was horrible!  Here's what was wrong with it1. Millie Jovovich is really good looking but she's no Joan of Arc, she can't even act like her!  Gawd, it was so painful to watch her try to play out this part that was so beyond her.  Seems to me that the real Joan of Arc would have a little more self confidence than this one did, I mean she had to have an army follow her.  The part where she was panting while she was riding her horse was laughable.  She does best in movies where she doesn't have to talk.  And I liked her in the 5th element too.I mean Joan of Arc was this really history changing person who did what noone even dreamed about and this movie makes her look like a total dork. Even the title p***es me off..the messenger. And all through the movie she's whining, I'm only the messenger.  I really don't think that was how it happened, Joan of Arc had to have had a very strong personality, not a childish one or noone would have listened to her!2. The lines were so bad.......hello, since when did they use American slang in the 1400's in France?  Yargh, it was so stuuuupid!3. Gross.  The rape scene was unrealistic and disgusting, it turned my stomach.  I didn't feel comfortable watching the rest of the movie after that.  Since when does someone die immediately after being stabbed in the stomach?  And do you really think he would rape her while she was pinned through the stomach to a wooden door and dead?  Nice touch...NOT!Seems like someone making this movie really got a kick out of it though...that's the really gross part.4. I didn't buy John Malkovich as the King, I didn't buy Faye Dunaway as Yolande D'Aragon these actors were miscast.  They both are so overused in movies and it's like, Oh, here's John M. playing Charles II  Instead of, Charles the II was played by John M..  Yawn.  John M. is so over exposed and so predictable, I knew exactly how he would act and he did...  Also wasn't John M. a bit old to play the part????5. Slowness....I didn't even watch the whole thing, it made me tired watching Milli trying to act like an actress, so I turned it off and went to bed.Hey, Dustin Hoffman was pretty good though!  But that's no surprise.Don't rent this dog, and if someone gives it to you free I wouldn't even bother watching it, it belongs in the garbage.  I'm just sorry that Milla Jovonich didn't do better, I think she should take acting classes or something. "},{"Title":"A sound criticism of the church","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I gave this 8/10 despite its problemsThis film is not historically correct and the facts have been altered to support the film's thesis.  Simply put Joan was motivated by revenge and was mildly insane - perhaps schizophrenic.  She was not very intelligent, just full of anger - her objective was to see the dauphin crowned king and drive the English away, at any costThe church both condemns her and then canonize her - what hypocrisy!The war scenes are horrific, but probably nowhere near as bad as the truth really was.  I was horrified by the killing and mutilation; but from the point of view of the people that were there.  Humans are truly despicable in what they can and do do to each other.Joan annoyed me.  There is little depth to the character.  Notice also that her hair changes from blonde to brown half way through the film?Dustin Hoffman, as always, was excellent. Especially when he makes fun of Joan find the sword!I wish I has seen this on the big screen.  I would also love to know what was cut out from the International version.  If anybody has seen the DVD and the video please let me know the difference in the two films. "},{"Title":"A confusing, but overall Artistic Movie","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The performances were great totalling up to Millia Jovovich, John Malkovich, Faye Dunoway, and Dustin Hoffman. A lot is left up to the imagination of the movie-goer, but stick it out in this one. It is a great movie which isn't for everyone. The cinematography was also great. The epic war scenes were awesome and choreographed greatly. Not for the faint of heart though... "},{"Title":"Impressionistic and passionate","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Luc Besson succeeds to capture the passion, the spiritual acceleration and the mystery of the world of Joan of Arc. The cinematography was done excellent including the acting from Milla Jovovich as the young Joan of Arc. This is what I call a modern film where the visual effect enhances the emotional and spiritual conflicts of the actors.The director's representation of the truth of the Christian faith and Joan's spiritual gifts is however abstract, vague and sometimes spooky. I doubt the historical accuracy of Joan's personal agony being portrayed in the movie.  "},{"Title":"Epic Film!!!!","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This isn't another Braveheart nore was it intended to be. It is about an average girl who witnesses something awful which changes her life forever. This is yet another film to give us a visual about the worlds history. Joan of Arc was just an average woman who did heroic things. Which is clearly indicated in the film. Also during certain scenes she acts confused and in the end she was really confused who wouldn't be, she didn't want all those people to die but this was clouded by her thoughts in that she proclaimed herself a messenger of God. In the end the viewer might think that she wasn't which is possible but with her dreams that she had those were just to vivid to pass off as chance. In my opinion she was a messenger, but one of freedom for the French. While in Braveheart William Wallace knew exactly what he was doing and what was needed to get done in order to free Scotland unlike Joan who really got more confused as the movie progressed.Great visual effects, beautiful colors, and wonderfully mixed (sound wise.) This is by date the best sounding DVD out there with an extraordinary soundstage with excellent front to back imaging. A must reference DVD for anybody. 5 out of 5!!!!!!!!!!  "}{"Title":"Not the best Joan of Arc movie out there, but not the worst movie out there.","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I gave this movie a 6 out of 10.(NOTE This May Contain spoilers... I really don't know but to free my mind up....I do so contain that warning.)I watched this movie mostly because me and my brother have a small argument over which Joan of Arc movie we bothered to pick as our fav.  The Leelee Sobieski version or this version.   First off, I almost refused to watch the movie after the rape scene.  Not that rape scene's in movies are bad, but I thought it poorly done and gross.  As for whether it was fact or not I wouldn't know history.  As for Milla in the movie.. She wasn't very likeable.  The Joan I would follow would have to be beautiful at best.  Without getting my ass stuck in the ground, all I could say is perhaps, Milla was miscast, being she looked to aggressive for the role.  Me and (ahem) my mother both note that she was assertive, but doubt the agressivness.  If I was a soldier, I doubt I'd follow her because for the most part Milla played a partially insane Joan.  Especially towards the end... Seeing someone play Joan as if she truely were insane left a bad sting in my mouth.  But I will say this though, Milla's best scene's were towards the end anyway.   I also thought that Dustin Hoffman didn't really need to be in this movie.... since the way they created it.. musta been her imagination anyway. Poor John Malkovich was pretty much shoved right out the door in this movie.  Oh sure, sure sure sure he sure did look 26 now didn't he????  My that would mean Johns about 1 1/2 years older than me.  Oh yaaah suuure..... In the end, while this Joan movie isn't too bad, there were too many bads to let me like it anymore.  I would say if you want a tear jerker movie go with last years CBS Joan of Arc (preferably the two tape set version that was sold exclusive under CBS, not the Artisan version that chops huge chunks out of the movie). I have also been told the The Passion of Joan of Arc (1928) is supposed to be the best.  I do by all means wish to check that out. "},{"Title":"Bloody truth","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Very historically accurate movie, great acting, great scenery, great battle scenes, great photography, very good music. Besson is a Kubrick people understand and enjoy more easily. From the Big Blue, to the dark Nikita, the sweet Professional, the underground Subway.. The Messenger is a beautiful picture.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing, shallow characters, in two words..no Braveheart","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  After keeping an open mind and avoiding reading reviews before watching it, I was deeply disappointed in the The Messenger.  With the likes of Hoffman, Malkovich, and the up and coming Milla Jovovich, I was expecting an above average epic tale along the lines of a Braveheart. What I found was a hollow, rather disjointed story that left me wondering how could a story with this much potential fail so badly. The talented John Malkovich's character of the Dauphin was especially hollow.  Dustin Hoffman character the conscience comes out of no where and seems out of place at best. Milla's Joan was by far the the best performance of the group, but not enough to carry the entire movie. Even the battle scenes had an unrealistic feel. For example Joan's numerous lone charges of well defended English positions while the English seem to almost pause and wait for her to get in position while not even firing one arrow.  Yes, she does eventually get wounded, but the way it comes off was no where near the realism felt in classic epic battles in Braveheart, Private Ryan, of Kadokawa's Heaven and Earth. I also felt the mood and mannerisms of the characters felt more modern than 15th century Europe.  If you are looking for another Braveheart, save your disappointment. "},{"Title":"I thought Milla was terrible......","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Milla's portrayal of Joan of Arc was painful to watch. There was no reason to believe this raving lunatic had any clue as to how to win a battle. She was always mad. It was so annoying. I kept waiting for her to say 'multi-pass. The whole thing with Dustin Hoffman....where did he come from and why? I wanted to like this movie but after two hours I just turned it off. "},{"Title":"Bug-eyed Milla stomps around the battlefield","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I really wanted to like this movie. The medieval battle scenes are well done, well, until Milla shows up. She apparently spent many hours practicing looking bug-eyed in a mirror, tilting her head back, and looking at the tip of her nose. She's as unconvincing as Joan as conceivable. The movie wallows in some ridiculous exploitative scenes, like the big too-doo over checking to see if she's still a virgin. Puh-lease. And I didn't know that punk hairdos were invented in the 14th century. Give this movie a pass unless you really like medieval battle scenes - and just fast-forward over the rest anyway.  "},{"Title":"A Sadly Underestimated Film","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The film has been sadly underestimated. Viewers possibly expected another film like La Femme Nikita or a battle epic. Besson has done a truly European film that presents more questions than it gives answers. Was Joan really a divine Messenger? Was she possessed? Can possession be of God or is it always of the Devil? How does a person earn the right to be a Messenger? How does a person lose that right? Does the fall of Joan begin when she first enjoyed the battle and the taste of blood? Or does it begin even earlier as a sin of pride? Who condemned Joan the tribunal or she herself? Who visited her in prison God or Satan?The film gives no straight answers and it shouldn't. The great merit of the film is that it makes the viewer think, which unfortunately is unusual nowadays. Besson has done his best film so far. "},{"Title":"I wanted to like this movie...","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I must confess, I went into this movie REALLY wanting to like it.  I had heard bad reviews, but thought, 'hey, I don't always agree with critics...' Anyway, I was deeply disappointed.  I was left wondering whether the filmmaker or cast wanted us to believe Jeanne, or if they wanted us to think she was a lunatic.  Milla played Jeanne as furtive, flighty and explosive. Dustin Hoffman's character came out of nowhere without explanation.  John Malkovich, one of my favorite actors, played an empty, shallow character, and disappeared from the story near the end without a resolution for his character.  One might argue that the Dauphin was shallow, but I mean the character was one-dimensional.  Also, the movie was excessively gory.  I was ready for an epic, and instead saw a weak film that left me with more questions than answers or entertainment. "},{"Title":"Brilliant filmmaking with a fatal flaw","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is a rather irreverent and disturbing look at the life of Saint Joan of Arc.  The portrayal of her early life was very good, giving her a sincerity and piety that made the child Joan an attractive character.  However, once Milla Jovovich took over as the teen Joan, she became a raving lunatic.  Clearly, this was no accident.  She and director Luc Besson are husband and wife, and it is obvious that this is their combined interpretation of Joan.The problem with this portrayal was that Joan was made to be appear so demented that she lost credibility as a believable character.  Her belief in her voices was depicted more as mad fanaticism than unshakeable faith.  Personally, I have no problem with this interpretation, since I am more apt to believe her voices were the result of an unbalanced psyche than the voice of God.  The problem I have is believing that anyone, even in the 15th century, would give an army to someone who is so obviously over the edge.  Moreover, it is a stretch to believe that even the most desperate of simple minded men would follow such a character into battle.If the portrayal were just a little more balanced, with moments of piety, sincerity and lucidity, the viewer and the other characters around her might be justified in saying, `Is she divinely inspired or simply mad?'  Only when that question resonates has Joan been portrayed effectively.  In this interpretation there was never any question.  She was clearly a madwoman.  It was almost a relief when they finally did away with her.That being said, I must say that from a technical standpoint this was a brilliantly directed film.  Luc Besson has produced a compelling visual work of art.  The opening scenes of young Joan running through the fields were exquisite.  The battle carnage was authentically grisly and the action realistic.  The costumes were wonderful and the locations and sets well chosen and well crafted.  His camera perspectives gave great impact to every scene.  His imagary of supernatural events was electrifying.  In every regard, other than Joan's character interpretation, this was an inspired work.Milla Jovovich gave a superb performance as Joan The Mad.  Though I don't agree with the interpretation, I can't imagine such insanity delivered any more effectively.  She really seemed well suited for a jacket with wrap around sleeves.  In every scene she exuded white hot intensity, especially in the battle scenes.  Her performance was truly tour de force.Faye Dunaway was fabulous as the cunning Yolande D'Aragon.  She was so nefarious and in control, deliciously evil and conniving.John Malkovich did an excellent job portraying Charles VII, however he was a bit old for the part.  Charles was born in 1403 and met Joan in 1429 at the tender age of 26.  Malkovich has trouble passing for 46 (his actual age) no less 26.Dustin Hoffman's minor role as the conscience was also quite well done.  Unfortunately, it lost some effectiveness because he was never really put in context.  Was he another of Joan's creations or an actual being?  A little defining dialogue would have helped develop his character better.This is a fine film with a fatal flaw.  If the story is to work, Joan must be a beloved heroine.  In this portrayal, she does not endear herself to the viewer.  Contrarily, she is a disturbing and off-putting character.  For this reason I rated it a 7/10, though it easily qualified as a filmmaking 9 or 10.   "},{"Title":"Solid effort","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  In typical Luc Besson style, the visuals are sumptuous, the story fluid, the poitics engaging and the acting, if nothing else, quirky.Not being able to tell how much of this account of the story of Joan of Arc is fact and how much is fiction, I still found the characters to be watchable and believable. This is a solid effort at historical story telling. The only other thing I would say is that Milla Jovovich makes an excellent effort at sustaining the intensity and god-concsiousness within her character that one would have expected, but does come over as a little lost sometimes (maybe intentionally so, when you consider that Joan of Arc was only 19 when she died anyway)Worth seeing. "},{"Title":"The greatest tragedy of this year's Oscars was not even considering Milla!","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  It just completely breaks my heart that a movie of such beauty and purity, and of such high quality is completely ignored by the critics and the masses. While American Beauty is at least according to the imdb polls second most like movie of all time, this movie barely gets a passing grade. I guess this is just the sign of times.Luc Besson has explored spirituality like the way it used to be. The fifteenth century France comes to life, and we are all left mesmerized by the beauty and courage that we witness.How can academy ignore Milla Jovovich's performance? This is just completely ridiculous. I can not understand what more could she have put in the character to make it better. The best part is that even today's kids, if they ever get to watch it, will feel connected to the character because of Besson's genius in presenting 15th century with a touch of 90's.A beautiful movie that you can watch with your family and be proud. Oh yes, the action is as good as Braveheart if not better, and the scene where Joan actually walks in with the troops into the enemy post, with the song in the background, is one of the most beautiful and moving and inspiring scene ever filmed, and is really an ode to joy of overcoming tyranny and evil.If you miss this movie then you are missing a rare and precious gem. "}{"Title":"Better luck next time...","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Milla Jovovich is a very beautiful woman. She has had some success in the past playing beautiful but rather zany, one dimensional characters (ie. The Fifth Element). Unfortunately, in The Messenger she is asked to play a very complex, multi-dimensional character Joan of Arc. She simply is not up to the task.Yes, Milla certainly shows the insane side of Joan. And there are many, many shots of Joan acting nuts. But where are the other sides of Joan? Where, for instance, is the messenger from God that the title promises? No divine presence here. Just Joan acting goofy.And as Joan goes, so goes the movie. Yes, you will see some good battle scenes, and Dustin Hoffman is quite good in his role. Unfortunately, by the time Hoffman arrives, this picture is already dead in the water. Once Joan is captured there is no suspense, no mystery left. We simply sit there yawning and waiting for the bonfire to be lit.However, there is one piece of good news for movie-goers to take with them from a viewing of The Messenger. Obviously the ultimate Joan of Arc movie has not yet been made. Maybe we'll have better luck next time.  "},{"Title":"the god","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  maybe true may be notbut the god is talking to youthe war is not important. the war of girl is important in this film. the war with herself the war with her belief and the war that brings the war to her....!!!  "},{"Title":"Desmond Harrington  Where'd he come from??","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I really loved this movie. I've read a thousand reviews, some good, some bad, but I haven't been able to find any mention whatsoever about Desmond Harrington.  He's the guy who played Aulon, the archer and Jeanne's faithful, love-lorn sidekick.  Am I the only person who thinks that his performance completely scintillated?  I was rapt, wholly captivated every time he was on screen.  Granted, there were a few scenes when he wasn't all that convincing, but it's his debut film.  I'm willing to cut him some slack.  His portrayal of Aulon was one of the great successes of this film. He was so intense, so heart-breakingly sincere.  It just seemed to me that while all the other characters were simply saying that they would have walked straight into hell for her, he was the only one who I truly believed would have gone through with it willingly, without a glance back.  He shone far more than his more experienced and celebrated co-stars (John Malkovich, maybe...).  I just can't figure out why his performance has been so completely over- looked.  He had a very significant role, more so than Tcheky Karyo or Vincent Casseles (who were both quite good, also), but nowhere is he mentioned.  I would very much like to discuss his performance further, so if you feel the same way, please write me. "},{"Title":"A Braveheart wanna-be","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I'm sure that like many fans of Besson's, I went into the theatre with relatively high expectations for the Messenger.  I should have known better. Even from the previews (designed to excite those who are big fans of historical epics), I should have gathered that he, a traditional action film director, was biting off more than he could chew.Oh, where to begin?  One of my bigger complaints of this monstrosity is the flagrant disregard for historical accuracy.  Of course, there were the more blatant instances of inaccurate portrayals of Joan's personal history, and they've been addressed thoroughly in some of the other IMDB user views.  I want to also point out the gross oversights in military history.  The battle scenes were terribly mis-represented;  specifically, the quality of some of the weapons and armor, and most particularly, the tactics.  Correct me if I'm wrong, but they did have bows and arrows in the 15th century, right? In fact, weren't the English renowned for the proficiency with the longbow? How many times were bow and arrow featured in the film?  Once, maybe twice? They seemed more interested spotlighting some ridiculous defensive concepts like the bowling-ball-shot-out-of-the-fortress-wall maneuver (it's beyond me how that technique could be effective more than once), and the porcupine crossbow contraption.  Whoever was the technical / historical advisor on this piece deserves to be subjected to one of these kludges.And how can I continue without berating the acting, or lack there of? Milla was HORRIBLE.  Apparently, Besson bargained that if he surrounded his wife with experienced actors, and a high-budget production, that no one would notice her very poor acting skills.  That certainly was not the case. Everything wrong with this movie takes a back seat to the hideously poor performance by Jovovoich.Faye Dunaway, John Malkovich, Dustin Hoffman, and all the rest of the cast failed to rescue this abortion.  I was extremely disappointed in Malkovich's performance especially.  He didn't seem to know how his character should be portrayed.  Of course, the blame for this short-fall has to be shared with the director.I also read in some of the reviews that Dustin Hoffman's performance rescued the film.  Could someone point out where this occurred?  Where was the acting challenge in Hoffman's role?  You pretty much could have given any yahoo with a beard a black cloak and a script and told him, Here, read these lines in a monotone voice.  You would have been left with the same results.It's hard not to compare this atrocity to 1995's Braveheart, so I won't bother trying to avoid it.  Obviously, Braveheart embodied the quality and success that Besson was trying to achieve with the Messenger.  Had he hired Mel Gibson to produce, direct and play the lead roll of Joan of Arc, we would have been treated to a much better picture.In the end, the audience was left with a hollowed out shell of an historical epic, with bad direction, a terrible script, poor acting, gross historical inaccuracies, and gore for it's own sake. "},{"Title":"BAD, thank god for Dustin Hoffman (might contain a minor spoiler, but I don't think it really is)","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I don't know if many of you are familiar with the history of this film. You see it started out years ago as the pet project of director extraordinaire Kathryn Bigelow (Strange Days, Point Break), which she finally got to make, with french money and Luc Besson Producing. Until they were at odds about who should play the lead. Bigelow wanted Claire Danes, Besson wanted his wife Milla Jovovich. So out goes Bigelow, and in steps Besson. Or if you wish out goes the passionate writer-director who had been dreaming of this project for well over ten years, and who would have undoubtedly brought us a truly great movie (she always does that, even with the weakest scripts)But what do we get instead? A senseless and very very bad movie. take Milla Jovovich. Her Joan of Arc looks (the whole film) like she's about to cry (she does it at least once, which was a relief actually) she is just whining and looking at everyone as if to say give me what I want or i'll cry and tell everyone you've raped me or something. But it gets worse. The movie has a tendency to repeat itself after every ten-fifteen minute. We get a battle, battle is won or lost. Joan wants to continue to fight, but the generals don't, Joan whines, next battle and so on. The movei has one saving grace in the form of Dustin Hofman who has a small part near the end, but even that is almost ruined by the stupid reverb effect that sometimes is and sometimes isn't placed on his voice. I suppose it haf a deeper, symbolic meaning, but in the end it destroyed the one saving grace of the film. Still Dustin made me add another point to the score. I gave it 2 instead of 1Oha, and milla? Only days after the film she and Besson started (/were? not sure) a divorce. What a waste "},{"Title":"What a pity! Far too long and not very good.","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Joan of ArcThere ought to be a compulsory warning for all films that are over the standard two-hour limit. Actually, all directors who are tempted to produce such films ought to be reminded of the letter that started, 'I didn't have time to write a short letter to you, so here is a long one'. Joan of Arc could be vastly improved by heavy cutting - about an hour would be pretty good and an hour and a half better.Though the film does borrow much from George Bernard Shaw's magnificent play 'St. Joan', it doesn't borrow enough. Much of the dialogue is leaden and completely anachronistic - if the film didn't take itself so seriously and was supposed to be Monty Python and the Holy Grail or Men in tights, these jarring anachronisms wouldn't be too bad, as it is, they jar horribly.I thought that things were not looking good in the first few minutes. Not only did we have a potted history of France at the time - al la the opening of 'Star Wars' - but we also had shots of the young Joan carefully called Jean by all the actors running through fields of flowers. First she ran through a field of red poppies, fair enough, I thought, maybe something symbolic about blood to come or something. Then it was a field of yellow flowers, rape maybe, again some possible imagery. Then we had her running through a field of blue Lavender - I began to fear that I had walked into a French version of 'Run, Lola, Run'.It did get better then, it certainly didn't plumb the depths of the ghastly 'Titanic' bore! The battle shots were nicely realistic and gory. Siege engines were shown in use very effectively and the Dauphin was every inch the one portrayed by GBS - if you could describe such a wimp as being 'every inch' of anything!Probably the most tedious of the film was a long series of scenes where Joan chats to a Yank in a hooded cloak with a deep voice who was obviously supposed to be deeply profound and impressive. If a five year old had the patience to sit through all these scenes, then he might have understood a little more about the moral dilemma involved in being against the killing of people, whilst being keen on leading huge armies into battle. It was an insult to anybody else to suggest that such trite moralizing was interesting, useful or informative.The film made it clear that the director was as against the church as he was against the English. This is fair enough, given the subject matter. However, the ham fisted way in which this message was rammed home again and again was enough to make the most hardened anglophobe atheist see something laudable in the English Cardinal getting tired of the hysterical girl. Though a measure of the plot rested on Joan wishing to have a last confession, the reason why the Cardinal couldn't give it to her was never explained - it seemed that it was enough for us to be informed that her ecclesiastical prosecutor was not a nice chap. Clearly we were not supposed to imagine that he had to go through any moral, or other, thought to decide to betray her. This poor exposition was particularly unfortunate given the fine acting that brought the Cardinal to life - it certainly wasn't forgivable on the grounds that there wasn't enough time to make this point clear.So if, one day, a short version of this film comes out, with the tedious and unhelpful stuff removed, it might be worth watching on a wet evening. If I were you, though, I would rather wait until a local Amateur Dramatics Society puts on a production of St. Joan. You will find it a far more uplifting, entertaining and well-balanced experience.  "},{"Title":"(5/10) Excellent concept let down by bland script, direction","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Luc Besson has, with The Messenger Joan of Arc, taken one of the most fascinating tales in history, combined it with a few exceptionally good concepts and still managed to miss the mark rather widely.This is the latest of several film versions which explore the life of the Maid of Orleans (Milla Jovovich), one which allows the audience to debate the source of Joan's inspiration.THERE IS A SPOILER IN THE PLOT SUMMARY WHICH FOLLOWS, SHOULD YOU BE UNFAMILIAR WITH THE HISTORICAL SOURCES OF JOAN OF ARC.The plot of this film is familiar to many historians and feminists around the world. It is the story of a young woman who, believing herself to be a messenger of God, led France to victory over the English in one of the darkest wars that the French have ever fought.  Eventually betrayed by the country she for which she fought so courageously, Joan was sold to the English, tried for heresy and witchcraft and burned at the stake in 1431. Pope Benedict XV declared her a saint in 1920.Jovovich presents Joan as an extremely highly-strung young woman and delivers a performance that is, at best, one-dimensional, denying such factors as age and experience in the character.  It is almost as if she doesn't know which vision of Joan to place in the foreground, a fault which is inherent in the badly developed screenplay by Besson and Andrew Birkin.John Malkovich is even worse as Charles VII, portraying him as a very weak and easily manipulated man - far from the notoriously contemptible monarch that he was.  Faye Dunaway, as the Lady D'Aragon,  stands out in her tiny role, proof of her worth as an accomplished character actress.Dustin Hoffman is by far the most accomplished of the cast in his pivotal appearances as the Conscience that drives Joan to her life as a military hero.  But is he God, Satan, her imagination? That is what provides this film with its depth - it is unfortunate that the rest of the film is directed rather blandly.For in the scenes that penetrate Joan's mind, Besson has layered the film with visually affecting images, creating a tangible atmosphere that is easily able to manipulate viewers' minds.  This is carried through in the violent battle scenes - probably among the most shocking to ever appear on celluloid.  But depth in the dramatic scenes is sorely lacking, resulting in an uneven production, which at 140 minutes is far too indulgent and far too long.The score, however, is impressive and is quite easily the high point of this film. Eric Serra has created music that plays with sound and rhythms in an inventive way, and incorporates more traditional Latin hymns in a manner that supports the action every step of the way.Joan of Arc falls short, basically, because of the mindset of the makers of this film.  Had Besson and company realised that the soul hungers for more than superb battle scenes (which can be seen in a slew of other films like Braveheart anyway) and given us the emotional and dramatic balance that this story can easily provide, this would have been a much better film.  "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I think the French film has always been the most powerful rival the American film. The French make art films,commercial films, action films, adventure films, romantic films, historic films cartoons etc. In 60s-80s years much more films were made, and there were a lot of excellent directors and big stars.  In 90s almost only Luc Besson can direct such commercial films that are successful in other countries in Europe or in North America. He has focused on scenes, dynamic plotdriving but has showed the deep of soul and let the audience think. at the same time (Think about Leon the pro, Grand Blue, Subway). He has directed sci-fi, Fifth Element also of which has not had so many fans as Star Wars has had, but in Europe, in Hungary for example, we liked it. Now he decided to make a film about the darkest part of the French history. Reviewers said that his approaching to the subject is different from the previous ones. Luc Besson directed this film as a commercial filmdirector would have done. He focused on the scenes of apparitions and the war. The life (in her childhood her family were massacred by the British) and religion explains why she wants to ask the expectant king for giving her army, saying she will save the country. This Joan of Arc is self-confident and shy at the same time. She has got not any experience how to lead an army but she knows -she thinks-what God says.  Of course the soldiers will not accept Jeanne D'Arc as general but because of victories she will have more and more influence. But after the deciding battle she is also horrified from the view of a lot of died men, blood, limbs. Even the king betrays her when she is not needed. She will be indecisive, frightened, even she will have to struggle herself conscience. This conscience is a small boy at the beginning of the film then will be a matured, adult man. This is the most interesting and impressed moment of the film. Jeanne D'Arc asks her conscience about her religion, her truth, her responsible. With her the viewer also attains to the total/complete scepticism. But I am sad about this film. I feel insecure of Luc Besson. In his film people speak English not French, which is sometimes fun or strange during the film and big American actors are involved. I heard people in USA hate the subtitles and they don't watch film in foreign language. Maybe Luc Besson made this film for American.  He selected American actors. Dustin Hoffman , Faye Dunaway, Jonn Malkovich who are brilliant in their roles. I particularly impressed by Dustin Hoffman. With his beard he he has got charisma, he is a really alive conscience. But it should have been  worth selecting somebody American actress for role of Joan of Arc who would have been more convincing, because Milla is not convincing for me, and I didn't enjoy the film because of her.  When Jeanne D'Arc (Joan of Arc) should have been determined, self-confident  Milla is not so determined, convincing. She is not charismatic enough for this role . As a Hungarian reviewer said Milla was good as the fifth element but not as Jeanne D'Arc. But it would have been the best if Luc Besson would have remained a hundred per cent French director. This film would have been very good. The scenes, the plot, the approaching to the subject are interesting and understandable and captivate. But the whole movie is not put together somehow. Now it is fashion that the successful directors, actors go to USA because there are money there. They try to make a type of American films and lost their identity. There are very few directors who are able to repeat the same success what they had got before, in the Old World. Maybe Luc Besson will come home to Europe, to France.   "},{"Title":"So anti-English it borders on racism.","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  One of the biggest shocks I have ever had at the cinema was when I saw Leon. I had seen the trailer and, frankly, thought it looked appalling. Gary Oldman's I Love the calm before the storm followed by some over the top weaponry made it look like the sort of film you'd expect to see Bruce Willis in. I eventually saw the film when bored one Sunday afternoon. It was one of the best films I have seen in my life.Jeanne d'Arc is Leon's polar opposite. A stylish, intruiging trailer for a disgrace of a film.I'll ignore the historical inaccuracies. I'll ignore the needlessly gratuitous violence. I'll ignore Milla Jovovich's woefully inadequate acting skills. I'll even ignore the disgustingly inappropriate and historically inaccurate rape scene. For me, the most unbelievable aspect of the film was the differences between how the French and the English were protrayed.Whereas the French were gallant, handsome, humorous and full of honour in battle, the English were protrayed as savages, ugly, stupid, dishonourable rapists with Noblemen (which in the film seems like a contradiction in terms)unable to mutter more than a few words without unleashing a stream of expletives (as opposed to the running joke where a single Frenchman is corrected everytime he uses one of the mildest swearwords available).I left the cinema with a bad taste in my mouth. In the past I have forgiven Luc Besson for his films being seemingly more interested in style than minor things like plot and character development, but it will be many years before I will be able to forgive him for this.  "},{"Title":"Not an action movie","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This isn't an ordinary action or war movie. People that have gone to the theaters expecting to see another Brave Heart have been disappointed. Messenger has a more psychological approach. Mr. Besson goes deep into the mind of the character that he created to personify Joan of Arc. In the end of the movie, the audience is challenged to figure out what's the truth behind the visions and voices heard by Joan. Were they from God or from her mind? The movie doesn't answer these questions clearly. That's what makes you think about it. And that's its merit.Regarding the historic side, the movie is correct in what concerns to the main facts. But with one important point. Her sister wasn't raped, a tragedy invented to justify the insane, some times hysteric, and avenger mentality of Joan. This mentality doesn't agree with what is written about her, which is our only source of information about her. The Joan created by Mr. Besson is a fictitious character that maybe expresses his opinion about her or maybe was just created in that way to make us talk about the movie. Anyway, it works, and makes this a very interesting movie. I recommend it. "}{"Title":"Very powerful","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This must be one of Bessons best movies ever. It is very suggestive and the music just adds to it. (Hurray for Serra!) I can't understand why everybody is complaining about Milla's performances - there is nothing bad about it. On the contrary she proves that she can be an actress with great depth. Malkovich is as usual splendid and Dustin Hoffman is at first hard to recognize but later one see how good he fits in his role  as the mysterious man - perhaps God? I don't know. Another funny fact is that the English king is played by a man who in the movie Braveheart was the supreme judge of London - thats what I call climbing the latter of success.All in all this movie is very deep. The photo is overwhelming and the costumes is well made. It includes both brutal action and humor along with drama and is therefor difficult to pinpoint its genre.So hats of for Besson and his team for a movie well done.10/10P.S the 2 h 40 min slips away very quick so don't be frighten by the movies running time. "},{"Title":"Good but too slow","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The Messenger is very interesting and weird at the same time. I was expecting a very touching and thrilling movie after I saw the amazing trailer. Yes, the movie is very touching and thrilling but it's so, so slow that you almost forget these qualities and instead of enjoying the final scenes, you just want them to end. I enjoyed the beginning of the movie where they explained France's situation making everything clearer for me and for anyone that don't even know who Joan of Arc is (I'm not saying that I don't). Then there's about 1 hour before Joan start to fight. This part is in general good but weird sometimes. Joan's vision were boring and as I was expecting the great visual effects shown in the trailer (the clouds moving, the plants involving her, etc), I though it was disappointing. I was warned that the battle scenes were very violent, disgusting and horrible, showing headless people and body-parts. Yes, it was really violent but I thought the battles were the best part of movie. At the same time I was excited, happy, confused and impressed with Joan commanding a whole army. And Milla Jojovich did one great Joan of Arc, with her fragile face but doing brave acts.Then we can watch Joan's tragic end. That was the worst part of the movie. All the characters are bad now (and I was tired, with bad mood). But in that worst part is the best thing about The Messenger The Conscience! The Conscience is the name given to Dustin Hoffman's character. Interrogating Joan about her visions, the battles, the sword, ..., he make us ask to ourselves was Joan of Arc a saint, crazy or just a girl that though she was a messenger of God? Many people might think that I'm crazy but I loved Jojovich's voice too! Her huskies screams while she was commanding the armies and while she was being judged were amazing.  So, The Messenger can be a bit slow and boring sometimes but it's a good movie. And, obviously, costing 60 million dollars, it's very beautiful and well-done, with monumental battle scenes, great art-direction and cinematography... But it should be smaller. "},{"Title":"This movie should be seen despite some of it week points especially the main role (Milla Jovovich)! It is still a Luc Besson movie but with a stronger american influence","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie is still a Luc Besson movie but it is was much influenced by the Hollywood style. Though it is principally a story in the french national history it was nevertheless americanized à la Braveheart. I liked many things in it, especially the pictures, they still have the fascinating style of Luc in many scenes. Concerning the actors I think that Milla Jovovich was not suitable for this role. She was too soft for it. Perhaps a french actress would have been more suitable! The other interesting aspect of this movie was the interpretation of the visions and the role of her conscience. It was free to the interpretation whether these visions were from god or just hallucinations! Movies and arts in general should have enough room for fantasy like in this film. In short this movie is worth seeing, although I could imagine different reactions about it especially in Europe. "},{"Title":"Superficial and fragmented account of a religious crusader","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" As a graphic portrayal of a paranoid schizophrenic medieval peasant girl fighting for the feminist cause under the guise of a nationalist freedom fighter, it managed to keep me from yawning too often amongst my fellow cinema goers. If however, it was intended as an honest bio-pic of a national hero, venerated and canonised by the Vatican 500 years after her brutal execution, then I'm afraid I'd rather spend the money on a history book, and settle down with a bottle of wine, whilst my more than adequately vivid imagination works wonders making its own mental images.Sometimes you enter a cinema wanting to know more about the historical subject of the film. And, sometimes, perhaps because of the clever direction or writing of the screenplay, you leave knowing less than before, but only because the film raises important social, historical and ethical issues. When I left the cinema, I wanted to demand that someone, somewhere pay for the celluloid atrocity I had been subjected to.  The entire premise of the film seemed to be based on the irritating ramblings of a girl who was hearing voices. Apparently our disturbed Joan decided that these were messages from God, and being particularly  vulnerable to apparitions, illusions, call then what you will, deemed herself God's messenger to the people of France. The battle between the English and French for control of Orleans is the political back drop for the life of simple Joan, who reveals in all her heavenly innocence, after defeating the English in a battle, that bloodshed is not what she wants (whilst standing amidst the slaughtered remains of hundreds of French soldiers).The diplomatic relations between the English and the French are stretched to breaking point, until the Dauphin of France is crowned King - a victory he attributes to the efforts of Joan. However, since war is expensive her usefulness ceases to be obvious and negotiations between these hostile enemies are resumed. Whilst the French masses die of hunger and poverty, ignorant of the callous neglect with which the monarch carries out his duties, Joan waits for more signs from the only authority she recognises. Our imbalanced heroin is determined to fight the good fight and continue on to Paris. With a reckless neglect of her soldiers not dissimilar to her own King, she is forced to face the horrific reality of the situation - that unlike her, politics has no cause. The French monarchy soon starts to get jittery with this religious loose cannon and, although we all more or less know about Joans' eventual demise, I wont' spoil the ending.The most interesting scenes by far are Joan's conversations with her conscience whilst she is awaiting trial (played comically by Dustin Hoffman) which ultimately lead her to question her motives in fighting for her cause. However, the bigger and far more important questions are related to her own mental health. Events in her child hood had indeed left her scarred and undoubtedly result in her fanatical actions but the full extent of her psychoses are never really looked into, apart from the reckless manner in which she lunges into battle.Don't get me wrong, I regard the visual and auditory imagery of Mr. Besson's films as amongst the most powerful and vivid in the film business, especially considering the sheer volume pumped out of the industry. However, this time I believe the imagery was created at the expense of a well-written screenplay, and would have benefited from a more insightful examination of the fragmented and disturbed personality that was Joan, rather than the superficial look at the religious crusader whom we have heard so little about in depth.Try and get hold of a good book that deals with the subject matter in a more entertaining and informative way.Harshad C. Keval Basel Switzerland January 25, 2000  "},{"Title":"I have always thought Besson would make good videoclips... But when it comes to a 3 hours one it's a bit too much...","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I have always thought Besson would make good videoclips... But when it comes to a 3 hours one it's a bit too much... I left the theatre exhausted but not blasted... OK, this film is entertaining but what... It looks more like a attempt to make a historical epic than a renewal of the style... So many cliches (I expected Charles Ingalls to appear after the first scene when Jeanne as a kid is running through the fields...) that you don't know if Besson is taking his film seriously or not...You actually don't know if he's taking Jeanne d'Arc seriously or not as she appears to be either this messenger of God or a complete lunatic, and wherever the answer is, the result is the same  she's the hell of a hysteric. And Milla Jovovivch is just perfect for crying rivers of tears and shouting around... Disapppointing performance which ruins all the ambiguity of the character... However beautiful she is, she is just not an actress.Supporting cast is good, right, but so mechanical, Malkovich and Hoffman are type-cast and are performing with far to much ease to give intensity and credibility to their parts, they basically look bored. I have great respect for Faye Dunaway who was asked to do a remake of Verna Lisi's tremendous performance as Catherine de Medici in Queen Margot... But even with the same haircut (and a horrible make-up, this blue vein is awfully unrealistic) she doesn't get there... Anyway, I don't blame her for that... It's more the script that mistreats these court intrigues and make them more an easy and fast way (because the bloody film's almost 3 hours long already !) to get Jeanne burnt...Fortunately, a few of the actors have fun here... I'm talking about Tcheky Karyo and Vincent Cassel who really enjoy being in a war movie... But here again, it's looks more like they're purely having fun as actors (not much as being their characters). Anyway, they didn't have much choice as their characters count so little in the whole thing...The soundtrack is most irritating, I can't remember of a single fraction of a second when you don't get background music... and of the most un-original kind... Some scenes would be so much stronger if they were actually silent... But no, Mr Besson is probably afraid that the audience would fall asleep and gives a tedious rythm to his movie thanks to Eric Serra's heavy Carmina Burana-like and ridiculous electronic fantasy noises... I thought I'd turn deaf before the end of the whole thing...Once again, Besson has sacrified a script that could have been interesting for the sake of style... He's feeding us with an awful lot of cliches and instead of renewing a genre, which is obviously his pretention, he's turning it into a rather boring farce in which actors are just doing what they're asked to do because they get so little freedom to actually perform.  "},{"Title":"Impressive acting by Jovovic and Hoffmann","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I do affirm it, the girl is an Actress, and death upon those who think of her as a pin up! She conveys emotions with impressive easiness, she COMMUNICATES. Hoffmann is great as usual. Directing, too, is very good, but everything is nearly flawless in this movie. Maybe they saved some money in the battle scenes, realistic as in Braveheart but not equally sumptuous. But if it was a billion dollars movie, it would have been a Hollywood flick and you might have forgotten the pregnant bergmanian dialogues of Jean with her conscience.  "},{"Title":"A Best of the Genre?","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Milla Jovovich's intense performance had one wonder if she was in fact overacting or being misdirected.   My latest conclusion was neither the shooting script and direction were simply not up to her exhibited capabilities while too much of the French soldiery, and what has become the overrated casting of the Delphin, were simply not up to the par she set.   The director's attention seemed hopelessly caught between making the extraordinary story of Jean D'Arc a serious subject, while underestimating Jovovich's overwhelming enthusiasm, and attempting to equal or surpass the court and field intrigues of Braveheart, while also overestimating both the supporting script and its casting both of which lacked the cohesive, and even fundamental, understanding for a treated subject that, in turn, can only yield the ironic nuances, and deliveries, expected of what had obviously been strived for a best of the genre.   The premise of the script itself suffered irrevocably when finally laid bare despite the final, and even straining, performances between Jovovich and Hoffman to save it.   The inconsistencies made inherent, and thus transitions (or better said lack of transitions) from the heartily skeptical and defiant, and, for the most part, unconvincing French soldiery to the sudden declaration of allegiance to Jean by its toughest member, from the ardently Catholic, and even prescient, Jean before her Inquisition to a Protestant, and no longer prescient, Joan during her Inquisition, from the Burgundian Inquisitor who would defy the English for Mother Church by promising confession to nevertheless deny confession -when even, at the end' there was nothing to loose- and, still, from there to, then and only lastly, make subordinant the concept of the confession of possible truth to a priest-confessor to, ultimately, a confession of irrevocable skepticism to, supposedly, only individual conscience or even godhead -the very antithesis of the concept of the sainthood the film's closing would nevertheless celebrate, and which Jean D'Arc was, to the contrary, canonized, all marks the script, and its premise, as subject material which was not only profoundly beyond its authors' capabilities to conceive, but also material which they would, nevertheless, make instrument to, as recent films seem to be making vogue, an evangelism for a modernly self-serving fundamentalism which not only simply did not then exist, but is also so uniquely conflictive, as was the resulting film, as only present-day fundamentalism can only contrive.Though, at times, over compensating for the lack of script, Jovovich, I think, will be remembered best for, nevertheless, not having underestimated herself, while the film's director will be, I'm afraid, at best remembered for having over compensated his film for his having grossly overestimated its having a script -and, perhaps most of all, for having overestimated himself when having accepted it. -John Pastore "},{"Title":"A waste of time and money","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  There are so many Jean D'Arc movies and after after I saw Messenger The Story of Joan of Arc I thought that we really didn't need another one. Luc Besson is one of the best directors and I alway enjoyed his movies. But this time I was really disappointed. Why did he take such a worn out story, why did  make the story look so ridiculous? This general worn-out-nism of the movies also shows in its music. Why in the world does Eric Serra (original music) choose Carl Orff's O fortuna. This piece of music is beautiful but also sung by every church and school choir around the globe and there is even a commercial for tapes with this song. In spite of the great and wonderfully coloured pictures, the many great actors (especially John Malkovich and Faye Dunaway), and the good action scenes the movie is boring an "},{"Title":"Far too long and far too ummm not good...","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  To make a 140+ minutes long movie you should be reeeeeally sure that the movie is gonna be spectacular. This is far from spectacular, and dragging out to be this long makes it pure torture. Besson has made a few great movies, but d'Arc he has done as he did with Le Grand Bleu butchered it with poor humor. And Milla Jovovich I can't think of many women prettier than you, but STICK TO POSING FOR CAMERAS! YOU CAN'T ACT! "},{"Title":"...as the audience members check their watches yet again...","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This film was torture.  As the film was wrapping up, I was still waiting for it to begin, hoping against hope that the creator of Nikita, Leon, and The Fifth Element would finally show his face.  But this must have just been simply a paint-by-numbers job for Besson.  There was no inspiration, no magic.  My disappointment was only aggravated by the fact that I'd been eagerly anticipating this next pairing of Besson & Jovovich, who had created some memorable (if at times a bit too silly) moments in The Fifth Element. The film starts with a bad sign - a long rolling expositional text, apparently filling in with words what Besson (the creator of some of my recent favorite film visuals) could not express in pictures.  And when we first see Milla's Joan (in an understated and confusingly out-of sequence introduction), she is utterly overwhelmed, teary-eyed and whispery as she meets her Dauphin.  She then goes on to remain utterly overwhelmed, teary-eyed and whispery for the rest of the film.  It's as if she followed some bad advice and took her finest moment in The Fifth Element (when she breaks down while learning about War), and turned it into an entire movie's worth of acting.  There are no valleys to her performance, by which we can clearly notice any sudden emotional peaks.  She's just always completely intense and on edge, and it makes for a tiresome viewing experience.  The only parts of the film that I found in any way entertaining were after Tcheky Karyo showed up, and the film could engage in that playful male / female / soldier camaraderie previously shown in G.I. Jane (which coincidentally featured a prominent Joan Of  Arc comparison in its trailers).  Then Karyo suddenly disappears from the film without a word, and with him went any caring I had for any of the characters.  I can't say it was a badly-made film, just a horrid waste of time if you are anticipating a return to the past magic of Besson. "}{"Title":"Luc Besson - slightly off target...","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  As much as I've enjoyed his previous films, Jeanne D'Arc turned out to be a big disappointment... As you already know if you've seen one of Besson's previous movies - they're always visually breathtaking. This was no exception. However - I now realize why Milla Jovovich was talking martian in The Fifth Element. She's really not a good actor. The most remarkable thing about her performance was her change of hair style through the movie - I guess that says it all...To sum it up 10/10 for the visuals and sound. Acting 3/10... "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"15 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Wonderful movie. I had a little higher expectations for Luc Besson but this film doesn't reflect badly apon his efforts. Fantastic score, great acting and a wonderful vision of one of the most interesting stories in world history. "},{"Title":"not too bad","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This isn't the best film of Luc Besson, but if you watch it in the right frame of mind, it's not as bad as everyone says, and certainly worth a viewing.  Try not to think of it so much as a Joan of Arc film, but as kind of The Fifth Element or La Femme Nikita with a medieval setting (I know that sounds strange, but it's the best analogy I can think of).  By watching Luc Besson's previous films, I can see why he would be interested in Joan of Arc's story.  I'm surprised (and to an extent, glad) that the people in charge let Besson make this film, I would've though they would want a safer director.Some parts of the film are downright cheesy, like Joan's visions and the use of modern slang, but if you decide not to take it too seriously, you'll enjoy it a lot more.  A lot of the battle scenes have very over-the-top cartoonish quality, almost like something you'd expect from Sam Raimi or someone like that that, and I enjoyed that.  I was a bit worried when I first heard Milla Jovovich was playing the main role, but she does a better job with it than I expected.  John Malkovich struck me as a rather odd choice for the Dauphin of France, who I believe was supposed to be in his 20s.  Watch for Tcheky Karyo from Besson's previous La Femme Nikita in a small role.This film is flawed to be sure, but if you watch it in the right frame of mind, it's a piece of good, cheesy entertainment.  Not as good as Luc Besson's classics of the past, but it will still be of interest to anyone interested his films.  I'll probably get the DVD when it's released. "},{"Title":"just an overall great film","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed The Messenger very much. I thought that its ruthlessness & sincerity was refreshing. There are so many mindless movies being made today simply for profit. I think that this movie stays true to the art of film making instead of money making. I think Milla Jovovich did an an extraordinary job as Jeanne. Personally, I don't think that there is anyone in Hollywood that could have done the part better. I'm usually not as affected by other movies as I was by this one. The Messenger made me want to find the person who thought up war in the first place & rub his nose in it the way you would to a bad puppy who has just messed up your carpet. This movie invoked an array of different emotions I didn't know where there. I would certainly recommend this movie to anyone who wants to see a movie worth their time & money.  "},{"Title":"Reminds me of Last Temptation of Christ","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I really liked this movie.  Visually it was like every other besson movie stunning.  The movie was very much like Scorcese's Last Temptation in that it was the study of greater than life character that did not choose to treat the person as someone that was untouchable and on a pedestal.  Instead it showed Joan (Jean en Francais?) as a everdyay person with human emotions who tried to do the best with the extraordinary situation she was in.  "},{"Title":"A revenge flick about a comic book character, it barely rises above the splatter.","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Considering it took 500 years from her death before she was canonized, it's not surprising that Hollywood had not come out with a major feature-length film about Joan of Arc until now.But like that Columbus craze that came upon us back in 1992, Hollywood is taking on her story with a vengeance. Along with a recently-aired television mini-series, there are two movies about the legendary French femme fatale.And one of them, The Messenger The Story of Joan of Arc, is out.Action-adventure director Luc Besson (The Fifth Element) takes on the project, with his wife, Milla Jovovich, playing the lead role. And that's just the beginning of the controversy.It seems that in a desperate need to find the `motivation' necessary for Joan to take on English single-handed, Besson conjures up a fictitious scene in which an English soldier skewers Joan's sister with a sword and then rapes her.And so, with one ghastly swoop, Besson finds an easy way out. Rather than tackling straight on one of the most complex and puzzling figures in the history of western civilization, Besson reduces the whole tantalizing and troubling tale into a revenge flick about a comic book character.(Matters aren't helped by the fact that he can't even get Joan's hallucinations right. Rather than having her converse with St. Margaret, St. Catherine, and St. Michael, as she claimed to do back in the 1400s, Besson cuts out the middlemen and has her connected directly to Jesus Christ.)Nonetheless, while Bresson takes some serious shortcuts with the script, he makes no compromises when it comes to the visuals. Essentially two-and-a-half hours of  highly graphic and gory battle scenes, interspersed with surreal visions The Messenger is finely crafted and well-paced, albeit full of medieval mud, blood and dismemberment.While Jovovich may not necessarily have earned the right to play the role, she does an admirable although sometimes over-the-top take on the hyper-energetic Joan. While many of us will dispute her one-on-one relationship with The Big Guy (or is it Gal?), there's no doubt from this movie that she has a God-given talent for breaching drawbridges.In fact, maybe this movie could have been called `A Drawbridge Too Far', for Joan is so overly-ambitious that the very king she's fighting is scared into betraying her. A glass-is-half-full kind of guy, the war-weary Charles VII is happy simply to have his crown and half of France.Unable to give her the army she needs to storm the walls of Paris, Charles VII, like Besson, resorts to the easy answer and allows the enemy to capture Joan. The English, in turn, do their part by finding a way to frame Joan following a somewhat drawn-out an ecclesiastical trial, and she meets her legendary and gruesome demise.Jovovich is backed by some heavyweights. John Malkovich plays Charles VII and Faye Dunaway plays the king's mother-in-law. And in a serious piece of miscasting, Dustin Hoffman plays Joan's conscience so flaccidly that he doesn't even hide the Brooklyn accent.There's no doubt, The Messenger is misguided and rife with flaws. Even as an action-adventure, it barely rises above the splatter. But if you must see this movie, it's worth paying the extra few dollars to see it on the big screen.  "},{"Title":"Most impressive","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Hello, moviegoers!I deeply bow before Luc Besson's latest film, which is, in my humble opinion, a masterpiece.When I saw it, I couldn't help noticing that the first part (until she gets captured) seems like a medieval Indinana Jones adventure, with bits and pieces of mystery and fun in it. But after Jeanne gets arrested, all her experiences and all we have seen up to then, gets shown in a new light. Luc Besson puts everything into a different perspective. And now the question is left open Is she a hero, a divine messenger or just schizophrenic? Well, I think that this film is one of many possibilities to look at something that has really happened (in contrary to the Blair Witch Project, which has caused so many troubled minds lately), but the close circumstances are unknown. We will never know the truth. So, stop complaining, you all (or at least you many), and watch the story the way Luc Besson interpreted it. What you think then is your business. "},{"Title":"Just disappointing","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The thing that bothered me most about this film, that could've ended up much better, were the historical inaccuracies. This movie would have been higher on my list if they had been more accurate with this.The visual effects, however, were impressive. The war scenes were gruesome and realistic in this sense. These parts of the movie kept it interesting and exciting...for a time.It had its clear faults and could have ended up as a masterpiece, had greater effort been put into it, for the writing and historical research. But from my view, the good outnumbered the bad in this film, and I voted a rating of 7/10 for it. I recommend this movie, but not to a high extent. Overall, The Messenger impressed me little. "},{"Title":"Stylish And Evocative But Not Sombre","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Most of the historical movies are very serious or sombre (Elizabeth for instance). The Messenger, however, breaks this tradition and pushes forward with a very modern approach by mixing off beat humor, a strong objective prospective, and an emphasis on style. Unfortunately some movie critics looked down upon this approach, while I found it entertaining. I think some would call this MTV style.But that's not all. The finest aspect of the movie is its objective no-nonsense take on Joan's visions and whether or not she was on a receiving end of a conversation with God. Throughout the movie hints are sprinkled, and you are constantly made to wonder what was really behind the young girl who performed a miracle (or did she even contribute to it?)In this, Milla Jovovich, I think, did great. Her acting may seem like it's over acting at times but I think most of it was very intentional. Considering both the questions raised by the movie, and Jovovich's acting in the climax and ending, it would seem that over acting played its part well.I really enjoyed the movie, and I think others may have enjoyed it more if they went in expecting something a little different. If anything leave the question of her divinity open throughout the movie and things may fall into place more comfortably.  "},{"Title":"Great Film - Better than the TV mini-series","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I recently rented the TV mini-series (because I had seen the trailer for the Luc Besson film and at the time thought I had missed the big screen release), and to some degree that may have corrupted my feelings toward the Besson film. Two interpretations of the same person and events - there's bound to be differences. First of all, I liked the TV version but I felt there was something missing. That Joan was presented more softly - more heavenly. The battle scenes were milder (for TV) and the representations of her visions a little more clearer and spiritual. After seeing Besson's version I see that production as more a fantasylike/romantic representation.I think Besson captured the passionate/fanatical/driven side of Joan of Arc. I think his versions of the visions while they focussed more on Christ and were somewhat confusing, they were probably more accurate to the confusion he felt. The viewer isn't as led by the hand as in the TV release.It took me a while to get into Milla Jovovich as Joan. She seemed one dimensional initially but then as the film moved on her intensity grows and enables her to portray the 'on the fringe of lunacy' behavior of Joan with conviction. Did the soldiers follow her because they believed in her? or because they were afraid? Different from the Leelee Sobieski character because Leelee's Joan seemed more sure, and less intense, less fanatical and less a warrior.Most of the supporting cast in Besson's were convincing. Faye Dunaway gave a good performance as the 'use her then lose her' step mother - quite devious. The scenes with Dustin Hoffman as her conscience were brilliant. She is wrestling with herself trying to understand if what she did and believed were really Gods bidding or her own desire for revenge - Milla really outdoes herself here - locked up in a cage by your lonesome can really do a number on you - you are your own worst judge. This is really where the film leaps to Award winning levels. She wavers on the me or God issue evidenced by her signing the form that says essentially she is a heretic betraying God to save herself (repent to the Church), then renegs realizing what she has done.This film was outstanding. More realistic than the mini-series. The 'Saving Private Ryan' attitude toward the battles removes the romance from the typical portrayals of mediaeval hand to hand fighting. Yes folks a dirty sword when swung with two hands can remove heads, arms and legs. Most of all though Besson leaves you to answer the questions yourself. Was Joan sent by God to have France's 'rightful' head annointed to the throne or was she a bloody lunatic following her misinterpretations of a lucid dream.Would you rather be led by the hand or find your way yourself? 8/10  "}{"Title":"An intelligent, modern assessment of an enduring legend.","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  When I was younger, I was entranced by the story of Joan Of Arc There was something captivating in the romantic notion of a girl not out of her teens helping to conclude a century-plus of Medieval conflict with the expulsion of invaders from her native soil.  As an educated adult, however, the whole idea began to seem a bit far-fetched; more of a propaganda tale than a historical fact.  When I heard about Besson's intention of modernizing the tale along the lines of Braveheart, I was all set to be disappointed; the nationalistic fervor that was that movie's strength would come across embarrassingly hollow as the more fanciful elements in Joan's tale accumulated.  To my shock, this film not only failed to disappoint me, it actually exceeded my expectations by actively confronting the issues behind the historical account of her rise and fall.  Despite it's violence and intensity, it actually possesses a subtlety that's bound to be lost on the majority of it's viewers, critics included.Just as it seems the movie is ready to complete the Braveheart mold by following her triumphant rise to glory with a similar indignant reaction to its protagonist's betrayal and resultant martyrdom, it takes a sudden left-turn off the beaten path   After her victory at Orleans-the high point of her career-she experiences another vision like those that lead her to that point, but it is now of a furious Christ, berating her for the destruction she has wrought in his name.  From there, the movie proceeds in a refreshingly analytical manner, becoming an examination of the nature of her religious fervor and its contradictions as the captive Joan is questioned not only by church officials, but by an even worse inquisitor-her own conscience.  Despite this sacrilegious approach, however, the film doesn't overtly question whether she heard the voice of God or not, but how she saw fit to perceive it as a call to arms.Milla Jovavich has been berated as having secured the role of the French heroine based solely on her relationship with Luc Besson; an unfortunate side issue, because she handles the role brilliantly. Neatly framed by Besson's intelligent direction, her portrayal is relentlessly human A diminished Joan that is more cheerleader than warrior, more zealot than saint; all the while a mystifying alien to the people around her.  Her death on the stake is far and away the loneliest of any portrayal, as her Joan dies alienated even from her own God.  "},{"Title":"Powerful Tone","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  To me, this movie was like Snow White. You know the story but you wouldn't mind watching twice or more. Why? I think because the story is unreal but you can even put yourself in her shoes and be fantasied as her. Well, I watched this movie through T.V. The story was basically same but the actor and actress were different (of course). But there was something different about this movie from the T.V. All the actors and actress had powerful tone in their voice. It felt Real as the war and the crisis were happening right next you. "},{"Title":"Disappointing is putting it lightly","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I don't even know where to start with this movie. Well hold on let me back up a bit. When I first heard that a full length movie was going to be made about one of my favorite characters in history, I was extremely excited. After impatiently waiting for the release of the movie, I finally went to see it with my mother ( I'm only in high school, Ii couldn't get in myself. The fact it was R even disturbed me, considering the story of a religous figure had no need to be that graphic). My first impression of the movie was good, I felt that the girl portraying the young Joan did an excellent job, but the depicting of Jesus disturbed me quite a bit. As the movie went on I started to notice the complete mockery they were making out of this woman, to many people, a religous figure whom they believe strongly in. I was apalled and the interpretations of her actions. Her visions were overdramatized, and they made Joan seem like she was a full- blooded lunatic, compelled by some wordly feeling that drove her to war. The religous facts were completely ignored. And maybe I am just taking this a step too far, but was that Satan that Joan was talking to by the end of the movie? From what they implied I think it was, and I couldn't have been more appalled. Any one who had no idea about the story of Joan of Arc before this movie was probably influenced quite a bit by this depiction of the Saint. Now people belieive that she really was a heretic, a sinner, a crusader for her own purposes, and finally tempted by Satan. Someone just watching this film from the surface would believe that Joan conjured up these visions to her own liking. This movie made a mockery out of the Catholic church and out of one of the most influencial characters in history. "},{"Title":"No Real Movie Fan Would Miss This One","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Easily one of the biggest surprises of 1999, The Messenger (gasp!) actually turns out to be a well-crafted film. Suffering from tremendous abuse heaped on it--by the same so-called experts who thought Shakespeare in Love was the best picture of 1998--it is perhaps the most misjudged film in a long time. But then again, most cinema goers aren't the sage souls you and I are. And most actresses couldn't carry off a masterful performance the way Little Cosmetics Girl Milla Jovovich did. The girl can act! Who woulda thunk it?  But the director's ex does her old old man right--this is one of the best performances by any lead, female or male, this year.  Milla manages to be both captivating, admirable and alluring--adding just the right tinge of tragedy to Joan of Arc's martyrdom without coming across as holier-than-thou, and at the same time Jovo exudes natural confidence and sexuality that had every male in the theatre squirming in his seat. (I'm a guy, I should know.) In addition--oh, I almost forgot, there actually were OTHER actors in this movie--command performances are given by John Malkovich and Tcheky Karyo (Kelly Preston's smarmy dream man in Addicted to Love) Please, PLEASE go see this movie. (No I do not have a percentage deal. I just care about good cinema, and if everyone goes to see this film more of its calibre will be made.) If you consider yourself any kind of a cinema lover, you will.  "},{"Title":"The Making of Joan of Arc Going Nuts","Date":"23 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The acting is great but the story makes Joan of Arc really crazy. I really enjoy Milla Jovovich's acting, singing and modeling career. Dustin Hoffman makes a scary dude in a black robe. What is up with the big foreheads on the women who were big hats? I think I enjoyed the mini series on CBS a little better then the one on the big screen. I think it made it like a big joke on the big screen. The story line made it go nuts. Which movie to believe? "},{"Title":"KING SIZED LET DOWN!","Date":"23 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Simply Put A MONSTROUSLY unjust film to the real ST. JOAN!!! It is very difficult NOT to be inspired by her story, but Luc Besson makes that task quite easy. MILLA, while good in many scenes, definitely was no LEELEE...THE WINNER BY A KNOCKOUT JOAN OF ARC CBS MINI SERIES.  "},{"Title":"A waste of celluloid","Date":"23 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I was really hopeful about this movie when I saw the previews.  But the film itself was a disappointment.  Milla Jovavich, who I loved in Fifth Element flopped as Joan.  She simply did not have the strength to pull it off. Instead, she looked more like a frightened, insane rabbit.  The script and direction of this film was equally bad.  The historical inaccuracies were absolutely atrocious!!Forget about seeing this film.  Instead, rent or buy A&E's version Joan of Arc, starring Leelee Sobieski.  Now that's a Joan worth loving!!! "},{"Title":"Undoubtedly the work of post-modern, male screenwriters...","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Seldom do I leave a theatre angry.  But The Messenger left me seething with venom.  Instead of a valiant life and death, Jean d'Arc is a victim of the screenwriters and director. It is incredulous to me that 500 years later, Jean d'Arc is still being crucified by the other gender.  I guess I was hoping for another Elizabeth, a period piece with a heroine, based on as much fact as possible.Everyone is entitled to their own opinion, but personally I felt Besson and Birken's interpretation was too liberal.  While much is not known about Jean d'Arc, it is preposterous and even blasphemous to think her actions were for her own glory.  She is shown running around with her eyes wide and wild, no senses about her, way over-dramatized.  And she REPEATEDLY says I am only a messenger.  That is obvious from the title.  Once would have been gracious plenty.  The part where she whispers in the Dauphin's ear was quite effective.  But why drag out that persona throughout the entire film?  The battle scenes were clipped so short you couldn't tell who was fighting who (maybe that was the point).  I didn't appreciate Jean being made to look weak and stupid.  There aren't many heroines as role models in this period in history, if any, and to make a mockery of one of the most valiant crusaders is a travesty.Perhaps the film should have started out with her canonization.  There was little said about that, even though it was 500 years later.  And the coronation scene was heavily borrowed from Kenneth Branaugh's Hamlet, glorious as it was.I hope someone else will make another film that credits Jean d'Arc for the great crusader she was. "},{"Title":"Very Worth It","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I know that so many people out there just absolutely hated this film, but I enjoyed it through and through! I realize that it is nothing to be used as a historical reference, although neither was The Last Temptation of Christ. It is a very creative interpretation and was brilliantly done, Milla Jovovich is an incredible actress, and played her role with perfection. I think what may have disturbed people was the way the religion, and the religious figures were portrayed. They were very disturbing. Joan had what is called The Sight. Most of us  have seen The Sixth Sense, and understand quite well what that entails. I, myself, have the gift of The Sight, and see things that a lot of professionals cannot explain. I live a normal life, and have never taken any drugs, or even prescription drugs of that sort. Joan of Arc probably saw things and in her own interpretation became religious figures, such as angels, and gods. In a time where the Catholic Church was so powerful and dominating, it is no wonder that in this story Joan saw and was moved by the things that she soon did. And it is no wonder she was burned at the stake. She had a gift that she could not fully use, or even understand because of the negative influence of the Catholic Church. I loved the film, and understood every motive behind the film. "},{"Title":"This is a very emotional, and action packed story...","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  One thing about this movie....the battle scenes are awesome.  They are done so effectively that you feel like you are there screaming with the rest of them as you charge against the enemy.  Part of this is the Director, Luc Besson's magic of vision, but most of it can be attributed to the explosion of emotion that comes from Mila Jovovich, who plays the lead.With these two forces it produces a very emotional film that takes us to a place we have seldom seen in popular movie releases in the past few years.This is the oft told story of Joan of Arc and her life during a very turbulent time and how she led the French to defeating the English when a woman of this time would never have done such a thing.My only one detraction is some of the structure.  Namely the movie races along for 2 hours, then it stops cold.  This is when she has been captured and now faces death, and this is where Dustin Hoffman comes in to the act portraying her Conscience.  I don't have anything wrong with Hoffman's performance, but it is notable that this is when the the whole movie screeches to a halt and that is what I remember feeling at the time.Somehow, since Besson uses many instances of flashbacks through her eyes, I would have been happier perhaps, if he had taken some moments to let Hoffman's character infect her soul in more instances throughout the movie.  I find it a bit hard to believe that this woman who so struggles with her every being and emotion doesn't have her conscience there constantly making her doubt what is driving her in the first place.  Especially since her conscience takes such an active role in the final 30 minutes.That aside, I haven't felt this much intensity rise to the level it does from a character in a movie the way Jovovich's performance has evoked me.  She is so taken in with her character that you find yourself engrossed and going through every feeling she gives off on screen.  It's as if you could feel how much her heart was racing, as her eyes bulge out of their sockets when she screams for support from her army.  Or even when she sprouts tears from being so burdened with all that she is carrying, they seem to flow with no way for her to stop them.  It was something.If you get a chance, this is well worth a look. "}{"Title":"One of the True Epics","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The Messenger was by far one of the true Epics of the late nineties.  The Actors in this film had great dialog.  I think that the Medieval Battle Scenes were some of the greatest ever shot. Dustin Hoffman should be up for an Academy Award for his brief but powerful performance and the Conscience.  Supremly Powerful acting there. Though I must say that John Malkovich was poorly cast as the King.  It was just not a role for him. The Soundtrack is powerful.  Not to sound sick but the music that was played during her execution was powerful and added well to the emotion of the scene.All in all...I give this film.   9/10.  "},{"Title":"NOT A HISTORICAL FILM!!!!!!!","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I have studied Joan for 2 years and know someone who has studied her for 6- This was not a historical film- In fact- when it came to joans life- they got most of it wrong- Now if the Besson would have been the judge there to condemn her- he would have done a great job. Ok  here are the facts- Joan never had a sister who was raped. Did besson really have to put that in there to make it a good story...I don't think so. Did she see winds blowing etc- sure - every day - but not with her visions and voices- she saw light in the church- and also margerite- Did they bring in what Joan said herself? No... they made it up. She said she had been visited by Margerite and catherine- interestingly enough- they were both martyrs- and one of them was burnt at the stake. Sad that it happened to Joan too. She was NEVER unsure of her mission. She was sure of her mission from day 1- Her words are there for anyone to read- But it looks like Besson didn't do his history lessons. If you want to read a good book on her-Read Rejean Pernouds book on Joan of arc- By herself and her witnesses. or Mark Twains- Joan of Arc. ( Believe it or not- a little known fact is that he spent 12 years researching her- Went to England and France reseaching her. He considered it his best and most important work. You can find it on the net- including her trial. At the end of her life before she died she saw Michael( an angel) and told the judges at one time what he looked like- they were shocked because the likness they had hid from the world was spoken by her.It was not her concience Sorry I just feel badly about this film. I was excited about it at first- then very disappointed. Like I said- He would have made a great judge. It sounds to me like he would have been one who would send her to the stake. It disgraced one of the best lives of our time. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  A story about a young maiden troubled by visions beautifully portrayed by Jovovich.  The cinematograpy was wonderfully carried out.  I feel that critics are just on a bandwagon with this one.  There really is nothing in the movie that deserves such staunch pessimism.  I feel that a majority of the critics were expecting war movie and are now viewing the finished product through Braveheart glasses.  The script is strong.  The actors are all powerful, with strong presence.  Amazing voice work by all of the actors.  The battle scenes are well edited, nice and gory in places, but not too much.  The filth and mire of the 1400s is really evident in the movie, and the story does remain very accurate in regards to appearance and warfare.If you choose to see this movie, which I recommend you do, view it with an open mind.  Do not go in seeking a hack and slash war movie.  It is much deeper than that. "},{"Title":"Tremendously Disappointing","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie started with great promise.  The child who played Jeanne as a little girl was marvelous.  The scenes of her world falling apart, her sister's horrendous death, moved me almost to tears.  Then, suddenly, this promising movie took a turn for the worse.  Milla Jovovich, I think, may have have some raw talent, and she is certainly a beautiful young woman. However, she is not at the point yet where she can carry an entire movie; particularly one of such magnitude as this one.  Ms. Jovovich would do much better to take supporting roles in future films while she hones her talent. She is only setting herself up for career disaster by attempting something like this before she is ready.I found that rather than admiring this character for her unwavering faith in God and her own personal strength, I felt sorry for her.  She was portrayed as quite mentally disturbed, not driven by the spirit of God by by madness. I could see no reason in the world why the French armies would follow her--Jovovich was unpersuasive in the role.The pity is that clearly much work and money went into the making of this movie.  The sets, the costumes, everything was clearly done with much care and attention to detail.  I won't go quite so far as to say it was terrible; but do yourself a favor and wait for videotape to get this one.....and rent it on dollar day. "},{"Title":"Luc and Milla Make Historical Mess!!","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I was SOOOO looking forward to this, in spite of the director and star.  Well, they let me down big time.  Luc Besson is all style and no substance.  Miss Jovovich screamed her way thru 2.5 hours of painful cinema.  She once again, proved she can not act!!  She was too old, too pretty, and too passion-less for this powerful role.  Clare Daines, Wynona Rider, or even an unknown would have had more passion in their eyes than MILLA!!! Ugh!! "},{"Title":"Exciting and visually enthralling with few inconsistencies","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" In an attempt to interest 90's audiences in the story of Joan of Arc, Luc Besson has attempted to fuse together the action film with a drama of the moral dilemmas of war and religion.Though I rarely watch action films, I found the battle scenes intense and amazing. They had the viewer deep into the battle among the soldiers much like Joan herself. This effect gave a feeling of the hysteria of violence that is war. The weak leg of the film, I found, was the script around the battle scences. The dialogue had moments of attempting to be too many things in one film. Sometimes it reminded me of THE THREE MUSKETEERS (1973) where during fights there would be attempts of humorous side bars that just didn't seem to work. Then it would become a surreal moral drama. Some of the language was at time too contemporary and accents varied widely from British to French to Mid-Western American without regard of character. With that said, it really was a very good film of visual messages.Milla Jovovich is very good, also. She conveys an obsessive young girl who has the exuberance of youth and a romantisized inspiration of fighting for God. Jovovich shines in the battle sequences and maintains thoughout Joan's imprisonment. From what I had read in other reviews, I was afraid I wouldn't be able to watch or listen to her, but I found her very likeable in the role. As for the other performances, Miss Dunaway was very good(though I kept thinking of Milady in Three Musketeers) and Malkovich and Hoffman were adequate but not much more. Some of the best performances come from the members of the cast that make up the generals and soldiers who are forced to work with Joan in her mission. These gentlemen give invigorating performances that live up to the battle scenes.The most effecting focus of the film is the cinematography and editing. Sometimes I felt as though I was experiencing one of Joan visions. The picture would appear to float and feel very dreamy in Klimt-like landscapes. The intermingling of her visions and then movements back into reality created a sence of where are we now but then I was never lost in the story. It resumed with a pace of her mission; to save France for God. This film is one of the most visually challenging films I have seen that was beautiful and created movement at the same time(without giving me one of those over-edit headaches like a commercial).I have seen other versions of Joan and THE MESSENGER is as good as most. THE MESSENGER treats a legendary story of Joan as an action packed display of blood and moral confusion and finally lets the viewer conclude about the voices in our head and the destiny that we live.   "},{"Title":"A Surreal Representation of Joan of Arc","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I can take nothing away from the actors and actresses in this movie. John Malkovich, Milla Jovovich, Faye Dunaway and Dustin Hoffman were excellent in this movie. I was very impressed with Milla Jovovich's strong portrayal of Joan of Arc. Can you believe this woman does modeling and sings? Let's see Cindy Crawford or Claudia Shiffer do this kind of acting. Even though The Fifth Element wasn't the greatest movie, Milla still gave a credible preformance. She also wasn't bad in He Got Game either. In any case, this movie was different in many ways.  The director (Luc Besson) used many visual dreamscapes to tell the story of how the lord gave Joan a message to visit the soon to be King Charles, form an army and defeat the English. Of course no one believes her until she succeeds in leading the French army through blockades and taking over forts.Yes the movie is a bit confusing. You see visuals of clouds, fields of flowers with Joan running through them, the lord sitting in a stone chair, and other misconceptions of a message coming from the heavens. You really don't understand the whole thing until the end of the movie. Then again, you still may not understand it. The war scenes are very violent and bloody. Lots of decapitations and limbs flying everywhere. This movie is a bit long too. It's about 155 mins., when it should have been about 130 mins. Many of those dream sequences could have been cut shorter and some of the fight scenes could have been cut back. But overall, the movie was decent and worth seeing. "},{"Title":"What's Wrong with This Picture?","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  What's wrong with this picture? In a word, everything. Watching a buck-toothed, grasshopper-of-a-Joan cavort through the woods for the first twenty minutes was excruciating enough, but when the audience was subjected to perhaps the most gratuitously violent rape scene to grace the silver screen this year, the groans were audible even above the psychedelic medieval soundtrack. A Gallic-looking Jesus stares from his chair in the woods.  Then he and Joan cavort some more.  Woodstock meets the Thirty Years War.  Didn't she see saints?  I guess Joan isn't Catholic anymore.  Too hard to explain. Joan becomes a woman.  Joan goes to war.  Her captains are likeable cartoon characters.  They disappear midway through the film, and are never mentioned again.  The audience, over their initial horror, can only gape, mute. Joan is tried.  Joan burns.  No one is surprised.  We're just glad that the argumentative Dustin Hoffman character won't nitpick anymore.  The audience hopes he burned up with her. Didn't France--motivated by Joan's sacrifice--unify and kick those pesky English out?  Yes, but Luc Besson apparently didn't find such details worthy of mentioning.  But--mon Dieu!--that burning dummy looked so realistic! The movie ends, abruptly.  Credits roll.  The audience doesn't complain--we're happy to have the lights come up again.  Makes it easier to find the exit. Luc Besson has surely been replaced by a pod person with little talent. Save yourself.  Save seven bucks.  Borrow the video from the idiot (pronounce it the French way, now) who purchases it. "},{"Title":"Well-intentioned but disappointing","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The settings, sets, and costumes of this well-intentioned film are great. Also, the political intrigues and two-facedness that caused the tragic death of Joan are presented thoroughly.However, the problems begin at the beginning with introductory text of the historical backgrounds rolling up the screen in hard-to-read small gothic type that moves so quickly that the audience can barely read the text, let alone absorb it. Another problem is the casting. While Mille Jovovich can pass as a boy (Joan in male's clothing) in some scenes, she is still not an actress of the depth needed for this film to really work. She presents Joan's shifting personalities in a set of stock responses ranging from manic to bland, but she never gives us the soul of a girl who was able to make armies follow her and a whole nation believe in her. I also found Dustin Hoffman as her conscience a bit laughable, especially with the New York accent. This would have worked in Ken Smith's satiric comedy DOGMA, but not here in a serious setting. Ian McKellan could have done it, but not Hoffman.At the end, we are left wondering whether Joan, as presented in the film, was just a mad masochist or someone who was genuinely touched by God. "},{"Title":"If you like bad dreams then you will love this movie.","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I gave this movie a 6 out of 10.Ever wanted to know what it feels like to be trapped in a bad dream? If you like bad dreams then you will love this movie. And like most dreams, most of it doesn't make much sense.BackgroundI am a 24 year old male engineering and computer science student living in SC. I do have a large humanities background.OverviewThis is a long movie, over two and a half hours I think. And in some ways it is pleasing to watch... Your eyes will love this movieThere is a lot of dream imagery in this movieOh, look at her run through the field of green flowers, and now red flowers, and now blue flowers, and now yellow flowers, and let's not forget the purple flowers. How about some pretty clouds too? Yes, you get to see almost ten minutes of cloud footage. Happy clouds, sad clouds, angry clouds... you name them this movie has 'em. More eye-candy! Yes, there is blood, blood, and more blood. Even the maps bleed in this movie. How many ways can you kill someone without modern weapons? Answer See this movie and you will know. Okay, okay, they might have left one or two ways out but that is it. Slow motion! The movie wouldn't have nearly taken so long if it played at full speed. But since half of it is a dream you have to watch that half in sllooowwww motion...I must admit listening to everyone talk is fun. There is one warrior whose voice is so impressive I want to give this movie a 7 instead of a 6. And Joan's voice is good too.And that was the good part...Your brain will hate this movieThe movie gets a lot of things wrong by trying to do too much. In the end it does a lot of things, but none of them. It builds up a way of looking at something, only to turn around and tear it down. And again in the end there isn't much left. Of her army or of the movie...It could have had a really cool King Arthur Knights of the Round Table kind of story where the hero is the chosen instrument of God sent to set things right and save the king and the country. Now wouldn't that have been nice and worth seeing, but no... Amazingly nothing ever happens to the characters you dislike. The manipulating step-mother keeps her son, the future king of France under her thumb and that's that. Don't not like her too much cause nothing is ever going to happen to her in this story. And it is definitely not Cinderella. Not only is there no happy ending, but the ending doesn't even make sense!Basically Joan is torn down by her countrymen, her enemies, and herself in the end. Built-up and then torn-down. She's their hero one minute and then she's just a heathen the next minute.There is a graphic murder-rape scene right from the start that makes the movie a little hard to take. I have a bad opinion of movies that have rape scenes, especially when you aren't sure why they have them. It's a little too much of a sex scene for me. And if they want a sex scene they should just have a sex scene.It really isn't a horrible movie. It just had some big problems. If I had it to do over again I would have still watch it. It does have something to offer. But I still wouldn't have liked the movie overall.Be sure to check out my other reviews.Thanks. "}{"Title":"Inspiration or Madness","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Having seen this film last night, I am surprised at the abuse it has taken from critics and friends who have seen it before me.  It is said to be over-long and boring most often.I disagree.  If you are heading out to see an action movie you will be disappointed.  This script, in many ways, belongs on the stage.  It is true that it is overwritten slightly for film, but it is full of ideas.  The central conflict here is not between Joan and the English.  Nor Joan and a treacherous church and king.  But between Joan and her doubts.A friend turned to me after the film and said, She was crazy. Which brought to mind another brilliant dichotomy played by the filmmakers. What is the line between inspiration or madness?  Who can say?  Imagine a young girl suddenly inspired with the idea of who things must be.  Would she not believe such inspiration came from God and would she not believe that she had been spoken to?  Too often we see inspiration and call it madness, or ruthlessness, or insensitivity.I think the film was brilliant.  And Milla Jovovich delivered an inspired and most impressive performance.  "},{"Title":"Fun Historical Piece but Grasps for philosophy","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" 	The Messanger, in my opinion, is a very unique and well made historical piece (despite how inaccurate it might be). Milla Jovovich plays Joan as a very ignorent and quite annoying women as I would imagine her to be. What I hated about the film is that I walked away confused and rather un happy about the ending. The movie made me detest religeon even more because it seemed so corrupt, confusing and primitive. Dustin Hoffmans character was very interesting but I felt it left me to torn in the end. "},{"Title":"An interesting message indeed","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The Messenger is a modern day remake of the story of Joan ofArc.  Having a talented actor like Mila Jovovich was wonderful.I enjoyed every minute of this movie.  Although, for me, itraised more questions than answers.  I had to research Joan ofArc to satisfy my curiosities.  But over all a great fi "},{"Title":"A Spiritual Braveheart","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  While not as grand in scale as Mel Gibson's Braveheart (some photography seemed slanted for no other reason than to hide the lack of extras), this is essentially a remake of it, with the violent battle scenes, heroic speeches and the strength of the hero to overcome prejudice against his/her fellow man.Is it a good film?  Absolutely.  Should you see it?  Yes, please do, as it gets a lot of the folklore about the real Joan of Arc right on, and the historical period as well, other than John Malkovich playing a character who was much, much younger (Neil Patrick Harris played him in the inferior, and extremely inaccurate, TV movie), historically.Be you of faith or no, there's still something you can take away from this film.  Just don't see it if you're overly depressed... the ending, like Titanic is already in the history books.8 of 10. "},{"Title":"I expected more.","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I know that it stayed true to history, but come on. I would have been much happier had they cast a different person in the role of Joan, any part of the movie where she spoke was horrible. I honestly thought that this was Malkovich's worst role. But I loved the actors in the parts of the main French army officers.  And Dustin Hoffman, man, he was awesome! I loved his parts.  The beggining and ending were lacking but it picked up towards the end.   "},{"Title":"At least an hour too short...","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is a film that could, and should, have been an Oscar contender.  A modern big-screen adaptation of the story of Joan of Arc has the potential to blow even Braveheart out of the water.  This one, however, won't manage it.There are certainly some strong performances, including by Milla Jovovich, who does have the presence to play the part.  Unfortunately, while she plays it with presence, she also plays it wrong.  Her Joan of Arc is so twitchy that it is almost impossible to believe that anybody would even think she could merit an audience with the Dauphin, much less command an army.The largest problem lies with the storytelling itself.  The first hour and forty-five minutes has gaping holes in the narrative and it is difficult to see how the characters portrayed get from point A to point B.  Once Joan is captured the narrative finally flows smoothly, but the end result feels as though the film was originally at least an hour longer and it was cut in the most artistic manner possible.  They should have left it in; this film is at least an hour too short to tell the story.Final mark 3.5/5. "},{"Title":"Confusing, depressing, very poor story.","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Filming too similar to The Fifth Element probably related to Milla and Luc working together in both. Does not represent Joan the way that we have thought about her in history. It might have been a better movie if it wasn't related to a specific person in history. Very strange religious elements. Hard to decepher and left me feeling very upset. I would not recommend this to anyone.I'm very disappointed, I usually love Milla's work. "},{"Title":"Three Hours of Torture","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie was an abomination.  Besson's use of dialog was nothing short of laughable.  Milla Jovovich delivered an arguably spirited, if not overly acted performance as the ever-vigilant Joan.  The dialogue was written as if it were in constant need of 'Indiana Jones' type humor throughout the film. I think a film of this serious and somber tone could easily, and more believably, done without the ridiculous attempts and comic relief.  Save your $7.50 to go see American Beauty again. "},{"Title":"A clumsy, disappointing film.","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie falls flat on nearly every level.  The main problem is in the screenplay - dull dialogue, sloppy pacing, bad scene transitions, disjointed comedy and drama segments and an overall sense of an unfinished script drag the movie down below the merely mediocre film it could have been.The acting ranges from awful to passable.  Other than the Dauphin, the queen, Joan herself and Joan's conscience, there aren't any characters worth mentioning, so the poor acting isn't that noticeable.  It's the hysterics of Joan that will make you cringe, and John Malkovich lurches around with a slackjawed air of surprise through the entire proceeding.  Faye Dunaway and Dustin Hoffman are OK, but the roles are far below both of them.Besson chooses to show us this mangled epic in mostly closeup shots.  There's no sense of grand scale when almost every scene is filmed so tightly.Add to these flaws lots of cliches and needless decapitations.  There's also a pretty disgusting rape scene (probably meant as a BIG IMPORTANT CHARACTER BUILDING MOMENT, but it just comes across as distaseful.  Compare to the rape scene in American History X and see how it's done right.)By the end of hour two you'll be praying for the stake yourself. "},{"Title":"a movie for your mind and soul","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  It was a tough day of movie watching.  I had just finished watching Dogma, when I saw that The Messanger was playing as well.  So I decided to see the next showing... and while I enjoyed Dogma... The Messanger blew me away! I was completely and utterly moved by the performances of the entire cast. To watch her unhealthy (just my opinion) obsession with God bloom into full blown insanity as an excuse to get revenge on for her sister's death was one of the most moving and disturbing experiences I've ever been privy too.  I would recommend this movie to anyone who's a fan of Joan of Arc history or who just wants to see an interesting movie.  And I don't want to forget the incredible soundtrack as well.  It fit the movie like a glove.  Milla Jovivich was in top form as Joan herself and played the role as though born for it.  So go see this movie and enjoy the wild ride.  Just hope that you don't have nightmares for the poor Joan of Arc as I did after seeing the movie.  It's that moving.   - Calculated X "}{"Title":"Critics have no place in this movie...","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Some of us in the world aren't historians, but we do know enough to appreciate the ties that a movie gives to what actually happened. Would you sit through a 2 hour history lesson as it explores each detail without ANY entertainment what-so-ever? I doubt it. Siskel gave the movie a thumb down, why? Because it didn't depict every aspect of Joan's life. Instead, Besson has taken such a story and combined it with the myth. He has given us, in the modern times, a movie that we can appreciate both for it's historical fact, AND his talent to produce energy and excitement in such a tale. I for one appreciated this movie for it's essence, it's talent, even it's script. I'm not biased by my admiration for Joan of Arc, La Pucelle, I'm standing here to proclaim my love for such a movie that has been a GIFT more than a target for the critics. "},{"Title":"Great historical drama.","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of the best historical dramas I have seen.  It depicts Joan in a way I don't think most people know her.  The battle scenes are bloody but very realistic.  This is a wonderfully visual movie with good acting and cinematography.  This movie is well worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"My new favourite movie of all time!!!","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I'm kinda jaded when it comes to hollywood movies, but this one was so powerful and made me feel so many different emotions that I left the theater absolutely stunned. No movie has ever really done that to me before. And I think I needed that in my life right now. I could go on and on babbling about what i liked and disliked about the movie, but it would be pointless. It's something you have to see for yourself. For me it's a very personal movie and there's definately a message to be heard. The question is, are you willing to listen ?  "},{"Title":"i wouldn't see it again","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The story of Joan of Arc is fascinating enough so I can't understand why the producers of The Messenger insisted on rewriting history. The distasteful and utterly repulsive rape scene at the beginning of the film was developed by the sick mind of the producers and director-there is no documentation anywhere stating that this action took place. Even if it had, however, the idea of rape is vile in itself-there was no need for this scene to be shot in the manner it was. Unfortunately, the film is obviously aimed at the MTV generation (I, being 17, am a part of this generation and recognize that not all of America's youth is brainless and shallow, but many are)and the less is more approach does not satisfy their unimaginative minds. The rest of the film is like watching a horrendously long episode of XenaWarrior Princess. The actors speak in modern day slang and the use of the f-word acted as the movie's comic relief. Speaking of comic relief, I could not help but notice how much the decapitations and dismemberments resembled the scene with the black knight in Monty Python and the Hole Grail. The actress portraying Joan was too squeaky-voiced and fussy to be a convincing Maiden of Orleans. Music can be the most effective part of a movie. Such is not the case for the Messenger. The movie's score was much too overpowering. I didn't actually think that they movie was horrible, it just wasn't that great. "},{"Title":"Besson has a talent to make great bad movies.","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  While the acting, dialog, writing may not have been the greatest, just like in The Fifth Element the whole movie drives to make one point that makes the film worth watching. As in all his previous films the message of this film is  love and peace are the better alternatives to violence.  That may seem strange since I have never seen a film so gory!Some may dislike the constant close up in the movie as they make the movie hard to watch because it is do in your face and it is difficult to ignore what is happening. For those who want to enjoy a triumphant hero this is not a movie, this movie enquires you to think, if you are not willing to that-don't see it.And on the final note, if you ever have a chance to see Dreyer's 1928 La Passion de Jeanne d'Arc you will see a where Besson got a lot of ideas for this picture and also you will get an even more tense account of the trail of Jeanne.  "},{"Title":"3 things about the film","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  What was interesting about this film was that it had a lot of focus on the non-historical parts of the story.  Meaning there was a lot of attention paid to Joan of Arc's psyche and the visions she had, so this isn't a documentary.  I think they did it very well.One thing that made me uneasy after a while was their continued use of some lens (I'm not a camera person) for every shot of Joan, where in most movies it's only used for a few dramatic shots.And every part with Dustin Hoffman's character was great.  Not just because of his acting, but also the scene cuts to the visions, the visions themselves (3 months after death...), and the way he moved about her mind. "},{"Title":"Pretty, but lacking in human depth","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This film had lots of pretty shots and an interesting subject matter, but somehow -- in the 2.5 hrs of screentime available to the script writers -- they managed to fail to develop any of the characters so that they were of any great interest.  I felt pretty detached from the characters, for the most part.  The dialog was largely uninspiring.  The characters never really show you what they are made of.  Even Jean d'Arc's character seemed painfully one-dimensional.  Since we all know how the story ends, you would think that there would be some attempt to put some juiciness in the middle, but this just wasn't there.  The way they resort to brief flashbacks to fill in some of the most interesting parts of the story is disappointing.  This film was impressive in some ways, but it could have been so much better!  A partial, but not total disappointment. "},{"Title":"Much better than I expected","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Based on the critical panning of this movie, I didn't go in with high hopes, so I was delighted to see that the critics were yet again... well, stupid, and just following each other's lead.  The serenely beautiful Milla Jovovich seemed nervous and a bit dazed throughout this movie, but by the end managed to be convincing as Joan.  The rest of the cast was just superb.  But the most wonderful thing about this underrated film is the unresolved complexity of Joan's character, as revealed by her visions and her dialogue with her Conscience, played with understated brilliance by Dustin Hoffman.  The outstanding final moments of The Messenger reminded me of T.S. Eliot's Murder in the Cathedral, which I recommend highly to anyone who enjoyed this movie and would like to gain further insight into Joan's martyrdom.  But even atheists will enjoy this beautiful and powerful film. "},{"Title":"Food for the Soul","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  A wonderful application of one of the world's most misunderstood enigmas.Milla Jovovich was outstanding in her role as St. Jeanne, a truly remarkable performance. Milla's ability to portray Joan's tortured soul was inspiring! At several points one sees Milla almost go completely insane... as her mind wrestles with her spirit in a vain attempt to explain what is happening to her. I was truly moved inspired, saddened, shocked, revelled!On the down side, I agree with the few critics who have implied some Monty Python-ish satire / effects during the battle scenes... although the battles were for the most part very indicative of period warefare, the catapult commander, the taunting from the tower and several limb chopping shots certainly reminds the viewer of Monty Python's Holy Grail... but then again that's a good thing because without some levity, it would have been difficult to watch the very dramatic scenes.A movie well worth the name St. Jeanne d'Arc! "},{"Title":"A brilliant film that's gotten burned by the critics","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I've just come back from seeing Luc Besson's brilliant version of the Joan of Arc legend.  I can't imagine what movie the poison-tongued critics saw--they lambasted a film that superbly captures the intricate nuances of Joan's story.  This historically correct film presents Joan as a young woman who may or may not be hearing the Voice of God.  Besson analyzes that thin line between madness and true spiritual insight in a way that allows the viewers to make up their own minds.  Clearly what Besson wants us to see is that whether Joan is mad or not is irrelevant compared to the shafting she got from her King and the Church.  Wonderfully filmed with outstanding performances, I praise this effort.  And I question how thoughtful critics whom I once admired could tear this film to shreds the way they have, one, for example, likening the film to a Monty Python movie.  That's irresponsible and ignorant critiquing.  See the film for yourself and be absorbed by this remarkable portrait of a woman misjudged and used by everyone.   "}{"Title":"Do you know the difference between a psychotic zealot and someone truly touched God?","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Do you know the difference between a psychotic zealot and someone truly touched God?  This movie lays it out neatly for you.  It covers your ticket cost and time investment in the bargain.  I liked it, all scenes considered.  It earned 2.5 out of four  possible Bill Stoll stars.The film controls your senses from the start.  Young Joan's first words are `It's wonderful!'  A cinematic interpretation of `wonderful' follows from the eyes and heart of a young girl that'll steal your heart.  Then, when you're swept up in the height of it all, Director Luc Besson slams you into the brutal brick wall know as 15th century France.  Joan's sister's fate drops us into the depths of our fears, where Joan's tale actually begins. I enjoyed every frame until the coronation of Charles VII.  Everything was clicking.  Even the coronation itself was brilliantly conveyed to film, if not the best scene after the opening.  I was drawn in (emotionally and objectively).  But then, as though 2.5 hours offered insufficient time, it segued abruptly into the inevitable `French Inquisition' and deteriorated to execute the problem named Joan.   Her demise and battles with conscience slowed to the point where my attention wavered.  I checked my watch more than once, never a good sign.  It wasn't the acting; it was the writing here in Act III.  It needed something more.  You knew her fate was sealed; but it deserved a more storytelling finesse for quality consistency against the story's brilliant opening and middle.  The acting is superb.  Milla Jovovich (Joan) is perfect in the role.  Costumes, photography, cinematography top shelf, stunning and &#150; along with the acting &#150; major candidates for Oscar nominations.  I loved Faye Dunaway in the Yolande role.  Dustin Hoffman as conscience (aka God) is great.  Everyone seems to be a natural.  She tells the secret of Joan's success completely and early on in the movie.  Listen to her words.  B-/C+ on the writing.  You DO want to know the difference between that first paragraph's zealot and a true Messenger . . . don't you?   See this movie.  You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"A journey into a vivid history laced with modern sensibility.","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The Messenger, The Story of Joan of Arc, is a historical epic full of vibrant, fleeting images that interpret the emotional origin, thoughts, and possible decent into madness of a historical figure normally bound within the confines of religious myth. The film, directed by Luc Besson, masterfully examines the psyche of Joan, portraying her as human rather than a cliche heroine.  It is evident that Besson thrives on portraying this time in France's history to be as accurate and as brutal as historians agree it would have been.  Many of the images are bloody and raw, however; they are never unimaginative.  The symbolism, although at times obvious, is never less than pleasing to the eye.  The photography and composition always carefully constructed as to please even novice audiences. If the film has flaws, it comes mostly from the script.  Co-written by Besson himself, it has strengths while examining Joan, but weakens considerably when dealing with minor characters such as the the Dauphin/King, his mother-in-law, and most importantly Joan's comrades in arms.  This makes the transition from hostile soldiers to devout believers too fast to completely accept. The most intriguing/compelling point in the script comes when Dustin Hoffman's character (termed conscience by many)enters.  Wearing the masks of innocence, divinity, and death, this angel of Joan's own creation does not weaken the film, but rather; does what thought-provoking scenes should- raise more questions than they answer.  Milla puts on a stunning performance if you view her as a young woman teetering on the edge of madness.  If you're looking for a heroine that never bruises and never questions her mission, this may not be the film for you.  Overall a 9 rating from this film-lover.   "},{"Title":"great","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The Messenger (The Story of Joan of Arc) The Messenger speaks truth unlike the majority of films we are being confronted with as a result of the factory-like production of moving pictures. Joan as a youngster hears voices, which are obviously the voices we can all hear if we really listen. If you don't believe in that statement don't read any further. In her youthful naivete she equates those voices that understandably seem supernatural in the world she lived in and we now live in. When most people cast those voices away, her voices take the forefront in her life through a set of difficult circumstances. To me films like Fight Club and The Thin Red Line deal with exactly the same issue &#150; exactly. Being in touch with these inner `messages' gives her access to truth as best as a human will ever know it. She is inherently a good person just as we all are when we're born. With her worldly belief in the structures and reality that the church represents &#150; she has made an assumption that her voices are truly God's will. Her obvious conviction in her inner `messages' are so convincing and intoxicating to everyone that is in her presence, even her perceived enemies, that `Joan the peasant girl' has the capability to lead an entire army (not that she cares about that status beyond a vehicle for truth). People sense that this person has no hidden agendas or ties with traditional means of gaining power or status or money &#150; she fights for what she believes in &#150; and its overcoming. It's an absolutely beautiful film and a work of art from Luc Besson and his team, not in the spirit of they'll do anything to put a different spin on Joan but to give a genuine perspective that is unique &#150; even without knowing every little detail on Joan of Arc the film speaks truth. They are to be commended. I simply couldn't hold back my tears at certain points of the film. I would like to see this film be embraced by the money giving mass audiences but I'm afraid that won't happen &#150; again not unlike Fight Club or The Thin Red Line. But for me if there were not films like the ones I've mentioned then the world would be a darker lonelier place to live in.  "},{"Title":"A bit lengthy but a damn fine performance by Jovovich","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The Messenger Luc Beeson's epic re-telling of the life of Joan of Arc- her childhood, rise in popularity, victory over the British, eventual betrayal, and untimely demise.  Two things annoyed me about this film first - at two hours and thirty minutes -it is long and you feel it.  Beeson could have cut several scenes (flashbacks, and hallucinations) without compromising his vision , indeed it probably would have given the film a little more balance. Second Joan's lengthy introspective journey to discover herself (the last half-hour of the movie) was too time consuming and esoteric for my tastes.  Finally, there was a Holy Grail feel to some of the battle scenes (they seemed to revel in the amputations and decapitations).  Now for the good.The cinematography is simple and straightforward, and relies on the sweeping landscapes to set the mood.  The feel is further enhanced by the lavish, thundering soundtrack.  The real triumph is the characterization of Joan.Rather than settle for a rehash of the traditional saintly portrayal, the writers opted for a different tack, depicting Joan as a headstrong, reckless warrior not afraid to wallow in blood (until it's too late).  The only reason this gamble pays off is Milla Jovovich (Joan) she delivers an impassioned performance, creating a character that is strong, yet vulnerable, and most importantly, believable.  I have always felt that she is an underutilized actress.  I don't think that will be a problem anymore. "},{"Title":"A poor excuse for a spectacle","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is two and a half hours of my life I want back.Milla Jovovich is perhaps the most miscast actress ever.  You can't believe for a second that her whiny, screeching, obnoxious Joan of Arc can inspire the French people.  Being forced to spend that much time with a main character who you can't like at all is a painful experience.The script was horrible, constantly setting up lines that were supposed to be inspiring but instead came across as contrived.  Various characters changed attitudes off screen leave the audience confused when they showed up again speaking a completely different position from the one they were behind not more than ten minutes ago.  Instead of explaining why they changed we are supposed to accept that they did since it moves the story forward.  The script also constantly had the characters demonstrating political attitudes far more common to the 1990's than the 1430's leading to some very jarring situation.I got the impression that this movie was the result of a Hollywood hit factory where they mix up all the required portions of a sure fire hit and cynically pass it off to people as entertainment. "},{"Title":"This is an awesome movie","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The story of Joan of Arc was never really interesting to me until I went with a friend to see The Messenger.  Milla Jovovich did an excellent job as a tormented Christian who was dealing with the question of has God sent me?  Dustin Hoffman's rendition of the Conscience was thrilling.  The movie really leaves you questioning your own beliefs about religion. Although the movie was on the gory side (they were fighting a war, and all), overall the film was excellent.  I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Nice try Luc, but...","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I had a tough time with this film. Admittedly, my expectation levels were high based on Besson's previous work, a clear source of bias indeed. A few plusses first visually stunning, great camera angles and placements that seem to bring out the details of the characters' movements and physical idiosyncracies. Excellent 'raw' battle scenes, great attention to costumes and the weaponry (armor too) of the era. However, despite outstanding performances by John Malkovich and Dustin Hoffman, Milla's constant grating on-screen paroxysms were distracting from the pace and true meaning of this so-called epic. I can see where Besson was going, delving into the secular and religious dichotomy within the state...however, casting Milla as the messenger representing both faith and conceit, well...goes awry rather quickly. It's difficult to give the character of Joan any credibility when Milla's performance was so lacking...if that was Besson's intent, well, so be it. I was squirming during the last half hour, praying the film would just end. True epics aren't disjointed or forced. Unfortunately, _The Messenger_ was both, and glaringly so. "},{"Title":"A comedy?","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I was wondering this several times while watching the movie.  Basically I spent 2 1/2 hours of my life watching this junk. The Joan of Arc story should be told respectfully, without use of silly profanity (did the English really utter the F word so many times?), senseless gore and of course the necrophilia sequence.  Milla Jovovich acted more like a cheerleader than a Messenger of God.  Dustin Hoffman's appearance at the end saves the movie from being an utter travesty (also John Malkovich's sly performance, complete with a slight reference to his current movie Being John Malkovich!)  The acting by the others was laughable at best (did I actually hear a character say whatever?)  This is being touted by its studio as the next Braveheart.  Mel Gibson has nothing to worry about.  "},{"Title":"Not for everyone ?","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I really liked the fact that Besson, for once, concentrated on having the facts rights rather than just doing pyrotechnics. I mean, we are shown it was all about politics. Jeanne d'Arc (her real name) would have been a tool for Yolande of Aragon (Charles VII's mother in law). We are also shown Jeanne as a real war leader and understand how and why soldiers from both sides either followed or feared her, thinking she may have some magical powers. We also see Milla Jovovitch shouting, shouting and shouting - like the real Jeanne d'Arc.On the other hand, the war between the progressive Burgundy (allied to England's regent) and the Armagnacs (Charles VII's party) is only painted in the background. The fact that you had two popes at the time (one in Avignon, another in Roma) is not told.But the political setting is, overall, correct. So I understand it may be a little bit complicated for an US audience. I really thought that the fact Luc Besson also recreated real battles and the real butchery of a medieval battle, would appeal to a large public (not because the bloodshed is historically correct, but because, let's face it, we like violence).I think the movie should have been targeted at a more mature audience - most US fans of Monsieur Besson will be disappointed. Maybe we need more culture to really enjoy this kind of movie.  "},{"Title":"Watch and reflect","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Everyone probable knows the Jeanne d'Arc story and the fact that Jeanne was burned at the stake. I myself didn't know what did actually bring her there but this movie will give you the answer. Perhaps it could have been told in less time, but still it is a very skillfully told story. Milla Jovovich plays tremendously passionate. You admire and feel sorry for her at the same time and the final scenes of the utter distress she is going through left me very disturbed. If only our worldleaders have the same consciousness as Jeanne had... As for all the other actors, they also play very convincingly and Dustin Hofmann with his great voice! (It made me wonder why he never was casted as Darth Vader..) but Milla definitely has my votes for the next Globe and Oscar!  "}{"Title":"Impressive","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  It took a while before the film really got started. Skipping the long intro portraiting Joan's youth. Once Milla entered the picture the film became truly enjoyable. What a performance. Although we get to see some of the battles, it is truly Joan that remains the center of the story. Some may want to have seen more battle scenes, consider that this is not an action movie. The story tells about beliefs, faith and religion. It doesn't answer the question if Joan was truly blessed or victim of her own imaginations. That is something you as a viewer are left to ponder on. The confrontation with her own conscience at the end is the real highlight of the movie.Of course everyone knows the story and how it will end eventually, that should certainly not keep you from seeing it.9/10 "},{"Title":"Powerful!!!!","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I got a chance to see this film at a special advance screening in Los Angeles, and as a fan of Luc Besson and of history, I was properly blown away.Luc Besson's affinity for color and motion-a penchant that elevates his `La Femme Nikita' and `The Professional' to among the best action films of all time-now focuses his lens on the passionate history of St. Joan of Arc. Besson thrills us with his visuals, plunging his audience right into the heart of the tale &#133; from the tempest of Joan's horrifying visions, to the courts of Charles VII, to the filth and carnage of the horrifying Battle of Orléans.Besson, always one to skirt controversy, takes an uncalculated risk by depicting Joan as the troubled teenager she is, subtly equating her disturbing visions with the trauma of post-pubescent change.  Joan, played brilliantly by Milla Jovovich, roars through extreme emotional states ranging from breathless terror to barbarous passion.  Such profound mood swings may ring with eerie familiarity to those audience members who've dealt with distressed teenagers.Some critics have found fault with this interpretation of St. Joan, but I assert that such a depiction allows audiences to immediately empathize with the Maid's torment.  Too easy would it be to paint a flat, two-dimensional warrior who comes by her skills naturally.  How much more realistic is it to see her struggle with her Divine Calling, even come to hate the voices that compel her into battle.  This embodies Joan with sympathetic traits, and teens especially will identify with her isolation and issues of abandonment.Jovovich's standout performance is complimented by strong dramatic turns from many fine actors John Malkovich as the foppish and self-important Charles VII; Faye Dunaway as Charle's treacherous stepmother, Yolanda D' Aragon, Tchéky Karyo (so brilliant as Bob in `La Femme Nikita') as Dunois, a mighty French soldier who comes to trust and rely upon Joan; and the outstanding Dustin Hoffman, in a tour-dé-force performance, as Joan's surreal Conscience, ominously forcing Joan's hand when she must  confront the reality of her visions.Among the great historical dramas of the 1990s, only a handful standout as masterpieces; `Braveheart,' `Schindler's List,' and `Saving Private Ryan' immediately come to mind.  `The Messenger,' while not as powerful as these films, can easily take its place among their ranks, perhaps the most honest portrayal of St. Joan's life that we have seen.  "},{"Title":"The best film I have ever seen !","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie has it all.  Very good acting by the entire crew and a breathtaking performance by Milla Jovovitch.  The storyline is great and based on true historical facts.  Decors are very well rebuilt and the costumes look great.  The main ingredients (religion, battles and justice) go hand in hand and fit perfectly together.  A must-see movie for all ages. "},{"Title":"Probably the most embarrassing film I've seen in years!","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I went into The Messenger with the lowest of expectations, given the horrid word of mouth it has received within Philadelphia's film community, and was still greatly disappointed with the embarrassment that appeared on the screen.  It baffles me how this film was permitted to reach the public by any studio or how such talents as Dustin Hoffman, John Malkovich, and Milla Hotovich would consider attaching themselves with the project.  Despite some beautiful shots (which were the only bright spot of the film), the audience is treated (or should I say mistreated) to some of the absolute worst special effects this side of Baby Geniuses.  While attempting to have the gory effect of Private Ryan or Braveheart, the film's war scenes appeared straight out of a high school student film or the worst Troma production. While the effects were laughable, even more embarrassing was the complete lack of effort in casting.  French and Englishmen sported accents from all over the world, ranging from their native lands to exotic New Jersey.  I could see going all the way and using solely American accents if you're going to do a modern day adaptation like a Romeo & Juliet, but when you are trying to portray history in its native time and place, at least attempt to find actors who will sport the correct accents (or who will at least attempt accents at all).  This glaring hole is representative of the consistently lackadaisical interest in authenticity obvious in the filmmaker's work.  Oh yeah, and the inappropriate scene in which a filthy scumbag rapes a dead woman in front of a little girl was just completely unnecessary.  Filled with embarrassments all around, this was the worst of the 50 or so films I have viewed this year.   "},{"Title":"Epic saga of Joan of Arc is engrossing, but flawed","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Moviegoers who long for the epics of the fifties and sixties will enjoy this version of the saga of Joan of Arc, who led her people to victory over the English in 15th century France. As directed by Luc Besson (The Professional, La Femme Nikita) the film relates the story of a young girl from her earliest days of life in a peasant village to her final tragedy. This oft told tale was previously told in last year's mini-series (Leelee Sobieski), a 1950's drama with Jean Seberg (Saint Joan) directed by Otto Preminger and a 1948 feature with Ingrid Bergman in the title role. In The Messenger The Story of Joan of Arc, Milla Jovovich struggles admirably, with only partial success, in bringing this iconic figure of history to life. If only Besson had tried to mute some of the histrionics, the balance of fine performances of the rest of the cast would have added to a better whole. Other characters continuously tell Joan to calm down. I believe audience members wanted to shout that to her also. Aside from that, the legend is well told. The epic battle of Orleans is spectacular and gruesome. Heads are lopped off and limbs are dismembered with impunity. Interestingly, though, there is some humor evident in the carnage and it leavens the mix well. Joan's frustration in having so many men killed and yet realizing the necessity for the violence is well demonstrated in a scene where, after the battle a French soldier grabs a horrified English prisoner and is about to kill him for his teeth. The French soldier's teeth are disgustingly rotten. He tells Joan that these are part of the spoils of war. She stops the act and removes a gold ring from her finger and gives it to the Frenchman. Later on in the film, Dustin Hoffman in a brief role as Joan's Conscience, debates with her the pros and cons of her acts and whether her voices and visions were real or just what she wanted to see.Other support roles also make their mark. John Malkovich is Charles VII of France. He is at once, grateful for Joan's intervention, but treacherous when her further campaigns do not suit him or his court. Charles' mother-in-law, Yolande D'Aragon, is portrayed by Faye Dunaway as another self-serving member of the royal house. Other leaders of Joan's army add fine color to the tapestry of this story as it roars to is unavoidable conclusion. The viewer's knowledge of the outcome has to somewhat hurt as the film grinds to a close. The trial is glossed over perfunctorily, and even the final immolation is not given the dramatic power it could have had. The ideal film version of Joan's journey from maid to saint may be in the future. However, until that comes along, this one is not without its merits.  "},{"Title":"The charge of Joan of Arc","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is surely a stunning movie. Like all Besson's movies, it suffers from plot holes and a lack of stylistic balance. The very beginning is cheesy (looks like a shampoo commercial), the ending so-so when compared to the rest of the movie. And yet, it's stunning. The battle scenes of course (think Saving Private Ryan + Braveheart), but not only that. The key is Milla Jovovitch, who has everything one could expect from Joan, and more. If you can't figure out how a 18-year old peasant maiden could lean men to war, just watch Milla take charge, of her warriors, and of the movie. Mel Gibson's William Wallace was good, but this was another cool Mel character. Here, you've got a hero who's truly frightening, the embodiment of willpower. She's a righteous, religious war machine trapped in a young girl's body, and sometimes a young girl trapped in an armor suit, up to the point of utter craziness. Is Joan a saint ? The movie has an original, modern answer, far from the kiddie legend we all know. Milla's Joan is close to some of Shakespeare's heroes or heroines, mad but not quite, sure of her destiny and assailed by doubts. In spite of its flaws, one the most compelling movies of the year, with Milla Jovovitch as the most credible Joan ever.  "},{"Title":"Milla Jovovich gives stand-alone performance","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Luc Besson enlights us with another of his movies, and this time, he tells us a story which has been told a lot of times before, but never in his very special style. Powerful images of Joan's visions, and very intense, yet not overly violent battle scenes are the main themes of the film. Connected trough Joan's messages from God, Besson tells us the major events that led to France's victory over England and to the crowning of King Charles (John Malkovich), and continues with the king's betrayal of Joan, her trial for herecy and her brutal death at the stake. There are times in which you don't know whether you're seeing real life events or one of Joan's visions from God. But it is this special technique that makes this movie different and much more interesting than another re-telling of already well-known history. And it also gives Besson the possibility to create a mystic tension in the calm moments and a gripping tone for the dramatic events. It is also a movie that leads you inside the mind of Joan, and gives you an impression of how incredibly violent and powerful those voices were. You will understand that she had absolutely no choice but to follow the orders she claimed to receive. Forget any performance you saw in the past of any young actress in any movie, (and probably anyone of an older actress too), because Milla Jovovich gives a performance that will stand alone for a very long time. She is able to literally make you feel the pain the voices in her head are causing her, and manages to portray all kinds of feelings and expressions with an intensity unseen before. And with Luc Besson's very special way of putting facial expressions onto the screen (Remember Jean Reno in The Proffessional, when he screams, before he starts his fight against Gary Oldmans police units?), you have a combination that will leave nobody untouched. He demands a tour-de-force performance of all his actors, including John Malkovich, Faye Dunaway and Dustin Hoffman (you may need to read the end credits to realize the reason of his appearance), but Milla outdoes them all. She certainly will be one of the hottest names in Hollywood for complexe performances after this one.The movie plays best in the character scenes, it is the time and place when Besson can bring most of his visions to the screen. The battle scenes are oppulent, but sometimes a little too heroic and idealistic, you might feel a little french loyalty in some of the scenes, but never in a way that threatens the quality of the storytelling. Some in-jokes and a portion of humour make the movie sometimes slightly corny, but it is most needed in the purpose of entertainment, and can easily be accepted.Bottom line Luc Besson continues to make excellent movies with this powerful adaption of a story that was brought to the screen many times before, but never from this point of view. That and the outstanding performance by its lead actress make this another of Besson's films that will never be forgotten.  "},{"Title":"A good story, a great film.","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Although controversial as history, this film is very well designed and produced. It is engaging in its presentation, delightful in its photography. It is designed to raise questions and the viewer's answer will say much about the viewer. Was she sent by God? Does God speak to people directly? Did she believe in what she said? The truth is that others did, and that is what led to the historical impact of her life. This movie does credit as an ode to the power of one person. The violence is a little graphic at times, but not overwhelming. Otherwise it is very good for people of all ages. "},{"Title":"Well Done","Date":"22 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" A briskly-paced Bio of Joan of Arc, including numerous graphic battle scenes. Characters portrayed With The Bark On - soldiers of both English and French forces covered in mud, with horribly rotten teeth and decorated with scars - probably what people really looked like, in the early 1400s. Other scenes adding Realism include watching people eat food (something you don't normally see, in movies). Whatever they ate, it came from a boiling pot - broth, some chunks of veggies and whatever meat might be had...again, the unusual portrayal of common people eating was deliberate, and added Texture to the surroundings.Joan herself in the movie is all that she was portrayed to be in real life A historical Fluke - a 17-year old girl, led by her Visions, who becomes the leader of an army, and the Difficult, she accomplishes quickly....the Nearly Impossible, takes her a bit longer.I was a bit confused about the role of Dustin Hoffman. At first, I was sure he was an Angel, sent to counsel Joan as a sort of Doubting Thomas - leading her to a true self-examination of her motives - lending Objectivity to her track record, in an effort to get her to understand why Fortunes ran against her. But, he is listed as her Conscience...her own inner voice.I gave this movie a 9 rating. It will only be enjoyed by those who have an interest in History, or the life of Joan, but in anticipation that most of the audience will fit this description, I would say that 9 out of 10 will like it. The Rating above, of 6+, is probably a reflection of many viewers who were hoping for something else.....people who watch Transformers, or Romantic Comedies. "},{"Title":"Jovovic's performance.","Date":"14 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" There's no accounting for taste and this movie has many problems, but I don't understand the snide denigrations of Milla Jovovic's performance, especially since the ones denigrating her as a hysteric, likes to hold up Maria Falconetti's Joan as a work of uncompromising genius.Makes you wonder if they actually saw Dreyer's The Passion of Joan of Arc. Jovovic obviously tries to emulate Falconetti's performance and does it successfully in large stretches of the movie, except that Falconetti was more hysteric than Jovovic.The script and the instruction often let Jovovic down, especially in the latter part of a movie that's far too long already, but, for instance, in the scene where she identifies Charles, Falconetti has nothing on Jovovic when it comes to fervent, religious intensity. It certainly sent shivers down this atheist's spine.I suspect a lot of the flak directed at Jovovic stems from the fact that she's a model by trade and therefore should not be cast in roles 'out of her league', but stick to the bimbo-stuff.Another factor, I think, is pure, nationalistic envy. Joan is hands down the most amazing heroine in history and it's galling to a lot of people that she was born speaking French and raised hating the English. So if you're an Anglo, it's hard to take aboard the full Joan experience and taking an intellectual approach is a comfortable way out. "}{"Title":"The end of Besson's Career?","Date":"13 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I decided to give this movie a two, simply because I can still appreciate good visuals (even when directors and producers believe this substitutes for poor script writing), however, this was a totally bland interpretation of both a controversial and complex historic figure. I know from his latest movies that Luc Besson enjoys simplistic/childish humor, cliché moments, thin dialog, and two dimensional characters... all coated in pleasant costumes, with decent music and good photography/camera work. However this incredibly flat and superficial interpretation of Joan of Arc's life is completely emancipatory and forgetful at the very best. His biggest downfall was to choose the story of such a prominent figure in history which required so much more work than just a super-imposed stylistic approach from a director who, in his success, could afford to throw in key ingredients to Cookie cut himself another successful blockbuster... There was so much material that could have been explored from what we know of the life and death of Joan la Pucelle, as well as the period in which this story takes place, and the characters that may have influenced her as well as the many she did influence along the way... the list goes on! I hope another director will be up for the challenge in the future, because this story has real potential for an all out classic movie.Ways in which this can be achieved 1- get a better lead actress, no offense to Mila but this role is WAY out of her league! she should stick to what she knows... 2- get a better script writer - one who can focus on what he really wants to write (because this one goes in all directions) and write it with more maturity!! 3- get a director who can explore the story with more depth and understanding, because I don't think Mr Besson really understood the essence of the Character... putting it plainly, even if Joan was a lunatic, she saved France and led an army to victory... would an army follow a screaming adolescent/psychotic child? She was also incredibly intelligent, that we know from the materials that survived her trial, where she defended herself. She was also terrified of being burnt. very unfortunate this movie was such a fail, I hope the story gets another shot... "},{"Title":"I don't think. I leave that to God. I'm nothing in all this, I'm just the Messenger.","Date":"30 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Luc Besson directs and Milla Jovovich stars as the Maid Of Orleans who lifted France of its knees-and was tried and executed for being a heretic. The End.Well that's what you would think all Besson's film amounts too, given the hate and general negativity that pours down on it from many of the worlds cinematic sources. Well, look, it's not brilliant, but is it really the devil that many have painted it as? Not so say I. It's about as subtle as a sledgehammer all told, but Besson's study of the iconic/infamous waif who did indeed expel the British hoards has gusto by the shed load. He nicely crafts the 15th century lands from which to tell his story, and then, to quote someone from another period epic, unleashes hell. Literally. Yep the British armies are stereotypically vile I bet Mel Gibson loves the Brit portrayals here, and the blood that is shed is vicious and borderline sick. But it works well in the context of Jeanne's prominent rise and subsequent fall, with her religious confliction deftly blending in with the blood being shed in the pursuit of liberation. Visually the film is a treat, and for action construction it holds up to be one of the better modern day historical epics in that department. But where's the substance?Ah, there's the big problem with the movie. Besson and his co-writer Andrew Birkin are so pre-occupied with the horrors of war and Jeanne's leadership qualities, they turn the rest of the film into a skeleton in need of flesh. And it's actually Jovovich who suffers the most. She's great when she's screaming and launching into the enemy, taking an arrow hit with grace and dedication . But there's been no character depth laid out, so Jovovich's Jeanne just comes across as a moody teenager out to cause trouble. We need to have some insight into her troubled predicament and what drives her on, not the scantily written filler moments that actually are just appetisers to blood letting battles. There 's also annoyances when the film slips into moments of modern day speak, it's a crass and lazy oversight by the makers to think that we wouldn't notice such speak in 15th Century France. Besson surrounds Jovovich with some fine acting talent tho, even if some are a tad underused. Rolling out are John Malkovich, Dustin Hoffman, Faye Dunaway, Vincent Cassel, Timothy West, Desmond Harrington and the always watchable, and scary, Tcheky Karyo.So a bit hollow it be, but on the outside it's a ripper. Visceral, explosive and yes, fun too. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Various Uses of Religion","Date":"31 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This movie was incredible! Great acting, charged battle scenes, adrenaline charged fighting scenes! What really made the movie more than just a cool war movie and more than just a historical autobiography was that it sampled the many ways in which religion is and can be used in this world; whether it be for good or evil means. This movie proves that not only do people use and value their relationships with God and/or religion for many different purposes, some of those purposes can be self-serving, even if we don't realize it. I love how the movie makes the view analyze how religion can be wonderful and sacred and promote change and compassion throughout people; but it can also be used to manipulate, control and conquer. But is this the fault of God? Is it the fault of God if we misread or misunderstand his signs? Should we impose the negative consquences that us mortals burden religion with because we are unenlightened in comparison to a Holy God? What causes people to believe or not believe in God? Do our mistakes from the misuse of religion in God's name give religion a bad name? How can we stop people, or countries from using religion to discriminate against others in hopes of conquoring land or money? This movie provoked all of the questions and many more, making it a new favorite of mine! Lastly, how do we decide if those who kill in God's name are accurately interpreting his will? At what point must we destroy in order to create? More importantly, when do we know it is God's will? What does God think of us killing in his name? Just a few things to think about and I feel this movie showed Joan struggling with all of these questions as well. "},{"Title":"Rip-roaring biopic blast","Date":"20 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" A thoroughly entertaining film. Luc Besson has his own original eye for what was thought to have already been done. Jeanne d'Arc always seems to have been shot from a hitherto unexplored perspective. Into this he squashes comedy and melodrama as improbable but sparky bedfellows. Milla Jojovich is perfect for this directorial mania - polystyrene-brained naivete oscillates with shuddering fervour.Around this fascinating (if tomboyish) performance Besson builds a posturing coterie of French military. The nuances of their handling can be easily overlooked; there's a rhythm to how these brutish men sneer, then come onside and move away again. Tchéky Karyo's particularly good. I might even have had to admit liking French soldiers were it not for a balancing slew of loud-mouthed English knights.John Malkovich is of course a big draw on the poster, but it's unsubstantiated - Faye Dunaway blows him offscreen. Exemplary entertainment, if not factually irreproachable. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Aternative View of French Heroine","Date":"5 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" About a year ago, the wife and I rented and watched The Messenger. Memory is a bit fuzzy, but I remember it being quite good. The most interesting thing is the role that this little girl mystic actually played in martialing French society. Not knowing much about Joan D'Arc, I did not find the movie to be that controversial, and thought it was a quite visionary glimpse of life 500 years ago, as well as the inner workings of religious-inspiration swirled with ethnic/nationalism toward the end of the Middle Ages. Evidently, quite a few adherents of Saint Joan found it to be literally heretical. The movie is probably not well suited for family viewing, nor for those who prefer a more sanitized view of French history or Saint Joan. But it is quite entertaining and compelling if you have some tolerance for uncompromising, sometimes even brutal images of the past. "},{"Title":"Wearisome Historical Pageant","Date":"1 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Joan of Arc may have defeated the English armies, but she could not prevent the tyranny of the English language over her native land. Here we have an ostensibly French film about a French national heroine, made by a French director and producer and featuring a number of French actors. And made in English. The choice of language was presumably influenced by the need to succeed at the American box-office, a factor which also accounts for the casting of Hollywood luminaries such as Faye Dunaway, Dustin Hoffman and John Malkovich. It also partly accounts for the horrible miscasting in the leading role of a Ukrainian fashion model turned Hollywood starlet, although Milla Jovovich's claim cannot have been harmed by the fact that, at the time the film was made, she also went by the name of Madame Luc Besson.The actual cause for which Joan fought seems remote from modern concerns. The Hundred Years War was not, as we tend to assume today, a clash between rival English and French patriotisms, but rather a power struggle between two rival dynasties, the houses of Valois and Lancaster, neither of whom had right on their side. The Dauphin Charles (who was probably illegitimate) based his claim on the Salic Law, which had been introduced into France by King Philip V in 1316 to justify his usurping the throne which otherwise would have gone to his young niece. As for his nephew and rival Henry VI, he was not even the rightful king of England, being the grandson of another usurper who had overthrown and murdered his predecessor.Joan claimed to have been inspired to fight for Charles by messages from God. Few people today, except perhaps right-wing Catholic French nationalists, would regard this claim, which presupposes a deity with an inordinate interest in the niceties of French succession law, as a literal statement of fact, so succeeding ages have tended to remake Joan in their own image. If this devout Catholic and ardent partisan of the ruling dynasty remains a heroine in modern France, a country which is not only republican but also officially secular, it is because she is seen as an apostle of national liberation avant la lettre. Her story has been used in numerous plays and films to reflect the preoccupations of the periods in which they were written or made. Shakespeare's Henry VI Part I, written at a time of great patriotic fervour shortly after the defeat of the Armada, treats her disrespectfully as an enemy of England. Schiller's Die Jungfrau von Orleans reflects its author's interest in the moral philosophy of Immanuel Kant. Shaw's Saint Joan (filmed by Otto Preminger in 1957) anachronistically makes its heroine a spokeswoman for Protestantism and nationalism. (Shaw seems to have wanted to provoke the Catholic Church, which had canonised Joan shortly before his play was written). Brecht's Marxist version Saint Joan of the Stockyards updates her story to 20th-century Chicago. Jean Anouilh's L'Alouette follows the official line in making Joan an icon of French patriotism, as does Victor Fleming's 1948 film with Ingrid Bergman (made soon after World War II and the liberation of France from Nazi rule). There is even a recent TV sitcom called Joan of Arcadia.Besson's film does not try to impose any particular ideological line on Joan's story, but it does perhaps reflect a modern interest in psychology. This is done by the device of having Hoffman appear as the voice of Joan's conscience, her conversations with him representing her inner thoughts in dramatic form. In one scene Joan sees her older sister raped and murdered by English soldiers. Although there is no historical basis for this, there may be some psychological truth; it is entirely possible that Joan's burning hatred of the English, and her conviction of a Divine mission to fight them, were inspired by her witnessing brutal acts of this sort.There have been a number of French films about Joan, none of which I have seen, but attempts to film her story in English have not been very successful. Fleming's film is stolid and long-winded. Preminger's is slightly better, but did badly at the box office. (Much of the blame for this was placed- in my view unfairly- on the film's young star Jean Seberg). Besson's, however, struck me as being, except in the realism of its battle scenes, as the weakest of the three, and in this case I felt that the blame must lie with its star. Quite frankly, Jovovich does not strike me as being the sort of actress to turn to if one is looking for psychological depth, as her husband clearly was here. One gets little sense from her performance of whether Joan was insane, or a fraud, or genuinely inspired.Whatever the weakness of his claim to the throne, Charles VII (as the Dauphin became) was to prove one of France's most effective monarchs, and is remembered today as Charles the Victorious. One gets little sense of this from the film, but the fault lies less with John Malkovich (who plays him as Charles the Complete Nincompoop) than with the tradition in films and plays on this subject of portraying the Dauphin was a weak, indecisive coward in order to make a contrast with the strong, decisive, courageous Joan. There are some better performances such as Timothy West as the scheming Bishop Cauchon, but none of these lift the film out of the ordinary. Like the 1948 version, it is too long, and ends up as little more than a wearisome historical pageant. 5/10, chiefly for the battle scenes. "},{"Title":"What to say about such an art","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Luc Besson has always provided material worth watching. This time he gives his art a more psychological angle, with audience left in practical aimless controversy. This is a film, like 'The Fountain' or 'Jacob's ladder', which, everyone who has seen its entirety, has something different to say about it. How do we depict historical figures anymore? Should it be so constricted as a high school history book? With hardly any identity whatsoever? Besson has definitely crafted quite a piece, in this. If you have previously seen any of the French guy's previous work, you would be able to pinpoint who exactly was behind the scene's, and what makes such cinematography shine. He used Milla Jojovich again, and must have originally appreciated her performance in 'The Fifth element'. This time though, she is not a divine prophesied being, beforehand. But with the tables turned, someone talked about, after their monumental behavior within incidents. You don't exactly know what to think, but have respect for such a person with so much love and drive for France, that they are willing to give up their life for such a piece of land. And accordingly, wound up doing so. It was kind of left with the message, that you never really know what goes on inside a historical figure. Only that, like all of us, there are constantly on a premise in which to work things out within themselves. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"15 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I think Milla Jovovich did a great job in this movie, just rent it alright its great, also it also makes you think whats your purpose in life??I think Milla Jovovich did a great job in this movie, just rent it alright its great, also it also makes you think whats your purpose in life??I think Milla Jovovich did a great job in this movie, just rent it alright its great, also it also makes you think whats your purpose in life??I think Milla Jovovich did a great job in this movie, just rent it alright its great, also it also makes you think whats your purpose in life?? "},{"Title":"Maid in France","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" In the wrong directorial hands, classic historical stories can easily metamorphose into classic hysterical movies. Amongst many others, Mel Gibson, the master of fashioning commercial material from rope sandals, bedroom curtains, and a box of mum's make-up, knows this only too well, as must all accomplished, one-time cult-directors such as Luc Besson (Subway, Nikita, Leon). Re-telling the past is a particularly difficult genre to do well, limited as it must be to no more than a legendary use of language, and with little more than myth and tradition to provide a framework. A screenplay, cast and production must be cobbled together with backers' money in the sure knowledge that so many have fallen at this large and testing hurdle. Kenneth Branagh solves the problem by using a time-tested scriptwriter and a weathered, respected team, the only usual nod to inform us 'it's all a game really' is to place Brian Blessed like a cherry on top of the cake. This formula works as often as not, but Besson, at this time fresh from sci-fi comedy, (Fifth Element), is more daring. His cherry is John Malkovitch, and the icing is Dustin Hoffman, during this period of his career more often seen in summer blockbusters and misconceived comedies. France's premier auteur on the commercial, world stage, delivers the Maid of Orleans as Christ. In an approach reminiscent of Scorcese's 'Last Temptation&#133;' the movie asks of the audience not the more conventional questionability of Joan's divine inspiration, but seeks to examine the motives for her claims. Milla Jovovich is short, sharp and punky, glinting even more than her steel armour in the title role. All the character actors are a tad larger than life, and with the superb, subtle, and well-pitched blend of Hoffman's embodiment of conscience and the remarkably effective scenes of Joan's visions, Besson has created a gorgeous film. He chooses to take a story everyone thinks they remember from childhood, gives us a cast generally unknown in the mainstream, and adds a few ingredients to change the flavour. Released in the same period as 'Gladiator', and complete with effects and action arguably as good, this production does have a story. It also has a ring of modern humour, which convinced me that these people really lived. One of Joan's officers, having issued an ultimatum on her (and God's) behalf, is told, 'tell her to f&#133;. off!' This, when asked by Joan for the response, is translated as '&#133;they say they'll think about it!' This is an epic, moving, exciting, believable and enchanting film. The photography is stunning, the soundtrack discreet and of quality. Like most people, I missed this in the cinema, and predictably, recommendation hasn't tempted my friends into watching a 'God-movie' based in 14th Century France, which stars nobody! Dare to be different. This is the message YOU must follow!Docked one point for the lack of Jean Reno in the cast. "},{"Title":"MILLA - The real Messenger","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Milla - the real - Messenger What we have here is a film about motivations. Why do we do the things we do? Since it does actually answer this question and resolves this human dilemma - this fact makes it, not necessarily the best film, but nothing less than the most important film of our time, or of all time for that matter. I'm not well read enough on Joan's history to know of its accuracy or not, but who cares, that is not the message of The Messenger. I also don't know anything about the personal life of the writer-director Luc Besson other than he use to be married to Milla Jovovich the star of his film. I don't know how religious or spiritual he is, or even if he completely understands what he has accomplished here, but he must already be a friend of God's or well on his way to understanding or enlightenment or having his moment with God. What he has managed to get on film is only the answer to the age old question - what is the meaning of life ! - and with not one scintilla or trace of preachiness or religiosity - just a search for truth. His Joan wrestles with such important eternal issues till understanding, conviction, and resolution through her God. Everybody believed in Jesus back then, but not every soul had it out with Him or had their moment with Him as we see Joan do in the film. There is such a wide range of opinions evident as to who Dustin Hoffman plays in this movie, from Joan's conscience to the devil. My interpretation is that Dustin played God, with, in this case, the title of, or role of, her Conscience with a capital C. Only the Holy Spirit would have an interest in bringing one to a place, that we see in the film, of conviction, repentance, submission and confession. He shows her (we should all be so lucky - but now with this film, we are) her true motivations of revenge, greed, joy in cruelty, and worst of all pride and she is convicted and says -set me free. How could an all loving God expect any more from His creations, or any less. This movie is a stunning and brilliant depiction of what our Creator wants from us - transactions - and/or a relationship - our being hungry enough for truth and admitting it when we see it about ourselves and about God - in that we are screwed up and only He holds the keys of resolution (and paid the price, on the cross) for our sin dilemma. I haven't seen this relationship so brilliantly portrayed since Robert Duvall in The Apostle - another very important film. How one guy Luc Besson can go from making possibly the worst film I've ever seen The Fifth Element to possibly the best in The Messenger must say something of his artistry, and of his risk-taking. He was born to deliver this message to mankind in this film about an early protestant. Whether he realizes it or not his message through Milla is very Biblical. I doubt he prayed for help and guidance from God to deliver a Biblical message without being preachy, but in spite of himself he has managed to do it, by having his characterization of Joan so diligent in her quest for truth - she bypasses the stupidity, hypocrisy and deception of religion and goes straight to God herself and has her moment of getting real with God. Never before seen in a major release before, that I've seen, or can think of,off hand. This is a must see film for all. I watched the confession scene with Dustin, (who is God) several times with tears in my eyes. Then eventually before she is martyred He Himself gives her the absolution she so desires. Luc probably made a film having his character perform the way he wishes it were so - about bypassing religion for forgiveness and eternal matters etc. but based on what I've read in God's book - I would say Luc has stumbled on the right formula for having peace with God and going into eternity which we will all have to face one day. I wonder if he is well read in the Bible enough to know God has really made it just that simple. If you don't believe me read His book for yourself and see. Admit that He is God and you ain't and ask for what He offers in forgiveness and eternal life etc. - and He will give it to you. It is all such a good deal, I can't figure out why so many choose not to participate in God's program. Milla is perfect for this part and born to play this role with just the right intensity - I just hope and pray she doesn't burn out with all her vices before even reaching 40 - I'm afraid she fancies herself the next Marilyn or Gia etc. - and is bent on self destruction, but I hope she grows up and lives up to all that potential to deliver many other messages from God for us, through her many talents.Run to the video store and see this film at any cost, and then do what Joan demonstrates at the end of the film - have your moment with God and ask for what He offers - it's all free - you just have to lower your pride enough to do this.- chpnlzt at yahoo "}{"Title":"Trying too hard to please everyone","Date":"10 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I like a good medieval epic, and I like films in which medieval combat is depicted in a believable fashion. I even like films that are bad enough to be accidentally entertaining. Whether the battle scenes are believable is something I leave to others, but The Messenger is neither of the other two. It is a mishmash of scenes with little, if any, focus. It takes itself far too seriously for the viewer to extract any fun out of it. Above all else, it features a cast vying so hard for an Oscar that it becomes painful. Milla's performances in the Resident Evil films were more appealing than as the seventeen year old rebel leader who forever changed the history of France. Not that I find France a particularly interesting subject in the first place, but France deserves a lot better than this. I must concur with most of the critics in this instance that Hollywood's desire to grind the histories of every country, even America's, into five-minute-noodle-like chunks has grown out of control. You do not expect complete truth in any historical epic, but come on.To those who claim that this is yet another attempt by Hollywood to demonise Christians, I have one word to say suckers. Films that demonise Christians exist solely so you can whine about it. Speaking as an Aspie (a member of a minority group that was slandered to hell and back recently in Law & Order Trial By Jury), your crocodile tears are wasted on me. While Joan's fanaticism is all over the place in this film, the most scarily accurate portrayals are those of the Church figures drafted by both governments to put Joan out of their misery. Anyone who wants a kindergarten version of why the trial by jury system was invented would do well to observe these scenes. Contrary to what some critics might tell you, these instances of verdicts being decided before the trial begins are quite common in societies where Church and State have intermingled. So kudos to Luc Besson for getting that part right.Unfortunately, the rest of the film is an unholy mess. Milla Jojovich is badly miscast as J'eanne, the girl who would lead an army to take back a small plot of land. She is about as French as I am, and there is no effort on the part of makeup artists, dialogue coaches, or even screenwriters, to hide the fact. Although faint tinges of her original Ukranian mode of speech remain, she sounds so American that half the time when she is addressing Richard Ridings' La Hire (one of the few well-cast roles in the film), you half expect her to ask him if he wants fries with that. In spite of having a mere fraction of the screen time, Tchéky Karyo and John Malkovich act rings around Jojovich. Put them in a girly suit and give them a sword, I am sure they would make a far better J'eanne. Their dramatic range is far wider, for one thing. Roger Ebert hit the nail on the head when he said that this film labors under the misapprehension that Joan's life is a war story and takes place largely on battlefields.When The Messenger is on the battlefield, it manages to remain interesting for about half of a scene length. The tactics used in one major siege sequence are even amusing. The problem is that when Besson tries to do anything besides an action sequence, it does not work. After the umpteenth shot of Milla acting all bug-eyed for the camera while an array of stupid visual effects surround her, you are just waiting for Joan to be defeated so this mess can finish already. Not content to be incomprehensible while Joan is fighting or developing her reasons to fight, however, Besson insisted in including scenes with Dustin Hoffman where he constantly tells her what an idiot she is, or something along those lines. It always amuses me when people whine about Joan being portrayed as if she is insane. She was a seventeen year old girl who felt so strongly that she had to go to war that it impressed veterans in the French army. That, and statistics, pretty much convince me that she was. Religion had nothing to do with her marching into the hundred years war. No film, no matter how much it crows at me that the Church is awesome (the same Church that burned her at the behest of the government?), is going to convince me otherwise.I gave The Messenger a two out of ten. It is too bad to be good, and not bad enough to be good, either. It is stuck so firmly in No Man's Land it might as well have not been made. "},{"Title":"Lost Opportunity","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This film had some great entertainment value and could have been a wonderful retelling of Joan of Arc's saga, but as usual, Hollywood went for the low-road and stripped Joan's story of the truth and fairness that was certainly deserved as published in the public record.Things like Dustin Hoffman's role. Dustin Hoffman was Hollywood. Yes, Hollywood likes to twist true stories to serve their version of things. They tried to make Joan appear conflicted when in fact there is no evidence to suggest anything of the sort. She stayed true to her faith and died because of the betrayal of the King of France and by the hateful English at the time that saw her as a threat. The deck was stacked against her from the beginning of the trial.There is no evidence that puts Joan in a bad light. In a subsequent and fair trial after her death, the findings were completely different and led to a fair opinion of her that was accepted even in England. And, to this day we do not know what retraction Joan had signed because it was only a few lines and would have taken a half-hour to read when not even given that much time to do so.According to one source, What was read aloud to Joan and was signed by her must have been something quite different, for five witnesses at the rehabilitation trial, including Jean Massieu, the official who had himself read it aloud, declared that it was only a matter of a few lines. Even so, the poor victim did not sign unconditionally, but plainly declared that she only retracted in so far as it was God's will. So the film and those with an axe to grind regarding Joan do not show this immense resolve of this young pious girl.Her canonization in 1920 was quite appropriate.The battle scenes were very well done and the acting superb. But since Hollywood is so Christophobic, they preferred to paint Joan as a deranged religious psychopath. You see, in Hollywood, the rule is that devout Christians must be portrayed as insane, child-molesters, psychopaths, evil, etc. Christians are not allowed to be shown in a positive light. Of course, every other faith does not share that condemnation.So instead of following the public record of Joan's demeanor, they went with some bizarre idea of her as a lunatic.That's how a great opportunity for a film that would have drawn a much larger audience simple by going with the true public record of who Joan was and how she lived her life. "},{"Title":"Very well done and very crappy all in one.","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I was really expecting an amazing epic from Luc Besson. I think The Professional is a classic, and The fifth Element is one of my favorite sci fi movies. Yes, Besson did pull of some pretty good looking camera work in some of the scenes. In fact the were parts that I though looked simply amazing. Then there were scenes, such as some of the battle scenes were it appeared to me that the soldiers were not really going at it, but just play fighting. I was watching the soldiers fighting in the back ground and it really did look like they were just going through the motions of fighting like it was their first time practicing, until the camera suddenly cut to a close up and someone's leg gets chopped off. The battles were also quite confusing since I never really knew who was the french and who was the English. I didn't know who was kicking who's a$$ until it was over and someone cried WE WON! I didn't feel that there was any real deep character development, either. The dialogue was maybe a little too modern also, including the accents. It seemed that there was little effort to give the dialogue any historical value. The movie did have it glorious moments but for me personally there was just a lot missing the should of been there for a movie like that.  "},{"Title":"Best medieval battle-fest ever made.","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Let's get one thing straight from the beginning this movie is not pretending to have historical value - it's Luc Besson's point of view, and as far as I'm concerned it is the most important one possible. What this movie IS - so damn good it makes me want a sequel (kind of impossible of course, though Joan of Arc II Reborn In Fire sounds good to me -). What to expect - it is Besson, so be prepared for the usual perfect mixture of action, drama, cool FX and that cool piece of humor, which exists even in the most tragic moments. The movie is great, especially if you abandon the religious content, and think of Joan more like of an action heroine (great acting by Milla Jovovich). "},{"Title":"I have a message for you....this is a good movie!","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Milla Jovovich did a great job here. This is a movie that director Luc Besson made for the sole purpose of hoping that it would be nominated for an Academy Award. But sadly, it was not. It should have been, but it wasn't. What it was nominated for was the Worst Actress Razzie Award. Which I think is a lot of bogus. Milla Jovovich should have gotten Best Actress. Not Worst. The other thing that lets you know that this was a movie in the hopes of winning an Academy was the fact that it only had one song it in and it was at the end. Luc Besson probably wanted them to nominate it for Best Original Song too. But instead, this movie got no credit and was just passed by like so many other things in today's world. While I found it slightly confusing to figure out some of the character names, this was a very good movie. It shows graphic and informed details about the life and history of Joan of Arc.*POSSIBLE SPOILERS* We start out with showing Joan as a young girl and how she would come to believe that she could speak to God. The middle shows her fighting in battle. And the ending parts (about an hour of this) shows her in prison and fighting to not be burned by the English. Toward the end is when Dustin Hoffman comes in. He was great. He should have gotten some sort of award here, too. This was a really good period piece aswell as a drama. It shows how life was like back in the 15th century. My only complaint is the profanity. The F word is used about ten times maybe. This was interesting because this film takes place in 1429. The F word was not first spoken until the French Revolution when the French were to execute American prisoners, they would use the F word as a negative phrase to call them. Since the prisoners didn't know what this word meant, they would raise their middle fingers (which would be chopped off right before execution) and scream the same word back at them. A little history lesson for you, there. All in all, I give THE MESSENGER THE STORY OF JOAN OF ARC 5/5. "},{"Title":"This movie offers some interesting views on Joan of Arc","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is assuming that you know the Story of Joan of ArcAt first while watching, the movie may seem a bit werid or even find milla's acting strange. But this movies has more than just action and history to offer, it gives some interesting ideas on what may have happened. Why was Joan of Arc so sucessful in uniting the french people. Why was she labelled a witch or even why she was so victorious in her battles. She might have been sent by god. But if you know Joan of Arc story (before watching this movie), you would know what happened in the end to her.....so you might be asking...where was god at the end. Give it a go, try to see deeper into the movie, you might be seeing Joan of Arc in a new light "},{"Title":"Why do this to a legendary hero?","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I really do not care for this movie.  I understand that this is not a documentary.  And I understand that directors and writers need some artist leeway to make history into an interesting movie (i.e. Braveheart, Rob Roy, Last of the Mohicans, etc.).  But why would you change a pious shepherdess into a revengeful, bloodthirsty lunatic.  This is not a complimentary look at one of France's national heroes.  Anybody who is familiar with the story of Joan of Arc already knows that she was a reluctant hero who did not want to take on the role of France's savior, but gave in to her voices.  These are the facts gathered from different sources, including her trial.  The movie has her wanting revenge and that she was interpreting her voices the way she wanted to hear them.  If they wanted to fundamentally change her THIS much, why not make this movie The Messenger  The Story of Jane of Bourges  a totally fictional character. 30 minutes in to the movie, I was looking forward to Joan getting cooked at the stake.If this was a film about George Washington, and he were portrayed as bloodthirsty lunatic who used the American Revolution for revenge against British for murdering his brother, the director would be shot. "},{"Title":"Over-acting and lack of empathy kill this movie","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Besson has done some spectacular movies.  This is not one ofthem.  Milla's over-acting creates a character who is both annoyingand difficult to believe.  None of the central characters are easy toempathize with so one doesn't really care if they live or die.  Theviolence seems unnecessary and gruesome.  The script is choppyand the dialog is forced. "},{"Title":"Shows the great acting of Milla Jovovich!!","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Excellent acting by Ms. Jovovich! The scenery was well research and presented. Captured the spirit of Jeanne d'Arc. Ms. Jovovich always surprises me with he ability to act, and do it remarkably well.If you love historical drama or war films, you must see this! "},{"Title":"this has got to be a joke","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Uhm well were to start. First of all the casting, if you're trying to make an honest sincere story about Joan of Arc well try to cast the right actors to do so. that means don't cast americans to act as french. try to cast some good actors in stead of well known ones. the script well i'm not totally sure on what Besson was trying to do here, make a comedy or a drama. according to my standards he failed at both. I mean when the french shoot a canonball at the english which says Hello, i start wondering what the writers were on while coming up with this stuff. Having a bunch of lunatics acting as Joan's henchmen doesn't really do justice to the real story about this important character in European history. Milla Jovovich as Joan, i wonder whether Besson typecast her. Because if you've seen her in the Fifth Element, you'll know what i mean. She acts as if she just walked off that set. the dialogue is absolutely horrific. With all the visuals and sets they try to create this 15th century, and they sort of succeed. but whenever the actors speak you know you're back in the present time. The actors use ordinary slang instead of the dialect or even the words used in that time.no good words for this movie. a waste of money! "}{"Title":"Terrible acting!","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I've got a lot of respect for the French heroine Joan of Arc, but didn't know the whole story, so I wanted to see a Joan of Arc movie. Now I regret seeing this version of the Joan of Arc story, rather than 'Joan of Arc', the TV-movie from 1999 starring Leelee Sobiesky, or 'La Passion de Jeanne d'Arc' from 1928. The only reason I chose this one was that it was directed by Luc Besson, and that I've enjoyed all of his previous movies.But this movie is a sad chapter i Luc Besson's career. First of all it's boring. Second; the acting is terrible, except for Dustin Hoffman's act. Third; after seeing this film I completely lost the respect I had for Joan of Arc. Milla Jovovich played her character in a way that made me feel that the great heroine of war was nothing but a cocky, sissy peasant-girl with illusions of grandeur. Quite frankly; I don't think that's the way a great heroine should be characterized!After seeing this film on a DVD I sat down to see the HBO documentary residing on the same DVD. Hearing Milla talk about all the research that went into making this movie, that they visited many of the locations Joan actually visited 500 years ago, and seeing original artifacts with Joan's own handwriting and so on, was much more interesting than the movie itself.Hoping to rebuild the respect a heroine like Joan of Arc deserve, I'll later check out both of the films previously mentioned, since I've heard a lot of good things about both those movies. It won't take much to beat this one, but I hope that they're good enough to rebuild the respect deserved as well! "},{"Title":"An epic portrayal of Joan of Arc, fine writing, directing, acting make this a real rewarding film.","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Let me preface my comments for The Messenger by stating that I am a Catholic who grew up in the 50s, and my home parish was St Joan of Arc.  Not only that, but when my children were growing up, in a different place, our church was also St Joan of Arc. So you might say I have a long standing interest in the subject.Before I saw this one, I saw the other recent one, with Leelee Sobieski in the lead role.  Both are wonderful movies, and very different in their approach. I think Milla Jovovich's performance as Joan in this one is truly great. She is, at various times, an innocent peasant trying to follow God's call, and a half-crazed warrior bent of exterminating the British who won't leave her land.Luc Besson directed The Messenger in a more epic style, sometimes going overboard with battle scenes, and 50 ways to kill your enemy. But he also used grand music, great special effects, and one of the best uses of front and rear channel surround sound on the Dolby Digital 5.1 DVD version.  There also is a good dollop of low-frequency bass that tests your subwoofer, and rattles your picture frames.  Without a modern home-theater sound system, this would be a totally different and inferior movie experience.One of the extras on the DVD is a featurette, narrated primarily my Milla Jovovich, which delves into the making of this film.  They did extensive research in France, used some of the translations of the original trial transcript, and used 15th century drawings of events in her life to model the costumes and sets. The result is a very realistic portrayal of the historical events in those two years, 1429 through 1431, when Joan was 17 through 19, and lead the French army against the British to save France.The film makes clever use of a fictional character called the Conscience, played by Dustin Hoffman. He shows up when Joan is in prison awaiting trial. No one else can see him, he is obviously a vision, that she talks to, and expresses her doubts. Some have said this makes the film an atheistic view of Joan. I strongly disagree. To me it brings out more clearly her humanity, her natural doubts about what she really heard from God, and what she may have done on her own. Her asking for confession and forgiveness is a natural response for someone who was so strongly grounded in her Catholic faith.All-in-all, for someone wanting both an entertaining and significant movie experience, The Messenger delivers. It is a bit long, almost 3 hours, but it never gets slow or boring. In addition to Jovovich and Hoffman, John Malkovich is good as the Dauphin who becomes king of France, and Faye Dunnaway as his stepmother. I rate this movie a strong 8 of 10. "},{"Title":"A comment to all those angry reviewers","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  It was long time ago (about 3 or 2 months ago), when I wrote my emotional resume about movie. I was in hope that many people slowly will understand meaning of Besson's version and in the same way will understand HOW and WHY Besson makes movies. But it's seems so that US mainstream movie making style makes most people blind to other possibilities and visions. YES, it's good to be wealthy and live comfortably, but it's best to be a human being. Why I'm saying this? Because most of you have a imagination of Joan as true, brave, clear-in-mind, good looking 17 years old girl, who saved France. Yes, but it's just a IMAGINATION. No one can know how she actually was. And remember this - it's not Jesus Christ or someone else, who's character and outer appearance is created by our minds, if we honest. She was a real person, real girl with her fears (maybe you will say that she didn't have them at all?), doubts, weaknesses (everyone is weak in some kind) and great skills. Besson simply makes his own version about her, but still let door be open. You don't like it? You maybe even don't like that we can't know these historical persons? That we can't know what really happened that time? It's annoying? Yes it is. But better annoying true than sometimes stupid and sweet lies. And at the end I maybe will repeat myself Besson makes movies about humans, not dolls. His characters - we can cry on them, that they are doing wrong, can suffer with them, feel sad about them, we can do everything, except denying them. P.S. Mostly Besson don't makes movies only for money, that's sure. In US, biggest part of movie industry do. That's sad.  "},{"Title":"we have a problem","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Yes, the media criticisms were quibbles.  Yes, Milla was spellbinding, and Besson was exactly the right maniac for the job.  Yes, it was the heartthumpinest, goosebumpinest, throatlumpinest entertainment I'd seen in a long while, and, yes, it was also a believable and tactful take on the perfection of one person's faith.  In fact, it was a four-star effort all around, except that......Joan didn't have an older sister, much less one who was murdered by the English, and that matters. Mark Twain said that Joan's was the first, and so far the only, biography made under oath.  Her family roster is not one of the areas the court record leaves blank.  Best guess is that Joan was a saint.  Second best is that she was a total loopster.  If you elect to pursue a third possibility, that she was driven by a traumatic subconscious agenda, then you need a plausible trauma, one that doesn't contravene the record.  Otherwise, you're just getting it wrong. Does this really big error in storytelling judgment wreck the movie? Remember, we're not talking Ivanhoe.  Joan changed the world.  Sounds like a discussion question to me. "},{"Title":"An excellent movie in many ways.","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I would like to say that this movie was excellent. Maybe I am not the right person to judge this as I am a fan of Luc Besson and Milla Jovovich. If the setting is historical drama/war then so much better.I have not really seen any other movies about Jeanne d'Arc, so I cant compare it. Why I found this movie so good was that you where given the opportunity to judge for yourself.The first part shows Jeanne as a true hero, she performs miracles that could be through inspiration of a god. The priests and the curch are presented as humble servants who guide, advice and are overall kind.The second part, the curch is almost evil as they try and crush her beliefs. It is hinted that she could very well be sick, and the signs are all in her head. I think you are given the choice to decide what part is right and what is wrong.Other then that I found the combat scenes to be belivable, in the beginning it is about winning, glory and honor. But when it is done, there is death on both sides either way.I think it is truly a good movie. If you see it dont expect a new Braveheart, they are too different to be compared.  "},{"Title":"Humanity","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  There are only few things which are changed my point of view to live so much. One of these things is Besson's 'Joan of Arc'. You will ask - why? What so elated and persuaded me in this incredibly fantastic movie? First, historical accuracy. You didn't mishear me, h i s t o r i c a l accuracy. Not that one, which only remembers numbers of dead, years and dates of fights, but something else - which remembers what the human was in middle ages, what was that atmosphere - dark, mysterious, horrifying - in which human had to exist. And movie is truly one of honest points of view to middle ages. Second, very professional work of all team. Everyone have done his job at best - start from actors and end with musicians. I don't judge those people which are saying that Milla was horrible - if that Joan what is in their minds doesn't match with Milla's and Besson's imagination, is their problem. Because six centuries is too much long for true. We can only imagine it how it was when a 17 years old poor peasant girl have all those things in mind. Mostly we can blame Besson because he don't prettify anything. He don't prettify nor makes beautiful those things we are surviving every day - sorrow, pain, hate, despair. Still on other things - music is simply one word - best. I don't know other example where is shown how easy is possible to merge modern, ambient music with classical. Sierra has done it and has done it great. And end title song - 'My heart is calling' - is saying everything what is left to say. And, at least, main and most point why I think it is one of greatest movies I have ever seen - that is it's human point of view. We see Joan of Arc not as historical person, but as human creature, who suffers, blames, hopes, cries. She was a human, not a hero nor a saint.'...Open Your Arms, Let's love him' -My heart is calling- "},{"Title":"Forget what the critics want you to think...","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" ... if you can't stand it like them, then that just goes to show how powerful 'Joan of Arc' really is.  It isn't for the faint hearted, and over here 'Joan' didn't even go on general release, I guess the BBFC were too scared to know what a film of such magnitude would have on joe public.But to be honest, if you aren't horrified by this dazzling, rough-around-the-edges epic, then there really must be something wrong with you.  Likewise, if you see this film epecting to enjoy a 'gore-fest', then you must really have lax morals.  Personally I came out of my seat five minutes after the credits because I could barely stand from the shock. Heck, we all know what happens in the end, no secret - but there's no 'Hollow-Wood' glamour, no 'Braveheart'-type sentimental twaddle.  Death is death I must admit, you have a great imagination.  Or maybe not great enough.  Death is much more simple...I admit the comparisons came into my head, whilst imagining how Besson would handle the ending.  So I cringed when Wallace got stretched, but I had to cover my eyes as Joan's fate befell her.This is an incredible drama, a superb feeling of true-to-life history that is just as surreal as Joan's spectacular visions.  Besson makes the visual atmosphere so intense throughout, encouraged superbly by his and Birkin's nigh-on-faultless script.Jovovich fits neatly within the persona of the Saint, all her reactions and tantrums are so lovingly personal, notably her attempts to stave off the judgements of her own conscience (a role entirely posessed by Hoffman). Also strongly notable were Timothy West as the accuser with compassion and Richard Ridings as the eccentric La Hire,  I just wonder what John Malkovich's dialect coach was teaching him!This is what good films should be about, brilliance isn't associated with happy-endings, nor with box-office sell-outs.  I just wish it would be possible for more people to know about, and see this film for the love and effort that went into it. "},{"Title":"Teenage fantasy cinema but I liked it.","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  For devotees of epics with dashing heroines. Forget reality, enjoy the sword-wielding scenes as teeny-voiced Joan leads her troops into battle. Not quite a Braveheart movie for France but a nice enough effort. Teenage fantasy cinema but I liked it. "},{"Title":"A great film!","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I've seen this film once and I decided to see it at least once again and to obtain the DVD when available. Enough said? I found the movie really very good and deep. It makes you think! A lot of thinking... I am already amazed by the (hi)story of Joan of Arc, which of course is unique and extraordinary. And the film represents the major part of the main facts about her life, character, acts, etc., about mysteries, about people's thinking, feelings, believes... A strong presence of some special force, a connection to God could be felt... The music and sound effects are also great. Ok - the whole crew did an outstanding job. And especially Milla Jovovich was amazing. I think this is one of her best roles. To conclude for me a great experience and a truly good film!  "},{"Title":"The best of Luc Besson","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I have seen this movie twice, and i could watch it ten times more. Ignore the critics who only tries to find the faults in everything they see. This movie is a great mix of history and most of all; entertainment, which is by the way, the reason why we all go to the movies, except the critics. When great masters like Besson makes a movie, they know that there are always people who doesn't like it, in this case they are the critics. If you are even a little bit interested of history and you like drama/action movies, then you definitely should see this. A MASTERPIECE!! Please ignore the grammatical errors. "}{"Title":"A must see !!","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  It's a movie you should not miss. It's a movie should have been admired. (Unfortunately, I only see movie critics said how bad this movie was.) It's a movie with both entertainment and depth. It's a movie which still echo in my mind after watching it for weeks. In my humble opinion,the history,legend or battle in this movie are not the main thing. They are just something pushing Joan's mind forward. They're just decoration. The focus is on Joan's mind.See how she react with things happening around her and inside her. I think Milla is wonderful.She potrayed Joan as a human, a girl but not a hero we really don't know. This Joan carries a tortured soul but always brave, loyal and honest to herself , her faith, and her country. A must see. Simply Great!!!! English is not my native language.Please ignore the grammar. "},{"Title":"The MessengerA new interpretation to Joan's story and the war","Date":"10 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  What a wonderful movie.I think that's all what I do want to say.I love it because Luc Besson has put a new interpretation of the story of Jeanne d'Arc.Jeanne,in this film,is no long a saint nor is she a witch.She is just a simple girl.May be those scenes of war are not so good as those in Braveheart and I do think that the real Jeanne was even braver and clever that the  Luc Besson's.But the war is not the main theme of this movie. Luc Besson's aim is not to describe the history,or legend once again or persuade us how brave and extraordinary Jeanne was.What he really wanted to state is Is She Really sent by God.And to criticize those who believed that they are allowed to do anything even if it hurts others when they are fighting for their ideals.See how Jeanne felt after she defeated the English army.She was lost and confused.See all the blood flooding and it is what we call victory!This is what we call glory!! How ironic!See the conflicts between different reiligions and different countries or simply different groups of people with different beliefs.People are so eager to destroy everything.This is human nature.The wars in the film might not be better that those in Braveheart but it carries a much deeper and more impressive meaning than Braveheart.I think The Messenger is the best of all Luc Besson's movie.I do think so and Milla Jovovich is wonderful.See how she wince when facing the God.See her tears and hesitation.God,she is brilliant.Her performance is really Oscar worthy.Dustin Hoffman acted well,too. "},{"Title":"Very good, great actors, fun and serious both.","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is a very good movie. It is essentially an epic war-movie like Braveheart. In fact, there are lots of similarities with Braveheart. A commoner uniting the people against an invading enemy (heh...the English in both movies), supported by the commoners but mistrusted by the nobles.Milla Jovovich is great as Jeanne d'arc. She has a very nice look, as she can look really frail and fierce at the same time. Now, after I've seen it, I can't imagine seeing another actress in the role.Richard Ridings as La Hire is also very good, he and Vincent Cassel (Gilles de Rais) (I think it was him at least) lend the movie some great humour, with Jeanne berating La Hire (a grizzled veteran campaigner) for swearing all the time.Jane Valentine as the young Jeanne is also very good.The movie has some very good (and graphic) battle scenes. They are almost up to Braveheart quality.All this is enough to make a really good movie, but what makes this one a 10/10 is the fact that we are given the choice to decide for ourselves wether we want to believe that her visions were sent from god, satan or if they were merely hallucinations. This is a great touch, as it makes the movie much better for us Atheists. The movie also shows the darker side of religion during the middle-ages (and sadly, today), how religion and the name of god was used to justify horrible wars and torture. The final seconds of the film are very symbolic... wait and see...Hoffman does a great (and somewhat humorous) performance as The Conscience.Couple all this with a stunning soundtrack by the great Eric Serra and you have a classic on your hands. I will definately buy this on DVD as soon as it is out./Thomas Wesén "},{"Title":"Great! Impressive!","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Ignore the critics. Please believe me,you should see this film. You really should. They don't know what they are talking about.   "},{"Title":"I don't think I have to explain the story","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is a masterpiece, that has been crafted in the hands of Luc Besson. Milla Jovovich is great in the part as Joan, she is great in showing her fear of the great responsibility she has been given as she is the messenger of God. Milla and Dustin are greatIf you haven't seen the movie run to the nearest cinema and see it you will be taken away by it. "},{"Title":"Loved this movie","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I thought this was a wonderful movie. Besides being fascinated with the story of Joan herself, I was also captivated by the breath-taking scenery, the realistic costumes, and, despite the opinion of many critics, the performance given by Milla Jovovich. I thought it oscar worthy. She was very compelling  and brought the character of Joan of Arc to life. I'm sad, though, that it didn't stay in theaters very long. I guess enough people didn't go to see it because of all the horrible things critics said about it. All well...their loss. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie is great, a masterpiece. It really touched my heart and soul, i cried like a little girl.  Milla Jovovich was great. Joan of Arc was such a huge heroine. This movie is going to make you think a lot. About your past, present and future. And please, if you can, buy the movie soundtrack, it's wonderfull. "},{"Title":"Wonderful. A Masterpiece!!","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  In the beginning I thought this would be a kind of Indiana Jones medieval adventure film, although the sequences of Joans visions were really beautiful, the images and the sound was stunning. The music is stunning all through the film. Then, when Joan is arrested and the old man in black visits her, the film gets into another mood. I was like in trance when all through the film, because of the hypnotic effect of the wonderful images combined with the glorious music. The actress who plays Joan is also doing a great job, as are the others. The only funny thing I noticed that her hairstyle looks the one Jean Seberg had, but since Seberg is so much connected to filming the story of Joan no one making a film about Joan can escape her mythos. There are also some good jokes in the movie, so it has not a totally grave atmosphere.  "},{"Title":"Luc does a good job","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  When the 5th Element first came out, I was blown away by the excellent directing qualities of Luc Besson, and the astounding acting of Milla Jovovich. When I heard about a new Luc Besson movie, with Milla in it, I raced to the movie theater. The Messenger has 4 times as much superb content as The 5th Element, and has put a strong mark on my favorite movies of all-time.  "},{"Title":"One of the best films of the 1999 year!","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I'm a fan of all Besson's films (from The Big Blue to the Fifth Element) and his last one is probably one of the best. One of the best thing in this film is that Besson succeeded to do an excellent history's film with both action and realism (I've re-read the real history of Joan of Arc, and it's wonderful to see that Besson has use a lot of facts thats really happened).  "}{"Title":"One Of the Best Films of 1999","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie blew me away. It was fantastic and powerfull. The opening is fantastic as we see a young Joan running through a feild, it was shot very well. The story was great too. One of the best parts is when we first see the grown-up Joan and she knows that she is being tested. This film is the best movie since 1997/8'S Life Is Beautiful. It was really dissapointing to see it open at number 4, it deserves much better "},{"Title":"2 1/2 Hours of Luc Benson's Insanity","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I'll start with the good part. The supporting cast was excellent and keep the movie moving during the early parts.The rest of the movie was subpar. Random acts of violence are thrown into the movie with little or no reason other than to shock the audience. Half-way through the movie the historical story stops and the directors Benson and Birkin give in to their desire to have a never ending movie. There are many scenes that I have been trying to forget since I watched the movie. I'll summarize the last 60 or so minutes of movie in one sentence. Joan goes insane and does it so effectively that the audience never understands what her or the director's plot or focus is. I don't write movies off completely that often, but this one is a definite one to tell your friend to SAVE YOUR MONEY AND WATCH AN OLD FAVORITE, THIS IS SURE TO DISAPPOINT. "},{"Title":"Deeply moving, spellbound, faith journey we all must take.","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This film is the extraordinary life of Joan of Arc. It deeply goes into her early preoccupation with God and the obsession with what God wants her to do. But isn't this really what we all strive for?  What is God's plan for me?  Her incredible struggle carries us through remarkable scenes which at times are too bloody or have too much gore, but this was what happened. I particularly liked the character portrayed by Dustin Hoffman, or was it just Joan's ego??? This film will gain supporters as more and more people realize its significance. "},{"Title":"Gorgeous, brooding, and gothic--another first rate character study from Luc Besson.","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Besson brings the same psychological depth, intensity, and intelligence to his portrait of Joan that he brought to Leon in The Professional.  The film resists the temptation to descend into a bathetic, jingoistic action film (we are spared the ridiculous spectacle of the protagonist screaming FREEEDOM! at the top of his/her lungs during the execution sequence) and instead explores  the moral and spiritual paradoxes involved in attempting to Do Good within a Christian world view.  That's not to say that the movie is only for the religious (as I certainly am not to be counted among the ranks of the elect); it should be of interest to anyone who enjoys thoughtful and honest character drama.  The tragic ending effectively converts historical fact to psychological necessity--Joan's brilliantly-depicted final psychological struggle, helped along by Dustin Hoffman's first rate performance as an incarnation of God/Satan/Joan's psychology, is satisfying precisely because of its gothic ambiguity.  "},{"Title":"Excellent direction, but weak Joan character","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I think that the messenger had beautiful scenery, powerful imagery, and very interesting secondary character. Also, the inquisition part of the movie was very good. But I think that Joan's character was rather weak. She never seemed really sure of herself, and did not irradiate charisma. her character was very much like that of Leeloo in the 5th Element. And I think that a medieval woman, and a peasant as well, being received in the King's court and given an army, leading two hundred thousand soldiers in war must have had something special. The depiction of Joan as it is in the movie is unrealistic. She would have needed an aura, and a very strong will.But still I think that its very good movie and worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Fantastic film-making","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  What a triumph in story-telling. This is a well-directed, acted, and carefully constructed story. It will leave you breathless and leave you questioning things about your own life; your relationship with God, are you following the will of God or are you believing what you choose to believe? Great... just simply great.  "},{"Title":"Waste of time","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The film opens--after a cheezy title sequence--with a young Joan confessing her sins to a priest. She goes to confession EVERYDAY--sometimes more than once. The priest loves this girl but seems concerned with her obsession. She tells him she sees visions. They are of a boy in the forest. He reassures her to listen to the boy. She runs from the church in and dances through the fields in a laughable Little House on the Prarie meets Sound of Music scenario and stumbles into the boy. She finds a sword and is invinsible against wolves and men on horses that prance by. This sequence is only interesting in the sense that this is the only scene in the movie where you get a sense that Joan's perception of reality is indistinguishable from her visions.The soldiers are from England. They are at war with France. John Malcovich (the future king of France) plays the part very foppishly--with a cute, Tom Cruise look alike always by his side.He hears of this 19 year old who has been foretold to be a savior that must be seen by him. She is summoned to his kingdom. Enter Milla and you expect her to start screeching like she did in the painful The Fifth Element.Never does Besson explore where Joan's obsession with Jesus comes from. Why does an 8 year old girl feel the need to run into a church, drink the blood of Jesus and want to be part of him? No exploration of that or where the visions come from.Now comes the trite exploration of Joan as a woman and a leader. You'd think this would be explored intelligently, but we are greeted with five minutes worth of lines like is she going to wear a dress to battle? before they see how tough she is and they accept her.The rest of the movie is nothing more than uninspired battle scenes where Joan comes across as nothing but a crazed woman. How much more interesting if Besson had actually made her more magical. Her visions of Jesus in the forest--dancing with her, bleeding, and instructing her--aren't as spiritual and overwhelming as they should. They come across as an acid trip from Trainspotting that border on the exploitational.Instead of trully exploring the relationship she has with God contextually, Besson decides to have Milla utter the same lines over and over throughout the movie. I am the messenger, He sent me a message, I've been to counsel, Why aren't you fighting, and listen to me. What a waste. And throughout the movie she just screams and screams and screams.Besson feels that the only way to make the movie interesting at this point is to fill every frame people with big ears, people who look like Lyle Lovitt, people with bad haircuts, people with slanted eyebrows and people with oversized heads stand in the background doing nothing but staring at the camera. No rhyme or reason.People like Dunaway do their best with the relatively worthless part that they are given. She plays Malcovich's mother-in-law and basically gives him meaningless advice while sporting a bizarre greyish vein on her forehead and no hair.The film only gets points when Dustin Hoffman enters the pictures. He plays her vision in the jail cell and he interestingly makes her analyze her life and the meaning of her conversations with Christ. Did you really speak with Jesus or was that you projecting? Nicely done, but eventually his presense becomes laughable--especially seeing him slide into frames. You can't help but picture the dolly he must be riding.In the end your left thinking of Joan as nothing more than a bland, naive woman. I mean, Besson makes the mistake at one point of having her being ignorant that people die in war and shed blood--ridiculous when you consider that she had just won a war the day before. Katheryne Bigelow was to direct this, and even though I'm not a fan, I know she would have done better. A hack job by Luc and an admirable attempt by Milla. You spend half the movie just waiting to see her burn  "},{"Title":"One of the worst films I've ever seen.","Date":"11 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This film was painful. Considering the tale of Joan of Arc itself isn't all that complicated, the movie wandered a whole lot with no apparent idea of where the hell it was going. Worse yet, Besson's solution to the aimless mess was to pile on irrelevant clutter. An opening scene featuring a gratuitous corpse-rape, anyone? Hokey special effects (especially in the damn meadow)? Supposedly French guys with British accents? Melodramatic score? Ugly battle scenes lacking in dynamic? Heavy-handed dialogue?Worst of all in this movie, though, were the casting and acting. Milla Jovovich seemed to think that somehow she could compensate for her inability to convey her character by filling every screen moment with intense gazes and frantic over emotion (which are obviously not the point in a story like this). Dustin Hoffman's role as her conscience was just ludicrous, his delivery rote. John Malkovich's and Faye Dunaway's regal roles were equally baffling; both actors could've been reading off of teleprompters for what the film required of them. I needn't dwell on the vagaries of -The Messenger-'s failure; obviously, Besson was in over his head, because it's an atrocious film from start to finish. I've always been fascinated by the story of Joan of Arc, but not even halfway through it this god-awful thing had me muttering under my breath, Just burn her already. Just stick with Dreyer's -Passion of Joan of Arc-, and don't bother with this.  "},{"Title":"Interesting story, not told very interesting","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The story of Joan of Arc is a very interesting story and this movie doesn't do much justice to this story. It does create a creepy atmosphere with a nice visual style and therefore the movie was good enough for me. I was hoping for a little more of Joan of Arc and her life but I guess you can't have it all.We begin with Joan when she is still young, played by Jane Valentine in a very good way. We see how her sister is killed and raped, in that order, and how she finds a sword. She thinks this is one of the signs from God; we get to see some more. Whether they really are signs the movie kind of leaves in the middle with the appearance of something like her conscience (Dustin Hoffman). We see  how she gets her own army, has success, but is captured after Charles VII (John Malkovich) is crowned as the king of France and doesn't really support her anymore. As most people know Joan of Arc was burned alive when she was only 19 years old.Milla Jovovich plays the older Joan. Director Luc Besson also used her for his 'The Fifth Element' and although she is not really bad here she was better in her element in that first movie. Luc Besson was actually the reason I went to see this movie, after his great 'Léon' and the goofy 'The Fifth Element'. He didn't disappoint me with his direction, but he did with the movie. After a pretty good start the movie gets a little boring and it seems that the most simple way is chosen to tell the story. Even the visual style is much better in the first half of the movie. "},{"Title":"Dull, poorly cast, poorly written, too long","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Essentially this is a miserable failure of an attempt to duplicate the medieval magic of Braveheart -- except it happens in France, and the hero is a jibbering, confused, semi-delusional woman-child who never really seems to know what's going on.You know the writing is bad when 15th century characters use words like gonna (and yes, it's actually subtitled that way on the DVD, too). None of the characters were developed, and thus you never really got to know or care about any of them.Milla's portrayal of Joan of Arc is completely uninspiring, thanks to the lousy writing, and she pretty much runs around the whole time like a confused chicken with her head cut off. Malkovich is equally unconvincing as the Dauphin/King of France. And due to his inability to affect anything but his own wimpy version of the Southern California  dialect, Dustin Hoffman has no business playing a medieval role. Faye Dunaway is the only one of the major actors whose performance I felt was acceptable.Overall, a potentially good concept is ruined by Besson's lack of understanding that you can't translate 15th century French and English into 20th century colloquial American without throwing believability out the window. Imagine an episode of Xena, Warrior Princess where a wild-eyed Xena hallucinates more than she fights, and you have the gist of this movie. I give it a 3 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Strange Movie","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  In this version Joan is portrayed as a crazed, egomaniac bent on revenge that has rationalized her thirst for blood by designating herself as God's messenger. Those around her are hopeful that she can save them at best.  Mostly they try to calm and direct her infuriated rages.  Finally, a danger to society, she is eliminated by being delivered into the hands of her enemy as she insists on continuing to fight regardless of the French refusal to support it any longer.First this isn't the story of St. Joan of Arc as it was told to me as a child - though possibly a more realistic version of history.  But between Joan's embellished weird visions, her mad tantrums and the misery she causes everyone, this movie leaves no room for question as to whether or not she may have actually been on a mission for God. As a viewer, I became one of the group that fervently believed she needed to be burned at the stake to save herself and everyone else as she obviously was a dangerous nut.I would have prefered if the story would have been left more open to possiblities rather than having taken such a violent stance against one of history's strongest females.  Perhaps she could have been a bit more likeable and less of a hateful lunatic.I wouldn't recommend this film.  "},{"Title":"The best film of 1999. *****. No contest","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The best film of 1999, this movie deserve *****, the highest. Luc Besson took an actress, Milla Jovovich, made her do one of the best performances. People used to look at her body rather than her acting, but in this movie I was watching both. Director Besson made one of his best films since The Professional (Leon).Breath taking shots by Thierry Abrogast, made this movie a work of extravagant beauty. The best Joan of Arc movie. This movie portrays a point of view that history doesn't look at, like what if Jeanne D'Arc (Joan of Arc) was crazy and was having these visions out of her imagination. In my movie list this movie is a classic, this movie is also in my top 25 favourite movies of all time.    "},{"Title":"I did not enjoy this film.","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I did not enjoy this movie. It made Joan to look like a psycho. She was talking to herself in order to justify her wanting revenge on her enemies. I must say I thought it was a different idea as I have never seen a movie take this stance with the story of Joan (making her crazy instead of a saint). This did help make it a bit more interesting but still my need for belief in the mystical and magical negated this movie. After a while I just wanted it to be over.I was not impressed by Milla's performance as Joan in the least. She acted fanatic at most times and reminded me a lot as her character from Fifth Element especially near the end. This made it hard for me to really get into the story.I'd hate to admit this but I would have to say that I enjoyed the little made for TV movie starring Doogie Howser as the king of France more than this movie. And that is sad...If you feel you must see it, I wouldn't bother renting this movie until it has come off the new release wall at the video store. "},{"Title":"Is this the real story of Joan of Arc?","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  When our entire high school went to see Ingrid Bergman's Joan of Arc, we were led to believe that the film told the story as it really happened. Now, students might believe the same about The Messenger.  Too bad.  This is an awful film, much shouting about nothing and poorly directed.  No wonder Dustin Hoffman is hidden in the shadows and Faye Dunnaway smirks the entire time. "},{"Title":"Spectacular, Breathtaking, Outstanding","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I saw this yesterday on tape and I must say it was incredible. I thoroughly enjoyed the film, but if a person didn't adore Braveheart then by no means is he going to like this one. This has almost everything Braveheart had but although it won't reach the high step on which Braveheart resides (and will reside), it sure is close. Having seen Milla Jovovich in the Fifth Element, I never thought she could pull off a role like this but BOY she did, and I was left wondering who could do it better than her! And I don't think anyone would have, because her acting was, simply said, superb! The way she played the character, the face expressions, the emotions, fear, passion, hatred, enthusiasm, awe, I sure owe her an apology.Anyway, the scenery is fantastic, the other actors also did a great job, the fights were incredible (a less-gore version of Saving Private Ryan combined with all the awe and emotions of Braveheart). I bet it would have looked amazing at the cinema.I also liked the focus on the inner thoughts and visions of Joan, e.g. when near the end of the movie she is left wondering if it was for God, or for her self she was making the war. The inner struggle within Joan is amazing, the not-knowing-for-sure what she is doing and the I-am-waiting-for-a-sign-now attitude was a pleasant addition to the character's development, and boy was it worth it! Also, concerning the character, I thought it was a great move in the beginning of the movie to delay the appearance of the adult Joan (M.Jovovich). Shades here and there, a black cape on, to cover her by now mysterious face and accentuate the anxiety of the viewer to see what has become of the little girl Joan.Overall, although it hasn't made me weep like Braveheart had, it still holds its ground steady, right below Braveheart, and it would take a hell of a movie to pull this baby down from the 2nd place in epics. (Hmmm...I haven't seen The Patriot yet. Who knows...)  "},{"Title":"A Perfect Idol for all generations.","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Respected readers ,,When I saw Joan of Arc the Messenger, the thing that moved me most was its closeness to reality. I think that every person who wishes for peace around the world should watch this movie  .   I liked the conversation between joan and god(during the end ) very much.   I think that joan had the right approach. She always asked for peace before any war began.  Its because of people like Joan that people around the world are enjoying freedom.Milla Jovovich has done justice  to the role.  She certainly deserved an oscar for this performance.  Unfortunately, these days,the judges(for oscar awards)  are not choosing the winner  properly.  But i for one , will remember this performance for ever. Keep it up Milla.I sincerely hope that this movie inspires everybody to look at life in the right perspective.Hats off to Joan of Arc. "},{"Title":"I'm glad they made this movie.","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Definitely one of the best films I've ever seen. Hoffman's Conscience just puts it together. Does anyone has a right to kill even for a cause? What is right or wrong? How are we ever able to know it? Is there God outside or inside us? This is not a war film. This is a film of people trying to understand life in their view. How can we say is it right or wrong view? I saw this movie in a film theatre and it was really hard to wait until it came out in video. I bought it right away. I just love all the actors and actresses, especially Desmond Harrington's Jean d'Aulon. He's one of the most sympathetic characters I've ever seen in the movies. Milla is also really great in her role, she just suits it perfectly.All in all, I really liked this movie and I know I'll watch it over and over again. "},{"Title":"It's really an Insult to Any Hard-Working Historian","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Not long before I saw this film, I had read Vita Sackville-West's excellent biography of St Joan. The work she put into the research to find the actual facts regarding the patron saint of those who fight for their country won my admiration.I was therefore bitterly disappointed with this film which monkeyed around with the known facts to sex things up a bit. That's just cynical. Firstly, why have a glamourpuss of a Joan of Arc? Sadly, the only known contemporary portrait of St Joan is lost. However, all contemporary accounts describe her as short of stature and plain(ish).As others have pointed out, there is no evidence that any member of her family was killed or raped by marauders. Therefore the film's motivation of St Joan on a crusade of revenge is utter drivel.I am afraid that the howling mad Scotsman with the red beard who was fighting on the side of the English was something of a renegade any Scots at the Siege of Orleans (and there were some there) fought for the French. (The painter of the one lost painting of St Joan mentioned above was a Scot.)Yes, it is certainly true that the French had longbows as well as arblasts and handguns; but why do I get the impression that the film makers couldn't care if the French had longbows or not, and they got this historical point right by accident?I really think that however good the production and the acting may be, this film is an insult to the likes of Vita Sackville-West and to those historians who put extreme efforts to find out what REALLY happened. Meanwhile, Joe Public and his family are served this dish of rotting entrails as an historical film. "},{"Title":"Racist rubbish","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This film is ludicrous racist rubbish, Besson should be criticised widely for producing such a surreal diatribe, that ignores the history to the power struggle between France and England instead concentrates on overly emotional story of one person who was more betrayed by Charles the VII than her enemy England.Chilish portrayal of demonic English and ever so twee French happy go lucky peasants is sickening twaddle and real you would expect more of a so call great director.Don't humour him by watching this.Avoid as historically incorrect as JFK. "},{"Title":"A total waste","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Just around the time this movie was made, a miniseries about the same subject was also made. If you want to find out about Joan of Arc, watch the miniseries which is vastly superior to this failed attempt to tell a potentially very interesting story. Whereas the miniseries gave a very detailed look at the story of Joan of Arc, and took a lot of time to develop the characters, their backgrounds and their motives, this movie is a slow and boring mess.Despite its 2.5 hour plus running time, very little happens. We are shown just a couple of events from Joan's life, and none of the secondary characters are developed at all. The historical context and politics are also kept to a minimum. Instead, the movie spends a lot of time on Joan, and whether she was divinely inspired or just plain crazy. Granted, that's an interesting issues, and it might have worked if Joan had either been played by a good actress, or if the dialogs had been good. Unfortunately,neither of these conditions apply. Milla Jovovich just doesn't have the acting talent to pull of a convincing performance. She makes Joan look like an utterly unsympathetic, crazy and frightened religious fanatic. How somebody like this could have ever inspired anybody is beyond me, you're much more likely to feel sorry for her.The dialog and the supporting cast don't help either. Dustin Hoffman does a fine job, but John Malkovich is totally wasted here, and the other actors are generally very unconvincing. The dialog is horrible as well the parts that are intended seriously are so heavy-handed and cliché that they become unintentionally funny, whereas there are also some light-hearted parts that feel totally inappropriate.Given the directory's experience with action movies, it's surprising that he doesn't even get the action sequences right. The action is fairly gory, but it lacks any kind of tension or coherence, and is often fairly silly, to the point where the characters start vivid discussions in the middle of the battle, standing with their backs towards the enemy. Right.The Messenger is a completely wasted attempt at telling the story of one of the most fascinating women in history. The story, intrigue and secondary characters are dumbed down to a point that is almost becomes silly, the pace is dreadfully slow, the action is dull, the dialog and acting are very unconvincing, and Milla Jovovich completely fails to make an interesting or even likable character out of Joan.*1/2 out of ***** "}{"Title":"WHAT? WHAT? WHAT? WHAT?","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  wow. this may have been the _most_ random movie i have ever seen.  i have never watched a movie that made less sense.  you are thrown headlong into a life that happens so insanely quickly that i cannot follow it, and i am not stupid.  at first it seems that it is a statement on how religion is the only way, and that everyone should follow blindly. go watch dogma. (by the way, WHY DOESN'T SHE EVER STOP TWICHING????? AHHHH! "},{"Title":"It Stinks!","Date":"15 September 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I watched this pile of rubbish during a period of a couple of months when I was on vacation, holed up with a friend and we would just rent a couple of movies most nights and 'review' them. He was initially very enthusiastic because it had several of his favourite actors in it. I think we managed to get through nearly an hour of it before the awful dialogue, ridiculously contrived situations, excruciating political correctness and general awfulness got the better of both of us and we reached for the remote, sparing ourselves whatever further horrors may have lurked in the latter portions of the movie. This is just overrated rubbish, with terrible lead acting, and an air of revisionist self-importance, and some plain silliness thrown in for good measure. I wish Jay Sherman had been around to review it. 3 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Revisionism run amok","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie is not close to the actual events that took place 500 or so years ago. I have read all of Joan's testimony (as recorded by the English) and nothing even remotely resembles the Conscience scenes. Not to mention that the movie is premised on a lie (by Joan's own testimony, she had a happy childhood - her sister was not murdered and raped) and Joan never described her visions as portrayed in the movie. If you skip the movie's version of her childhood and captivity, as well as all the vision scenes in between, then you'll have a better portrait of Joan (albeit not a complete portrait). She was in fact impatient but also very caring (she wept for both the English and French dead and dying as well as praying with wounded soldiers regardless of their nationality).I think the topic the movie was trying to explore - is she divinely inspired or crazy - is a fair topic. There were those even within Charles VII court who thought her mad and Joan testified herself that many did not believe her. The problem is that the movie just made things up to highlight one point of view which in the end destroyed its credibility. The movie critics quite completely trashed this movie because of this and rightfully so.Many will watch this movie and think this is based on historical facts which is very lamentable. Joan is a remarkable figure in her own right and doesn't deserve any of these silly embellishments.  "},{"Title":"Ride Out, Protectors Of The Realm!","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Pity poor Mila Jovovich.  The idea was great.  An epic retelling of the legend of Joan of Arc, feminist Braveheart as seen through the eyes of France's answer to John Woo.  Hey, I was on the edge of my seat to see it.Then I saw it.  OK, maybe I don't know that much about the real Jeanne d'Arc (director Luc Besson should know it better than me) but I was never aware that she was a raving lunatic who savored the taste of blood, breathed in heavy gusts, and couldn't say a complete sentence without pausing for dramatic effect.  It's true, most foreign directors are great visionaries but when they are working with actors that don't speak the same language as them, something gets emotionally lost in the translation.That doesn't apply to the battle scenes though.  After all, this is the director who gave us The Fifth Element and (more importantly) The Professional.  I can't say too much about them, however, I refuse to give away any of the shocks involved.This film was missing two things 1) Jean Reno, Luc Besson's ever-present actor/sidekick (their relationship mirrors that of John Woo and Chow Yun-Fat), and 2) Gary Oldman.  OK, I liked John Malkovich's performance as the Duphine of France but he seemed too 90s.  In fact there were a few comic moments in this film that were so modern that I almost was expecting Adam Sandler to walk in as Opera Man and have him sing an announcement to the King of France.That leaves Dustin Hoffman for last...which is exactly what he is...last.  Trailers lead you to believe that Hoffman is one of the stars.  Honestly he doesn't arrive until 120 minutes into this 155 minute film (much like Brando in Apocalypse Now) and then he relegated to hiding under a hood and beard to urge Joan back to reality just in time for her imminent execution.  What a nice guy.I have a suggestion for great foreign directors who want to make American films  either hire another director like Scorcese or Coppola who KNOWS how to pull a performance out of an actor and stick to doing the action scenes and designing the look of the film OR hire actors that are so good they don't NEED direction.  Don't get me wrong Luc, I love ya, but Jovovich is a model...NOT an actress (and especially not a LEAD actress who can carry an epic of this magnitude).Maybe its good they divorced.   NEXT! "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Mess","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Read all of my reviews at www.midnitcafe.blogspot.com What happens when you take a talented French director, his model cum singer cum actress wife, one of the greatest actors of the 70's and makes a movie about one of the most renowned saints of France? You get a giant mess is what. The Messenger The Story of Joan of Arc is loaded with lots of talented people, is filmed gorgeously and is mostly a lousy, muddled film.The story of Joan of Arc (or Jeanne d'Arc as they call her in France) is well known just about everywhere. Joan is a poor peasant living in a small village in France during the Hundred Years War with England. She begins seeing heavenly visions that tell her she is God's messenger to rid her country of the bloody English. Somehow she convinces Charles, the Dauphin with visions of being king, to give her an army to storm Orleans. Using unconventional methods she leads her army to victory. The Dauphin is crowned king and mostly forgets about Joan. She leads an unsuccessful siege on Paris is given over to the English, tried and burned at the stake, several hundred years later she is sainted by the Catholic church. The Messenger covers most of this relatively faithfully, and beautifully.Luc Besson is a talented director filming such classics as Le Femme Nikita and The Professional. His talent is presented here in his ability to create interesting and beautiful shots, but is lost in creating a cohesive story. He doesn't seem to know what to do with the story about the young saint. In parts it seems earnest in it's recreation of this revolutionary with heavenly visions, but then it sinks into near parody of itself and in the ends sinks towards a reinventing of the events themselves asking Joan herself whether or not her visions were real or mere psychosis.Milla Jovovich is a pretty face who has mostly been in forgettable, silly comedies and the Resident Evil franchise which might as well be considered a silly comedy for all its worth. Here, she has two modes of acting, a strange amphetamine delivery of her lines as if she couldn't spit them out fast enough, or a snarled scream as if acting was merely being the loudest person on the set. It is not a nuanced performance. For the entirety of the film she seems completely out of place.The battle or Orleans is tame at best. There are virtually no scenes of real ambitious spectacle. We are given nothing to inform us of her revolutionary forms of combat. Instead her method seems to be screaming a lot and jumping a horse over the enemies fence. Later the storming of Paris is so humorous it is sad. Joan screams and screams that she needs back up while a few soldiers randomly knock on what must be the Paris gates. These soldiers are so bewildered a pathetic looking they seem more out of a Monty Python sketch than a serious film about war.Beyond the visual elements the only saving grace is Dustin Hoffman's performance as the Grand Inquisitor or Conscience. It is a fine performance from a fine actor, but it is a peculiar character. He spends his time questioning Joan's own sanity. Could her visions in fact be some form of psychosis or fantasy? Could crucial moments in her life like finding a sword in a field in fact be simple coincidence? Good questions in the history of the real Joan of Arc, but they seem out of place here. Nowhere in the film are we led to believe Joan is nothing but the real thing. Why bring these questions into play during its climactic ending. The film would have worked much better believing whole heartedly in Joan's purpose and vision. Or questioning her visions from the beginning, a re-visioning of the myth could be very interesting. Instead it kicks its legs out from under itself by bringing her into question so late in the film.What we get in this portrayal of Joan of Arc is some pretty visuals and a find performance from Dustin Hoffman. Try renting one of Luc Besson's earlier films and pick up anything from Hoffman's hey day in the 70's, they will be worth your dollar and your time far more than anything thing to be found here. "},{"Title":"An appalling desecration of one of France's most venerable figures.","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"22 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  From what I had heard prior to renting this movie, I figured that I would be in for a decent, though liberally violent interpretation of Jeanne d'Arc with historical accuracy that would outweigh most, if not all, of its negative aspects.  But what can I say, other than that people don't recognize garbage no matter how far down their throats it is shoved?For this movie to receive any praise at all is ludicrous in itself.  Certainly, it could be an interesting prospect to examine the life of a supposedly-schizophrenic national figure with more negative connotations than positive, but how far is it necessary to go to portray Besson's notion that Jeanne d'Arc may not have been as holy as she has been said to be?  How necessary is it to continually emphasize total pharisaism as opposed to mere pride?  How necessary is it to portray Jeanne's visions as downright satanic, and dispense of the saints which had supposedly spoken to her?  And how necessary is it to portray her as a raving psychopath?If one is going to argue for historical accuracy, then perhaps they should keep something in mind simply because somebody engages in a battle which in actuality took place, it does not make for accuracy;  the same goes for an individual performing a certain action, or any other occurring event.  In fact, this movie appears to guise itself under historical accuracy, while it fails to explain any of the events that are taking place at the time.  Yes, we know that France is divided and that the English are attempting to take over, but are we ever introduced to any of the political intricacies or other matters that Jeanne partook in other than those on the battle field?  Anybody with an ounce of intelligence would know that Jeanne d'Arc's story is not one of war.In addition, there is lewd and tasteless humor interspersed throughout the entirety of this movie.  Obviously, it was not enough to view the life of Jeanne d'Arc through the eyes of a cynic, but through the eyes of a perverse, teenage-minded director as well.  If you're looking for a modern film on Joan of Arc, do yourself a favor and take a look at the TV movie starring Leelee Sobieski.  Despite the fact that it is not historically accurate, it is far more intellectual and entertaining than The Messenger will ever be. "},{"Title":"An Artistic Expression of a Controversial Figure","Date":"1 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" ...if I were to ask my confidants and closest friends and people who know me casually their impressions of how they perceive me, I am sure their versions would be so different that I probably would both hate me and love me and, perhaps, not even recognize myself...and so it is with the telling of Jeanne D'Arc...That she was an influential and controversial historical figure is the commonality that runs throughout the varied versions of her life (if this were not so why would the Roman Church wait 500 years after her execution to canonize her, then?), just as my existence is agreed upon and acknowledged by all the people who have met me.I find that Mr. Besson, as a cinematic director and artist, has the right and privileged vision to his interpretation of such a legendary persona. Based on the available factual circumstances of the Maid of Orleans and the different opinions of those who knew the demented visionary, egocentric, stubborn, lesbian, heretical and saintly heroine-witch, Ms. Milla Jovovich did a splendid interpretation of such a complex individual who, after all, was also a human being living under a much different socio/political and religious environment that we are lucky to have not experienced.I find that of the many biographical, theatrical and cinematic treatments of Jeanne D'Arc The Messenger this is most enjoyable due to its modern language and casting. Ms.Dunaway, Mr. Hoffman and Mr. Malchovich were a delight to watch.Needless to say, I enjoyed this film because the universal human elements of exuberant youth, fear, doubt, faith and love are explored as well as the ugly realities of revenge, arrogance, hate, prejudice and religious righteousness/betrayal (denial of the Sacrament of Penance?...go figure), ridicule and egocentricity in an unbiased and well defined manner. The Director allowed for final and personal conclusions of the exposed subject matter (are there not Four Canonical Gospels as well as several Gnostic Writings and variations of The One Spiritual Truth?).Although this piece was released in 1999 I never got the opportunity to view it till this evening. This is as contemporary as if it were released recently. "},{"Title":"A lot of reviewers loathed this film","Date":"5 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" ...but it still made interesting viewing. More biographies of Jeanne d'Arc exist than of any other person, and any attempt to portray her rather incredible life as France's greatest heroine and martyr on film can expect to encounter a similarly large number of second-guessers. This is precisely what happened when this picture came out. Reviewers went on at length about what the picture should have been about, and how Joan should have been portrayed (and by whom), leaving readers to wonder what they thought of the picture that HAD been made. This tendency to review the picture they wish had been made is a classic failing in many critics and this picture seemed to bring it out especially often.The picture that Luc Besson made here deserves to be appreciated on its own merits. It is visually stunning, rousingly action-packed, and full of interesting period details. Yes, casting his supermodel wife Milla Jovovich in the lead was a risky choice, as her looks were hardly those of a typical medieval peasant. Yes, her performance did not resonate with the period the way one by a more classically trained actress might, although she was clearly never trying to be Ingrid Bergman. Still, Milla's hyperactive personality made her interesting and watchable as a historical person about whom so much has been written, who nonetheless existed so far back in the past that she lacks a strongly identifiable humanity. When somebody makes a better statue than a person, as Joan does from a contemporary viewpoint, odd casting choices can be forgiven if they work. Milla's twisty mannerisms, rolling eyes and whispery speech give the viewer constant occasions to ponder just how much of Joan's fanaticism came from genuine devotion to God and the church and how much was just an under-medicated personality disorder. This is actually one of the key scholarly issues surrounding Joan's life, and the picture brings it to the fore in its latter part as Joan herself tries to come to terms with her own claims of divine communication by means of a debate with Dustin Hoffman as her confessor-priest/conscience. That Besson takes no particular viewpoint here is an interesting choice, and one which actually helps the viewer to understand why Joan's story has compelled so many generations of historians.The political aspects of Joan's life and legend were also dealt with in a nicely balanced fashion. Like many figures in times when political and national alliances changed with the seasons, Joan herself blew back and forth between being tremendously useful to the French throne at times and dangerously inconvenient at others. Fame is a powerful commodity at any time, and the picture carefully tracked the rise and fall of Joan's fortunes as she watched hers be manipulated, leveraged and ultimately put on trial.I thought a lot of The Messenger and recommend it. Religious and historical scholars are advised to approach with caution. "},{"Title":"An underrated film, perhaps for a reason","Date":"28 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" The combination of Luc Besson and Mila Jojovich is a recipe for criticism. As in, Oh sure the star is the directors wife. That would be true if Luc Besson was anything less than a great director or Mila Jojovich anything less than a great actress. This film accomplished a lot. Visually spectacular, historically challenging, and in many ways ingenious. Most of all, it didn't fall prey to the unconditional hero worship or unquestioning belief that most films about moving historical figures do. The film maintains it's historical modesty, questioning rather than preaching or glorifying. If you are looking for a moving, spiritual, emotional movie it's got all that. If you are looking for medieval warfare in all it's glory, it's got all that.But sadly it is flawed. Much to my chagrin, as I do admire most of his work, Dustin Hoffman's performance is, to put it mildly, a big downer for the film. He is clearly at a loss as to what his character or purpose is in the film. His performance is uncomfortable and distracting. Despite his lower appearance in the credits, his role was critical in the film. It's a real detractor. But aside from this one glaring flaw, the film is of the highest quality on all accounts. I was riveted from beginning to end and wouldn't hesitate to watch it again. Because of it's one casting/directing flaw I have to rate it an 8 but on every other count it's a 10. "},{"Title":"Joan was a woman of GOD","Date":"17 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I know next to nothing about the Joan of Arc story, but I've liked Luc Besson's work, and the trailer was terrific, so I was looking forward to this movie, even after the bad reviews. As might be expected from a Besson film, it looked incredible. The battle scenes were all well-handled, and as the warrior Joan, Jovovich was quite convincing. The rest of the movie was something else again.It seems to me Besson and his co-writer, Andrew Birkin, were trying to do what Kenneth Branagh did in his version of HAMLET; look at the lead character not as an icon, but as a normal human being, and try to explain their actions and behavior in that context. Admittedly, since I am unfamiliar with this story, I am more receptive to this approach than those who hold Joan as an icon, but I would have been more than willing to watch a movie which handled this material well. Unfortunately, once Besson established which way he wanted to go, he seemed unsure of how to get there. Most of the drama is handled on a third-grade level(especially her trial), and we never really get into what made Joan tick. Though the scenes with Dustin Hoffman were involving, especially since he was so good, they too fell short in explaining Joan. And Jovovich can't quite access those depths yet.The rest of the cast is okay. Malkovich and Faye Dunaway are playing types, but they play them well enough. Tchecky Kayro(I know I'm not spelling that right) and Vincent Cassel lend a sense of gravity to their roles as soldiers. But all in all, this is a movie whose reach was beyond its grasp. "}{"Title":"Interesting additional material to the Film The messenger","Date":"16 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Initially, I approached this movie with a little caution,... as there have been so many misinterpretations and preconceptions weaved into the Historic Facts of this period of French/English history, the reality or not of the 'visions' and 'auditions', and the necessity of this period of revolutionary turmoil needed to bring about social change on both sides of the 100 years conflict.At least I was happy to see - Luc Besson as being named as its director,... thinking that it could have the most sympathetic leaning towards RESTORING the facts and providing an 'insight' into correcting the conflicting 'public record' distorted at the vested interests of the time,.. i.e. 'The Church' and 'The King' - both of whom abandoned her, and corrupted the MESSAGE and the MESSENGER.If I were to criticise anything,... it would be the difficult task of indicating the process of what she 'saw or heard' during her moments of 'mediumship',... where Dustin Hoffman serenely plays a poorly written or misrepresentation of this function. However, even applying 'artistic license',... I was overwhelmed to see how close Luc and Andrew Birkin came to writing a script providing us with a moving and compelling record of events,... and how they managed to orientate Milla Jovovich to providing such a 'realistic' portrayal of the times, emotions, unswerving drive and FAITH surrounding the enigmatic and legendary character of Jean D'Arc,&#x85; I almost followed her into the battles and confrontations with the Church !!!The screenplay was almost exactly as has been described in the book The Mystery of Joan of Arc written by the Frenchman, LEON DENIS. Translated into English by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle,(1924) and in which the following message from Jean D'Arc is givenSweet is the communion with those who love our Lord and Father even as I do. I am not saddened by the vision of the past, for it draws me to you, and my remembrance of my communion with the holy dead makes me the sister and the comrade of all those to whom God has granted the favour of knowing the secret of life and death. I return thanks to God for permitting me to draw close to you, and to tell who know a little that the lives which God gives us must be used wisely if we are to be in His grace. All life should be sweet and welcome which enables us to do the task assigned to us by the All-powerful Father and Judge. We should bless all that comes from His hand. He has always chosen the weak to carry out His plans, for He can give strength to the lamb, even as He promised. He brings truth under the most changing forms, but all cannot understand His purpose. Submissive to His laws and trying to follow them, I have not always understood them. I knew, however, that the sweet counsels which He gave me could not be the work of an enemy, and the comfort which they have always given me has been a stay in trouble and a heart's joy. I never knew what was the deeper design of the Lord. He hid from me in all His messages the dreadful end which I was to endure, having pity on my weakness and on my shrinking from pain, but when the time did come, He gave me strength and courage. I love to think of the hours when first I heard the voices. I cannot say that I was afraid. I was greatly astonished to find myself the subject of the Divine Mercy. I knew instantly that they were the messengers of God, and I felt a great sweetness in my heart whilst the holy voice rang in my ears. It is not possible for me to tell you exactly how I felt, for I could not describe the deep peace and joy, so that when they ceased I felt that I was the child of God and of Heaven. I feebly comprehended that their will should be mine, but though overjoyed at their coming, I was surprised at the orders they gave and feared a little to execute them. It did certainly seem a fine work to save our France, but how was a girl to go among men-at-arms? Finally, in their sweet and constant companionship I came to have more confidence in myself, and the love which I had ever had for God guided my conduct, for it cannot be right to rebel against the will of a Father. It was a hard task, and yet I had joy in obeying, and I set forth to do the Will of God. I am happy that I followed His orders, and I pardon those who were the instruments of my death, for I know that it was not out of hatred for my spirit that they set it free, but because they hated the work that I had done. This work had been blessed by God, and, therefore, they were deeply in the wrong, but, like them, I have no hatred for their spirits. I am only the enemy of all that God condemns, or falseness and wickedness. It is their work which is evil. They return to it ever, but the remembrance of their past cannot be effaced by them. I mourn for the hatreds which they have encouraged among those who should be brothers, and for the evil weeds which they have sown in the Church, which have caused this Mother whom I once cherished to devote herself rather to theology than to charity. It is pleasing to me to see that they improve and admit to some extent their error, but things have never been as I should have wished them, and my love for the Church turns more and more away from this ancient guide of souls in order to give itself more completely to our sweet and gracious Lord. JEHANNE. "},{"Title":"Luc Besson's incredible interpretation of Joan of Arc","Date":"9 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" For those of you that want the most accurate history of Joan of Arc (or any other figure) then go read a book. For the rest of us that enjoy movie based on historical interpretations, then this wonderful flick by Luc Besson will be sure to entertain. Instead of pigeon-holing us into his version of the truth, Luc instead asks more questions than he answers, and then leaves the viewer to ponder them. And he does this with a wonderfully constructed movie that is brutal, at times humorous, and always stylish. Milla Jovovich's performance elicits a character whose insufferable drive to do God's work teeters on the brink of sanity, just as she should be. Her supporting cast is just as solid, with Faye Dunaway, John Malkovich, Dustin Hoffman, and Tcheky Karyo just to name a few. The cast here is used to create an army of good, bad, and mostly in between characters. Even the clergy is portrayed without overtly vilifying them. The script was solid, the direction great. The camera work work did wonders to capture the discomfiting sense of Joan's visions. Overall, this rather long movie ended too soon for these secular eyes. Late.Evil Eye Reviews "},{"Title":"Bloody. Brutal. Believable.","Date":"12 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" From director Luc Besson (THE TRANSPORTER, THE FIFTH ELEMENT), who also co-writes, comes the 1999 historical drama film THE MESSENGER THE STORY OF JOAN OF ARC, a film which by and large follows in the tradition of other stalwarts in the genre (such as BRAVEHEART.) As the title may suggest, this movie is all about Jeanne D'Arc, the peasant girl who would later claim to have seen visions from God and lead the armies of France to several triumphs over the English during the Hundred Years War.The film is impressive. Even if it is not perfectly accurate in a historical sense, it does outline the highlights of Joan's campaign, the prominent figures who fought with and against her, and works wonders in capturing the sheer brutality of battle.Milla Jovovich (RESIDENT EVIL, THE FIFTH ELEMENT) is wonderful as the violent, aggressive, and zealous titular character, with her hatred for the English and desire to do God's will made plain on every shot of her face in battle.Strong supporting turns from John Malkovich (BURN AFTER READING, BEING JOHN MALKOVICH), Dustin Hoffman (SLEEPERS, RAIN MAN), Tchéky Karyo (THE PATRIOT, GOLDENEYE), and Vincent Cassel (EASTERN PROMISES, OCEAN'S TWELVE) round out the film's acting retinue.The battle sequences are brilliantly and brutally shot, specifically designed to do away with the glorification of war that is so frequently seen in movies such as this; men are decapitated, blood sprays, heads are smashed to a pulp. The savagery of 15th-century warfare is brought to the fore effectively and honestly.But the post-capture sequences are equally entertaining, and this is largely because of Dustin Hoffman's spectacular turn as 'the Conscience'. In many ways, Hoffman carries the second act of THE MESSENGER, and his rendering should have been Oscar-worthy.About the only place the film really suffers is in small areas of scripting. There are times when characters say silly, or outright stupid, lines. This is especially true in the moments leading in to battle.All in all, the movie was entertaining, and worth buying for anyone who wants to expand their library.7/10. "},{"Title":"Better today than tomorrow.","Date":"5 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Luc Besson (Léon, The Three Burials of Melquiades Estrada, Danny the Dog, Transporter 1, 2, and 3)) can always be depended upon to present a film worth watching. Here he gives us a story of Joan of Arc that will probably not answer question from those who are interested in her.Was she developmentally disable? Most Likely. Was she mentally ill? Is seems that she probably was. Besson presents an argument for both, but that is not his primary focus.It is in the battles where he focuses his energy and craft. We see graphic images of war with severed heads and limbs, and medieval weapons that excite and entertain us.We also see the corruption of the Catholic Church during that period and their focus more on political power than doing god's work.Milla Jovovich (Resident Evil, The Fifth Element) was a perfect Joan of Arc, with just the right qualities.John Malkovich was also good as Charles VII.I always enjoy Vincent Cassel and Tchéky Karyo, and neither disappointed me.Besson is one of my favorites and I can't wait for transporter 3. "},{"Title":"Not that great a film","Date":"21 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" It was a bit hard to follow at times, and in the middle, with all the battle scenes, I found it a bit boring. Also the battle scenes were too gory and although it showed what the battles were probably really like, and the brutality of war, it was not at all pleasant and a bit overdone. It got more interesting towards the end, but overall it was a slow film. It could have been cut and made shorter, at 2.5 hours it is too long. Also the text on screen was a little difficult to read, it was in a very old-fashioned font and too small. The acting was done very well and the whole look of the film was realistic and believable. Some parts of the film were a bit difficult to follow. "},{"Title":"Feelings about The Messenger","Date":"12 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I have to say I don't really like the tone of this movie, this movie was about a person that had some association with god, and I felt like the vision imagery looked more satanic more than anything. One must wonder what was on the mind of the people that were involved in the direction of this film. I don't know the history of Joan Of Ark, but I didn't like the way they portrayed this character. It was very dark and disheartening as if there was treachery behind every corner throughout the movie. I don't really think it helps the story nor what the character represented to cast so much doubt on her actions. It would have been better to come at the story from one angle. then to come at it from all angels and confuse the audience as to what her intentions really were. It seemed more like the story tellers are trying to persuade the audience that people who believe in signs or a higher power are less significant then people who primarily use their intellect to make choices in life. From my experience the mind is only a tool to be used when the need arises, but I don't think its a complete substitute for relying on internal intuition. It up to everyone to decide for themselves if their own intuition is an inherent property of being human or part of something larger.That being said I think the films battle scenes and acting were well done. I'm sure allot of work went into it and I do appreciate the time it took to make a film of this scale. I just wish they spent more time creating a compelling story that trying to cast so much doubt on Joan's actions which seemed more like a policial statement then anything else. "},{"Title":"Film that Coins the phrase on the fence","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Although in some circles of movie review, this film was destroyed and torn apart limb from limb. There are key features which add to this downfall, simply and plainly when directing or acting in period dramas never ever use American accents they are like a plague sent from the belly of hell. John Malkovich is a prime example, now I'm not a historian nor someone who claims to be, but surly someone realised that his accent would be a laughing stock, how difficult would it be to master a french one or even an English one NOT!!!!. Barring a few flaws i have to say i did quite enjoy this film, acting was rusty at points the battles were lack luster with about a handful of men for each army. All in all id advise this film for a Saturday night for anyone who likes blood,god and some English ass kicking. "},{"Title":"Jane valentine","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I think Jane Valentine is far better than Milla Jovovich,she is very pretty and it's a pity she never went on playing movies,i was just wandering whether she is British or American and how old might she be by now,if you know something about her could you please give me some information just about her age and nationality,in the film she acts in a so sweet way,i can't help watching the beginning while she is still a child,once she grows up everything turns weary,i know Joan of arc wasn't so pretty at all,i'm always referring to Jane Valentine because i'm sorry to disappoint you but Jovovich has not done quite a good job she is sort of pathetic in my opinion for her ugliness and lack of will of acting properly. "},{"Title":"mind-warping","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" We all like a good biopic, right? Not when it comes out all screwy, like The Messenger The Story of Joan of Arc does. Maybe it's the (almost) laughable anachronisms. For example, a soldier sarcastically says Jesus Christ; anyone who understands the evolution of English knows that people didn't use Jesus Christ as an expletive in Medieval Times. Later on, after Joan (Milla Jovovich) has been injured, someone says She's nuts. COME ON, PEOPLE!!!!! In the 1400s, nuts was not a synonym for crazy! Because of these misplaced comments - not to mention other things - the acting comes out a lot weaker than it should, given the supporting cast (Dustin Hoffman, Faye Dunaway, John Malkovich).All in all, you feel like your brain just got warped after watching this movie. Probably the worst kind of movie is one that had really good intentions but got ruined through incompetence; this is definitely one such movie. If nothing else, it's good to know that this didn't ruin everyone's careers. The cast members have since made up for it. But considering that Luc Besson has made such good movies as The Professional and The Fifth Element, don't waste your time on this. "},{"Title":"A very good movie for adult Christian believers","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" As a Christian believer (not a catholic) I enjoyed this movie very much. It shows the fact that Joan was just a believer and a human being which God chose to deliver his message. All believers are saints according to the bible because we are washed white as snow by the blood of the Lamb. Every believer struggles between Gods calling in their life and the world (and the prince of this world). I think this movie showed that struggle in Joan's life. She was a saint and a martyr. I enjoyed her early conflict with the French generals that ended in their willingness to give their life for hers. My only negative was that the film maker chose the phrase that they did in the English generals response to her at the Tower of Torrel. I think he should have used the phrase Pluck Yew (you can find the history of this on Google). "}{"Title":"As beautiful on the inside as it is on the outside...","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" From start to end, the Messenger, director Luc Besson's bio-pic of Joan of Arc is a beautiful mixture for the senses. From the eyes of a child, to the horrors of war, there is little that Besson fails to blend some artistic merit to. This beauty, combined with an intriguing screenplay, make the movie worth watching.Of great importance is the realization that this movie does not attempt to tell you exactly what happened to Joan of Arc. What it intelligently does it give you biography of her life through her own eyes. We are left to interpret things as only Joan would have. There is no absolute truth to the messages she receives. There is no hand of God pushing her along; there are simply whispers.I found this film most intriguing as it simply does not fall in line with other historical epics in recent decades. Films like Alexander and Troy should have learned a thing or two from a film like the Messenger. It is a truly beautiful film, both on the outside and the inside. There are characters, both leading and supporting, that however small a part they play, are significant and memorable.Like all of Luc Besson's films, the film possesses a strong individual identity. This is anything but conventional Hollywood. I highly suggest you give it a look. "},{"Title":"The films of Luc Besson A nice piece of historical fiction.","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Joan of Arc (1999) was a Mila Jovovich one woman show. She stars as the near mythical Joan of Arc. An illiterate teenage peasant girl who becomes a lighting rod for French independence and the many force of driving the English interlopers from France. The Hundred Years War has dragged on a tad longer than a hundred years. France is in a desperate state of collapsing altogether, the Dauphin (John Malkovich) is in seclusion in Southern France watching his kingdom erode. He hears about a young peasant girl (Mila Jovovich) who has says that god wants him to rule a united France. With nothing to lose, he grants her an audience and the rest is history....Not to be taken as the final truth. Please remember this is a historical fiction. If you want to learn more about the real Joan of Arc I suggest you read up on medieval Europe or just go to your local library. Co-stars Faye Dunaway, Dustin Hoffman, Vincent Cassel and Tcheky Kairo. Should have been a French language production. That would have been cool.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This is one of my favorite films. I believe that it portrays an excellent version of the story of Joan of arch. I feel the actors/actresses did an wonderful job displaying raw human emotion. I give this movie two thumbs way up. I loved the music in this film as well, and actually went out and bought the soundtrack. I also love the main actress. I own The fifth element, Resident Evil 1&2, Dummy, and The Messenger. I also liked the sound track to the fifth element so much I also purchased it as well. When she cut her hair in the movie I was so moved, I felt it was a great symbol of emotional strength and tied in with the level of involvement that she had with her soldiers. It was just GREAT. "},{"Title":"It's not my body I want to save. It's my soul.","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I saw The Messenger recently, and I was honestly blown away. Quite frankly, I thought it was brilliant.For a start, I thought Milla Jovovich's performance was simply amazing. While she may have been wasted with things like Resident Evil Apocalypse of late, she really is a superb actress when given the right script. I thought she actually showed a great deal of potential in The Fifth Element, despite the genre of that film limiting the chances to show any real acting ability.Not so here. As well as getting to kick ass in her normal manner, she also turns in a great dramatic performance, and really makes you feel the emotions her character is going through. She has a wonderful vulnerable quality (which was demonstrated admirably in The Fifth Element)... Winona Ryder is about the only other actress I can think of with the same talent in this regard.There's also an extremely able supporting cast. Despite having an accent that's completely out of place, John Malkovich is great as Charles. Vincent Cassell also turns in a good performance in a role which could have been merely comic relief, but one which he drags to a level above that (although he looks distractingly like Matthew Lillard at times). Faye Dunaway does well with a character who doesn't exactly exude personality, while Dustin Hoffman... well, Dustin Hoffman is there.I also thought the look of the film was fantastic. The realism of the battle scenes is impressive, and Luc Besson's direction really brings them to life. No punches are pulled and we see people decapitated, amputated and maimed all round... and hey, who doesn't enjoy a good decapitation now and then? I also thought the costumes were great, especially those of Faye Dunaway's character. The costumes of the extras and minor characters also look fantastic, and it adds an extra level of realism to the look of the film.As for the story... well, I find it hard to comment. I'll admit that I'm pretty ignorant of the real tale of Joan of Arc, so I have no idea how closely this adaptation sticks to it. What I will say is that I found the story the film presents engrossing, and despite the fact I had originally planned to watch only an hour of the film before switching over, it hooked me, and kept me hooked until the very end.I did feel the film had one weakness however -- nothing about Joan is ever really explained. We never find out if her visions were really a message from God, or merely a product of her own imagination. Her mental state and ability are well represented during the film (especially with Jovovich's great performance), but there are no clear answers about her character. I guess this is designed to let the audience believe whatever they want to, but I'd have preferred a more committed stance from the film itself as to the how and why of Joan of Arc.I'd never even heard of this film prior to seeing it. It was simply something I started watching to pass the time while waiting for something else to start, but I'm glad I chose to watch it. I think it's a strong contender for a place on my top twenty list.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"If the French didn't kill her, I would have","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  What a shame.  Great cinematography, wonderful sets and costumes, great action sequences and a strong, enjoyable supporting cast.  So what went wrong? Milla Jovovich was totally unbelievable as Joan.  Her portrayal of the famous French saint was so grating, so annoying, that I breathed a sigh of relief when they finally finished her.  Her character was so over-the-top that she nearly dragged down the wonderful performances of John Malkovich, Faye Dunnaway and Tcheky Karyo. I couldn't wait for it to end. "},{"Title":"I am at a loss for words...","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  what is that thing I have just spent two hours watching? An utter disappointment. An ugly, absolutely not amusing caricature. A farce in the worst sense of the word.As a scholar of Medieval Studies, I can firmly attest that the movie called The Messenger the Joan of Arc story, has nothing to do either with medieval Europe or the story of Joan of Arc. So, if you sit in front of your TV and assume that Joan of Arc has never existed and is Luc Besson's own fruit of imagination, this might not be an exceptionally disgusting experience. Especially, if you enjoy the type of women Milla Jovovich belongs to. Speaking about her, she might be considered a beautiful woman who likes to change her color contacts much too often. She might be a talented model. However, she is not actress. At least, not a dramatic actress. Perhaps, she would be able to succeed in a role of a contemporary prostitute. Or an undecipherable image of some fantastic creature who can hardly pronounce two distinctive words - like she was in The Fifth Element.If you like films about war, you are better off renting Braveheart or Gladiator. If you like historic films about beautiful ladies, rent Dangerous Liaisons with Glenn Close and Michelle Pfeiffer. If you like watching models do their best, tune into The Victoria Secret's show.You might consider renting The Messenger only if you want to see John Malkovich in a new role. However, even in The Ladies' Room he's got a far more better part.  "},{"Title":"yuck","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  apart from a nice performance by HOFFMAN this movie sucked. It sucked in the sense that it had a great cast but didn't have the right juice to lift it up. I am shocked that legendary LUC BESSON directed this cause his films always rock. This film is a waste and the wisecracks in it and stupid laughing in the face of danger made it unbearable. "},{"Title":"A different interpretation, but excellent nonetheless!","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  **May contain spoilers**Just because a movie presents a new way of looking at a well-known story doesn't automatically condemn it as a bad movie.  The issue most people have with this film is its interpretation of who Joan of Arc was.  True, Joan is a saint.  But hundreds of years before she was a saint, she was a human being!  She cried, she made mistakes, she was susceptible to fear and pride. If this movie turned Joan into an atheist or something, I could understand people having a problem with it.  But in my opinion, this movie makes the story even more moving!  What does it matter if Joan was crazy or truly a prophet?  She returned the throne to Charles VII, didn't she?  And as for the time she was in prison...I believe that the addition of the Conscience made for a haunting, provocative film.  The film wouldn't be nearly as powerful if it wasn't for Joan's doubts.  Her conversations with the Conscience are, in my opinion, some of the most powerful dialogue of any movie.  The Conscience didn't rob her of her belief or of her triumph.  He made her see -- truly see, not just say -- that she was merely a messenger, not divine.  She acknowledged her faults, but despite that, she went to the stake still firm in her faith.  I don't pretend to know if Joan was truly a prophet, or just a strong believer, but her portrayal in this film took nothing away from her as a historical being.  All it did was change it. According to Besson's film, Joan truly believed in what she fought for, and that's what's important.  The fact that she is shown as fallible only makes her story that much more compelling.I had seen Milla in The Fifth Element, and her acting was all right, but nothing that memorable.  However, after seeing The Messenger for the first time, I was haunted by the memory of her portrayal of Joan for days afterward.  I still get chills when I remember certain scenes.  In my opinion, she was truly brilliant as Joan.  The passion and emotion that made up who Joan was is portrayed perfectly by Milla.  I am completely serious when I say that her acting left me speechless.The other actors did well, especially Faye Dunaway as Yolande.  She was the perfect cool and calculating mother-in-law of the king.  John Malkovich was also good, in a portrayal of Charles VII not as a selfish monarch who sacrificed Joan the first chance he got, but as an impressionable, immature king who was too easily swayed by the advice he got.The movie does have its flaws -- the war scenes seem more geared towards shock value than historical accuracy or plot movement.  It's true that there were little annoying things, like the inconsistency of Joan's hair color, but these were far overshadowed by the story and Milla's inspired acting.This movie is, without a doubt, one of my favorite movies.  It has changed the way I think about many things, and I wish I could thank Luc Besson for creating this film, and Milla Jovovich for giving us a Joan unlike any before.  P.S.  If anyone would like to contact me in regards to my comments, please feel free.  I would love to get feedback. "},{"Title":"Ambiguous?  I don't think so.","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I've noticed a lot of comments saying this film is ambiguous in it's treatment of the subject of faith.  I have to disagree.  This movie is as aethist as they come.  (Spoilers ahead.)  When Joan confesses to 'the conscience' at the end of the film, it is clear that the intent is to discredit her belief.  She caves in to the 'realist' view of her deeds as presented by Hoffman's character, and as a result, what this film says is that Joan of Arc was a crazy woman who managed to eek out a victory against the English at Orleans.The film does explore the contradictions which the legend of Joan of Arc presents.  How do you reconcile both sides of a woman who is at once a saint and a warrior?  Her role seems to be a contradiction in terms, and this is something that the film does portray.  But in the end, the film does not leave any doubt as to whether Joan was truly a visionary or a madwoman.Another problem with the movie is the fact that Joan seems to be the *only* one who believes in God.  I think what a lot of producers of historicals tend to forget is that back then, people believed with a capital B.  They believed in God, they believed in witchcraft, and in signs and portents. Nobody seems to have as strong a faith in God as Joan does.  Everyone around her seems to be very pragmatic or hypocritical about their beliefs, and I think this is inaccurate.  This seems to be a case of the filmmaker 'modernizing' the characters in order to make them more suitable to his audience.  Granted, it would be harder for a modern audience to accept the idea that, gee, wow..everyone really *really* believed in God back then, but it would be a much more accurate portrayal of the times.All in all, a pretty disappointing film, because the director's interpretation became more important than the story itself. "},{"Title":"Flawed, but entertaining and insightful - well worth a watch","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I see this film as an attempt to investigate the psychology of myth, heroism, and miracles.  The task is as formidable as the subject matter, but I think the director and his cast largely are able to pull it off.  This is the preferred film for a serious student of Joan de Arc (who happens to be an ancestor of mine).  And The Messenger is entertaining as well. "}{"Title":"Some of this is weird...and sort of dull, which is not good with Joan","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I thought this film was kinda weird, despite it being a correct historical thing of Joan of Arc. Possibly because it is directed and co-written by Luc Besson, the guy who brought The Fifth Element (which was spectacular). But still, this film is worth checking out. Mainly for the performances by Milla Jovovich as the Joan of Arc, who is as compelling as she is crazy, John Malkovich as the man who will become king thanks to Joan, Faye Dunaway as the mother of John and Dustin Hoffman who has a powerful, yet short, performance as the conscience of Joan. Not exactly a choice pick to watch, but if you run into it, it isn't all that bad; not that it doesn't hold a candle- make that a lighthouse- to Dreyer's Joan of Arc. "},{"Title":"eeeeh","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I cannot fathom some of the glowing reviews this film is receiving.  I really, really, REALLY didn't like this movie at all. Don't get me wrong, I've always found Joan of Arc to be a fascinating historical figure.  But why on earth did she have to be portrayed like someone on *****?  More than anything, I'm just disappointed at this film for the way it was made.  I feel that there was so much more that could have been done, but the lousy dialogue and poor directing just made seeing this film a bad experience.  "},{"Title":"Terrible.  Makes Joan D'Arc seem like a looney dumb blonde.","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The movie is truly atrocious.  Instead of being portrayed as the powerful and inspirational figure that she was, Joan D'Arc comes across as an insipid dumb blonde, and a looney.  For most of the movie she alternates between seeming like a frightened rabbit (as somebody else commented) and a plain air-head.  Not really the type of character you would expect to inspire the might of France, and strike fear into the English.The Messenger gets off to a very poor start. Despite being based on real historic events it seemed completely contrived and unbelievable to the point of being stupid.  A lot of this comes down to the choice of actresses to play Joan.  Despite not seeing 5th Element, I'm told her non-talking part was fine.  But in choosing his wife to play a role that required serious acting Luc Besson has doomed this movie to a very quick demise.  Beyond the acting, much of the problem may have been the script and direction.  Even John Malchovic, in my opinion one of the best actors in the world, ********* Many people seeing this movie may be more interested in the battle scenes than the acting or historical accuracy.  About a third of the way through they won't be disappointed.  The war scene in the middle is admittedly good. Unfortunately for the next 2 hours even the action buffs will have to put up with the intense boredom of the remainder of the film.  All of the people I was with, half of who enjoyed the first part of the movie, were squirming in their seats by the end hoping for Joan to get burned so they could get out of the cinema.That all said, 157 people in IMDB still did rate the movie a 10.  So unless they are all friends in the industry somebody may have liked this movie. "},{"Title":"One of the three worst movies I have seen.","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I have seen some bad movies (Beloved and The thin red line), but this is among the worst. The acting was poor (except for Hoffman), the story was bad. If this is the true story of Joan Of Arc we need to take her name out of the history books. "},{"Title":"Knowing history","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  First of all, the story of Joan of Arc is biographical movie. A story not create by some writers of Hollywood. The story is about a young girl who lead an army to liberate his country, the France. The word France is maybe the problem for someone. For someone who don't care of things not BORN IN THE USA!!! For someone who want to see the movie for an happy end, go home now! I saw a great historical movie. Probably, Milla Jovovich is not the right actress to do the role, but it's not the case. In a much larger vision of things, we have to see the sens of directing. It's an epic movie for people loving history. 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"To much relegion & to few a battles (","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I've seen this film in a preview in belgium. I expected another Braveheart epic storry but NO WAY . For a 2h30 min film its too slow, its all about catholocism, the battles are cool but too short. And the way they try to re-capture Paris made me laugh. Everybody knows the end, no twists in the plot. Have faith p  "},{"Title":"This would be a great movie if it wasn't titled Joan of Arc","Date":"28 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I watched this movie without the slightest idea who directs this movie nor the real facts about Jeanne. To me, I don't bother whether the movie is far from history or psychotic or anything that makes me feel bad. As long as the movie is reasonable, no problem. Anyone who doesn't like the portrayal of Jeanne shouldn't take it personally. Chill out, it's only a movie. You can tell anyone how bad it is or even burn the DVD if you don't like it. Let's watch carefully before judging.In my opinion, this is the greatest movie depicting the middle ages. The scenes are fantastic and feel so real. You can even see the scratches on their armor plates, proof that they have been used before, unlike in some movies where the armor plates are just too shiny and clean even after they come back from the battle. You'd also find that the face of the soldiers make you wonder how bad the breath is. These details really matter for me so I decide in the first ten minutes of the movie that I should see more of it.As a lunatic, the character is well-done by Milla Jovovich. Some people complained that she overacted but I honestly feel that the acting really makes sense. Firstly, When Jeanne finally found Charles in his Castle, her eyes were so convinced that she had found the right person. Secondly, when she was interrogated by the court, she gave a good reason for the old men to give her an army. The ideas are very clear. Anytime an idea comes up, it is preceded with clear explanation. Thirdly, she only did everything she could when somebody crossed her. Screaming, Yelling, Glaring are often seen throughout the movie. She is lunatic, isn't she? It would be strange if she's calm. I guess that's why she behaved the way other people see it as overacting.This movie is full of emotion. In the first battle scene where she ordered the retreating army to counterattack is probably the best example how to suddenly improve troop's morale. Their gesture and the music also help make the scene looked heroic. You can feel how is it like when you are hopeless and then someone come and yell that she will give you victory and everybody raises his sword, charge towards the enemy, and yell as loud as they can, with her leading them..I wanna tell you so many incredible things but unfortunately it wouldn't feel as good as if you see it by yourself. Although not everyone would feel the same way as I do, at least you can try this film and judge later. Don't bring your feeling how this movie should be. However, some movies are just bad. I can assure you this one is not one of them.English is not my first language. So, sorry for bad grammar or anything. "},{"Title":"I don't think. I leave that to God. I'm nothing in all this, I'm just the Messenger.","Date":"2 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" A few unfortunate lines of dialogue aside, it's hard to see why Luc Besson's epic was met with such derision - it's full of some terrific film-making, the battles are the right size, the story's well-told and Milla Jovovich comes over surprisingly well as someone caught somewhere between God's will and psychosis. The inclusion, two hours in, of Dustin Hoffman as her conscience to address her own and the audience's doubts as to whether she is driven by divine guidance or self-delusion is an inspired touch that is completely unexpected in a mainstream epic on this scale. Unfortunately, it's also the point when the film almost crosses the line into Monty Python - the dialogue's just too funny too often, and somehow the notion of a 15th Century French Catholic peasant girl's conscience manifesting itself as a 62-year-old New York Jewish actor in a cowl doesn't seem overly likely. Curiously, these scenes work better on a second viewing when you're not caught so off-guard by them.On a narrative level, these scenes do help punctuate the back-and-forth nature of the trial, but it would have probably been much better to have her in her cell talking to her unseen visions. There are still some compensations. The trial is well-handled, and Timothy West avoids the kind of ham that usually marks his cinematic turns (cf Cry Freedom) to give a surprisingly good performance as a mainly decent man trapped in an impossible situation, very similar to Ray MacAnally's role in The Mission. It's not a flawless film by any means, but it is one of the better and more ambitious 90s epics and one that's long overdue for reappraisal. "},{"Title":" A MUST SEE FILM!","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"                    Anyone interested in history and the military weapons of war during the reign of Charles VII,( John Malkovich,Johnny English 03 will enjoy this picture and the great acting he portrayed as king.  The entire picture took years to make and the photography was outstanding and very realistic with blood and guts on the battle fields with armored wearing human beings slaughtering each other.  Faye Dunaway (Yolande D'Aragone) The Calling '02 performed her role as a very evil advisor to Charles VII.    I was taken by surprise to see Dustin Hoffman(The Conscience)Runaway Jury'03 playing this role, I immediately recognized his voice and was able to see his face with the long beard.  This film keeps you on the edge of your seat and great credit must be given to Milla Javovich(Joan of Arc) You Stupid Men '02 who had to view horrible abuse as a young girl.   View this film when you can, you won't be sorry!  "},{"Title":"Screw Braveheart. A study in duality of historical films.","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie is the BEST historic representation of medievalEurope. It is Violent and breathtaking. I cannot recommend thismovie highly enough. But I will try.Milla Jovovich is breathtaking. Her portrayal of a historical figure isnuanced in ways that I have not seen before. She strattles the lineof devinley influenced messenger of god to crazy lady who hearsvoices. John Malkovich is...well, John Malkovich. He is subtle and nervous.He is a troubled dauphan and an overly paranoid King. Not hisbest work ever, but definitely solid.Dustin Hoffman, to me, is only good in certain roles. This role, ismy favorite of all he's done. It is solid and understated when anyother actor would probably try to be loud and boisterous with it.Incredibly amazing in how he give his character life in so fewwords of dialogue.Luc Besson is one of the greatest directors of out time.  The facthe can do something like the fifth element so well, which is sosteeped in science fiction/fantasy , and something like this whichis one is forced to follow the guidelines of history, just proves whata versatille and amazing director, He is.Finally the fight scenes. A lot of people feel the need to drawcomparisons between this movies and Braveheart because theyboth deal with medieval fights against the English.  I say thismovie is much more than the struggle to overcome the British, it isalso the struggle to honor one's god. But also the fights scenes inthis movie were much more graphic and violent  and dirty thananything in Braveheart. which I believe is more to the credit of LucBesson than the detriment of  Mel Gibson.My rating 10/10 amazing simply amazing "}{"Title":"Definetly worth seeing.","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Mila Jovovich is a terrific actress and she proves it in this movie, Joan of Arc.  To start off with, the movie is very sad but true.  Great acting and great script.  Since the movie is about a true story and a young girl who is tortured and brutally murdered at the age of nineteen, it is sad. Cope with it and you'll love the movie. "},{"Title":"Seriously under-appreciated piece of movie going heaven!","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  What can I say, many have criticized this film and I believe they've done so unjustly.  This gem is easily one of the best movies of 1999.  The drama is intense and the story is incredible.  To think a teenage girl could persuade her government to do anything is unimaginable much less to convince the leaders to go to war!  Do yourself a favor and pick up the Region 2 French DVD release of this film and enjoy this near masterpiece in all its DTS glory! "},{"Title":"A Brilliant, Sparkling Performance","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  What kind of teenaged tomboy would be able to lead grown men into battle against tremendous odds in 15th Century France?  Watch this film to find out -- Milla Jovovich delivers an absolutely splendid performance of the unlikely person whose story would smolder for 500 years before she was canonized a saint.  Perhaps this isn't a very glamourous role for the multitalented (actor, model, musician, to name a few) Milla, but it is without a doubt one of her best.  And without out a doubt, the free spirit of Joan of Arc in Milla Jovovich that brings this film to life.  Definitely worth seeing again and again.        "},{"Title":"A cheerleader with a sword...","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Poor, poor Milla...Stuck in an ugly, boring epic of minscule proportions. Yes indeed, the new film by Luc Besson is a poor hodgepodge of gruesome battles and tacky humour, a downer since I loved most of his films. In Messengerstory of Joan of Arc, the charector of Joan as played by Milla(of 'Fifth Element' fame) is a screaming psycho twit. She flails her sword around her like a baton and squeals mild curses to those who take the lords' name in vain. There is'nt a bit of subtlety in her horrid performance, which is a flaw the whole film lacks. Everything in this film is loud, crude and seriously lacking in the taste department. The technical aspects of the film are just as weak, only hinting at what a great action film this could've been. If only the film were as great as its preview...(which had me drooling for weeks beforehand) Instead I was bombarded by poor dialogue, a story that stunk of manure and poor acting ALL around. SAVE YOUR MONEY!!! THIS MOVIE SUCKS!!!-6 out of 10  "},{"Title":"It looks like Luc Besson pulled it off again","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  A very 'different' movie, like the 5th element was. Basically this is a fast-paced action movie that manages to comment on faith. I really like Dustin Hoffman's bit, Malkovich's fine. The mandatory gory realism is there, but the very good story, and fascinating ending, make it a great watch. "},{"Title":"It'll open your eyes to what is around you.","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Milla, who played Joan of Arc, opened my eyes to my own religion. This movie has given me a new look on life, and I fell a certain feeling which has made me mentally closer to myself. Simply see this movie and you will be touched at what Joan of Arc (Milla) did for France. "},{"Title":"Very boring but the action scenes are good","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  At first, I think this movie is too long. It should have been 30 minutes shorter. Second, the acting is actually bad. Even Dustin Hoffman and John Malkovich are pretty bad. I really love the action scenes. They are very well crafted. That's actually the only thing that was good about this movie. Luc Besson disappoints me. * out of **** "},{"Title":"Awful!","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is simply one of the most awful films I have ever seen, alongside Armageddon.  Beyond hammy performances, totally unbelievable, yet brilliantly shot.  No fault of the director but the writing is awful.  As always Malcovich is class but Milla is uniquely over dramatic and totally unbelievable. Ok, I'm English so you would expect some bias but save yourselves 151 minutes of this!  Trust me. "},{"Title":"No summary!","Date":"10 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Some people commenting on this movie obviously have little or no knowledge of history or art whatsoever. This film is by far the best portrayal of the era I have ever seen. The Middle Ages were full of blood, madness,fear, wars, death,disease, religious fanaticism, superstition, and hysteria. And this movie depicted it all so well and so stunningly, as if it were now. The settings, the costumes, the hairstyles, everything was superbly authentic. I can only imagine what it takes to make such a movie. It makes you feel as if those times come to life and this makes the movie unforgettable. Of course if you prefer to watch rose-tinted movies about a history that never was and people who never were as they are depicted, it's up to you. This movie however is head and shoulders above many of the blockbusters we have got used to watching. IT IS PURE ART! "},{"Title":"One of the worst films ever made!","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I am sorry to say that I would not recommend this film to anyone!  Few Americans would tolerate a film about the life of a great President (say, George Washington) who was portrayed as a closet transvestite who kept a heard of goats in the basement of the White House for his sexual pleasure. And yet, this is how Saint Joan of Arc was portrayed in The Messenger film -- someone who was a delusional, schizophrenic, egotistical, emotional, and narcissistic woman obsessed with revenge for the hypothetical murder of her older sister, an event which all historians agree did NOT take place. Anyone desiring to learn about the real Jehanne should read Regine Pernoud, especially her book Joan of ARC By Herself and Her Witnesses, a masterpiece on the life of Jehanne, la Pucelle.  "}{"Title":"A disgrace to history, France, Joan, and the Church","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  After the first 15-20 minutes, I had to leave the theater.  Without a doubt, this is the worse film that is supposed to be based on a true story. Obviously the screenwriter does not know the truth, nor the story and probably failed history in school. Nothing, and I mean nothing in the first 15-20 minutes of this film was accurate, save that Joan was female and lived in France.I could not tolerate having my intelligence insulted any longer, so I walked out.  I just hope that others who have seen the film realize what they saw bared no resemblance to the true story of Joan.  "},{"Title":"This movie is *NOT* the REAL story of St. Joan!","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Ok, this review contains spoilers, but you'd be better off reading it and NOT watching the movie. If your not going to read the whole review because you want to watch the movie and not know the whole story, then let me just say this, The Messenger is most likely the worst movie that I've ever seen and I wasted my time watching it. I know this won't stop you but you'll find out for yourself. **SPOLIERS AHEAD**First of all, the movie is WAY to historically inaccurate for it's own good, half the stuff portrayed in the film never even really happened! I watched the movie because I wanted to learn more about St. Joan, I was deeply disappointed. I'll tell you a little bit about what's wrong with it First, at the beginning of the film, Joan's sister Catherine is raped by English soldiers, the BIG lie is what drives the movie. It never happened, in fact I don't think the English even invaded Joan's village, it was the Burgundians (I think that's what there called). And Catherine doesn't die or get raped, like the disturbing scene from the movie shows. Second, the fact that Joa--err.. the *girl's* (she certainly isn't Joan of Arc) sister being raped and murdered drives her into wanting revenge on the English and so she deludes herself into thinking that God has summoned her, but all she really wants is revenge!! That is given away at the end of the film; it's so silly because it never happened at all.This film is a LIE, if you plan on watching it so you can learn more about St. Joan then avoid at all costs because you won't learn anything. It's not the REAL story of St. Joan of Arc. Now if you pretend that the film is not supposed to be about St. Joan and is the fictional story of a vengeful French girl, then you might enjoy it, but I doubt it. I give it 2 out of 10, the 2 is for the good acting, which is the about only good thing about the film. "},{"Title":"Shocking inaccurate portrayal","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" As a practicing Roman Catholic and reader of almost every book about St. Joan of Arc, I was appalled by this movie. Too bad I didn't resist seeing it after people told me how inaccurate it was, but after seeing almost every movie about her, I had to see it for myself. (too bad). Admittedly, every author has a slightly different take on the life of a Saint but this movie totally flips out. Hardly anything was factual. Not one book I ever read claimed or hinted at the fact that her sister was raped, her father was mean, her best friend killed, her village church burned down or that she stole the chalice of precious blood from the tabernacle and gulped it down. Sadly to say, I sat through the whole movie in hopes that something would redeem itself or make sense but it never did. And to top it off, at the very end of the movie, after making Joan look like a bumbling lunatic, they highlight that the Vatican made her a canonized saint. (A clear jab at the Church) "},{"Title":"My rating 7","Date":"22 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This time the film is just a pretext for what I want to share. I will express it in a few moments.The period of time which indicates the film is one of the essential ones for the further historical development. These are process of awakening from the influence of church and shaping of national states in the forms in which we know them today.Joan of Arc marks the full expression of faith in good and proper, faith in the church which no longer follows the tenets properly. Joan fully believe in God and adhere to church rules. She live as should be but she meets no support, she meet the stake.On the other hand her military actions are amazing. Maybe that's what people need - hysterical constancy that does not comply with rules, norms and has no tact. I was whole goosebumps when I saw how she used the military facility for seize of the fortress. Definitely what she saw was not entirely reasonable but that was the surprise that brought victory.True story or not, it is a significant example of how different can be views on same issues. About how unclean seems from aside the desire to succeed at all costs and be saved as position, not as person.http//vihrenmitevmovies.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Worst Joan of Arc movie ever","Date":"27 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This is one of, if not the worst movies I've ever seen. Milla plays Joan as an absolute lunatic, its like an Emily Rose type thing, she clearly turned up at the wrong auditions. You can imagine my face as i walk into HMV to see my friend walking to the counter to buy this film. I practically flew over to her screaming NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO while everything went in slow motion and Music started. OK thats an over exaggeration but it wasn't far off. Milla almost sent me to sleep, she either screams the words to fast for me to take it in or she whispers them so slowly i get bored before she even finishes the sentence. Honestly, don't waste your money on this, if you want a Joan of arc movie get the TV movie from the same year starring Leelee Sobieski, its a great story and OK for most ages ) "},{"Title":"A message of history.","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" People are saying that this movie was inaccurate and that all this stuff didn't happen but was anybody really there? No. It was a movie and not a documentary! Anyway, this movie is about Joan who has visions and hears voices that tell her to see Charles of France. Charles is not yet the king but he listens to this poor peasant girl. She demands an army that will bring another victory to the 100 years war. Joan wins her battle and Charles is crowned king but after he is crowned, he takes away her army and uses a diplomatic excuse for it. Then, in the movie, he gives her away to the English. The English put her on trial for being a heretic.The beginning of the movie was great. Joan was a little girl who confessed at church and was running in the field. Then the movie turns dark as she descends into madness and her sister Catherine's life is taken horribly.It is just a movie and movies don't always have to be 100% real. People take them too seriously and it burns me. "},{"Title":"A movie with a lot to say","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie, IMO, is just great. It has a lot to say and it has no not needed scenes. Milla Jovovich acts very good in the movie. It is a real ART movie, it's not another HOLYWOOD (AKA Special Effects ONLY) movie. I enjoyed watching it, as it's both an art movie and a history movie.10/10 "},{"Title":"Superb Film (Unless you're American)","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is a brilliant film.  It is well acted, well scripted and well directed.There is some very dark humour in this film but most people will not even notice it.  This is not a genuine retelling of the story of Joan of Arc, if you're looking for the true story of her life, read a book or 5.  This film won't help you at all.But if you want to see a film that tries to reevaluate the story of her life and the traumas that made Joan of Arc into the teenaged girl who led the French army against the English, then this film is great. "},{"Title":"Young, peasant girl is given a message from God to unit all of France.","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I thought this was an extremely good movie.  The acting was great and Milla gave a superb performance as Joan of Arc.  The movie portrays her life as a heroic and disturbed person.  I have seen the other Joan of Arc movie and I think The Messenger is far and  away the better of the two. "},{"Title":"An original version","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The most interesting in this movie is the particular version of this time of french history.The national propaganda showed the story of Joan of Arc as a ridiculous legend (patriotism, god,etc) .As nobody really know what happened this version is realist .This poor girl was certainly crazy and utilized. Charles VII/Malkovich is fantastic (we're not far from Machiavel).The battle scenes seems to be realistic too .I enjoy particularly Vincent Cassel (as Gilles de Rais which will become a kid's killer) when he strikes with his fléau. "}{"Title":"Well done","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I study history alot, and nothing bothers me more if they try to dramatize a movie and change history; or do some politically correct revisions to a story that make it unrealistic that I find the movie very cheesie.  This movie does neither, its a real life story of incredible historical events that need no changes or the movie would lose its flavor.  Except this film cuts stuff out due to time constraints, which is understandable.  This film follows closely the Joan of Arc story, and does it on a believable budget, with incredible actors.  (Hoffman, Malcovich)  The makers did alot of research into the film, with the weapons and tactics used in those times, and how Joan historically handled herself with much faith, grace, and noble manner.  Joan played a realistic, holy person, not a hollywood Rambo.  It is a great film of faith and insperation, and I can watch it over and over again.  P S Hoffman plays a great role as the Devil, I will never forget his cameo. "},{"Title":"YES there's historical errors, still, great movie.","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" A must-see if you enjoy medieval movies without orcs and elfs and wizards nonsense. God knows that one Gandalf is enough.BUT BE WARNED, if you are one of those people that cries about historical inaccuracy, them don't even bother to see this or ANY OTHER Hollywood movie.I just don't understand why some people still bother to complain about historical inaccuracy. All movies has it.Everyone loved Braveheart even knowing I hope that Willian Wallace wasn't a good guy at all, in fact, was one damn mean Scotsman.8/10 just because it's in English instead of french. "},{"Title":"Historically Inaccurate","Date":"15 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" The Messenger The Story of Joan of Arc gives no subtleties in its presentation of Joan of Arc. Its version of Joan comes from the theory that she had schizophrenia, to the exclusion of any other possibility. However, in The Messenger The Story of Joan of ArcThe script was badly written, confusing, and pulled the audience out of the suspension of disbelief. The writers ignored certain facts, and skewed others. Most importantly, they invented scenes and dialogue that 1) would be out of character for Joan and 2) we know for certain that we do not know. For example, in the scene when Joan rushed to her parish church and sloppily drank of the Eucharist&#x96;&#x96;she never would have done that. The historical Joan had too great a religious respect to commit a deadly sin such as that. Second example, the writers include the dialogue wherein she tells the Dauphin about her Revelations. No one knows what her Revelations were, so the writers of that scene had no basis of that whatsoever; the influence of their schizophrenic agenda is clear in the dialogue and Milla Jovovich's acting.The theory that Joan had schizophrenia is a legitimate argument. However, I found this film's presentation offensive and inadequate because of its lack of historical and realistic respect. The Messenger The Story of Joan of Arc set its theory up as the final and only theory, and bashed all other theories and monarchies and histories before it, seemingly because they existed before this film was made. "},{"Title":"Shoot the Messenger?","Date":"25 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This movie, supposedly about the life of Joan of Arc and her place in French history, is instead a vehicle for the expression of the nihilism of the Director/Writer and his utter disbelief in the use of human beings in the designs of God. He makes this point in a way that is both contentious and insulting to the memory of Joan of Arc, and the proud history of France whose defenders had finally, and with a great deal of effort, regained most of their country from the English, with her inspiration and guidance. This victory was not complete; however, there were still English occupied territories, decades after her martyrdom.The Director places his words in the mouth of Joan, and if he had actually read even one of the many sources which give an extant record of her life, trial and rehabilitation, he would know that these were words she could never have spoken. The few lines he gives his Joan that can be recognized as authentic or similar to her actual words are usually used in the wrong context or repeated endlessly to no other effect than the one the director is successful in achieving; that she is a simple, mad, and a psychologically disturbed child.This too is how she is characterized and played by his actress, as a nervous, crazy, impulsive irrational and immature child. Why if he dislikes her so, would he go to all the trouble of making a movie to show such an inaccurate and tainted likeness of her? It seems he is both fascinated with Joan and her story, and also enraged by her and what she stands for. He finds it unacceptable that if God does, in fact, exist, that the possibility that God choosing to act through an illiterate and unintelligent peasant girl is highly unlikely, therefore God does not exist or Joan was simply mad, that is the only logical explanation, right? "},{"Title":"good supporting cast","Date":"28 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  My favorite character was Pascal Greggory's performance as the Duke of Alençon. He brings such an energy to the role, helping highlight the stressed-out intensity of Joan and the smirky smarminess of the Dauphin/King. He made me want to ride into battle alongside him. To arms! To arms! Highlander fans may also recognize Richard Ridings (La Hire) as one of Highlander's Four Horsemen (Silas).I read that the American test audiences for this movie 1.) didn't want Joan to be burned at the end and suggested a re-write where she lives, and 2.) weren't sure where the movie was taking place. Has education really gone that far down the tubes in this country?.  "},{"Title":"Never cast your 6-foot-5 supermodel mistress to play a historical figure.","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Milla Jovovich's casting is quite a good and rather extreme example of what happens when a director's judgment gets clouded by his sexual attraction to a non-actress supermodel. Once Besson's penis started making creative decisions it was over with this movie and maybe his career as a whole. Once a penis gets its slippery head in the door it's bye-bye quality. For a penis cares not about Jovovich's talents; the only talents a director's penis cares for are the other talents. And Jovovich's magic triangle must have put quite a spell on Besson's single-minded one-eyed warrior, to the extent that he actually cast her in his second consecutive movie! Jovovich's performance is as one-dimensional as it gets; her Joan is always manic, silly, unconvincing, fanatical, humourless, and insane. A scene in which Milla tries to inspire her troops just before a battle, has the opposite effect on the viewer than was intended instead of impressing the viewers as well (like Gibson in Braveheart), she causes them to wonder why a single soldier would want to follow this six-foot floozy-supermodel-turned-bad-actress into battle. There is only one other woman &#150; from the fashion world - who would have been much worse than Jovovich Claudia Schiffer. But it's just a matter of time before Schiffer, too, traps a major director's penis into submission and unconditional surrender. Plus, Jovovich is not particularly attractive &#150; and I'm being very diplomatic and nice about it now. She has something masculine about her, and the hair-cut she has in the film only emphasizes my point.The movie is visually rather nice, and the battle scenes are quite good &#150; after all, a lot of money was invested in this - but there is a lack of seriousness which undermines the movie. Besson clearly didn't have a clue whether he was making a gung-ho not-too-serious adventure movie or a dark, somber historical drama. The film meanders between heavy drama, and ridiculous French slip-on-a-banana-peel silliness.Overall, not as bad as many people who hate the movie claim, but with quite a few major flaws. "},{"Title":"And you be careful, you who claim to be my judges, for you too will be judged one day.","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" It all began in 1429, when a teenage girl from a remote village in France stood before the world and announced she would defeat the world's greatest army and liberate her country. As this small voice in the heart of a simple girl grew stronger, rulers were drawn to listen, armies were empowered to fight and her countrymen were inspired to believe.A year in the making, THE MESSENGER THE STORY OF JOAN OF ARC is one of the most visually stunning and staggeringly authentic representations of this extraordinary story ever put on film, packed with the kind of sumptuous and eye-popping images that can only be a product of the mind and camera of Luc Besson. "},{"Title":"Milla Jovovich was great","Date":"19 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I like the movie. It was informative and the battle scenes were great which prevents the audience from getting bored. It was a good movie. Definitely NOT bad as some people would say. It's just sad that this movie was overlooked. Also, I think Milla Jovovich did a great job of playing the role of St. Joan of Arc. Her acting was amazing. I watched some movies of Milla Jovovich and I could say that of all her movies, it is in this one THAT HER ACTING ABILITIES SHINE! Definitely NOT the kind of acting people label on models-trying-hard-to-be-actresses. Here, Milla's acting abilities is at par with the acting abilities of some Hollywood female A-listers.I don't know why other people would say that her acting was bad in the movie. I think it's because some people can't admit that a woman can be beautiful and can act at the same time.  "},{"Title":"Awful Awful Awful, anti Christian to the most extreme","Date":"2 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Any practicing Christian, especially Roman Catholic, should NOT watch this liberal, leftist, pathetic portrayal of Joan of Arc. The movie starts off great, and does a COMPLETE 180 half way through the movie. I knew it was going to crap as soon as Dustin Hoffman 's character came into the scene. Almost threw my TV out into the middle of the street. Hollywood's constant attempts to degrade Christians, their beliefs, and their martyrs, Saints, is disgusting. Never see any movies portray other Religions or leaders of any minority groups/movements, any leftist crappy causes in a negative or disrespectful light. Anyone who would give this pile of s..t more than a 1 star speaks volumes about their beliefs and mindset. "}]