[{"Title":"...sometimes what you do chooses YOU.","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"45 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I've never done anything violent to anybody, just the minimum that was necessary. No fear, no pain, they just go to sleep.  But after it's done there's no going back, no second chance, if I made a mistake I'll pay for it.The Minus Man is a very special film.  It doesn't rely on sleuthing and big chases to find the truth. It doesn't have big car chases and women being chased through hallways or down dark streets.  What it DOES do is show how subtlety can be more deeply disturbing and effective in telling a story about a serial killer that enters a small town and changes the lives of those who are drawn to him.You don't always choose WHAT you do, sometimes what you do chooses YOU.  That's where discipline comes in.  Vann (Owen Wilson) speaks lines such as that one throughout the story, and in many ways they help you understand him (yet not completely) and what may hinder his actions.  He's likeable, quiet, and seems to be what people want or perceive him to be their friend, tenant, and co-worker. Vann just happens to start breaking his personal rules and poisoning people nearby, and things start getting complicated.  But we like Vann, we have affections for him, we know what he's doing is wrong but we want him to be alright.His landlords Doug (Brian Cox, cinema's original Hannibal Lecter) and Jane (Mercedes Ruehl), have their own skeletons in the closet and it seems that everyone ELSE'S problems are what could mess up Vann's quiet killing spree.Owen Wilson handles his role with such ease, eating his Clark bars and having discussions with imaginary detectives played by Dwight Yoakam and Dennis Haysbert.  These scenes show an extension of Vann's psyche, and actually keeps him in check, maintaining his sanity really. Janeane Garofalo is surprisingly affecting and quite serious as the co-worker with a crush on Vann. A major surprise is the wonderful performance of Laurie played by singer Sheryl Crow.  It's nice to see such a beautifully crafted psychological thriller where we as the audience are part of the atmosphere around Vann, seeing more than anyone else yet not completely let in on his reasoning.  I didn't find this method elusive, rather it was giving us the chance to witness a portion of time in a town, what happened there, and then Vann moves on, leaving us to wonder what his next chapter will be.  The great thing is that you will never be bored by this--all the conversations, the thoughts in his head, the killings, we get to absorb them into our minds and figure it all out for ourselves.The Minus Man is a subtle and brilliant film from Hampton Fancher.  A very human story that doesn't need buckets of blood and people chasing everyone around.  It leaves many things throughout to help you gather your own clues and interpretations and is guaranteed to have you discussing it long after it's over.   I am very happy to have this DVD in my collection, and most stores don't stock a title like this because it's not top hits fare...do yourself a favor and seek this one out, it makes a nice companion piece to Egoyan's film Felicia's Journey.If one thing left an impression on me to this day, it's the headline on a newspaper Vann was reading in a diner Boy Trapped Inside Travelling Exhibit...a rather nice metaphore on Vann's situation I think....no? Well, we could talk about it for HOURS.......... "},{"Title":"If Norman Bates Had A Brother...","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"36 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  	An unassuming, charismatic personality and a bottle of poison prove to be a lethal combination in `The Minus Man,' directed by Hampton Fancher and starring Owen Wilson.  When a personable young man drifts in from the Pacific Northwest and settles in a small coastal town, a number of people's lives are soon changed forever, and not for the better.  Vann Siegert (Wilson) is a likable fellow with a winning smile and always a credible story regarding who he is, where he's been and where he's going; he's also a psychotic killer who chooses his victims seemingly at random, yet is so ingratiating that he never falls under suspicion.  And such is the case when he rents a room from an unsuspecting couple, Jane and Doug Durwin (Mercedes Ruehl and Brian Cox).  Without realizing, of course, that he's enabling a murderer, Doug helps Vann find gainful employment, allowing him to establish himself within the community, and the rest-- as they say-- is history.  In one of the more telling scenes in the film, Vann reflects to himself, `If it weren't for me, these people would all be doing something else today...'  What they are doing, in fact, is searching for one of their own who has gone missing, courtesy of Vann.   	What is so distressing about this movie is the lack of menace outwardly presented by someone so intrinsically evil; like Norman Bates in `Psycho,' Vann is simply too unprepossessing and benign to be considered a threat to anyone.  The contrast between his countenance and his crimes is chilling; and the fact that he perpetrates his deeds in such a matter-of-fact, unemotional manner gives new meaning to the phrase `cold blooded killer.'  One of the interesting aspects of the film is that Vann acts as narrator as well, which effectively puts the audience inside the mind behind the madness, even more so than in `Silence of the Lambs,' because in this case, the viewer is privy to the actual thought process that precipitates the crimes.  And it becomes a bit unnerving after some reflection upon what is actually transpiring under the guise of `normalcy.' 	Owen Wilson is well cast and gives a stunningly credible performance as Vann; he conveys such a low-keyed, eye-in-the-center-of-the-storm manner that he is instantly recognizable as the boy next door you'd be more than happy for your daughter to date.  And after watching him in action it becomes truly disconcerting to consider that in the real world there are those who look and act like Vann and are capable of such heinous acts of violence and deceit.  As the couple who takes Vann in-- and are subsequently taken in by him-- Ruehl and Cox capture the essence of the `everyman/woman' that can be found in any neighborhood in any town, and the fact that they are people with whom it is so easy to identify makes it even more upsetting when you realize that the vulnerability to which we are all prone can be exploited with such facility.   	In a supporting role, Janeane Garofalo is a welcome presence as Ferrin, a co-worker of Vann's who is drawn in by his winsome facade; and rounding out the supporting cast are Sheryl Crowe (Caspar/Laurie), Dwight Yoakam (Blair), Dennis Haysbert (Graves) and Alex Warren (State Trooper).  Ultimately, `The Minus Man' is a cautionary tale that may spark a touch of paranoia in the viewer, and with good reason; and after spending some time with Vann, it just may alter your perception of some of your more casual acquaintances and even some old friends, especially those who seem so `ordinary.'  It's a film that kind of sneaks up on you and takes you by surprise; and it may leave you pondering the darker side of human nature.  I rate this one 7/10. "},{"Title":"A Film of Many Pluses","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"32 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Minus Man is the sort of film whose success depends on the performance of the central actor. After viewing, it seems impossible to imagine any one else playing the lead. Owen Wilson is a significantly talented actor he brings a realistic sense of detail and ambiguity to the character of Vann. It is clear from the beginning that this young man is supposed to be likeable. Wilson conveys almost angelic charm, yet he is also capable of a calculating, knowing quality. The latter is what gives the character resonance. It makes the film work. The viewer is presented with a serial killer who is not only aware of what he is doing, but has a certain subconscious understanding of why. This film is a study of one suggested reason for a serial killer's actions he kills for control, to have an effect on the lives of others. By taking away--a minus effect--he adds something of his own. The idea itself certainly isn't new, but the character's illustration of it in this film is something unique and fascinating. There is a memorable, chilling scene in which Vann joins a search party for one of his own victims. Later, at a memorial service, he ponders the tremendous influence he has worked upon the inhabitants of the small town, and how, with just a few, words, he could change things yet again. In another scene, Vann decides against murdering an artist who has invited him home her paintings reveal a pre-occupation with suicide and death, so his actions would have no real effect on her.Other actors here are very fine Brian Cox, Mercedes Ruehl, Meg Foster, while Jeanane Garofalo gives a subtle and endearing picture of a lonely young woman.You may not discuss it for days afterward, but The Minus Man is well worth the time. "},{"Title":"You WILL be Talking for Hours!","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"28 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  There's a great trailer for this film that shows a couple on a date talking about a movie they just saw.  It shows them in various locations and at each place, they're involved in animated discussion about various aspects of the film.  Then suddenly, the sun is rising and the couple discovers they've been talking all night.  When the woman realizes the hour, she takes off in a mad rush.  She is late for work.  When she arrives, she finds a couple of people floating face down in a pool.  They are dead.  She is a lifeguard.  The tag line for the trailer says something along the lines of The Minus Man, it'll have you talking for hours.  It's a clever trailer for an even more clever movie!!Holy Hampton Fancher!  This guy is amazing.  He wrote the screenplay from a book by the same title.  The script is so incredibly well written that it really DOES leave you talking for hours.  Each character is so dimensional you could eat them like a multi-layered subway sandwich.Owen Wilson does an amazing job playing the likeable Vann.  So amazing in fact, that not only does he manage to melt everyone's heart in the town, the audience falls in love with him too.  That characteristic is key in creating a believable, and deeply dimensional, disturbing character.Brian Cox is also amazing as the masochistic, fatherly landlord.Janeane Garafalo breaks out of her I'm so unamused role, to play a fairly carefree, almost naive small town girl.Some people have commented that this film moves too slowly.  In making it, Hampton Fancher said he wanted it to move like a lullaby.  Well, that it does.  And it is as sweetly sung a lullaby as I've ever heard.  I cuddled up into my theatre seat and sat back and enjoyed every minute of it.I could go on and on for hours and hours about the complexity and implications of this movie,  but I won't so you can go and enjoy it yourself!  Then email me. We could talk about it for hours.A Must See.  One of This Year's Best!!!  "},{"Title":"study of the pathology of isolation","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A person's brain is like a pet- sometimes it gets loose, sometimes it gets lost, sometimes it sort of behaves itself and stays in the yard.This film isn't a mystery in the sense of a whodunnit, it's more of an examination of the mystery and strangeness of people, and the minutely strange things we do. Hampton Francher tows a taut line of existential inquest. This film defies categorization and really does get the gears turning by creating a complete world with an unrelentingly quiet unease. This film is what I'd call a mirror film, it's uninflected and amoral, so the ultimate interpretation is left to us. "},{"Title":"A good script, good acting, and new twist on serial killers","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Vann Siegert (Owen Wilson) is a quiet, friendly, young man. Although a bit slow-witted and new to town, he quickly develops a close relationship with the couple he boards with (Brian Cox and Mercedes Ruehl), is being pursued by an amorous co-worker (Janeane Garofalo) and distinguishes himself as go-getter at the Post Office.  There is one little thing that sets him apart from everybody else - he's a serial killer.Minus Man is atypical of the films in this genre there have been few trailers, it boasts no A-list stars, blood and guts are nowhere to be found, there is little melodrama, and it has a tight, well-crafted script. While the film seems to plod along, the pacing is deliberate and just when you're ready to walk it sucks you back in.Wilson, (looking remarkably like a young Dennis Hopper) is spellbinding he projects an innocence and vulnerability that not only makes you forget he's a murderer, but leaves you feeling sorry for him. Garofalo meanwhile, is uncharacteristically bubbly, and has no dialogue that dwells on bitterness and self-loathing.   Sheryl Crow and Dwight Yokum also turn in admirable appearances.If you're looking for a change of pace from the Hollywood grind, this is a risk well worth taking. "},{"Title":"A beautifully crafted, complex and touching thriller","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Hampton Fancher is a brilliant writer and director. In The Minus Man, he has managed to accomplish several tasks that no one else has be able to do. He is the first director who has cast Janeane Garofalo in a role that reveals her immense sex appeal. Ms. Garofalo's character, Ferrin displays a full range of emotions and despite her obvivous personal demons, she is a beam of light in a rather dark and disturbing film. Owen Wilson is magnificant as the quirky, unassuming vagabond killer machine, Van. Much of the movie is told by Van's narration. We are made to sympathize with his obvivious moral confusion. The scene with Van and Ferrin are touching, sweet and spooky. Mr. Fancher's fantastic film is further enhanced by the presence of Mercedes Reuhl and Brian cox as the landlords who rents Van a room. Ms. reuhl is allowed to be troubled and complex and still maintain her smouldering, mature sexuality while Mr. Cox is still engaging despite his David Lynchian psychotic episodes. This director even manages to makes Van's truck and the sun-drenched, westcoast beachscape a character in the film. A must-see! "},{"Title":"He is Polite, Good Looking, Does not Drink&#133;. But He Is a Poisoner","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The drifter Vann Siegert (Owen Wilson) is a polite and good looking man that does not drink, who drives his truck without specific destiny. When he sees people that he thinks deserve to die, he simply poisons them and hides their bodies. He has also daydream with two federal agents. When he settles in a small town, he is lodged by a couple with problems, gets a job in the post office and starts a relationship with his colleague Ferrin (Janeane Garofalo). After Christmas and many deaths, he leaves town.The Minus Man is an original movie about serial killer. Owen Wilson plays a deranged cold-blooded serial killer that scares because he is sweet and loved by people around him, therefore totally different from the usual cliché of criminal. The singer Sheryl Crow has a minor, but effective participation in the role of an addicted junkie and his first victim in the story. The free merchandise of the manufacturer of sneakers is shameful and the minus of this good movie. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Um a Menos (Less One) "},{"Title":"never a sting","Date":"7 March 2007","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" *Just a health warning from the start, you might find that if you're depressive this film does generate a desire for suicide.*What we have here is something to challenge your most basic social assumptions. Yes even yours, my countercultural amigo. We have a charming serial killer (Vann Siegert played by Owen Wilson), we have a killing spree across anonymous, sunlit rural America. Anyone thinking American Perfekt? Well what we have here is a bit more special than even that great movie.Here we have a gentle blond-haired murderer whose weapon of choice is a poisoned flask of amaretto (what better way to die?). He's so nice that when he sees an upturned rubbish bin at a lay-by on the highway he rights it and puts the rubbish back in. Because of his sweet character we are left to wonder at the motive for his murders, and it is not contradictory as some have suggested. Vann really believes he's being charitable.The first good deed of Vann we see is him putting a hardup depressed junkie out of her misery quietly and calmly, without pain. 'Well done' we're led to think for correcting this error, for subtracting this subtraction, for this analgesic act. This complicity leads us into unease as his next victim is the local football star, who, we are told can get into any college he wants to and is all set on joining the FBI afterwards. Zounds! Eftsoon we are lead to wonder what sort of life we are leading. Where even success is failure in the mental calculus of Vann Siegert. Indeed what fool would suspect that football+college+fbi=happiness? Perhaps some of you gin veterans, some of you workaday grunts (and I am one too - sigh) are nodding in agreement? This killer seems less of a Satan and more of an Evening Star. Here we have insight from the slacker culture, Vann tells us that his job running mail is the best he's ever had, something he could imagine doing forever. Why do we spend our waking hours consumed by greed and striving for status? This killer with argent veins, with his reaving net, a new Jesus? His message to live life with never a sting.It will take giant nerves from you raving teens to carry on sympathising after he murders a stressed working man after an incredibly brief encounter at a diner. He seems to become more reckless as the movie carries on. It has been suggested that Vann Siegert 'is merely a reflection of what those who encounter him want him to be'. Indeed when Vann takes a room with Doug and Jane (Brian Cox and Mercedes Ruehl) he quite creepily takes over the role of their absent daughter whom they pine for. And whilst certainly most of us have the so-called Freudian death-wish it would certainly be a stretch to suggest that Vann is acting with any sort of moral authority in fulfilling it for us. Common sense suggests that if you found out someone you knew had murdered the local football hero, to save him having to suffer his perfect life, you would give them a damned good kicking. 'The Road to Hell is Paved with Good Intentions' is the tagline from American Perfekt but would serve well for this movie. It's quite an unnerving film because of how submissive Owen Wilson's portrayal of this character is. Something we're not used to seeing on screen. Brian Cox's masochistic portrayal of Doug is also unsettling.Have yourself an arts evening, The Minus Man will keep you discussing sophomoric philosophy long in to the night, as the theatrical trailer promised. It suggests to me the old dichotomy between ancient and modern philosophy, those great Romans believed that one must have a reason to live, and failing that drink a bitter draught. These days living is default and we must have a reason to die. Perhaps that's how our absurd culture manages to perpetuate itself.I can't claim to have The Minus Man all squared in my head. Wherefore the mysterious fainting of Siegert, who murdered Jane and why, the extent to which Siegert may be manipulated by supernatural forces or perverse destiny. What the hell was going on between Ferrin and Vann? Of course this suggests that the film will reward multiple viewings.Perhaps the best reason to watch the film for all you bloods out there is that Mercedes Ruehl in this movie is most eminently f***able. Real wet dream material.In case you are nauseated by my dizzying verbosity consider how many of the instances of it in this review are anagrams of Vann Siegert. Something to ponder my friends. Especially as Vann in not in any encyclopedia of first names. I would suggest that 'never a sting' may be an intentional anagram. "},{"Title":"Such a thoughtful little killer","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Typical Sundance film weird and off beat. Vann Siegert is not your usual serial killer; no, he slays in peculiar ways. Siegert, a likable drifter, is starting to come unraveled but manages to keep his dark side locked away and his secrets his own. Good drama thumbs up. "}{"Title":"Brilliant suspense....","Date":"12 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Recently re-viewed this film again, and was struck by the direction, overall intriguing performances and suspense throughout.Owen Wilson gives a surprisingly real performance as complex and tortured character,Van, an aimless man with serious issues. As the story develops we see his splitting-off persona, and fictive characters (well-portrayed as police detectives,i.e.; His alter-egos).His pathology is never fully explained, even as he tries to psychoanalyze himself with voice over narrative.A brilliant film written by Hampton Fancher.First decent suspense film I have seen since Hitchcock.Highly recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Hello...and goodbye","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Watching this movie, you will most probably start thinking about other titles. I'm my case they are Psycho, Arsenic and Old Lace, A Shadow of Doubt, A Beautiful Mind and The Night of the Hunter. I also had to think of Todd Solondz' Palindromes. The Minus Man is successful where Palindromes dismally fails; in creating a setting which is located between everyday reality and the dreamscape of personal imagination.The main character comes out of nowhere and vanishes there again. In between horror invades the proverbial Smallville USA. Evil probably never had a gentler appearance. It is useless to explain what happens and why, as this is not a movie which wants to explain anything.The story is seen from the perspective of a mass murderer. Something is terribly wrong with this meek, likable young man. He sometimes faints, has regular and recurring visions, suffers from a split personality - and likes to kill people. You are never sure if what he perceives is reality or figments of his imagination. Most people he meets act at times very strange and unnatural, even the way he sees objects is often very unsettling (the big, diamond shaped glass pane in the entrance door of his &#132;adoptive parents is one of the scariest things for me in this movie).What to me seemed unique in Minus Man is the way the disturbed man deals with the fact that something is wrong He just seems to integrate everything into his everyday routine. Even the recurring dreams of Kafkaesque interrogations by a racially mixed team of some kind of investigators are faced with a cool, detached demeanour. In a strange, scary way the man seems to have found peace with himself and his condition. Others will have to pay with their lives.The Minus Man boasts an ensemble cast that is simply awesome. For some reason the female parts made a particularly deep impression on me, especially Mercedes Ruehl as the &#132;adoptive mother and Alex Warren as the supernatural state trooper. Janeane Garofalo is really cute and easily the most uplifting character of the movie. Watch her bungalow &#150; it seems to come right out of a children's book of fairy stories. "},{"Title":"Owen Wilson murders whom he feels like murdering","Date":"5 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Well-scripted and well-made, The Minus Man tells the story of a serial killer from his subjective point of view. He narrates the whole story, often commenting and providing insights into his thought. We see his emotional states and what kind of man he is from start to finish. But, at the same time, what adds another layer of impact is that we see the lives of the people he encounters around him. We see something else, which is the effect of each person on others, shaping what becomes history and reality. That level of the story plays out with an existential or absurd gloss.Wilson as the killer is shown to be feminine. He becomes the daughter of Brian Cox and Mercedes Ruehl, replacing their daughter who has gone off somewhere. He cannot make love to a co-worker who has a crush on him, Janene Garofalo. He is submissive to everyone around him. He uses poison to kill, which is traditionally a female method. After seeing the movie, I thought of Gene Tierney, who was a killer in Leave Her to Heaven. There are huge differences, of course. Tierney had motivations we understand. Wilson has general motivations but how they translate to specifics is a mystery. His victims are chosen by criteria we cannot fathom; in his mind it is a question of opportunity, a selection that happens almost of itself, a matter of light moving in or out. He feels power in what he's doing. He reflects on his secrets and how he can alter people's lives. He seems to have psychotic episodes, because his interplay with two detectives that he imagines or sees or daydreams seems just a little bit too real. But psychosis is not essential to the story. In fact, it's a better story if it's not because several of the other characters are shown to have either severe problems or else behavior that's quite twisted, especially Brian Cox, shown as masochistic, his wife who is hypercritical, and Sheryl Crowe who plays a drug addict. But there are not easy-going, untroubled and likable people populating this movie for the most part. It is as if we are being shown a spectrum of which Wilson happens to be at one end, but not all that removed from anyone else. However, Wilson is a sociopath who comes across as sociable and friendly but is dangerous and radically departs from conventional morality. None of the other troubled people in the story even remotely do what he's doing. Only Wilson has constructed a outlook that plays into his murderous behavior and supports it. He has found ways to distance himself from other people and rationalize his murders. He has found ways to live with a lack of conscience. He sees it as something of a game. He likes the details. He likes the discipline it requires. The film lets us in on this and more in his voice overs. He's minus a conscience and he brings the minus sign to other people's lives.The Minus Man is in the neo-noir category. It's in John Grant's book.We are led to believe that Wilson will be caught eventually, but he will show no remorse. The scenes he imagines with the detectives suggest this. Not only that, he is inviting capture as is shown by his actions when he leaves the town where he has committed several murders and knowingly broken his own rules. He is careful but he is toying with his power, skirting the edge, and playing on the incompetence of the police. Two critics, D'Aries and Hirsch, who classify this as neo-noir call it virulently antisocial. At the very end, despite a police sketch of him being circulated, a policewoman who has seen him before doesn't recognize him and he gets away. Her car goes to the right, his to the left. For the time being, he is getting away with his past crimes. "},{"Title":"The Minus Man adds up to something good","Date":"8 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The tag line for this flick's dated trailer reads, when he's around, nothing quite adds up. That maybe so. For me though, The Minus Man as a September 1999 release, adds up to something mighty special. It's underrated. In fact it's so underrated that hardly anyone in the free world bothered to see it (it played on about 45 screens total). I hope my enthusiastic review might stir up a small cult following. After all, any movie this good, deserves a little resurrection.Directed by the guy who scripted the futuristic Blade Runner and possessing daydreaming sequences that involve two philosophical detectives, The Minus Man follows the journey of low key serial killer Vann (with 2 n's) Siegert. Owen Wilson plays Siegert and at the time, he took this serious role in between comedic stints like The Cable Guy (1996) and his big hit Wedding Crashers (2005). I gotta admit, his performance is pretty impressive. He comes off as a relaxed, laid back psychopath. His character seems to be nonchalant, carefree, and having the equivalency of a resting heart rate in the mid 30's (just a little movie speculation).He's a drifter who according to the proceedings, lost his father, doesn't owe anyone any money, and wants to I guess, end people's lives because of their suffering (I guess he's that kind of sicko). He goes around poisoning people by persuading them to take a drink out of his silver flask full of Amaretto. It is mentioned that he may be from Oregon and is heading down the California coast. He decides to stop at a small town and rent out a room. While there, he gets a job as a postal worker all the while continuing to commit murders as he masquerades as a normal, shy person. He even befriends a married couple (The Durwins played by Brian Cox as Doug Durwin and Mercedes Ruehl as Jane Durwin) and catches the eye of a co-worker in Ferrin (played by Janeane Garofalo). Everyone seems to like him and take him in. He's easy to be around, seems to be attractive to woman, and is even able to evade any policemen who don't seem to take the time to wanna solve his killings (there is a sketch of his face in the local newspaper and it looks nothing like him).Throughout The Minus Man's 1 hour 50 minute running time, you never sense that he is in any danger of getting caught or spending his life in prison. That element, which was interpreted by myself, only added to the calm, creepy vibe that forced me to think about things long after the final credits rolled.The Minus Man although categorized as your typical crime drama, is different in that it focuses more on the antagonist and hardly ever hones in on the authority figures trying to capture him. Its plot and the unmotivated actions by the main character aren't exactly clear. However, you'll still be pulled in as a viewer because of the stylishness, the somberness, and the cast of capable B-listers (Brian Cox, Janeane Garofalo, and rock star Sheryl Crow).The script is wittingly and intelligently written by director Hampton Fancher. As mentioned earlier, he co-wrote the sci-fi bender Blade Runner. If you've seen that film, you can tell that he uses his touches as a writer in that same light featured here. He's totally complex in his wording. There's a little bit of irony and you'll notice by the dialogue spoken by the actors, that nothing is what it seems. I thought it was interesting that this is the only vehicle he has ever helmed (but you wouldn't know it). He knows where to put the camera, he's good with light (I like certain scenes that are shown in a ray of bright sunshine), he lets his shots pan out, and he edits well in cuts. Minus was made 16 years ago. I kinda wish Hampton wasn't out of the loop and maybe someday, he could put out something new (doesn't matter what genre, I'm game).All in all, I dig this movie's title, I love its indie feel, and I think what translates on screen, is a capably numbed down thriller. Upon a second viewing, I now dub it as quietly, almost sheepishly disturbing stuff. And give credit to Wilson for being in almost every frame not to mention holding the screen in the palm of his hand (without doing a lot, just underplaying to perfection). Overall, as a rare art flick depicting a psycho killer, The Minus Man is nocturnal bliss from the reclusive 76 year old Fancher. It gets a plus for being a solid, late 90's cinematic tool of faux translation. "},{"Title":"Serial Killer  Tactful and Observant.","Date":"9 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Dare I say this is a movie for adults and sensitive others about still another serial killer? Yes. As a thriller, this ranks up there behind Citizen X and about at the level of Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer. Owen Wilson is the killer adrift in a world of lower middle-class environments and jobs. Wilson has always been hard to categorize. He has an innocent look about him, a baby face, a high and slightly cracked voice, that with his pursed lips and wavy blond hair would suggest femininity, only his features are re-masculinized by a broken nose that does a couple of zig-zags down the center of his face.His character is a genuinely nice guy. He's generous. He doesn't have much money but he pays the bar bill of a drunken junkie -- just before he kills her. He's gracious and easily satisfied. When he rents a frilly room temporarily in the house of the mentally ill Dwight Yoakum and the distraught Mercedes Ruehl, he couldn't be more gratified. It's just right! He's industrious without being ambitious. He finds a seasonal temporary job with the US Postal Service, sorting letters behind the counter and going odd jobs, but he's so efficient and his character so unassuming that he's promoted to mail carrier.But he has this disturbing habit of offing people he thinks might hurt others, or at least that's as far as his rationalizations have got him. He doesn't put much effort into thinking about it and it doesn't occupy much of his life space. Violence is never involved. He simply mixes a bit of exotic poison with the Amaretto he carries around in a flask. The victim, who has done nothing to annoy Wilson, just drifts off into The Big Sleep, quickly and painlessly. What a nice guy. No kidding, every time something good happens to him his voice rings with wonder and amazement at his good fortune, like a child's.I didn't mind him so much when he poisoned the football hero. I never liked football anyway. My game is trying to roll over in bed in the middle of the night. But I was worried when Wilson took up with his co-worker at the PO, played by Janeane Garafalo. She's a nice postal worker and I didn't care for it when, out of nowhere, while she's perfectly willing to shag a bit, he starts treating her like rough trade. He's been nothing but an accommodating gentleman up to now, so where did THAT come from? Well, we don't know. Neither does Wilson's character. In fact, he's quite good. And so is Garafolo in her ordinariness. Dwight Yoakum, who is given to beating himself up, is properly pitiful. And Mercedes Ruehl as his initially unfriendly wife is positively superb. Her performances sizzles on the screen.I didn't imagine I'd find myself recommending another serial killer movie. They've become a genre unto themselves designed for cretins. But this one is different. The musical score is by Marco Beltrami and doesn't have a single electronic percussion in it, nor is it formulaic. Hamptom Fancher, whom I remember only as Sue Lyon's main squeeze in Puerto Vallarta, has directed it with skill, leaving puzzles exactly where puzzles belong. "},{"Title":"A flashback review","Date":"21 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The 1999 film was based off of the novel of the same name, penned by Lew McCreary. It follows the tale of a lone drifter named Vann Siegert with a polite disposition and an urge to kill. He's soft-spoken and highly curious, reflective, and carries an innocent air about him which may be what makes it seem a little less jarring than it should be when he poisons his victims to death whenever the urge tells him to. In the film we follow him through his thought process and his emotions, hinting at a troubled past and an uncertain future. That's personally part of what I love so much about the film, it has a sense of serenity and calm to it, the freedom of the open road with no real destination. But there are darker parts as well, lots of psychological issues that seem to creep up and take control in the form of dreams or visions that Vann gets when he blacks out, sort of his way of justifying and/or dealing with the morality of his actions. The film leaves a lot open to interpretation and really has that it factor that draws you back in for another viewing (or three, or four&#x85;) as you make little connections and come up with your own ideas and opinions about Vann and the events that take place throughout the few months that we get to see in his life. The score was composed by Marco Beltrami, it's haunting and gorgeous with hints of darkness and even humor mixed in. An absolute perfect match for the film.I think this was a magnificent role for Owen, it took him out of his usual funny man role, forcing him out of his comfortable improvisational zone and presented him with a very deep character that he handled with both beauty and perfection. It's a shame that his performance as Vann isn't more recognized, it shows depth and a sort of professionalism that deserves accolade.See the full review, and more, at Owenation dot com! "},{"Title":"A Serial Killing Postal Worker?! Hmmm, Ya Don't Say...","Date":"1 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" There's a curious mood to this odd film that belies the grim, grisly subject matter. It's almost a waking dream - a gauzy, hazy, half conscious remembrance of something vaguely unpleasant. The film takes such deliberate time in revealing the magnitude of the killer's pathology that it eventually feels as inevitable as a lazy canoe ride down river towards an unseen waterfall. What's most disturbing, most curious is that the fateful waterfall never arrives. The film just idly slips away into the murky mist of our most primal, most unnamed terrors. Owen Wilson's laconic demeanor and syrupy drawl effectively paint a compelling picture of a desperately disconnected but amiable loner. His eternally forlorn expressions are matched by an insistently melancholic soundtrack creating a tone that's unusually restrained and subdued for a genre that normally revels in overblown melodramatic spectacle. With so much technology today meticulously and cavalierly contriving obscenely graphic, hyper real vistas of nightmarish hell, it's actually refreshing to encounter a film that relies almost exclusively on the power of suggestion to implant deep within our psyches its special horror. Be patient and this nasty little movie will whisper some horribly dark voodoo into your soul. "},{"Title":"like a slight dream that vanishes...","Date":"7 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" short/concise review a drifter goes from town to town and rents a room from a couple, the stranger has a dark secret, and it's more than you'd guess.ambiguous reviewa man drifts into a town and blends in like the mist seeps into the swamp. Always centered upon his own line of thought, he starts to unravel his nice but peculiar personality upon a dreamy town.philosophical reviewWhat is going on in a person's life that makes one shelter one's self from one's conscience and let himself just be. Were his actions a product of his environment or did he choose to do what he did? Did he choose not to accept free will and let his destiny take its course? Like nature, he's never in a hurry, never a hint of discomfort. Like a destiny fulfilling itself, perhaps he knows what will happen, will happen.If you like thrillers, horror, psychological drama, and intriguing stories, you might find this movie very much to your liking. "},{"Title":"you would never suspect him","Date":"11 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I really liked this movie because it's not you're typical serial killer kinda flick, i mean ya , you do see people getting killed, but this guy is like nice to his victims and all, and really knows how to schmooze, sorta like Gary Gilmore,, but better i think. Owen Wilson, deserves kudos for this role,, i didn't think that he'd be able to pull of a serious role, but yet look at this he did it, with honors i must say,, only part of the movie i didn't care for was the way the cops were used in the flashback scenes, but hey other than that,, i also like the ending,, very classy i must say. Jeanane Garrofolo, gosh i'm sorry i think i butchered her name again,, is very sexy, and skinny in this one,, kind very cute,, sinful,, didn't really understand too much why he hit her,, but so powerful when she brought the dogie in to protect her.. very well done film,, about a weird, but likable serial killer who you would really never ever suspect, would really pull the wool over anyone's eyes,, i sure as heck wouldn't have suspected him.. i mean what serial killer would join the manhunt to find the victim that you just killed,, go check it out , you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful, Disturbing Film","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Minus Man is an amazing film as much for what it does as for what it doesn't do. This movie isn't for everyone...people who want a serial killer with panache or style should go see a movie like Silence of the Lambs. This is a very different film, which disturbs you without a drop of blood...a talent that is even more difficult than it sounds.Owen Wilson plays Vann Siegert, an amiable drifter who kills an asthmatic junkie at the beginning of the film in a non-violent way. He then settles into a quiet, West Coast community, befriending a moderately dysfunctional older couple (Brian Cox/Mercedes Ruehle), getting a job at the local post office and also befriending a lonely co-worker (Janeane Garafolo).The performances are all above average, at least, and a few of the actors simply stand out. I'm a big Ruehle fan (ever since Married to the Mob), and she didn't really get the chance to shine here, but Garafolo really came through in a supporting role. Dwight Yoakum and Dennis Haysbert are great as cops (I won't say more) who question Wilson, and there are several other key performances.It is Wilson, however, who steals the show. Owen Wilson is quickly becoming one of my favorite actors. He's made me laugh more than any American actor in recent memory (Bottle Rocket and Zoolander immediately spring to mind), but he really took his acting up a notch here, perfectly capturing the ambiguity of this character. He's likeable and disturbing all at once, a mystery all the way to the end of the film, because Wilson never gives anything away. This is his best performance, without a doubt.The movie is disturbing because Vann is an everyman, a nice enough guy who can't really stop killing. The random, methodical nature of what happens throughout the film chills, not to mention his weapon of choice.Some of the comments I've seen complain that the movie is lacking in terms of dialogue or ingenuity, but I generally loathe movies that try to understand a tormented or sick mind. This isn't to say that some or most serial killers aren't sick f**ks, but a movie like this...where the killer is a boy-next-door type...hits home really hard. I don't think this movie is attempting to be clever; I think it's genius lies in the feel it conveys, and how it captures the rhythms of everyday life and how easy it is for a killer to weave his way into that life.The movie brings home not only how easy it is for someone to kill, but how anonymous our nuclear-family structured society really is. We know no one, and safety is only in our imaginations. Unlike American Psycho or One Hour Photo, this movie is a whisper instead of a shout, but a whisper that is delivered effectively. I give this one a 9/10, and recommend it to anyone who wants to be scared subtly by the ordinary and familiar. "}{"Title":"Serious Owen Wilson Rocks!","Date":"17 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Owen Wilson, the famous COMEDY guy, stars in this almost surreal thriller-drama about a different kind of serial killer who travels along the country to pick up innocent victims and poison them for their soul defects and obvious unhappiness.As you could suggest, Wilson is the highlight here. The storyline is very deep, but it never manages to top his impressive performance. The guy should do more drama. I never knew he was that talented until The Minus Man. Considering Wilson's undoubtedly successful career as a comedian, this movie is his art moment and it's not that famous. Too bad, because it's been almost 10 years and Wilson hasn't made anything like that. What a pity.Anyway, the storyline is indeed very deep and thoughtful, full of things you can't understand or apprehend at the moment. It requires second viewing although the experience element won't be there. It's a very emotional ride, but if you insist on receiving explanations for everything, you'd better avoid The Minus Man and pick up something like Ridley Scott's Hanibal. This movie is definitely not for everyone.I guess I could call it innovative since Wilson's character is one of a kind serial killer. He says I feel like a light in the dark, they come to me like moths, because I shine. Vann is intelligent, quiet and friendly. He is the perfect Good guy who simply can't be suspicious. This is some terrific writing. I've never watch such a simple, yet incredibly complex killer-thriller.The Minus Man is highly recommended. Perfect dark, psychological thriller with almost no flaws, splendid music tone and high class acting. "},{"Title":"thrill less thriller but makes sense","Date":"4 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It's a movie that prompts the viewer to look inward rather than show gore, tension or the usual thriller ingredients (this is the reason as to why I stressed the lack of thrill). The film's approach is very laid back, focusing on the ordinariness of life that hides something terrible; the pace is everything but fast, nevertheless the story is filled with some fascinating elements that compensate for the lagging rhythm. Despite suffering from this pacing The Minus Man is a smart movie because it makes reflect and presses to think twice about strangers we come across; there's a lot of character depth and the audience, in spite of never being really scared, becomes more interested when learning something about the killer. "},{"Title":"weird","Date":"27 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" this is one odd movie,and i don't mean that in a bad way.it's basically about drifter(Owen Wilson)who's a serial killer.the difference is he poisons his victims.the interesting thing is,it's hard to pin down what his motive is.the movie might have explained it,but the movie is so subtle,it's hard to get everything.it may require repeat viewings to understand everything,and even then,you may not understand it all.if you like action in your movies,you might want to stay clear of this one.it tends to move slow,but to me,it was just compelling enough to keep watching.i won't say this is a bad movie(especially since i have just seen Dracula 3000,the worst movie ever made)but it's not for everyone.for me The Minus Man is a 6/10 "},{"Title":"Interesting Use of Genre","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I enjoyed this movie. One of the things I really liked was the style of the film. My wife came in mid-way through the movie. After watching a few scenes with Wilson and Garofalo she was shocked I had rented a romantic comedy for once. Surprise! It's really a movie about a serial killer. No really, I swear! I'm impressed a movie can cross genres that well. Great casting with Wilson's part. He is great at soliloquy. I know I've seen him do it before but I'm not sure where... maybe a Wes Anderson film. The plot was a little thin but really I don't think it was designed to do anything other than frame the main character's inner monologue. Isn't the movie really about the lines Wilson only says inside his head? At any rate decent plot; good actors (go Brian Cox!); excellent script; 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The big picture","Date":"18 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" You see the thing about this movie is that Owen Wilson was the hero. He wasn't just another crazy serial killer; I'm positive that he was meant to be the sanest character in the movie. The camera and the whole direction of the film put him in the position of the protagonist. This was a very well written movie that makes one explore their conceptions of what is truly good and what is evil. I'm not saying that it is a good thing to kill people, and I certainly do not like the idea of murder. I just feel like the writers went out of there to not make Owen the bad guy. Everyone in the movie was disturbed and had no idea what they were doing, except for Vann. I think this movie deserves higher than a 6 something rating. It was also refreshing to see Owen Wilson playing a good part, with the exceptions of bottle rocket and the royal tenenbaums; he's pretty much not displayed much of his acting talent. "},{"Title":"very good","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Although I thought the ending was weak I enjoyed the rest of the film, it allows you to take a glimpse in to the mind of a serial killer whilst still leaving it open to your interpretation. This film doesn't spoon feed you and give you all the answers and in my opinion that's half the point as you can never really know what is going on in someone's mind only speculate. The music is spot on and really helps you get behind the character and view things through his eyes. If you're not a fan of gore don't worry that's not what this film is about and it doesn't pretend to be it's all about the characters mind, how he sees the world and interacts with it. "},{"Title":"The Minus Man is not for everyone.","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Minus Man is not for everyone; it may strain the limits of acceptance for many but it will leave many viewers thinking for hours after. The acting is superb all around. The film is gentle and low-key, which is unusual for a serial killer film; that has a purpose. The mood is held by very suitable music. Roger Ebert calls the film 'A psychological thriller of uncommon power.' I agree except that I found it fascinating rather than thrilling.Vann Siegert (Owen Wilson) is new in town. He is a charming, handsome, gentlemanly, young man. He does not smoke or use drugs or profanity. He likes to be helpful. (Imagine Woody from Cheers.) He seems too good to be true and he is. His behaviour seems to have been learned from watching people or movies.He does not interact naturally with others. It soon becomes apparent that he is not truthful; he says what he wants people to hear or what he thinks that they would want to hear. He kills people but he does it quickly, painlessly and without their knowing it. He feels that that makes it all right. It also places him quite low on the depravity index so that when we get to know him we can like him but wish that he would stop killing people (as if it were merely naughty).Vann rooms with a couple who have experienced the unexplained loss of a daughter. The woman, Jane (Mercedes Ruehl) is anguished and is taking it out one her husband, Doug (Brian Cox), who appears to suffer from clinical depression. Through them, Vann is introduced to (unleashed on) the town. He is courted by Ferrin (Janeane Garofalo), who takes an instant liking to him. I will reveal no more of the story so that you will do your thinking after seeing the film, rather than before. The Minus Man is a study of a serial killer, from the inside. We hear his thoughts witness the mind of a serial killer. The scary part of the film is that he is almost normal. He could be the boy next door. He has hallucinations about two detectives who are watching him. They appear randomly and talk with him but they never act against him. These hallucinations may imply that he is mentally ill. Were that true, then psychopathy might be treatable; perhaps some medication would allow psychopaths to understand right from wrong and live normal lives. That would be better for them and much less expensive than jail for the taxpayers. It could also make forgiveness easier for the bereaved, to their benefit.I recommend The Minus Man for those who like to be left thinking and whose concepts of good and evil are still open to change. I end with a quotationMy interest is in dispelling the naive notion that these people aren't real. People like this really do exist. Without studying these people we will never understand how to ... decrease such aberrations for the next generation. (Dr. Michael Stone, a psychiatrist at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center, who studies the nature of evil.) "},{"Title":"Great little movie...","Date":"9 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"   I saw this movie knowing nothing about it at all, and I have to say that I was plesantly suprised by how good it is. When it is sold as a movie about a serial killer, I can see how some people might be less than impressed- for all those that want a gorefest, this movie is not for you. However, if it is a steady, genuinely thought provoking psychological thriller that you are after- then this is your movie. Rather than giving you a cardiac arrest with cheap frights, this film plods along at a gentle pace- reflecting the everyday/every-town feel of the movie. What gets under your skin and slowly creeps over you is the sense of unease- this guy is just like everybody else...he is in a town just like ours...and he kills its residents undetected. Gripping stuff! 8/10 "},{"Title":"Owen Wilson intrigues along with great cast","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  As I watched this movie today on IFC, the Independent Film Channel, I taped it for friends, and could predict comments such as the former one from viewers who use films as sheer escape, preferring not to be bothered to think or feel. I found it to be compelling precisely because it sneaks up on you with humor, a subtle feeling of dread and great characterizations (especially by Owen Wilson--at once appealing and creepy). Didn't the former commentator admit she just HAD to see what was going to happen?This film evokes normalcy and deviation, humor and despair, love and loss, and a growing sense of quiet urgency in the methodical mind. No accident that he is a postal worker. If you need a fast car chase--miss this one--you will be bored. This car chase is viscous and steady. But if you like to let the desperate ambiance of a good flick build around you--sit back, relax and enjoy these interesting actors at work. "},{"Title":"Owen Wison is Creepy","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I noticed that a lot of the comments were negative about this film.  While it is not the best suspense film I have seen it certainly is interesting, mainly because of Owen Wilson's performance.  The midwestern twang and the gentle manner is very disarming.  The perfect sociopathic killer. "}{"Title":"Dark and mind twisting","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was one of those that I saw late at night and it didn't leave my mind the next morning or several days after really. I had to watch it a second time afterwards to appreciate it because the first time watching it was absolutely chilling and thought provoking. Owen Wilson does an outstanding job playing what seemed like such a regular guy, but then his dark side would pour out in smooth, methodical and pychotic episodes. And the narration of his character was nothing short of extrordinary. The other character were equally as strange, but Wilson's character was the most fascinating to watch. "},{"Title":"A Plus-Side Movie","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I think it is pretty misleading to say that The Minus Man is about a movie about a serial killer.  It rather seems a rather comfortable  suspense movie.  There's no exploitative violence or sex, and it is restrained and convincing throughout.  It's the kind of small locale film which can be very absorbing.  And the acting is simply superior--praise especially to Mercedes Ruehl, Brian Cox, Janeane Garofalo, and of course, Owen Wilson who are central in creating the film's convincing small world.  On the negative side, I don't know if the imaginary cop interrogators add much to the movie's themes, but they do detract, I think, from the everyday suspense. In the end, though, this is a winner--with the addition of actually displaying an affectionate relationship right up there on the screen.  Wonders will never cease. "},{"Title":"a success--rare for its kind","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Many movies lately seem to attempt to make serial killers at least partially sympathetic.  (The Ugly, among others, comes to mind.)I usually find such a thought highly offensive, as do lots of people, I am sure.  But here, because of great acting by Owen Wilson and his cast-mates, a haunting feel, and sufficiently complex writing with under-tones of compassion, the film makers succeeded in making me hope at least for the killer's redemption.  This is a smart film, and I have the feeling I might need to see it again.  It is not the greatest movie of all time, mind you, but I am glad I saw it.  "},{"Title":"One of a kind film","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I just watched this movie on IFC, and I was very impressed. Owen Wilson does a fantastic job portraying this unique serial killer. He deserves credit as a good actor, well I'm not sure about that I forgot about Armageddon. And for once Garafalo does a fine job acting. Also, I would like to say that Dwight Yoakam should give up country music and focus on acting, because he is fantastic. Unlike most hollywood movies, Minus Man gives the audience something to think about and doesn't have the same old predictable ending. In no way is this a boring movie. I give Minus Man 8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Very original movie","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I have seen The Minus Man on cable and I liked it. The cast is good, The story is good. I didn't know Owen Wilson was a very good actor. I always knew Garofalo could portray those types of roles in a movie. For the ones who say that the movie is slow, the director wanted the movie to be slow. Everyone wants to see action or keep a memorable quote or a message of life nowadays; go see the five movies that get hailed as the best movies of the year in awards ceremonies. That's what the voting members vote for anyways. I won't say that The Minus Man is perfect (I'd give a 7) but it doesn't deserve a -1 voting either. Hey, this movie was made in '99 and a lot of great movies were made in 1999. The fact that we see the movie in a weird serial killer's perspective may put some people off.  "},{"Title":"Lovely dark movie especially for Owen Wilson fans","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I've never heard of this film before and stumbled upon it on IFC.  I love when a movie shows up out of no where, so you have no expectations whatsoever.  Of course, I am captivated by Owen Wilson, perhaps because of the way he talks, or the way his face looks perfect and imperfect, or because he seems so stupid and smart at the same time.  Everyone likes enigmas.  Anyway, this is a fascinating movie, and wonderfully directed by Hampton Fancher.  He needs to direct more movies. "},{"Title":"Symbolic film, but definetely not for all tastes","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you hate David Lynch movies or any of those other symbolic, art-house (though i hate using that term), and very independent films, please leave. This won't be too worthwhile for you.  Really.  Go search A Beautiful Mind or Spider-Man instead.  Heck, I don't know what you're doing on this page to be honest.  Okay.  Buh-bye.  Shalom.Acting is often an overlooked power of a movie.  If used correctly, It can save a movie, and/or possibly make it worthwhile (Rushmore and even Life is Beautiful would have been weak and sub-par had it not been for Schwartzman and Murray's/Begnini's performances).  The Minus Man is my best example of an acting movie.  Within the first ten minutes, I was immediately mesmerized by Wilson's performance (who, by the way, knowing the general publics tendency to trash actors, will have to eventually decide what kind of movies he wants to make - smart comedies, independent dramas, or popcorn action flicks) as the seemingly earnest and down to earh killer, whose actions seem to be a reflection of his emotions and the way he sees life, rather than simply an act of ruthlessnes.  Brian Cox also shines in his performance, and so does Jeneanne Garofalo, who oddly succeeds in portraying a character whose personality is much different from her typical sarcastic the world stinks characters.The script has a few problems, and we sometimes don't know what's going on. However, by the end, we understand that this is part of the movie,and the mystery is there for a reason and is part of the movie's apparent symbolism.The Minus Man is a noticably flawed movie, but if we can forgive its mistakes and take notice of that fact that what we see is all intentional, it will make the perfect thought provoking movie-experience.  "},{"Title":"Phenomenal film, superbly thought out, with great performances all around.","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I just finished watching this film, and it's hard to really describe how good it is.  The whole is more than the sum of its parts, which are very good on their own.The premise is great, with Owen Wilson starring as a very original serial killer.  His performance is OUTSTANDING.  He really captures the eccentricities of Vann perfectly.  The supporting cast is equally good, bringing their characters to life.  It's somewhat ironic in that as you get to know the characters, you see that Vann fits in perfectly with them. He's just a normal guy with a rather unique vice, in a town where everyone else is perfectly normal, with one glaring vice.The script and direction are brilliant.  The movie's pace is ideal for the story it tells.  Just as Vann is not your everyday serial killer, this is not your average story about a serial killer.  It's very low key and relaxed, which is the only way this film is able to work.  It lets the characters develop, and doesn't regress into any cliches.  A success, through and through.  I highly recommend it.  "},{"Title":"An excellent, highly original film.","Date":"17 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Don't read this until after you see the film!The Minus Man explains what we so want to know about serial killers -- just what, exactly, is wrong with them.The plot seems straight forward A quietly pleasant young man, drives his pick-up into a small town, selectively poisoning others from a flask of Amaretto laced with extract of rare Pacific Northwest fungus. He makes friends with an older man, Doug (Brian Cox), rents a room from Doug and his wife (Mercedes Ruehl), gets a Post Office job, meets a girl (Janeane Garofalo) who likes him.The drifter, Van, (Owen Wilson), is oblivious to his own murderous feelings. We know this because Van narrates the film. Superficially polite and caring, Van completely lacks empathy -- note his bizarre behavior as a postal carrier.This film is a working demonstration of deep psychological malfunctions splitting, (unconsciously denying hatred/rage/anger to protect the good), and projective identification (unconsciously making the other feel what you can't allow in yourself).When romantic love comes toward Van, he can tolerate only so much before hatred takes over. His would be girlfriend, Ferrin, a winning young, soon-to-be alcoholic from the Post Office, escapes Van's poisonous impulses because she is vigilant about what happens to her whiskey bottle. Van is invited to embrace Ferrin, and botches the attempt when he quakes with rage.Ordinarily Van doesn't appear to have negative emotions, like, say, jealousy. Except Van calmly murders the local football star after seeing his new friend Doug fawn on the boy at a sports dinner.Meanwhile, mounting deaths have attracted the interest of authorities. Van has to cool it. Without his usual outlet of murders, Van's splitting stops working. He begins to project his hatred into two imaginary detectives,(Dwight Yoakam & Dennis Haysbert), both harassing him. These fantasies are Van trying to blow off emotional steam until he can kill again.Doug begins as an ordinary nice guy, the more time he spends in Van's company, the more rage and chaos Doug experiences. In the spiraling second half, Doug is arrested, a psychotic who has killed his wife. The minus in this equation is Van, of course. The discrepancy between Owen Wilson's considerable personnel charm and Van's fractured interior is revealed when external events in the movie are increasingly infused with loss, alienation, emotional torture, and devastation. Then Van, no different from when he arrived, drives off into the darkness (get it?) with the poison securely attached to the underside of his pickup truck. "},{"Title":"Not everybodies taste but well worth a 10","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a movie that happened to be on T.V on a night that i was extremely tired. I would have preferred to go to sleep than watch a movie. That is, if it was your ordinary everyday movie that you see.... every day.I start off by saying that if you are only into the cliché Hollywood action and story lines then this will make you feel like you just sat through absolutely nothing and most likely won't appeal to you as you have read various people say throughout 'most movies have this and that and this but this had none of that', as if apparently thats a bad thing. (and it is for most people). However if you are wanting a movie with a fantastic story that is laid back and just such a pleasure to watch then you'll love it. There isn't at all much dialog, but the movie itself says more than if you string all the words from all three lord of the rings books together.I laughed a few times ad Vanns charming humour. If I was Wilson, i would personally think that this movie would be my favourite piece that I have done.There is no happy ending. There isn't really an ending at all. This is a REAL movie in the sense that absolutely nothing that is actually unlikely to happen happens. It shows how easy it is to actually do what Vann does and get away with it.Vann isn't a bad man. He chooses his targets by noticing a willingness in them to die or who are angry.I give this movie a ten due to the fact that there is nothing bad you can say about the movie, even though it is most definitely not everybodies ideal movie. "}{"Title":"Killing without prejudice","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It's a very small part of the movie, but very important.  There's a scene where Vann is watching a documentary on Cane Toads.  The only reason I know about them is because my friends father is a professor at the University of Illinois and whenever they go on sebatical they go to Australia.  The Cane toad was introduced to Australia because they were having a problem with little grubs eating their sugar cane.  The Toad was supposed to exterminate the problem.  Not only did the toad not eat the worms, they ate anything and everything else and procreated at an alarming rate.  They mirror the character of Vann perfectly.  Even those animals they can't fit in their mouth are threatened by the toads because they have glands on either side of their heads that shoot out a poisinous puss like substance, so if a dog, snake, bird, or anything else trys to eat one, they will get a dose of the poison and drop dead a short time later.  If you want to learn more, there is a documentary called The Cane Toads are Coming, It's been out on tape for a long time and I saw recently that it has made it to DVD.  The Australian sense of humor about the subject is something evryone will get a laugh out of. "},{"Title":"I speculated with a friend and thought about it all night","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers- I believe this is the first movie to ever make me think for hours upon end after watching. And I have seen more than my share of movies. Ok where do I even begin? One of the most interesting scenes to me was when he was having dinner at Ferrin's house and after he attacked her he rolls into this little ball on her carpet. It makes me wonder along with everything else he does, what kind of a childhood he had. I talked with my ex-roommate who councels people in group therapy sessions and she and I speculated nearly all night on what kinds abuse he suffered or what kinds of things he saw or experienced as a child. Was killing his way of helping people? And why was sex or love expressed so violently by a gentle and likeable man who handled even his murder victims so delicately? We speculated more. What is really scary is that I could almost identify with the guy. We also speculated that there must have been something he could see in his victims that reminded himself of the things he hated about his own persona. Things he wanted to kill. Like I compare the young football player with his father to maybe himself and the outside world.The bar chick and her addiction lead me to believe that maybe he was addicted to his killing and the business man in the diner was eating by himself and maybe he was eating by himself. Maybe he was lonely.     What were his parents like? We could ony speculate but it seemed to us that the reason he cleaned his landlord's room and no other roomin the house was maybe he was trying to clean up his image of his parents in his mind. And then there were some things we could even speculate on. Like when he is delivering mail and he talked about the smells coming from each house and he said he would leave them unexplored. Was he maybe thinking of entering these people's homes? I agree with another comment in saying that even though what he did was horrendous, I still wanted him to be ok. Hell, I could go on forever but all I know is is when the mail is shoved through the window of my door this movie is always brought to mind. "},{"Title":"Longer to Drown","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers herein.The idea is simple. Films are the most hypnotizing art. The intent of a certain type of actor (and the writer who supports him) is to draw the viewer in through leading-by-following. You always go where the viewer's mind anticipates. You make the channel and the water flows on its own. Like the mail, whose symbolism is a bit heavy here.This is a particular approach to cinematic narrative, not one I like so much -- I like to be tricked into places I wouldn't go and suddenly become made aware of it. But when the waterflow technique is as skillfully employed as it is here, I have to marvel. It takes more than intuition to pull this off.The way this is done here is by reflection -- Wilson plays not to us but to his partners. He draws a channel and they anticipate. He is such a focus that we are drawn in like the rest of the ensemble. He opens, they walk in. To make it even more effective, we are given some imaginary, active chorus characters that are halfway between the real ensemble and us first two guy cops and then the woman cop (surrogate of the lost daughter) takes over the case. They (that part of we) are more skeptical but still willing coconspirators.The key to making this work as well as it does in my mind is Garofalo. She really has a hard job. Wilson has to simply appear to be open; Garofalo has to define gravity, establish the laws of Wilson's universe. In a few simple moves, she defines the world as a system of social incompetences, of intents never realized, of conversations always hung, of sex always imagined (of undelivered mail -- both messages and male). She eagerly grasps failure, while fearing the next breath. She's done this reflective bit with Stiller before, but always (in my experience) in an ironic framework. This is a twist, completely without irony -- a character with no guile. Not easy I would imagine. She is definitely on my list to follow wherever she goes. "},{"Title":"Outstanding in its Genre&#x85;A Real Diversional Treat From Formula","Date":"26 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Owen Wilson Shows Versatility in this Serial Killer Movie and is Perfectly Cast. He Delivers a Low-Key, Self Involving, and Dual Personality that Will Linger Long After the Film Ends.It's a Divisive Movie. Some Fans of Thrillers and Serial Killer Movies will Initially Get All Hot and Bothered because of the Dark Subject. But This Movie's Tone is Anything but Hot. It's Temperature is Cool, Never Arising Beyond Simmering and that Makes This One Different, and Refreshing.The Killings are Detached in a Dementia with a Disturbing Delivery and Mesmerizes. A Good Cast and a Thoughtful, if Restrained Script and Attitude the Film Fascinates in its Frequent Use of Wilson's Narration.The Movie is Deep Without Being Pretentious as it Takes On the Charming Killer Personality. It Sort of Resonates the Aftermath of the Prolific and Likability Reminding of Ted Bundy. It Sustains the Suspense with Subtility and Wit. Outstanding in its Field and Balances the Genre with a Very Different Take on the Psychosis of the Psycho with a Rare and Riveting Reversal of Expectations. A Unique and Unsettling Peak Behind the Curtain and it Demonstrates Our Proclivity to be Persuaded by Surface and Superficiality. A Winner and a Real Diversional Treat from the Formula. "},{"Title":"Phenomenal film, superbly thought out, with great performances all around.","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I just finished watching this film, and it's hard to really describe how good it is.  The whole is more than the sum of its parts, which are very good on their own.The premise is great, with Owen Wilson starring as a very original serial killer.  His performance is OUTSTANDING.  He really captures the eccentricities of Vann perfectly.  The supporting cast is equally good, bringing their characters to life.  It's somewhat ironic in that as you get to know the characters, you see that Vann fits in perfectly with them. He's just a normal guy with a rather unique vice, in a town where everyone else is perfectly normal, with one glaring vice.The script and direction are brilliant.  The movie's pace is ideal for the story it tells.  Just as Vann is not your everyday serial killer, this is not your average story about a serial killer.  It's very low key and relaxed, which is the only way this film is able to work.  It lets the characters develop, and doesn't regress into any cliches.  A success, through and through.  I highly recommend it.  "},{"Title":"Serial Killers Rule!!!","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  My favorite movie genre is the sweet-natured-serial-killer flick, and this movie is, to the best of my knowledge...the only one! I liked this movie alot. Very slow-paced, charcter driven films where nothing much happens can only succeed when supplied with an exceptional script and a talented cast. This movie has both. The dialogue is crisp, thoughtful, and never extraneous and the story and its themes are thought-provoking.I found myself challenged both intellectually (maybe not saying much!) and movie-wise. Nothing is overtly spelled. The story is open to interpretation, yet still manages to satisfy.The casting and performances are are dead-on. I can't think of anyone who can convey the personality of a sweet-natured yet near-dangerous sociopath as well as Owen Wilson. The most disturbing scene in the film escalates from a romantic, edgy evening enjoyed by Vann and Ferrin (compellingly and delightfully played by Jeannine Fiorella LaGuardia, or whatever her name is) to an uncomfortable, abusive display of mental illness.Brian Cox and Mercedes-Benz-Rules excell in well written supporting roles. Brian Cox is an amazing actor, with such diverse performance in resume as Hannibal the Cannibal in Manhunter, to the IRA kingpin in the Boxer, to the frustrated headmaster in Rushmore. Add this portrait to the gallery of his many quiet, forceful performances. "},{"Title":"The movies that are different are often the best.","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Originality is important in such a redundant art as moviemaking. For this reason any movie that is original should be given a plus. Such a movie is The Minus Man.Thematically, the movie is about a serial killer, a well worn genre. But this serial killer kills peacefully and without a pattern. A miserable barfly, a disgusted businessman, and a high school football hero fit no database. The poison used puts them to sleep and they never awaken. These are new.But what makes the movie really different is the fact that many facts are left up to us, the audience, to decide. Where is the landlord's daughter, who killed the landlady, where did these imaginary cops come from, what happens at the end? These are all questions that go unanswered, but are answerable by us. There are other questions. Does he want to be caught, will he soon be caught, why the hair and the clothes, why did he start this, how does he live with it?  These are not so easily answered and pose more thought.The portrayals are good to excellent, but what makes this movie worth seeing are the questions. Thus the trailer uses this approach to sell the movie.I'd like to thank all those connected with this movie for their risk taking and for their originality.  "},{"Title":"Mesmerizing and Chilling","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is entrancing.  You'll wonder what strange world you've been immersed in.  It left me bothered and disturbed afterwards because it all seemed to soak in layer on layer.If you soak this movie in, you'll come away in a strange altered state of mind and wonder how all these elements can exist together.  The slow, trancelike state seems almost like some kind of Zen experience--only about a serial killer.Although incredibly well made, this movie is not a typical serial killer or even mystery/suspense movie.  If you're expecting an exciting time, don't bother seeing it.  This takes you inside the insanity and all the worlds that exist within all the people around us and those people within us.  Mood altering, mind altering, thought provoking and disturbing. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie making technique","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" What I really liked about this FILM was that it was very well crafted. The acting, visuals and scene composition, editing, and sound track were all first rate. Lots of nice little visual touches. And, no movie cliches here. A truly fine film with the only possible weakness being the story itself (though this is a character driven movie.)If you like small films, you will most likely enjoy this one very much. We saw the DVD version and the quality was very good, widescreen.  "},{"Title":"Minus Man is the Mostest","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Until he made this film, Hampton Fancher's sole credit of any regard was as co-producer and co-screenwriter of 'Blade Runner', although he has knocked around a bit as an actor. Suddenly, out of the blue, he adapts and directs this quiet, remarkable film - and does so effectively that one wonders why he hasn't had the opportunity to direct long ago. Perhaps, like Charles Laughton ('Night of The Hunter') Hampton will create just one memorable production and then return to the rest of his life without attempting another outing. I hope not. It would be a shame, given the undoubted quality of this one.The comments which have preceded mine have covered the many delights of 'The Minus Man', so there is no need to go on at length. Ultimately what makes it such a superior product is the tight ensemble cast, the quiet understated tension (an aspect which is painfully rare in serial-killer-on-the-loose scenarios) and a fresh, unpredictable story line. Fancher's eschewing of most blood and violence adds a touch of class to proceedings which all concerned seem to recognise. Even Brian Cox, who normally lumbers through his roles like a grumpy caretaker, seems to care this time around. Fancher is, in fact, an artist, one who plainly cares about his material, alert to mood and nuance. By the end of the film, as the killer and the policewoman separate, the glowing <-> sign is as much a brand of Fancher's talent as it is the signal of his remarkable debut's close.  "}{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  One of the most intelligent films to come out of America ever.  Who knew that a couple of their inhabitants were capable of independent thought?I completely identified with Owen Wilson's character in every respect and love the dimensions of this film.  I've kicked myself many, many a times for assuming that people (Janeane Garofalo in the case of this film) actually address subtext and get the joke.  And it 'is' tempting to kill people that are too stupid and pathetic to live.  However, acting sane in an insane world would just be asking for trouble.If you liked this film, and love films rich with subtext check out 'virgin suicides', 'leolo', and 'safe'. "},{"Title":"Subtle and intriguing, a work of art","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is beautiful. It's a `leaving home' story and a `stranger in a small town' story at the same time. It's a serial killer movie without gore and violence and without such gratuity to bog it down and make it marketable to gibbering masses, there is more character study and subtle discovery in the film. All the key performances are great and Owen Wilson does an excellent job as the seemingly harmless, almost childlike killer. If you enjoy films that are intelligent works of art and not just flash and fancy, see `The Minus Man' as soon as possible. It's really that good. However, if you're idea of a great film is `Charlie's Angels' and `Die Hard' then not only is this not your kind of film, you don't deserve it. This is simply one of the best films to come out in the past few years.  "},{"Title":"Nice Guy/Serial Killer","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  `The Minus Man' is a well-done variation on the familiar movie theme of the stranger who shows up in town and has a profound impact on the people he comes in contact with.  The twist here is that the stranger in town, Van Siegert (Owen Wilson), is a serial killer.We're not prepared for this when we're first introduced to Vann at a diner where he meets up with an obviously stoned young woman, played surprisingly well by singer Sheryl Crow.  He takes her home (she thinks they're going to get high)-and then he kills her. Vann then moves to a small town where he gets a job in a post office (!) and meets a young woman named Ferrin (played by a surprisingly pretty Jeaneane Garofalo) and becomes a border in the home of Brian Cox and Mercedes Ruehl, a couple who are in denial about what has happened to their daughter.  Soon people begin dying, but no one seems to suspect Vann.  After all, he's nice-looking and pleasant, and so unassuming that he can look at an artist's rendering of the killer in a local newspaper and say aloud, `Looks like me.'The movie never explains why Vann kills or whom he chooses.  He is aware of what he is doing, however, and afraid of being caught-throughout the movie he has imaginary dialogs with two law enforcement officers, played by Dwight Yoakam and Dennis Haysbert.Movies such as this rely on sustaining suspense about who the murderer will or won't kill next, and whether he'll get caught.  The film, to its credit,  doesn't let us down on either account. "},{"Title":"Thought-provoking, well-crafted, well-acted. . .didn't like it.","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Just because a director succeeds at his or her intent--to bring the viewer into the world and mindset of a mild-mannered (?) serial killer--does not mean that this is a great movie.One reviewer wrote that the movie is interesting but frustrating, hinting at the deeper causes of the killer's dysfunction but not plumbing them. . .I agree. Now, is this a bad thing? Well, it depends on what you want. I like suspense, and all the ingredients were there for high levels of it. But too many times, the suspense is diffused too early by voice overs from the killer, reflecting on mundane things. The pattern became pretty predictable, and about half-way through the movie I could feel that this movie was going to end as ambiguously as it started. That's when the frustration kicked in for me.If you like clear answers, you'll hate this movie. If you want riveting suspense, you too will hate this movie. If you are interested in character study, you'll probably find this movie fascinating. "},{"Title":"Wonderful!","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Minus Man, for me, is the best movie I've ever seen in my life for now. The character, the plot, it's awesome. In the end of the movie, I'm sure there's questions that you'll always wanted to know the answer, but you can't get it.  Watch it by yourself! "},{"Title":"Fantastic Movie","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I agree with every word that indiefilmgurl says.  This is an astonishing film, superbly directed and impeccably acted, particularly by Owen Wilson, whose whining drawl and winsome, tooth-cluttered grin combine to create one of the most appealing images of a serial killer ever put on the screen.  He never falters in his performance, appearing simultaneously vulnerable and terrifying, a man whose apparent charm conceals the true minus he brings to any situation where he makes an appearance.One must also acknowledge the subtle work done by both the dependable Mercedes Ruehl and the superb Brian Cox, both actors who never fail to astonish  I give this one all the stars in my pocket! "},{"Title":"an interesting film","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The minus man was an interesting film. I loved the dialouge an the performance of owen wilson was fanstastic.is there nothing that man can't do?Jeanane G. was,as usual,a gem!What was really great about her performance,i feel,was her vunerbility and her charm.It wasn't the usual character that she usually portrays,which was a breath of fresh air. The characters were interesting in this picture from the unhappy married couple(Brian Cox and Mercedes Rhuel) to the cops(dennis Haysbert& Dwight Yoakim) pursuing the twisted vann(owen wilson).the only complaint that I have is that it kinda dragged. But other than that,it is a true treasure! "},{"Title":"Sweetest damn serial killer movie I ever did see","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Minus Man is an odd little film to be sure. It's about a serial killer, but calling it a serial killer movie is almost misleading. Why? It follows Owen Wilson as he bumps off a few people on his way to finding happiness, but it's not violent and the movie doesn't really dwell on the murders. For reasons that are unclear, Owen just decides every now and again that someone has to go, and then they're gone. More than anything this movie seems to be about the people he lives and works with. There's Mercedes Ruehl and Brian Cox, the married couple he rents a room from. They're having marriage trouble, but we never quite figure out why They make for a very strange couple. His co-worker, played by Janeane Garofalo, seems really desperate for love, but Owen just isn't interested. He seems to enjoy her company, but he never really lets himself get close. This makes for a strange relationship, too. Is he leading her on? Has he ever really been close with a woman? More unanswered questions.I guess I like this movie, but I'm having trouble putting my finger on exactly what I liked about it. First off, I like Owen, I think he's a cool actor. I haven't seen Bottle Rocket or Rushmore, but I've heard he and his brother Luke are talented writer/directors as well. He's been getting a lot of little parts in big budget Hollywood pics lately, but he shines in The Minus Man. Here he's not really insane, because he knows what he's doing is wrong and he feels guilty. He has nightmares and blackouts while he envisions the two policemen who will eventually catch him for his crimes. What a nice guy, I mean except for all the killing, of coarse. I like Janeane, and she plays a much different part here than usual. Mostly, she seems to play herself. Sarcastic and witty and a little nasty. Her character this time is really insecure, kinda dull, and... what the hell? She's nice! It sorta throws you off. So I liked it, not as much as I had hoped, but it was still interesting. I give it a 7/10 stars. G'night!  "},{"Title":"thought provoking","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I found this film very interesting and worthwhile. Rather than the usual black and white good versus evil portrayals of serial killers you usually see, punctuated with red herrings, close calls, and action, this film takes a different approach. It's a leisurely-paced matter of fact presentation of the serial killer's thoughts and actions. It avoids the usual cliches and portrays the killer in a way that is probably more realistic than in other films. Namely, he's a polite, observant sociopath who can read other's motivations very well rather than an obvious lunatic who is frothing at the mouth. The matter of fact presentation makes it all the more involving and worthwhile in my opinion, and Owen Wilson gives a very good performance. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Lulling out an intriguing portrait...","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Minus Man is not one of those films that leaps out at you from the opening scene, captivating you with a big explosion, and then attempting to keep you entertained for two hours through a succession of overblown, and self-explanatory, occurrences.  Instead, it lulls you into a somnambulant realm of subtle observation, giving you plenty of time to contemplate the characters as they slowly develop.  Director/writer Hampton Fancher (directorial debut) was clearly shooting for an overtone of ambiguity.  Perhaps the most successful aspect of the film was that he managed to have this consistent overtone and still develop the characters to an effective extent. Some scenes are so understated that the typical moviegoer (ADD afflicted) would likely drift into a scrambled rundown of daily tasks&#133;pass over into an oblique of fantasy, and then spiral back to the screen (with one of their hands unconsciously in their pants) wondering why they should bother paying attention to what's being offered when there is quite distinctly no silver platter supporting it, nor a golden spoon cramming a dolt's plot down their piehole. Nevertheless, while obviously making light of a serial killer's severe mental illness, The Minus Man does offer many realistic angles of a killer's rationale.  Through narration, solid acting, and patient direction, a curiosity and intrigue are made available.  Outbursts of absurdity and violence spray unpredictably and intentionally cloud the film (some of the most vivacious and active scenes are meant to mean the least)&#133;certain juxtapositions are drawn to coerce you from the shadows of obscurity.  And after two hours of tangible sobriety, it becomes more apparent how likely this killer's skew is&#133;how reasonable his objectives seem considering the results of his actions and subsequent analysis.  It really made me feel like taking a road trip and just randomly claiming thirty or forty interactive lives.  Ohhhh, the power of making a difference!  Uh, anyhow, what was I saying?  Oh yeah, if you're not too much of a tightass tangibility freak, check this one out.  It's original in many facets.     "}{"Title":"Movie B  DVD B+","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Minus Man B/B+ 5.23.00 1.851/5.1 First Viewing 169 EnhancedMuch creepier than Clay Pigeons, this story focuses on a serial killer and his life when he is not stalking others.  This film is not gory or gross; its more matter-of-fact.  The DVD includes production notes and bios on famous serial killers.  "},{"Title":"It falls somewhere in between, but that's the idea.","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Minus Man will definitely not be the Most Talked About film this year as the trailer, in all it's morbid brilliance, would have you believe. It is though, an interesting journey into the mind and paradox of a likeable serial killer.The structure of The Minus Man lends to its sense of realism. It employs straightforward camerawork, lighting and acting. However, this realism sometimes provokes disinterest. Several scenes and sequences which are meant to diversify the plot and setting are occasionally unnecessary. For example, the hint of a subplot involving a missing girl, or Vann's encounter with the artist. These tactics which add detail to the town also pull the viewer away from the story. At other points in the story, the bizarre and unpredictable nature of the characters create a thoroughly realistic ensemble which helps define the main idea behind the plot what can we truly know about most of the people we interact with daily?Witness the unanswered questions about why our serial killer Vann selects certain victims; the ambiguity surrounding some of their deaths; and the shocking eruption involving Janeane Garofalo's character. They're all deliciously slow-paced, but they pique the viewer's mind as to their reason for being. After a while, one should come to the realization that many of these plot points are not meant to be understood, but instead scrutinized as is the case with many great works of art. The best water cooler conversations will no doubt involve the film's ambiguous ending, which either makes or breaks the film depending on how you read into it.While The Minus Man is not perfect, it does boast a solid supporting cast (Brian Cox and Sheryl Crow in a solid debut). Owen Wilson's simple portrayal of Vann works as his character, completely devoid of almost every emotion except fear, generates a hauntingly creepy and genuinely likeable serial killer. Although, sometimes his subdued portrayal walks a fine line into becoming meaningless.The Minus Man is an interesting movie, well worth a rental fee. It's not going to be an instant classic, but nor should it be shunned for its sometimes slow-moving honesty and admirable attempt at creating a microcosm of reality. Perhaps that was the goal, a modernist objective to reflect the subtle nuances of life by making a film that is neither perfect nor terrible. "},{"Title":"Interesting. Nothing fabulous, but interesting.","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I found the lead character (serial killer) to be very engaging. I very much enjoyed the thoughts that were going threw his head. I found one part of the movie to be VERY shocking.I liked this movie. It's not a rave all night classic, but I do have to admit that I've been thinking about it since I saw it last night.I'll rate it a 7. By the IMD scale this will be a good solid movie that was worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Excellent! Subtle, yet frightening.","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you're up for the chain saw wielding, gore fest of your typical serial killer movies - don't watch The Minus Man. It is brilliantly acted, stunningly shot, and absolutely one of the best movies I've ever seen. You become fascinated with Vann and his soft ways, you almost feel connected to him in some weird subversive way. It has funny moments and frightening moments. Nothing explodes, nobody gets hacked up - yet this movie draws you in. Owen Wilson is absolutely spellbinding and creepy, and Wes Anderson did a terrific job directing. Another movie made by these guys is Rushmore - a great movie as well. "},{"Title":"Odd, weird, and a bit strange","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Minus Man advertised itself as a movie which would compel its viewers into deep and meaningful conversations about the meaning of the film.  Surely, some viewers did engage in profound discussions about the meaning of the film, but I did not. That is not to say that I didn't enjoy the film.  On the contrary, I enjoyed the movie immensely.  I guess I liked the movie for a very simplistic reason.  The environment, the feeling of the film was intriguing, a mixture of light and dark.  The director kept me expectant from minute one until the credits.  I guess the only reason this movie didn't get the highest marks from me is that the expectancy was never satisfied.  However, for two hours I was glued to my seat, watching every scene with delight. You can't ask too much more than that.  "},{"Title":"An absorbing, carefully considered piece of genre work.","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  (WARNING  - CONTAINS SPOILER) The embodiment of Hitchcock's notion that suspense is when you expect something and it doesn't happen; the film (along with Sayles' Limbo perhaps) is one of the bigger teases of the year. Wilson's beautifully off-key performance, almost sweetly, James-Stewart-esque passive and submissive yet with infinite points of strangeness, never tilts over the edge into madness or self-destruction, even though we're increasingly  taunted with that possibility - instead the law decends on Cox, whose backward glance at Wilson as he's being led away seems like a token of absolution (we've already seen Wilson enter	confession at one point, but he merely hands over his mail, in a good example of  the film's inconsistent deadpan undercutting of melodramatic possibilities). The movie is dotted with subtle gradations of character (one can imagine how a slight reedit of the whole thing, with the focus on Cox and Ruehl, might have yielded a somewhat different and more complex work), and Garofalo's gentle attempts to kindle a romance with Wilson are beautifully played. The two (presumably imaginary) cops who represent his inner voice seem like too strenuous a device compared to the rest of the film, and the whole thing plays a little long, but on the whole it's an absorbing, carefully considered piece of genre work. "},{"Title":"An eerie chiller . . .","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Hampton Fancher's directorial debut (he also adapted the script) is an unexpected, yet welcome, departure from the average psychological thriller. The Minus Man centers on a killer named Vann.  The problem is, he's such a damn likeable guy.  He is that quiet guy next door who nobody would ever suspect of being such a monster.The plot is somewhat Hitchcockian -- the murderer coming to the small town (like Shadow of a Doubt and others) and our complicity with a nice-guy villain (like Strangers on a Train and others).We are invited to wonder about the evil inside Vann and how he exists in our world.  The film asks its questions through Vann's perspective.  The creepiest scene in the movie involves Vann as a part of a search team for one of his own victims.  It is scenes like this that give the film its tension -- we know Vann's secrets, but we are unable to let other characters in on it.  Not only does this put them in danger at every moment, it also allows us to feel a little tension for the killer. The performances in this movie are all first-rate, especially from Owen Wilson as Vann and Janeane Garofalo as Ferrin.The film is slowly paced, but it creeps up and gets to you. "},{"Title":"disappearing acts","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Knowing, not knowing, having a sense of where you're going . . . or no clue.As deceptive as we appear to one another, I stood in the bathroom at the cinema afterwards thinking, so we do to ourselves.And as this film does. "},{"Title":"Inside the mind of a serial killer","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Get past the first fifteen minutes, which are rather amateur and slow. Then watch this fresh-faced, bent-nosed (in a charming way) character gently wiggle himself into a town reminiscent, on the surface, of Mayberry, RFD. Scratch the surface and all the characters' problems appear. As it turns out, our lead character is not the only tormented one. Actually, he's probably the least -- pretty scary. Fresh and engaging. "},{"Title":"One of the years best","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In the midst of good movies this one comes along and steals the spot light just like American Beauty forget The Sixth Sense this one has the makings to be one of the best in movie history Owen Wilson and Sheryal Crow give great performances im glad I saw this one its a definite oscar contender. "}{"Title":"INCREDIBLY ENTERTAINING MOVIE","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie IS INCREDIBLE.  It is extremely well done.  There are so many incredible performances in this movie.  Owen Wilson plays Vann Seigert, a man who travels town to town who seems to have a very wholesome nature about him, but actually isn't all that he appears to be.  The story takes place in a small northwestern town where life seems to be simple and slow. However, people start disappearing and no one knows how or why.  This story is intelligent and multi-layered.  All of the characters in this film are much more complex than their small town attitudes would let on- some more than others.Sheryl Crow makes her acting debut as an ex beauty queen who is a strung out junkie who happens to be the first disappearance.  Janeane Garofalo turns in a great performance as a sweet, funny small town girl who works at the post office in the small town but happens to have a bit of a drinking problem. Overall, the movie sends the viewer the message anyone is capable of anything and you never know who people really are.  I could talk about the nuances of this film for hours but I don't want to give too much away.  I highly recommend it.   "},{"Title":"An Incredible Completely Original Movie.","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this awesome movie at a preview screening in New York City.  The Minus Man is a completely unique movie that ingeniously gives a psychological profile of the main character, Vann, portrayed by Owen Wilson, who plays an All-American guy with a serious dark side.  Even so, it's hard to ignore his old town charm.  Janeane Garofalo turns in a dramatic role of a hard working but amusingly shy, Mid-Western girl who falls for Vann. Still, it's Wilson's offbeat and clever performance that makes the film so unusually appealing.  "},{"Title":"An excellent original movie from the screen-writer of Blade Runner.  Completely different from the rest of the garbage found in Hollywood.","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Minus Man is the latest movie by the producers of Slingblade and the screenwriter of Blade Runner.  To tell much about it would ruin the story. When seeing this movie I would avoid anything about it before hand.  It is phenomenally done, with its excellent voice-overs and novelesque quotes. I think for a movie lover, or anyone with interest in films with meaning, this is a must see.  Without a doubt a new look into the mind of a serial killer. It got me so interested I'm currently reading the novel of the same name. I can't wait to see what comes out of The Shooting Gallery next. -AJK "},{"Title":"Engaging thriller","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  You could be forgiven for thinking this is a Sheryl Crow film, judging by the way it has been marketed. Not a bad move on the part of its backers who are keen to get as many people watching as possible. However, fans should be warned as she's only in it for the first 10 minutes and then hands over the acting chores to real life boyfriend Owen Wilson.He looks a little like Coronation Street veteran Adam Rickitt, except that he plays a 34 year old serial killer who brings chaos to a small American town.Written and directed by Blade Runner co-writer Hampton Fancher, this is a slow moving and often absorbing affair boasting three of the best actors in Hollywood Scotland's own Brian Cox (so good as Hannibal Lecter in Manhunter) as the dad who loves to beat himself up, Janeane Garofalo as Wilson's love interest and Oscar-winner Mercedes Ruehl as the ill-fated mother.They all add much dramatic weight to the proceedings and while Fancher's rambling script but assured direction is often at odds with one another, there are far worse things to do the ironing to.Wilson is convincing as the good looking blonde killer in a movie which goes nowhere slowly but keeps you hooked until the rather disappointing finale. "},{"Title":"Minus a plot!","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  'The Minus Man' tries so hard not to be your standard serial killer movie that it ends up being not much of anything! This movie is so laid back it's almost asleep. The mostly fine cast all act well, but Hampton Fancher's script doesn't leave them much to work with. Owen Wilson has been a star in the making since 'Bottle Rocket' and his 'Cable Guy' cameo, but unfortunately since then he has usually been better than the movies he has appeared in. And 'The Minus Man' is no exception.I almost feel bad criticising this movie because it's not an outright turkey and means well, but frankly it was often a bore to watch. I wasn't expecting 'Deranged' 2 and I can enjoy subtle, slow movies, but this just didn't have enough to sustain interest. "},{"Title":"Surreal serial killer story is interesting but ultimately unsatisfying...","Date":"15 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" There's a lot going on inside the head of a quiet, likable serial killer (Owen Wilson), but since the story is told pretty much without going into any inside information about him, we're left in the dark until the inconclusive ending. Nevertheless, some people will watch this all the way through without really getting it, because the central performance of Owen Wilson is captivating.He seems like a complacent, not too bright fellow troubled by hallucinations and unpleasant feelings as he tries to deal with his own demons. Nobody suspects that he's harboring a deep secret as a mild-mannered man guilty of methodically killing several strangers whose lives have touched his. No real explanation is ever given for his state of mind or his preoccupation with killing and how it started.The cast is competent enough but none of the supporting characters have much depth. They're all enigmas whose behavior is never satisfactorily explained. Perhaps the novel offered more of an in depth look at the muddled reasons, but the film seems to deliberately skirt all the answers while at the same time offering an interesting performance by Wilson that does involve the viewer in the unsubstantial plot.Not a film for everyone, it will leave some indifferent to the overall storyline and quirky characters. "},{"Title":"Beware of Transients","Date":"1 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Mild-mannered serial killer Owen Wilson (as Vann Siegert) drives his truck around, and kills an asthmatic junkie played by Sheryl Crow; then, he rents a small town room from Brian Cox and Mercedes Ruehl (as Doug and Jane Durwin). The couple seem to be getting over the possible loss of a daughter (Karen), and begin to treat Mr. Wilson as a member of their cold, distant family. He's a good fit. Mr. Cox offers fatherly help in getting Wilson a job at the post office; there, he meets Janeane Garofalo (as Ferrin). Ms. Garofalo is attracted to Wilson, but he appears disinterested. Hampton Fancher's The Minus Man is baffling. What's up with the imaginary room entrance, the borrowed truck, and the head bashing? What compels Wilson? Was it the spider that crawled in his ear? Are the detectives imaginary, or from the future? Like Vann says, There's a mystery here that I could one day be tempted to explore, when I learn it better. The film is interesting and well-performed, but only minimally satisfying as a story. ****** The Minus Man (1999) Hampton Fancher ~ Owen Wilson, Janeane Garofalo, Brian Cox "},{"Title":"Corn is good.","Date":"18 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I woke up in the middle of the night and knew it was useless to try to get back to sleep immediately. This was on. Yes, it stars Owen Wilson, who is definitely a minus man for me, but it was shown at Sundance, so I gave it a shot.It was certainly different. Not the usual serial killer type of movie. He also just arranged things and watched them happen. he never really seemed engaged in killing and he often fantasized about getting caught.So, why, you may ask, did he do it? Good question, and, no, I don't really know the answer.I did get to see Janeane Garofalo, so it wouldn't be a total loss. I was worth watching, even at 2 am. "},{"Title":"I speculated with a friend and thought about it all night","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers- I believe this is the first movie to ever make me think for hours upon end after watching. And I have seen more than my share of movies. Ok where do I even begin? One of the most interesting scenes to me was when he was having dinner at Ferrin's house and after he attacked her he rolls into this little ball on her carpet. It makes me wonder along with everything else he does, what kind of a childhood he had. I talked with my ex-roommate who councels people in group therapy sessions and she and I speculated nearly all night on what kinds abuse he suffered or what kinds of things he saw or experienced as a child. Was killing his way of helping people? And why was sex or love expressed so violently by a gentle and likeable man who handled even his murder victims so delicately? We speculated more. What is really scary is that I could almost identify with the guy. We also speculated that there must have been something he could see in his victims that reminded himself of the things he hated about his own persona. Things he wanted to kill. Like I compare the young football player with his father to maybe himself and the outside world.The bar chick and her addiction lead me to believe that maybe he was addicted to his killing and the business man in the diner was eating by himself and maybe he was eating by himself. Maybe he was lonely.     What were his parents like? We could ony speculate but it seemed to us that the reason he cleaned his landlord's room and no other roomin the house was maybe he was trying to clean up his image of his parents in his mind. And then there were some things we could even speculate on. Like when he is delivering mail and he talked about the smells coming from each house and he said he would leave them unexplored. Was he maybe thinking of entering these people's homes? I agree with another comment in saying that even though what he did was horrendous, I still wanted him to be ok. Hell, I could go on forever but all I know is is when the mail is shoved through the window of my door this movie is always brought to mind. "},{"Title":"My Take on what the Ending Meant","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  From my perspective, the state trooper at the end of the film, is the long lost daughter of the couple Owen Wilson's character was staying with. Although we are made to believe that she is dead, I think the reason her mother was murdered and her father blamed for the crime, was that she either did it, or hired Owen Wilson to do it. When they are both driving away at the end of the film and the trooper flashes her light in Owen Wilson's car, she smiles. Viewers may just chalk this up to her recognizing him from earlier in the movie when she found him at the side of the road. But I believe that the arrow sign flashing on the highway in either direction <->, is meant to ask the viewer who they believe the true muderer is, the state trooper or Owen Wilson ? Or maybe even that both of them are similar in nature and therefore connected. "}{"Title":"A total waste of the viewers time.","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Ever wonder why no one has ever heard of this movie ? Out of all the thousands of movies i have seen over the years this one stands out above all the others as the ultimate in poor scripting,poor acting, poor plot and of having absolutely no redeeming entertainment value. It was hard to believe that anybody actually put up money for such a bomb ! I rented this because i saw Dwight Yoakum in the credits, and liking his previous roles i thought this might be worthwhile. WRONG ! If you happen to get stuck with nothing else to watch except this you can always fast forward to THE END and watch the credits scroll by.  "},{"Title":"Utter rubbish","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The worst movie in history! The guy goes around killing people, so what! Who is he? Why is he doing it? Who cares?After two hours of torture (watching this movie) we still had NO IDEA what the point of the whole thing was. It wasn't suspenseful, had no action, no plot, nothing. Save yourself the bother and watch something else instead. "},{"Title":"Terribly Boring and Annoying!","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I've tried on two occasions to watch this movie, but both times I had to turn it off.  First time was a rental from Blockbuster, and I'd been dying to see this movie (1) because Janeane Garafolo is in it and (2) it is about serial killers.  Unfortunately, I found the plot to be so dull that I couldn't even finish watching it.  Top that with the fact that Owen Wilson is completely annoying--horrible accent, constantly has his mouth open, just looks like a big loser.  The thing is, I know that is part of the character, but it was extremely painful for me to watch.  (Not sure why.)  The second time was this morning, when it was showing on Sundance Channel.  I decided what the heck, I'll give it another try.  To my disappointment, I still hated it.  You expect certain things out of a movie about a serial killer.  Unfortunately, Wilson's character is completely uninteresting (not to mention still annoying upon the second viewing), and his story isn't all that thrilling either.  I'm giving up on this one--it gets no more chances with me.  I wouldn't recommend this to my worst enemy.  Don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"owen wilson is perfect for this movie","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is a very near miss on being great.  There was just something a little...  flat about it.  It is hard to say exactly what went wrong, but it is still a quite solid 8/10.The Story is about Vann, a man who helps people die.  One of the opening monologues explains how he has never done any violence against anyone, they just go to sleep and that's it.Many people have commented that this movie is confused, that it wanders and isn't coherent.  On the contrary I think it is very coherent.  The thing is the details don't go toward advancing the plot as much as advancing the character.  And that is what this movie is, a character profile.  And one I would gladly watch again. "},{"Title":"A very, very boring movie","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Minus Man has to be a serious contender for the title of most boring movie ever made. It's billed as a 'psychological thriller'... but honestly, watching paint dry would be more thrilling on the whole - although less 'psychological' I guess... not that this movie revealed anything of any particular psychological significance to me. Basically it just seemed almost entirely pointless. And very, VERY boring. The movie seems to be based on the premise that because it's insipid, tedious protagonist, who talks almost non-stop throughout the film, occasionally kills people (in a rather insipid way) this somehow makes him interesting. It doesn't. Heck, this guy doesn't need poison - he could just bore people to death. To be avoided (except perhaps as a cure for insomnia).Oh... and if you've seen the cute trailer where the couple talk all night about this film - well trust me, the trailer is *way* more interesting than than the film.  "},{"Title":"Not Bad But Not Sure of the Point?","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  THE MINUS MAN  * * 1/2   Owen Wilson (Twister, The Haunting) is a mild-mannered serial poisoner who settles briefly in a small town and sort of romances postal worker Janine Garafolo.  Not sure what the point was but the movie was reasonably interesting and very well acted. Dwight Yoakum plays one of the two imaginary cops who haunts the killer's nightmares. "},{"Title":"Huh?","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film was billed as a psychological thriller. It was psychological, but not particularly thrilling. At the end, I wondered what was the point. For a movie about a serial killer, it really didn't have much of a plot. If you want an aimless look inside the mind of an amiable killer, rent this movie. If you want an actual story, look elsewhere. "},{"Title":"A spider crawled in my ear once, but then he crawled out because nobody was home.","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Well, so much for promises!  This movie was supposed to take us inside the mind of a serial killer, unfortunately the serial killer Van (Owen Wilson), whom this film tries to probe for the answer as to why doesn't have much going on upstairs (just read the quote above).  Sure Wilson does a good acting job but the movie and characters don't seem fully shaped.  Not even Janeane Garofalo, as a sweet woman in love with Van, can do much with her character.  I expected more. "},{"Title":"*Yawn*","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Uh, I don't know what film indiefilmgurl saw, but I'd love to see that, too....what I saw was dull and I didn't and couldn't spend hours talking about it. My friend and I spent all of five minutes talking about it...more specifically we spent five minutes talking about how this crap got produced. "},{"Title":"good acting, but the movie sucks","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  the tagline for this movie was so incredibly accurate...you will be talking about this movie.  you and your companions will be talking about what in the world the point of this movie was.  it was so boring and it had no point.  it went nowhere and it was a waste of my $9.00.  however, owen wilson was great, along with the other actors, and for once janeane was not her usual sarcastic self, which was nice.  go see american beauty instead. "}{"Title":"Conversation will follow","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" ...is the tag line for the movie.  The conversation my friend and I went something like this So, whose bright idea was it to see that turkey?  I know, I blew it.  Roger Ebert liked it. Well, he can just pay me my two hours and $8 bucks back. Sorry.  It was really boring.Quirky characters do not make a good movie.  Skip this and go see The Sixth Sense a second time. "},{"Title":"..minus two hours..","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Well, minus two hours from my life later, this movie wholly disappoints. I must say, the exquisite trailer for this movie was very entertaining, but the movie left me feeling empty.  If this was the intention, they did a great job.I kept myself entertained with studying the characters.  Owen Wilson was great; not overly creepy as Vann, but he ads just the right amount at the right time.  Janeane Garofalo was nice to see in a non-sarcastic role. She played it well..the girl who lives in a small town and finally has the opportunity to meet a new man.  Her anxiety was a lot of fun.  The married couple that Vann lives with is completely unconvincing.  Their individual performances were good, but they seemed a little too distant to be an estranged couple (see the movie, you'll understand).  Dwight Yoakam was surprisingly good.  Sheryl Crow should stick to pouting in her videos.Other than Mrs. Durwin's comment about the separate entrance to Vann's room, I have to say, the only thing I really was left wondering about with this movie is whether or not the book would be better.  "},{"Title":"Step Away From The Video, Nothing To See Here!","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Some movies lack in some areas but make up for it in others.Minus Man had a fantastic trailer, good actors, and a good premise for a movie (I mean, how can serial killers not be interesting?)Minus Man lacked an interesting story, basic story points (like say, a climax), a flowing chain of events with a goal, or even an ounce of anything worthy to show (how can serial killers not be interesting? - watch this and find out).If you think the film will be as clever as that trailer, which was rather creepy (kudos to the ad agency who designed it), you will be sadly mistaken. The movie was so NOT interesting, I had considered flipping the stop button on the old dvd player at least 3 or 4 times but didn't just in case the ending made up for the poor bulk. I was robbed of my $2.99 rental fee. I gave it a 2 because I can't see me ever wanting to watch any part of it again. It would have gotten a 1 if not for the fair acting and good trailer. I can only recommend this movie to those who have cut me off on the beltway -- this one's for you. "},{"Title":"A deeply cynical movie.","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Minus man stands as a deeply cynical and cold movie. It is shot smartly, but is not pleasant to watch. Contrary to the trailer, there was little to talk about after the film. No mystery, no magic; just another stylish, cold and long strip of celluliod that takes money from you wallet, and hours off your life. At least American Psycho was funny and pointed, go see that instead. Or go see Clay Pigeons.  "},{"Title":"Without Owen Wilson, this is a nothing film.","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Owen Wilson this is the first time I've seen this actor work as Vann almost steals the film.  Everyone else seems to be sleepwalking and/or on the loony side of life.  Hampton Fletcher's adaptation of the novel never read it but would like to see true author's intention didn't do much to interest me, nor did his direction.  It just labored on and on, like the route Wilson took delivering mail.  Along the way we meet a couple Jane and Doug who take our postman in and give him a room at the top, unaware they are harboring a serial killer up stairs.  Doug, played by a weird Brian Cox, sort of sits around staring into space.  I kept wondering if this guy was going to be Vann's next victim.  Alas, no. Cox annoyed me to no end with his performance.  It's a wonder Miss Jane left him.  Another colorless performance was that of Janeane Garfalo as an overheated helper in the mail room.  She just wouldn't take no for an answer.  After many painful attempts to lure Vann into her bed, she finally manages to get him there, only to scream and rant for him to leave.  What's wrong with this chic?  Notice how she grabs for her puppy dog security blanket as she asks the abuser to leave?  I found this film watchable if only for the appearance of Owen Wilson.  I hope he gets better jobs ahead.  A handsome young man, with such a winning smile and good acting ability deserves better.  Here's hoping you get the right part, Owen. "},{"Title":"Even serial killers can be a bore.","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Serial killer kills and then moves to smalltown usa. This was boring; I mean really boring.  This was one of the ones where you keep saying Well I guess something will happen in a moment and then the next thing you notice is the credits rolling up the screen! "},{"Title":"Amateurish but watchable","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The movie has a nice look.  The summery clearness of both the outdoor and indoor scenes adds a nice touch of realism.  And for all its flaws, it is  better than many of the more media-hyped movies that  came out in 1999.  It's far more interesting and  enjoyable than The Sixth Sense, for example.  There is an amateurish quality about it that pretty much sinks it, though.  The plot is full of holes,  the acting, with rare exceptions, is Film 101 stuff. "},{"Title":"Pretentious and not in the least interesting!","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Beauty may be in the eye of the beholder, but I fail to see any reason why this film would evoke anything but an enormous YAWN! I have no built in dislike for small budget, artsy films, but this bit of self-absorbed, pretentious fluff redefines the word BORING! Thirty minutes into the film, I pressed the eject button and began to look for something more vital and exciting to watch, such as reruns of The Partridge Family. C'mon...Owen Wilson as a serial killer; what was I thinking (or more to the point, what were the Director and Producer thinking!)? Portrayals of stoic serial killers are nothing new, but this depiction (or Wilson's acting) is tepid, bland, drowsy...fill in the adjective...anything related to completely stiff and disinterested.Of course, there is this to be said, if you enjoy the you are there sense that home video imparts, you'll surely enjoy the washed out colors and clumsy framing by the cinematographer. This film is a loser in every sense of the word. As for the slight critical recognition that the film received, all I can say is I'll have some of what you've been smoking! What a stinker...  "},{"Title":"I absolutely HATED and DESPISED this awful film!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film is a big waste of time. I rated it a 1(why can't a zero be accepted is beyond me!). Why I'm so mad is that it promises is so much and delivers so little. It has a good dramatic story line and a fine cast that is totally wasted Mercedes Ruehl, Meg Foster, and Larry Miller, a one time stand-up comedian who always adds to any film but in this one is totally wasted!The star of the film is Owen Wilson(Vann Siegert) who thinks he's a cross between James Dean and Marlon Brando. WRONG- He's a total loser who will never amount to anything! His expression usually is a puzzled look with his mouth half open. In one scene(a flashback) one of the detectives asks him to show him something He then shows anger and then shows another emotion....anger again. He seems to think that's 2 different things. That scene and his stupid puzzled look are the only 2 emotions we get from Mr. Wilson.Some say he is good looking, handsome but to me he looks like a big, Confused, Blonde headed Jerk!The film is UNEVEN and seems to prove that every few minutes. We see a dog discovering a dead body(he dug up the victims hand).....What happened after that....who knows, they skipped any normal follow through after that. The dialog just seems to ramble along and we keep expecting it to make sense......it don't. I guess that's the most honest truth about this film......What could be in the mind of a serial killer but senseless ravings. Of course the film is narrated by the crazy Mr. Wilson which does not help at all. Mercedes Ruehl is a fine actress but what is her motivation? Does she love Vann? Why does she come in his room in a nightgown without knocking. Does she want an affair? Is he replacing her long lost daughter, who is in college and we find out that's a lie from her nut of a father(Brian Cox). Now there's a real winner....his favorite pastime is beating the hell out of himself!The most interesting character is Alex Warren(as the state trooper), who we see in the very beginning and the very end. To tell you the truth I had a hard time figuring out whether he/she was a man or a woman. My guess now is that she was a woman....I guess? Janeane Garofalo plays the love interest if you can call it that. Her acting talents has always been in question. She plays a real stupid country bumpkin who likes our anti-hero serial killer but is so totally dumb and she seems to prove it throughout the film. In one part Vann sees a composite drawing of himself in a newspaper and he asks Garofalo- That looks a lot like me and the picture looks EXACTLY like him and Janeane's answer is No, it doesn't.....with a dumb expression on her face.OK, I didn't like the film but what really got me angry is reading the comments of this movie by the viewers of the IMDB board. They think they really understood what was going on, in fact.....one of the people thought that the state trooper is the long lost daughter of the Durwin's and that she killed her mother. We really aren't sure who did that?!?! This is my last point and I promise to quit If you put 20 people in a room and let them watch this film, which I admit was interesting at times, they would come out with 20 different variations of the story.I mean completely different opinions of what the hell happened on this celluloid screen the past 107 minutes. Road Kill is much more interesting.....at least there's a logical conclusion there! "},{"Title":"A thriller with no thrills.","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Minus Man follows the rather boring activities of Vann (Wilson), a young man who drives into town, settles in a rented room, becomes a postal worker, and apparently kills people. The film gives insights into Vann's off-beat thinking with over-dubs and annoying vignettes which are fantasies or remembrances or whatever. The story doesn't build, it meanders and Vann is so uninteresting that, well, the film is uninteresting too. Monotonous, boring, passable. "}{"Title":"Movie Maniac","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie is flat out boring. It starts out slow, and it ends like it starts. Usually we are faced with a serial killer at the end of his run. FBI, police are hot on his tail while he is cunningly escaping. In The Minus Man none of that is happening. This is a film that shows the life of a serial killer before he gets too sloppy to get caught. I don't really think Owen Wilson is the best of actors but I am surprised he actually chose this role. Don't waste your time with this film. Even the ending lets you down. "},{"Title":"Unbelievable Waste of Time","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I cannot believe I just wasted two hours of my life on this movie. Normally if a movie is boring, I'll usually turn it off. But this movie was slow moving but kind of intriguing from the start. I kept thinking that something interesting would eventually happen but it never did. By the end of the movie, you're left feeling that very little happened and nothing was resolved. They could have saved a lot of money and effort by just making this into a faster paced one-hour episode of Law & Order instead of dragging this movie on for two hours. Also, wasn't this the same movie as American Psycho except a lot less entertaining? I would suggest that movie instead. "},{"Title":"BOOOOOOOOOORING WITH A CAPITAL B!!!!","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Owen Wilson, one of the most overrated and boring actors of our time stars in the most boring psycho-film ever made. Great writing, HA! You want great writing, watch a David Mamet movie. With, The Minus Man, you get another lame overpraised independant film that consists of a million miles of dialogue that goes deeper and deeper into boredom. I have never understood this fascination with dialogue that goes nowhere that only critics, independant filmmakers, and those who don't want to feel like they're not in-the-know(college students, young film students etc...) seem to understand. Don't get me wrong, there are some great dialogue films(even independants)that include Whit Stillman's Metropolitan and Barcelona, Richard Linklatter's Slacker and the aformentioned David Mamet just to name a few. I would like to point out that the only redeeming value to this movie is Janeane Garofalo. She does a great job and shows that there is a lot more to her than we have previously seen.  "},{"Title":"This Movie absolutely sucks!!!","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The most boring movie I have ever had the misfortune to watch. With the cast it had it should have been at least watchable...I kept waiting for something interesting to happen...and finally it did...it ended. If you need some sleep I recommend this movie.   "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  First of all, I'm a film student, which ruins one's ability to sit and watch without becoming hyper-critical, and seeing every little glitch or mistake. So, let me apologize in advance!In reading user's comments, I'm wondering if we are talking about the same film. The film I saw lacked craft and skill in the creation, and the audience that I viewed it with, laughed when it wasn't supposed to be funny. It was so poorly acted, that it was hard to tell what was comical, and what was mystery. A couple of people got up and left the film, and I saw lots of people shaking their heads.First of all, the acting was completely unbelievable, especially from the main actor. I sat through the entire movie thinking who cares? I realize that the main character was supposed to be dull and unexciting, however, I don't feel there was ever any payoff of any kind. Even when he was supposed to be exciting and peak in energy, it was dull and boring. When the plot was supposed to become edgy, I was so un-interested, I couldn't have cared less what he did next.From a technical standpoint, the lighting was completely dull and flat, and the camera work, though sufficient, was also boring. The entire FX sound track, and some dialogue was out of sync with the picture.The storyline seemed like it could have worked as a murder-mystery thriller, but because of such poor execution, it turned out to be one of the worst movies I've seen in a while.  "},{"Title":"Super Slow","Date":"9 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I thought this movie was a waste of time. the 7 minutes, there was no dialogue. Then the movie moved very very slowly. I thought there was going to be some spine tingling or chilling events, but I was left disappointed. Unfortunaltey this movie barely did just enough to keep me from turning it off, but it was real close a couple of times. I was happy when it finally ended and was shocked to see all the people who rated this high. I hope that if you do watch it, you will DVR record it, so you do not waste any money going to the video store and pay to rent this boring let down excuse of a movie. That is all I really have to say about this. Oh yes, Sheryl Crow was not a very good actress either, "},{"Title":"Autistic Serial Killer?","Date":"18 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie with a strong cast that I never heard of popped up on a cable movie channel tonight. I loved the promise of the basic plot, but the way Owen Wilson's character was presented (he comes across autistic, learning disabled, and asexual) makes it totally laughable that he would be crafty enough to formulate the rationale and resources to kill people.I'm surprised that Wilson didn't see what was happening during filming and demand a new direction with his character. He's terrible in this. I wonder why this flick suddenly pops up on high rotation on the cable movie networks. Wilson surely wants to forget about it. Jeanane Garofalo is pretty entertaining in it. So her fans should watch it, and maybe film students who want a good chuckle. "},{"Title":"Unconvincing","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I've got to stop buying movies just because they have Janeane Garofalo in them.  This was the worst I've seen her in.  Sweethearts was so much better than this.  This flick had some top talent go into it and it is a polished exercise in film making in many ways.  However it fails the only test that means anything, it fails to entertain.  Many movies have events that go unexplained.  This one has too many.  One thought that struck me as I looked at the bios of other serial killers (on the DVD) was how much the lead character was unlike any of them.  The trailer was better than the movie.  If you do end up talking about this movie for hours, oh my, how the heck did that happen?  "},{"Title":"Not very realistic","Date":"30 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Very little went into the thought of this movie. The job he gets is more than far fetched. Just stroll in and get a job with the Postal Service and just read the book and you can deliver mail. I laughed at this whole premise. Please before you make a movie do some research. That Postmaster was laughable...I need to shrink routes for the holidays. And what was counting the flyers????? A complete unrealistic joke. research research research.... What serial killer is that sociable and amiable?? I have to admit I have never like Owen as an actor. Maybe it's his accent. Says he is from Texas but it sound like a valley boy. OMG!! I can't believe he is delivering mail in a LLV for curbside delivery and getting out of his vehicle with a mailbag to deliver. Who wrote this crap?? This movie gets a F for Failure to research. "},{"Title":"Weak, boring & no entertainment value.","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The story was a good one, but was presented in a very weak & shallow way.No suspense, thrills or even open ended questions. Waste of time.Owen played the part well, but his character was set up poorly, no history - even later in the film.Even the supporting actors were not set up or built up properly - No history (very little) and no future to foresee.Janeane Garofalo was the only one that impressed me with her character and acting.Dwight Yoakam acted well, but again his character had no depth. I believe this movie should have used the same kind of style as used in Se7en and Butterfly Effect or even Silence of the Lambs. "}{"Title":"This is the stupidest movie I have ever seen!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was so stupid that it was hard to watch.  I make it a habit never to stop watching a movie before it's finished, but this one challenged my philosophy.  Not one minute was scary, suspenseful, or even interesting. How did this cast ever agree to make this movie?  They must have all been under some evil spell!!!!!!!!! "}]