[{"Title":"A work of compassion and humanity","Date":"14 March 2005","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Ken Loach has been making films about working class families for many years and My Name is Joe is one of his most powerful. Peter Mullan is instantly likable as Joe Kavanagh, a recovering alcoholic from Ruchill, a decaying suburb of Glasgow, who has a lot at stake. He has fallen in love with Sarah (Louis Goodall), a health worker, and wants to go straight but circumstances conspire against him. He is determined to help his friend Liam (David McKay) when he gets behind on his payments to a drug dealer but his options are limited and he is forced to make a choice that threatens the stability of his fragile relationship.Mullan won the Best Actor award at the 1998 Cannes Film Festival and it is fully deserved. We know that Joe's problems are overwhelming but we root for him to make it in spite of the odds because of his warmth and humor and generosity towards others. Joe has been sober for a year and attends sessions of Alcoholics Anonymous. He also coaches the local soccer team composed of unemployed workers who have won only one game the entire year. When he meets Sarah, a social worker for the Health Department who is visiting Liam and his wife Sabine (Anne-Marie Kennedy) and young child, things start to look up. We do not learn much about Sarah's past but it is obvious that the two have discovered each other at a crucial point in their life.In a powerful scene, Sarah asks Joe why he stopped drinking and he tells her how he had beaten a woman he was dating and has never forgiven himself. Both are very tentative about getting involved but they are also drawn to each other and can think about the future for the first time. Sadly, the world has other plans. Sabine is a heroin addict who used the drugs she was supposed to sell and is in serious debt to a local drug dealer McGowan (David Hayman), an old friend of Joe's. When the mobster boss demands that Liam cover his wife's debt or they will break his legs, Joe tries to moderate and ends up striking a deal with the mob, leading to a series of unfortunate events. In one of the most emotionally gripping scenes, Sarah berates Joe for lying to her and he responds Some of us don't have a choice. Some of us don't have a f***ing choice. The mean streets of Ruchill are strewn with the results of urban decay and Loach does not spare us the details. He even mocks the image of bonnie Scotland with a scene involving a kilt-clad bagpiper playing the same three songs over and over for a group of tourists. Combining gritty realism with humor, My Name is Joe has an outstanding script by Paul Laverty and fully dimensional characters that transcend clichés. Loach does not pass judgment on his characters or directly condemn society for their failings. It is a work of compassion and humanity. "},{"Title":"Gritty realism, powerfully performed, a must-see movie","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The awesome realism of Once Were Warriors (New Zealand, 1994), successfully transposed to Glasgow, Scotland.Solid, decent human beings use alcohol and drugs to cope with life. But, life only gets worse, loyalties are brutally tested, and one poor unfortunate will not survive. But, don't think this to be another flaccid piece of cliched, anti-drug drivel. No, this film speaks powerfully to the perverse, and often vicious, arbitrariness of life. Darwinians, of course, will be unmoved. The rest of us, however, will be chilled by the scale of our impotence in making this world a better place. Prepare yourself to feel humbled. "},{"Title":"MY NAME IS JOE (KEN LOACH)","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Believe me as soon this movie has ended it will be damned difficult not to reach for your handkerchief and not to dry your eyes as this movie really touches you, and director Ken Loach doesn't even need no Titanic-script as according to his style he just picks out some stories of life. We are in Glasgow, Scotland at where we meet Joe (Peter Mullan), an ex-alcoholic who is on the dole and whose sole surviving point is the footballteam (that always loose) he manages. It's more friendship then football but out of a sudden he meets a nurse Sarah (Louise Goodall) and he falls in love. For Sarah it is quite difficult, she loves him but she can't get used to the world Joe lives in, a world that is dominated by poverty. Everything goes badly wrong when Joe decides to help one of his footballplayers Liam (David McKay) who is a junk and who is in the hands of the mob that are awaiting 2000 pounds from him. Little by little Joe is witnessing that he looses everything that he build up the day he said the bottle farewell. This is not Loach's most known film (I guess that is Raining Stones) but this movie really had its impact on the festival of Cannes and it made a sort of indiestar from actor Peter Mullan who recently made his debut as director making The Magdalene Sisters. Along with Mike Leigh is Loach one of the best British directors ever, a film you absolutely must see!!!! "},{"Title":"A Very Touching Movie","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In Glasgow, Joe Kavanagh (Peter Mullan, in a superb performance) is an ex-alcoholic and unemployed simple, but good man. He is the couch of a soccer team, formed by poor players. Joe meets Sarah Downie (Louise Goodall), a community health worker and they start a romance. Liam (David McKay) is a player in Joe's team and ex-addicted in drugs. He has a beautiful son, but his wife Sabine (Anne-Marie Kennedy) is still using drugs and raises a huge debt together with the local drug dealer McGowan (David Hayman). Joe becomes aware of the problem and McGowan offers four options the debt of 2.000 pounds be paid, Sabine becomes a prostitute, Liam becomes a drug dealer or Joe makes two delivers of drugs for him. Joe accepts the last option, jeopardizing the love of Sarah for him. This very touching low budget movie is an authentic lesson to Hollywood  personnel of `How to make an excellent movie having an outstanding director, a wonderful screenplay and marvelous cast'. The story is simple, very credible and with no concessions. The focus is part of the Scottish population that lives in poverty conditions and without many options  in life, and it is painful. The end of the story will break the heart of the viewer it is impossible not to be with wet eyes. The soundtrack suits perfectly to this film. My vote is nine. "},{"Title":"another Ken Loach winner","Date":"1 June 2007","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Joe (Peter Mullan) is a guy who has seen it all before. A former alcoholic, he kicked his habit. Now he is unemployed but is paradoxically very active since he trains a little football team and interests himself in young Liam who has a brush with the local underground for a story of unpaid drugs with his young spouse Sabine. He falls in love with Sarah, a social worker who brings them help and support. The two people fall in love whereas to help Liam, Joe is ready to break the law and to do shady jobs for the mobsters. Will his relationship with Sarah be affected by this?When he places his camera in the popular neighborhoods of a big city eaten away by unemployment, Ken Loach is the defender of the outcasts who are very strongly linked by friendship and mutual support, like Joe here with his tiny football team. Loach refuses to feel pity for them and shots the outset of his film with energy and generosity. Where he also grabs the audience and impresses her is his master at supple cinematographic writing. My Name is Joe starts up first time with a humorist perspective that the filmmaker will try to keep to the maximum. You have to see Joe and his sidekick who pretend to be professional house painters to Sarah's. Then, as Liam and Sabine's trouble grow and with Joe's decision to help them, the tone becomes darker, blacker and is here to remind us that we are in Loach's universe. His characters in spite of their big efforts are caught up in a sad fate. In the end, Loach runs the whole gamut of tones with ability in a quite gloomy plot.The arresting performance of Peter Mullan helps to make Loach's 1998 film more appealing and it's one to discover or rediscover. "},{"Title":"Entertaining film about social issues","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ken Loach is a truly exceptional film-maker. Like Bunuel, he has seemingly risen from the dead (during Thatcher's reign) and re-emerged as an international force. I found his latest film My name is Joe to be a hugely enjoyable affair, perhaps a little less abrasive and direct than his earlier efforts, like Poor cow and Family life. Even so, he depicts working class- people with the same warmth and insight as before.The main character is Joe, a jobless reformed alcoholic in Glasgow with a heart of gold. In the attempt to better the lot of those around him, (and forget his self-loathing) Joe organizes a football team and makes house-calls on those in need of support, especially Liam and Sabine, a young couple in dire straits. Liam owes 500 pounds to the local drug-dealer, and Sabine has likewise racked up a debt. Joe tries his best to offer help, but when he is forced to perform a criminal act, he runs the risk of losing his law-abiding girl-friend into the bargain.Joe is a character whom you instantly like. Even his transgressions won't make you think the worse of him, as he quite obviously suffers from what he's done. Joe wants to lead a normal life, stay on the right side of the law, get a girlfriend and what have you. But he just can't juggle off his past as a drunkard, he can't get off the dole and so hasn't the means to move away from his run-down apartment, his rotten little suburb. His only hope is to get someone to love him, someone to lift him out of the rut, to boost his self-esteem.It is, for sure, a touching, humane story, beautifully scripted, shot in a simple style, and with a wonderful central performance by Peter Mullan. My question is, is it more? Is MNIJ a valid comment on deprived communities in Britain today? Do there still exist working class ethics like the ones Loach depicts in this movie? And are they still as relevant as when Britain was poor back in the 60' ies, the decade of Loach's first movies?Granted, there are still poor, neglected people aplenty, but do they behave like this? This movie seems a little on the soft side compared to say Gillian MacKinnon's Small faces, and even Trainspotting. MNIJ, I feel, is more of a self-contained Chekhovian drama than an attack on our bourgeois sensibilities.(The soundtrack, by the way, consists mostly of dangerously out-dated glam-rock material from the 70' ies. Painful stuff!) Call me flippant, but I didn't feel like hitting a drug dealer, or tearing the social fabric after watching this movie. Perhaps it should have hurt more. Even so, it's a fabulous film by a unique director.  "},{"Title":"Heartwarming realism","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A review of this film in the Telegraph asks, Why do people go to see Ken Loach films?  I would suggest that people go to see Ken Loach films because they're interested in society, interested in how people live, and keen to see films about REAL people i.e. people who aren't rich and beautiful and don't live in charming pieds a terre in Chelsea ...  My Name is Joe is at the same time heartwarming and heartbreaking, making you feel good about the characters whilst thanking your lucky stars that you don't live the lives they do.  Go and see it with an open mind and a thirst for realism. "},{"Title":"Great Ken Loach movie. A funny and dramatic.","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  First this movie seems to be much lighter than previous Loach realisations (remember LadyBird, LadyBird ?). Joe is a hell of a good guy and the other characters are as true as possible. And it is truly funny (the football matches of the German team are hilarious). But then, like in many of the best Loach movies, the social reality, with all its dramatic aspects, turns the end of the movie into a real tragedy. A must, in my opinion. "},{"Title":"very very very impressive","Date":"15 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I finally got the DVD today in the mail, so I could watch this film. Now I'm from the Netherlands and my English is pretty good, but my Scottisch is not so good (thank god for the subtitles lol). But, I did get the general message, which is pretty global. What Joe is dealing with, trying to stay sober and creating a good life for himself and his family. Its very recognizable.The acting was brilliant, and very very honest and realistic. There just aren't enough films like these. One's with REAL stories to tell, real life stories. What is so wrong with watching reality? Normal life is hard enough, and its OK to show that. We don't always have to see all the glitter and glamour of Hollywood.People go see this film, if I had ten thumbs, I would give him ten thumbs UP.Thank you Mr. Mullan and all the others working on this film for this beautiful honest film. "},{"Title":"An insightful film which resonates with truths about the harsher aspects of today's society","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  My Name is Joe is a film in which the complexities of social issues are explored to reveal unpalatable truths. It seems some people can find themselves in situations in which all their choices are wrong ones! This film pulls no punches and is totally believable. Perceptively cast this is a film full of poignancy and depth. My Name is Joe is Ken Loach at his very best.   "}{"Title":"Another Ken Loach masterpiece.","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I came across this film by accident on video, and I was very pleasantly surprised by the quality.  Ken Loach is again at his best using little known or non-actors set in a British working class background. Joe is a reformed alcoholic on the dole in Glasgow, trying to pick his life up again. Loach's vision and understanding of life close to the limit is amazing.For me, this is a must see film. "},{"Title":"A Bleak Report of Gentle Light","Date":"31 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Kenneth Loach is known for his social conviction and sense of responsibility for the community and ever since his debut Poor Cow (1967) he hasn't let the viewer down. In his 13th feature film My Name Is Joe (1998) Loach offers not only a realistic look at the problems of contemporary society but also in a compassionate, heart-warming tone, still leaving the viewer with a rather gloomy mood. Such emotional contrast was probably due to the fact that the reign of Margaret Thatcher had been over for 8 years and the workers' party had experienced a new rise. Hence the film manages to be both a dreary yet essential look at the past -- as if to show what really happened during Thatcher's unpleasant years of conservatism -- and a comment on how the new movement hasn't attained any concrete changes in the desolate condition.The title protagonist of the film is Joe, an unemployed alcoholic, who begins a mundane romance with a social service woman. However, My Name Is Joe isn't a love story nor a wholesome portrayal of a character's life. It's precisely a fragment from the everyday life of an ordinary person. It tries not to highlight (though Loach falls to banality every now and then) nor to embellish. The title first refers to Joe's introduction at the AA-club but later on gains a significance of him opening himself, honestly and without an act of performance, to others.In the same way as Joe, Loach is ready to show us the real conditions of the working class, without an act of embellishment. By a naturalist approach, he depicts the desolate circumstances in which alcoholism and drug addiction are immediate and inevitable reactions. They reveal a wider social phenomenon rather than the weakness of the individual.Although the film isn't a film of sheer brilliance nor the masterpiece to define British cinema, it remains as a small sympathetic piece of work which won't disappoint the viewer and therefore doesn't leave much room for excessive criticism. "},{"Title":"Unsentimental, romantic and afflicting love-story...","Date":"11 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" English television and film director Ken Loach's fourteenth feature film which was written by his long-time collaborator Paul Laverty, premiered In competition at the 51st Cannes International Film Festival in 1998, was screened in the Masters section at the 23rd Toronto International Film Festival in 1998, was shot on locations in Glasgow, Scotland and is a UK-France-Italy-Spain-Germany co-production which was produced by English producer Rebecca O'Brien. It tells the story about an unemployed recovering alcoholic named Joe Kavanagh who lives in an apartment in Glasgow. Joe spends most of his time with his friends from the soccer team he coaches, his friend named Shanks and is a regular attendant at anonymous alcoholics meetings. His recovering process is going well and one day when he is visiting his cousin named Liam and his pregnant girlfriend named Sabine, he encounters a woman named Sarah who works as a social visitor. Joe meets Sarah again and a connection emerges, but then Joe learns that Liam has gotten himself involved with a local criminal.Distinctly and engagingly directed by English filmmaker Ken Loach, this finely paced fictional tale which is narrated from multiple viewpoints though mostly from the main character's point of view, draws a humane, heartrending and gripping portrayal of a man who finds himself caught in a moral conflict whilst trying to come to terms with a past of violence and decay which has marred his character. While notable for it's naturalistic milieu depictions, fine cinematography by English cinematographer Barry Ackroyd, production design by English production designer and art director Martin Johnson (1939-2003), authentic dialog and characteristic realism, this character-driven story from the late 1990s which is one of Ken Loach's most successful films and where a man is making an effort to maintain his first serious relationship with a woman whom is willing to look past the person he once was and accept him for the man he is becoming, depicts an in-depth and compassionate study of character and contains a timely score by English composer George Fenton.This at times very humorous and charming drama which is set in Scotland and where the protagonist considers it as his obligation to make a choice that could jeopardize both his ongoing recovery and his evolving and loving relationship, is impelled and reinforced by it's efficient narrative structure, substantial character development, the exceptionally moving and heartfelt acting performance by Scottish actor and director Peter Mullan and the fine supporting acting performances by Scottish actress Louise Goodall and Scottish actor David Hayman. An unsentimental, romantic and afflicting love-story which gained, among other awards, the award for Best Actor Peter Mullan at the 51th Cannes Film Festival in 1998, the Audience Award at the Valladolid International Film Festival in 1998, the British Independent Film Award for Best British Director of an Independent Film Ken Loach, Best Original Screenplay by a British Writer of a Produced Independent Film Paul Laverty and Best British Independent Film at the 1st British Independent Film Awards in 1998. "},{"Title":"One finds it very difficult to find fault with My Name is Joe, a film all about people with them as well as their battles to stay away from them.","Date":"2 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" That sense of what people can only look at and see with their own naked eyes and that of the stone wall truth lurking beneath is at the heart of Ken Loach's utterly mesmerising film My Name is Joe, a sentiment epitomised much later on when a bus load of Japanese tourists are seen to be visiting the nation of Scotland and ogle over what one might describe as a stereotypical Scotsman dancing away in his kilt whilst playing the bagpipes. The film's lead, a man who has taken a fair few knocks in his time, looks on at those embracing the outer-shell without, it would seem, giving much of a thought to anything else. You wouldn't know that Joe, the titular lead, was once an embittered and thoroughly foul individual whose turning to drink had him become a bit of a monster without a scene in which he confirms such a thing. The film is about alcoholism, but not the descent into it as much as it is the tale of somebody who has been there; defeated it and then strives to hold it off again on the way back up. In a sense, the film adopts that of the complexion of something along the lines of Carlito's Way but does for addiction what said De Palma film did for crime whereas its veering away from the depiction of someone (usually a young person, or a collection of young people) getting caught up in drugs and drug addiction has it feel eminently more refreshing away from British fare of around the time in Trainspotting and Human Traffic or from across the Atlantic in Requiem for a Dream.That notion, harking back to those tourists and the distinction between what people can only see and what the reality of someone or something actually is, lies in Peter Mullan's Joe Kavanagh, a rough and ready individual who redecorates houses for a living; plays his football at weekends and sticks to the tried and tested items of leisure from his era, in the form of music from decades ago. The fact he was once the monster that he was becomes more apparent when we realise anyone in the world would far prefer him the way he is now compared to then, and yet brief descriptions of the man still has him sound like the sort of person most would cross the street if it meant avoiding walking past him. The film begins with a man's verbal confirmation of what an alcoholic is; the verbal closing of a particular chapter in his life and then a getting up and exiting of a room full of people to a round of applause from all involved. It is our Joe, and he has just attended his last alcoholic support group therapy session having been declared as to have defeated the condition and thus, free to go on living away from therapy attendance.Thus starts a 'beginning again'; a new chapter and a new lease of life beginning with this point, a line from Joe during a chess match with one of his many friends seeing him state that he has absolutley nothing and is generally on the bottom rung of whatever ladder encompasses this time and place. Hiding behind his quick wit and cynicism, Joe keeps male company that isn't necessarily of the most resounding sort, and sees him able to wind them up them by instigating a mock-police raid prior to knocking on the front door &#x96; their reactions of leaping out of windows and doing everything in their power to escape speaks volumes. They play football at weekends and shout and jeer and swear, they even steal brand new football kits from the rear of sports shops when it becomes apparent they need new ones as people unload the things from lorries. Throughout, Loach's style, indebted to cinema vérité, props up proceedings and compliments greatly the material throughout.At the core of the film is a relationship Joe finds himself in with a woman of his age named Sarah (Goodall), a social worker who operates with children that are under a great deal of strain thus coming across as someone adept at dealing with those of whom are a little problematic; a tad difficult to initially get to grips with and someone, we feel, with an enormous amount of patience in this regard &#x96; characteristics which bode well for her bond with Joe. While she doesn't understand, nor is particularly fond of, football and he doesn't go anywhere near the wine that she enjoys drinking with her dinner, these two come together and share something special which is introduced; developed and generally depicted with near effortless precision and finesse.Around at Joe's apartment for one evening, she observes a group of youths casually enjoying alcohol on a local green outside his window and we get a general sense that this is where Joe was as a young man. Their tryst is a pleasing addition to Joe's constant combating of veering too far back towards old habits, his relationship with Sarah the opportunity for redemption in maintaining a relationship with a woman after it is revealed what previously happened. There are, of course, events and people around the lead whom drag him ever closer back to his pits of despair and disaster; the crime genre aspect of the film as a young hothead struggles with an outstanding debt compliments, more-so sits unsettlingly, with the lighthearted and comedic strand following the fortunes of a hapless football eleven as well as the romance with Sarah. One cannot speak highly enough of this wondrous piece, an intelligent and well made film those of whom enjoy their drama grounded and adult and their characterisation rich and textured. "},{"Title":"The Hard Life","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERSKen Loach is famous for his social drama's like BREAD AND ROSES.He uses situations that do not occur in Normal films.MY NAME IS JOE is not different.Loach has become one of my favorite directors and that's not only because I'm very left but also because of his ability to create intense drama. In this film Peter Mullan plays Joe,a retired alcoholic who's trying to create a life worth living for by coaching a dubious football team.The leading actress is Louise Goodall who plays Sarah,a woman working at the local hospital.They get involved but it is not meant to be since Joe's life is falling apart.The acting is really intense.Peter Mullan gives a remarkable performance as Joe and Louise Goodall is as good playing Sarah.The two leading actors take the other players in their slipstream. Ken Loach usually uses unexperienced actors and actresses,probably to enhance the reality level of the film.This works perfectly in MY NAME IS JOE,it is so realistic that's it's almost frightening.The climax is very intense,Mullan's desperation gave me the chills.Playing someone desperate is very hard,Mullan's intense performance is right up there with Takashi Shimura's brilliant acting class in Kurosawa's best movie IKIRU.Ken Loach directs the movie as a spectator,thus enhancing the reality.The humor is very crude as it should be,there's not much to laugh in this poor situation that Loach is projecting us.But one must remember that it's the real world. Ken Loach succeeds flawlessly in showing us this world.In a way it looks quite a lot like the world of TRAINSPOTTING which also takes place in the Scottish suburbs.One of the most intense drama's ever made.   9/10 (currently number 90 in my all time top 100 list) "},{"Title":"Portrays an intense and honest realness","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There is something very brutally honest about the acting of Peter Mullan. There's a sort of untamed undertone of violence sizzling at his seams that burns through the characters he portrays. Mr. Mullan has the unique ability to seem very gentle, but on the edge of bursting at any moment. Match that with the directing ability of Ken Loach, and you've one very believable, intense film!  "},{"Title":"Brilliant observation about the hardship of intervention.","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I never used to watch British films. Most of them were either badly fumbled social commentary. Dodgy comedies with a line in send up or simply uniteresting. I was of course watching all the wrong movies.My Name is Joe changed my view. It is also one of the few dramas I have ever seen that has a real relevance to real life dynamics. In Death Wish Charles Bronsan blows away all the baddies and never gets beaten up or arrested or morally challenged by another person. In other words its fantasy. My Name is Joe of course is not at all like Death Wish but instead it is a great film about a central character who in trying to atone for his past and cause of who he is, sets about doing the best thing for those around him. He coaches a hopeless football team every weekend. He also does other things that are selfless but I wont tell you anymore about him or the plot.Safe to say instead this movie goes to show that sometimes no matter what you do you odds are too great. The more you get involved the worse it gets. But that is what makes it all the more moving in the end.The acting is superb, you understand every character. The situations are real and the direction is terrific. There really should be more films made like My Name is Joe. My advice is to go and see it. I simply wouldnt want to spoil it by telling you anymore. "},{"Title":"A Tragedy of modern working and not-working class Scots","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Only English Language Film I've ever seen that required English subtitles. Modern realism at its best. Not a scene, comment, or subplot out of place. Powerful acting and action. A story of people without choices in life that reaches a terrible climax, exploring without pity or sentimentality the dilemmas of taking moral action. Funny to boot! "},{"Title":"My Name Is Joe's core is unbearably moving and tender.","Date":"15 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Did I give a monkeys&#133;Did I f*ck&#133;I did not give a toss. Joe (Peter Mullan) exclaims to his AA meeting.Loach, along with Mike Leigh and Alan Bennett, is Britain's finest social commentator, and here he is at his uncompromising best. Searing, emotional, gritty, of course, and this time marvellously romantic and cohesive too.Set in a Glasgow landscape not a million miles away from the most deprived areas of Eastern Europe, unemployed Joe (Mullan, who deservedly won the best actor prize at Cannes) is a recovering alcoholic who spends his evenings at AA meetings and his afternoons coaching football with his mates Liam (David McKay) and Shanks (Gary Lewis). The football team shenanigans provide the film with its premium comic momentsI've been Franz Beckenbauer for f***ing years by the way, exclaims Joe's bald forward. If you're Franz Beckenbauer, I'm the tooth fairy, counters the referee.A group of men acting like boys, swearing over each other, playing hopeless football and resorting to stealing a new Brazilian kit - their scenes are very reminiscent of Loach's Raining Stones.The main storyline concerns Joe's love of Sarah (Louise Goodall), and their entanglement with Liam and his heroin-addicted wife. Full of vitality but long unattached, Joe is drawn to Sarah a health worker for social services, but hesitates to ask her out Here I am just getting my act together, off the juice, the first peace of mind in years, bloody hell, what happens&#133;ambushed by a woman!, he exclaims.My Name Is Joe's core is unbearably moving and tender. The bonding between Joe and Sarah is mature, witty, realistic and far better than anything Hollywood has produced in over thirty years. Two superb leading performances.However, the sweetness soon gets kicked aside by a series of seemingly unstoppable and depressing events, which Joe finds himself bound to. As he pleads to Sarah, I didn't have a F***ING choice. Loach is saying that none of these people have a choice in this Dickensian landscape bereft of jobs.My Name is Joe is about dependence, redemption, shame, poverty, disgust, violence and ultimately, loneliness. It doesn't possess the glamorous tint of Small Faces or Trainspotting, but it does have the best performance this year. From Peter Mullan. Fabulous.Ben Walsh  "},{"Title":"Everything that art should be","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Powerful, honest, emotional, funny, important. This film is everything that a work of art should be.  As a major Loach fan, I am always biased in his favour, but this film is a return to the form of Riff Raff and Lady Bird lady bird, with echoes of KES in the football scenes ... The central performance by Peter Mullen is  truly wonderful.  His generosity as an actor also means that the other actors are able to hold their own next to him. While watching this film, at no time was I aware of the editing, camerawork, acting, etc and for this kind of film, what higher accolade? Do not miss this film. "}{"Title":"A depressing but engaging look at the struggles of love, poverty and addiction","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Joe is an alcoholic, manager of the worst amateur football team in Glasgow and generally a good man getting through life one day at a time. When he gets involved in a dispute with health worker Sarah over one of his team (Liam) it serves as an introduction to one another. A first date bowling proves a fun night one and tentatively they start a relationship together. However while they try to form their own perfect little place with their feelings being more important than anything else, the harsh realities of life start to pressure them as Liam gets in deeper and deeper trouble with a local drug dealer over his wife's debts.Ken Loach is not really a man to come to if you are looking for an easy romantic comedy. Although My Name is Joe has tender moments and some quite sensual scenes, it is very much set in the world of the losers, the people we call scum, the people we never see. In that regard it is a typical mix of the good and bad of the human spirit crossed with the rough humour and pitfalls of being near or on the poverty line. They are not themes that we haven't seen before but as usual, Loach does it really well &#150; drawing us in so that even a world we have no knowledge of is convincing and real. The story may not be an everyday tale of the daily grind but it is engaging and real all the same. Loach's direction helps this as he delivers every scene with a natural air and he draws out good performances from his cast.Mullan rightly hogs the limelight with a performance that is charming without losing sight of the pit that his character is barely out of. He is natural and he drives the film forward from the heart. Goodall works well alongside him. She is as wary as one would expect of her character but yet she has a good yet cautious chemistry with Mullan. McKay has a simpler character but he carries it off really well and just about keeps him sympathetic. The rest of the cast are very much secondary but there are also good performances from Kennedy, Lewis and others.Overall this is not a fun night in but then you already knew that. What it does do is to paint a poignant story of love on the bread line, of the struggles of poverty and addiction and it does it all in a way that is natural and engaging. Bleak and uplifting at the same time and a fine example of what it is that Ken Loach does well. "},{"Title":"If you're looking for escapism, give this one a miss.","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As with other Ken Loach films, My Name is Joe gives a grim view of life for the disadvantaged.It also makes for difficult viewing.   This is partly because of the dialogue.   If, like me, you didn't grow up in working class Glasgow, you might feel the need for sub titles at times.   To be fair, I did follow the plot but only by paying careful attention at all times.The second reason for difficulty is the plot itself.   Life is just grim for the main characters.   Some, like Liam and Sabine really have no way out of poverty and worse.   Joe starts out as a more hopeful character - he seems to be successfully winning the battle against alcoholism and, as manager of a local football team, he is a respected member of the community.   And look out for his clothes, which really are remarkably up market compared with pretty well everyone else in the film.But once he tries for the good life by getting into a relationship with a middle class professional, things start to fall apart as his loyalties pull him in opposite directions.So it's not an easy film - but then there are no free lunches! "},{"Title":"Realistic.","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A very realistic story about a 38 year old man, let 's say my age. He had problems with alcohol but is doing his best to improve his live. He has the energy of a young man and also is admired by a young social worker. The feelings of love are profound and touching. But the problems, now I 'm talking about the external problems he suffers by trying to help a young couple, are very eminent and realistic too.I recomment this movie in the strongest way, altough I have to say that I never heard so many bad language in a movie. o) "},{"Title":"glasgow tourist board advert - not","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not surprisingly, in the long list of people and institutions that funded this wee gem of a film the Glasgow tourist board were not listed.  The film does perhaps reinforce a weary stereotype about the city of my birth, that it is all thugs, drugs and pubs but it re-visits the story with a vigour for honesty that I find missing in so many other attempts.  The honesty comes in the dialogue, the settings, the characters and perhaps most importantly in being able to show that Joe  - and everyone else for that matter - is not a good guy or a bad guy but is a painful mixture of both.I think the film was ostensibly set in the east end of glasgow, an area that I lived in for a short while a few years back and this film really brought the sights, sounds and the feelings that I remember about my time there sharply back to me.  Please do give it your time and don't be put off by the (mostly accurate) subtitles! "},{"Title":"Deeply moving, funny and hard edged.","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I gave this film eight out of ten after seeing it but my estimation may have risen since then. This film is well scripted, completely believable and you can empathise with all of the characters (something which in my opinion is the test of a film). The story moves from the tender to the comic to the bleak and gritty and holds the viewer throughout. I am looking forward to seeing more of Ken Loach's work. "},{"Title":"Very credible performances , realistic story matter","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Peter Mullen and Louise Goodall give excellent performances in this gritty lifelike social drama. S**t Happens and it needs addressing . Joe's life is in control until he is drawn into an impossible situation by a family member.Doing the right thing involves doing the wrong things and this threatens his relationship , his sobriety and ultimately his life .The tension towards the end of the movie was really uncomfortable, the behavior of the characters totally believable.The ending was touching without being over-sentimental , it rounds of perfectly . My only frustration is of wanting to know more of Sarah's past and how this weighs heavy on her relationship with Joe . Another cracking film from Ken Loach  "},{"Title":"Very Well Done!","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched this film a couple months ago and i was utterly surprised. Peter Mullan and David McKay do an excellent job. I am sick and tired of watching the same dull plot over and over again. Ken Loach does an excellent job at taking a look at the darker side of life, the part we call Reality. I highly recommend this movie for anyone that enjoys watching gripping social dramas. "},{"Title":"I'd like Joe as my neighbor","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is very much worth seeing. The film lets you feel the real difficulties in life.Joe is the light in this film. He represents a last bit of hope. Peter Mullan is very good in this role and never gets too unrealistic like it happens so often in Hollywood movies. I'd really like a guy like him as my neighbor!The only critic I have is regarding the story not being so very new and interesting. This fact keeps the film from being a really great movie. "},{"Title":"Film of 1998?","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a great movie. I went to it with some reservations (I don't like ethnic movies) but MNIJ is a great movie in its own right. The lead actor (Joe Kavanagh) is absolutely *outstanding* as are all of the main characters but Joe is something else. It's a truly great movie. I'd give it 9/10. That's two great movies in a week - Antz (8/10) and MNIJ. I'm on a roll! "},{"Title":"Ken Loach back at his best!","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a funny, sad, moving and terrific film. Ken's attention to detail, location and his non-judgemental view of the main characters make this one of his best films. Brilliant acting throughout, we are left with an all too clear view of the ugliness of capitalism and the people it leaves behind i.e. a heroin addicted couple on a Glasgow council estate. I think Ken makes better films when he concentrates on contemporary Britain rather than the Spanish civil war or the Sandinistas. "}{"Title":"V. Good, but haven't we seen this before","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  `My Name is Joe' is in so many ways, a very good film. With a sharp script which skilfully uses humour to counterpoint tragedy, some superb performances particularly from Peter Mullan in the lead role, and the excellent direction of Ken Loach, it could never be anything else. And especially at a time when Britain is feeling relatively prosperous and self-confident, it is necessary to be forcibly reminded that the ability to make choices about one's own life is a luxury largely denied to the under-class in society.However, I can't help feeling that there is very little here that is new. While undeniably moving and engrossing, within the genre of British gritty urban realism `My Name is Joe' is almost as formulaic as Lethal Weapon within the genre of Hollywood action movies. For this to be a truly excellent film as opposed to just a very good one I would have wanted to see something slightly different from Loach.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing ending","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Grim realism, well up to Ken Loach's usual high standard, but such a disappointing ending, straining all credibility. "},{"Title":"An uplifting and depressing story set in a harsh reality","Date":"10 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  My name is Joe may seem to the uninitiated to be a bleak tale of life on the dole in Glasgow. But its about love, loyalty, friendship, hardship, failing and getting by. A bitter sweet love story with real people given difficult problems to cope with. It proves that real life can be interesting and exciting without car chases, cops on the edge, and  millions of pounds in the balance. I want to thank Ken Loach for a fautless evening's entertainment. "},{"Title":" a really great movie","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  My name is Joe is a real great film.  Peter Mullan is especially good.  And I think that Ken Loach is a talented director who is very sentive.  He chose some excellent actors who give to the movie an real aspect, which makes people believe the story. So you must see this film, and I think that he will make you feel something strong. "},{"Title":"An excellent no frills, no nonsense human drama.","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  With dogme-esque style, My Name is Joe takes the audience to Scotland and into a pivotal slice of life of one alcoholic Scot...a man named Joe who, nearing midlife, finds himself still struggling for some semblance of success and happiness. Earnest, honest, and realistic apply to both film and character in this look at the seamier side of Scottish life. An excellent watch for those who enjoy realistic Euro-flicks. "},{"Title":"Funny, gripping, moving, and...very,very British!!!","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie could have been awful with the wrong director. But the story, not particularly very original, is in good hands here Ken Loach made it into a very funny, gripping and moving film. Peter Mulan plays Joe with so much charm, that it is a character you won't forget so easy. This is stuff, that only the English can turn into a realistic film. Not overblown Hollywood sentiment, but modest and subtle. 8 (out of 10)!!! "},{"Title":"Not your average Joe","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Director Ken Loach has made a career out of films about the Scottish lower class. `Joe' is no different.  I would like to see Loach make a space film next, his subjects are getting a bit gray on the sides. Of course, that's not suggesting `Joe' is a bad film.  On the contrary, this picture is a very engrossing yarn about an aging Scotsman who must deal with a new love, a losing soccer team that he coaches, and the local mobsters that threaten one of his players.  All the time he tries to stave off the impulse to revisit alcoholic tendencies.  The cast is amazing, with Loach wisely allowing for subtitles due to the thickness of the brogues.  Lead Peter Mullan is uniquely gifted, delivering a honest and fresh take on a role that has become kind of a cliché with foreign films.  Loach directs with a perfect amount of bluntness, so he can be forgiven for the unfortunate gangster element. It dampens the impact of the film, which up to that point was making quite a realistic impression.  The ending is too tragic to be believed, and I question Loach's impulses to why we needed it. I came out of `Joe' with a delicate respect for the film. I enjoyed it, but at home, under my blanket, I wished it could have been more real.--------- 7  "},{"Title":"A sublime performance unbuttressed","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The British social realist director Ken Loach had a vivid idea here tracing the social and economic roots of addiction, rather than addressing it as a solely personal, dysfunctional problem. When Loach is on target, he views political currents through the lens of personal stories, and vice versa--there's a sort of floating balance between the two. And in this movie he has a great performance from Peter Cullen as Joe, the recovering-alcoholic soccer coach on the dole who risks love and happiness to save the hide of a kid in over his head. The scenes between Joe and a harried social worker he opens up to and falls in love with are observant, drily touching, loose-leafed. But when the movie tries to pull Joe back toward the bottle through a tangle of melodramatic contrivances, the charm of those initial scenes wears off, and what you notice is the pedestrianness of Loach's shooting style. (Not to mention the whinnying, Olive Oylish conception of the social worker--who is first seen in a series of meant-to-be-cute scenes dropping rolls of wallpaper out of the hatchback of her car.)   "},{"Title":"Not one of Ken Loach's finest moments","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ken Loach seems to be ploughing the same trough again and again. My Name Is Joe is a well-made, occasionally funny and sometimes moving film, but it does nothing that his other films don't do better. A recovering alcoholic tries to help out junkies on a Scottish housing scheme ok, it's not trying to be as glamorous as Trainspotting, but if you compare it with the fantastic TV series Looking After Jo Jo, it is saying nothing new. Ultimately, TV is where this piece belongs I would advise people to wait for the small screen showing rather than shelling out to see it at the cinema. "},{"Title":"Outstanding character portrayal in a gripping film.","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ken Loach takes the usual Scottish ingredients of drink, drugs, violence and football, and mixes them to produce something wonderful. Brilliant acting from all lead players generates a drama of depth and complexity, where people get themselves into situations of dependency, on drugs or people, with no easy way out. Light touches of comedy accentuate the tension and the tragedy. A very adult story, it still makes for a very watchable movie - my 15 year old daughter loved it!  "}{"Title":"Gets lost in the myriad of British social films","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must unwillingly give a thumbs down to this film. It isn't actually a delusion per se; It actually might be what people expect these days from a British director, but Loach can and must do better (and, in the past, has done), while this could be a nice opera prima for a debutante. For those wishing to have access to a real Loach's good film, I would advice to take Riff-raff back from the shelf. It might be ten years old but it's still ten times better either.  "},{"Title":"Heavy Misery in Scotland","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A bunch of unemployed, drug-addicted, alcoholic, incomprehensible (unless you're a Scot)  Scots try to keep their heads above water by grasping at any straw.  All the misery but little of the humor of Trainspotting.    One funny line.  Visiting nurse to heroin addicted, street prostitute mom about baby son, Have his testicles descended?   Answer  What?   Repeat of the question  Arrrrrrr  'is wee balls hangin'  down alright?  Oh.  Yeah.Male lead is a fine figure of a man.  Female lead is not beautiful. He lies. She leaves.  Another guy hangs himself.  Misery misery misery.  Fairly standard male friendship in adversity, guy-solidarity stuff generates some brief warmth before total darkness descends forever. "},{"Title":"More working-class rubbish from Ken Loach.","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" My name is Joe. I am short, not so young anymore, and possibly not too attractive. Did I mention unemployed and an AA member? That, too. However, even I deserve a better bint than the one the director gave me; you know, Ken Cockroach, the commie left-wing radical anarchist anti-capitalist. You've heard of him, haven't you? He made all those bad anti-Thatcher movies about the poor, oppressed working-class that live in very grey, awful industrial environments in which even rats think twice before settling in. He also made some rather pro-IRA films. As all commies, he loves terrorists and psychopaths and treats them as victims in his films. Well, this Ken gave me an ugly, anorexic, flat-chested sad old cow as a partner and I am even supposed to be more in love with her than she is with me! How unfair. Me and everyone else in this movie talk in ultra-thick Scottish accents so that we had to release this movie in the U.S. with subtitles. Shite to that. I would never have watched this movie had I paid attention to who directed it, although given even the first ten minutes I should have guessed. I strictly boycott Loach's movies, much the same as with Branagh's and Spike Lee's pieces of filmic garbage. But, half-way through the movie I started thinking who the hell makes these kind of working-class-in-gloomy-environments films and since I could rule out Mike Leigh who does this sort of thing very well - and with a good dose of humour - I checked the movie catalogue, and sure enough it was the Cockroach, Ken Loach. My God, I thought, I might as well now finish the film; I didn't sit through half the movie to abandon it. Anyway... Roach's style is very forced oh it's gotta look and sound so real and streetwise and the actors must act casually as if improvising rather than learning lines. Cockroach can't do this well Leigh is vastly superior in this, and his characters and dialogues far better. Hardly any of the characters one can either care for nor identify with. So what if Joe's nephew the dope addict gets threatened and then hangs himself? Low-life junkies like his wife who cares about this woman, or even their probably semi-moronic child? Who gives a toss about a woman who gets annoyed when Joe buys her a ring - and not even a wedding ring, mind you - for absolutely no reason at all? Plus, it's all rather predictable.For an even more unpopular IMDb comment, check out my Pride & Prejudice review (0 out of 783). "},{"Title":"I was cast as an American Tourist for this film.","Date":"21 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I was living and working in Scotland when I was asked by the American Women's Club (of all people) to be in a movie by Ken Loach. I had no direct connection to this club. My wife (who also had no connection) had been approached by members. Ken Loach was looking for Americans as if we were some specially dressed and outrageous lot. I was wearing a green L.L.Bean fleece (as I always did in Scotland because of the weather) in the scene filmed at Rest-and-be-Thankful. Peter Mullin, who played Joe in the film was at the tea wagon. I was down below with my wife, another American, near the Mini selling Scottish stuff. The one scene took all day to shoot. I was paid 60 quid. Saw the film in Paisley with next door neighbors who were Scottish. They thought it was very depressing. So did I. Glasgow has its problems. It is still considered the most horrible place in Scotland. As far as drug culture and drug related crime goes, Edinburgh is probably worse! Glasgow will always get the bad rap compared to the Capitol. That is because Edinburgh wants to get the biggest cut of American tourist dollars. Glaswegians joke about whether they require a passport to visit Edinburgh. They also say Ah... Edinburgh... the music... the humor... the castle... well, one out of three isn't bad! So Americans, continue to visit Edinburgh only. Warnings to hold onto your wallet. It is thick with thieves, as are the bad parts of Glasgow. As for this movie, and most of Ken Loach's movies, he always tries to make a case against the status quo and blames the British society as a whole. Margaret Thatcher, in Ken Loach's eyes, is the devil for every misfortune that befell British society for the past 25 years or so. Good movie but take it with a grain of salt. Ken Loach and his propaganda, is Britain's equivalent to America's Noam Chomsky. "}]