[{"Title":"Feel Good Movie","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"47 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I LOVED this movie. Not as great as 50 First Dates, but it's definitely a repeater, especially on a rainy day or with a group of girlfriends. Yes, the plot was cute and maybe even unbelievable, but what's so bad about a feel good movie. Drew as Josie and her romance with the teacher is so sweet and brother baseball wannabee adds to the movie's good feeling. With all the junk out there, what's so bad about a good movie the whole family can enjoy? Without being embarrassed while watching with your kids! Drew is an awesome actress that really seems to be unappreciated for the most part. This is definitely one of her best roles! "},{"Title":"You Go Drew!!!","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"44 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think this movie more than any other shows what a great actress Drew Barrymore is because she plays a ugly duckling in high school which is something I never imagined her being. A great flick with lots of laughs . I don't usually go for those feel good movies but I really enjoyed this one.  "},{"Title":"Love this film!","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"42 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a truly hilarious film and one that I have seen many times. Drew Barrymore is brilliant as Josie Geller, as is David Arquette as her brother. You cringe with embarrassment at the thought of her returning to high school as the film is a reminder of what high school was really like! Her outfits are wacky and weird, and it brings back memories of those who dressed a bit differently! The gorgeous Michael Vartan was adorable as the teacher (wish there had been teachers like that when I was at high school!) and Josie's boss is fantastic. This is a film you could watch again and again, with a fabulous sound track! One for all those at school in the 90's to watch! "},{"Title":"Can so so relate","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"53 out of 83 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Very sadly, I can relate to this movie, as I'm 17, and have yet to be kissed, so I really feel for Josie. It's been a while since seeing this film, but to write this review I re-watched it, and remembered everything I loved about it.Drew Barrymore is a great actress, and this role suited her really well at the time. The chemistry between Sam and Josie was really good, and Michael Vartan was an excellent actor in this.I loved the storyline too - as i said up there, I could relate, and it's rare you find a film you can completely relate to.All over - I loved it. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A sweet charmer","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"21 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie quite a bit.  It was charming, funny, and, at times painful.  I, however think it was painful to watch because I had such a hard time at high school, and I could relate to this movie.It reminded me of Mean Girls a lot, although this had a softer edge to it.It was a bit predictable, but, sometimes a good, sweet, romance with a happy ending is what you want in a movie.The acting was good, and the story was believable-if a bit far-fetched.The sound track was awesome!   "},{"Title":"Under-rated Barrymore Love Story","Date":"11 April 2007","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I can't say that I embrace this as a Romantic Comedy, as I found little funny about it. I did find it endearing, entertaining, heartwarming, and terminally sweet, and while there were some witty moments, I found them more bittersweet than outright comedic.I liked this one. Barrymore has grown so much as an actress, and it's always wonderful to catch her on the big screen, but this translates well to the small screen, too. In fact, on subsequent viewings, I like this one more and more.If you're a fan of the Romantic Comedy, then you may be a bit put off by lack of comedic effect with this one, but if you're in it for the romance, it's definitely here to be found.It rates a 7.8/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Thank God For Skin Tight Body Suits!!","Date":"29 January 2010","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I really tried hard to like this film. After all it has the adorable Drew Barrymore, and the mesmerizingly beautiful Leelee Sobieski in it. It had promise in some scenes, but all in all it's a very lack-luster film that feels way too forced. It is chalk full of the usual overdone Hollywood stereotypes and standard formula, and there just isn't enough good laughs to make up for it. I must say that Leelee Sobieski who plays the schools 'biggest nerd', is by far the hottest nerd I've ever seen, in real life or in Hollywood film. I'd even join the math club to get next to her. I only gave this film a 5 because it was worth a watch based only on seeing Jessica Alba covered in dog food, and mostly for seeing Miss.Sobieski in a one piece skin tight body suit. Leelee's body in that skin tight suit was by far, the greatest highlight in this overly stupid and rarely funny force fed wreck.5/10 "},{"Title":"Can't hate anything with Drew Barrymore and Jessica Alba in the cast list...","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The nice thing about Drew Barrymore - or, to paraphrase the late Douglas Adams, ONE of the nice things for there are several - is that she's willing to try almost anything from Guncrazy to Ever After (although I suspect she would draw the line at Bad Girls 2). In this appealing though predictable teen flick, she's an eager writer for a newspaper given a chance to prove she can do more by going undercover to see what today's teens are up to in high school, and finds that nothing's really changed.Drew is as engaging as ever whether appearing in class way too overdressed or dancing on stage while on drugs (relax, the film's overall pretty inoffensive), and it may have been prophetic that her joke about having been named Josie after the leader of a cartoon rock band goes over the head of her best friend at school (the film version of Josie and the Pussycats was a box office flop in America). The movie isn't exactly surprising, and won't appeal to anyone who insists on teen films having acid in their veins - but then again, the edgier Jawbreaker wasn't just bad-spirited, it was BAD, period. Call me soppy, but I like a happy ending, and this does have one (even The Prettiest Girls In School don't turn out to be that horrid in the end).If only the Seekers' Free To Be You And Me (which Drew and her friends sing along to in a car in one scene) and some of David Newman's sweet score had been on the soundtrack album, but that's not a problem exclusive to this film; what with this and Charlie's Angels (not to mention Olive, the Other Reindeer) Barrymore's record as a producer is a lot better than, say, Michelle Pfeiffer's. And as I said in the summary, you get Drew Barrymore and Jessica Alba in the same movie (this is a Twentieth Century Fox movie in more ways than one). "},{"Title":"A newspaper copy editor becomes prom queen.","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"18 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a very predictable little story; but the finale is the most romantic I've seen in a while. A 25 year old copy editor for a Chicago paper gets her first assignment as an undercover reporter. She ethically blows her own cover, ruining her story; but turns in an alternate story about her real experiences in high school.I did not go out of my way to see this; but since I love Drew Barrymore, I couldn't totally pass it up. Without Barrymore this would not make the grade. Silly plot, but interesting sub-plots. The finale brings about a big happy sigh.The other cast members include David Arquette, LeeLee Sobieski, Molly Shannon, Michael Vartan and Garry Marshall.  "},{"Title":"High School Do Over","Date":"12 August 2008","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Never Been Kissed gives Drew Barrymore the chance to do something that maybe 70% of us would like to do. Go back to high school and make some necessary corrections. Actually the first time for me was bad enough and at my age I doubt I could pull it off the way Drew does.Of course the reason could also be that once we leave high school it's like leaving a cocoon and we have to deal with the great big unfriendly world out there. I've known a few in my life who would go back and stay if they could. In fact there is a Law and Order episode which explores the dark side of this same situation. A girl looking young enough to pull it off, goes through high school at least three times and kills the person who stumbles on her secret.With Drew though it's an assignment. She's a copy editor for the Chicago Sun Times who yearns to be a reporter. Publisher Garry Marshall who plays the part like Donald Trump took over the Sun Times gets this brilliant idea and just sees in Barrymore a young enough looking person to pull off the masquerade. High School the first time was bad enough. Drew was not the most popular then and she's not doing better the second time around. That is until brother David Arquette also goes back to school and helps her over the rough patches.Of course this raises a whole lot of issues for Drew, peer pressure from two sources, job and school. What's a girl to do?Never Been Kissed is a light and charming comedy which to its credit skips over the opportunity to be crassly exploitive and gives us some good entertainment. Drew is very funny and sweet and her performance in moments of stress for her character moves nicely into pathos. Michael Vartan as her English teacher is the kind I wish there were more of in the education field and Leelee Sobieski and Jessica Alba play a pair of the empty headed cool kids that Drew tries so desperately to hook up with.Still it doesn't inspire me to return to Midwood High School. "}{"Title":"never get tired of this","Date":"21 April 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this when it first came out and have seen it several times since. I have the DVD. It's one of Drew Barrymore's best works and one that is worth seeing more than once. Not being popular in high school was one f the things in the film I could relate to. I wasn't quite as tortured as Josie was (during her real high school days) or like Aldys, but I was never the go- to-the-major-party type either. The prom scene were the three popular girls fall victim to their own prank as Josie pushes way Aldys (the intended victim) is my favorite scene and I clapped when I first saw it. I can still watch this movie today. it is excellent. "},{"Title":"A poor comedy, but a cute Barrymore romance","Date":"24 August 2010","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Josie has never been kissed, she was just an unpopular, ridiculed nerd in high school. But now Josie is 25, working for a newspaper when she gets a chance to go undercover and report on the high school scene. Drew Barrymore stars as Josie, and as usual, she is very cute and charming.This movie is a comedy, but unfortunately, it's not very funny. They tried to show a clash with the differences between 80s and 90s teenagers, but they did it with very little thought. As a consequence, very little humour came through, mostly coming across as forced and superficial. They did a better job with the losers vs. popular clash, but that has been way over done in many movies.Despite their poor attempts at comedy, the movie is saved by Barrymore's heart and the sweet romance. Michael Vartan plays Sam, a high school teacher, who sees all of Josie's potential. Some of which she has already reached, and for the rest, well, you'll just have to watch Never Been Kissed. "},{"Title":"to go back to high school knowing now what one didn't know then...","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Never been kissed starring Drew Barymore as Reporter Josie Gellar is a sweet, extremely sappy and sometimes quite painful tale of a timid woman named Josie Gellar who though brilliant is quiet and shy and has never been kissed by a man. She is assigned her first major news story for the newspaper she works for-to go undercover as a high school student befriend the popular cool kids and get a scoop as to what really goes on in the world of high school. Only problem is Josie has never been popular. High School was in fact, a traumatizing experience for her as she was the recipient of quite a lot of teasing and cruel jokes. Josie grabs this assignment, as much to finally fit in as to get a scoop-what she finds is the major premise of the story.Never been kissed is one of those movies that's so sappy and schmaltzy at times, particularly in a few scenes at the end that the limits of believability are sorely tested and many a cynic may not like this movie. It is however, very sweetly done. Drew Barymore is perfect as the bumbling yet lovely Josie-she breathes a breath of fresh air into the character and makes her appear perfectly realistic. I also enjoyed Leelee Sobiesky as the intellectual student who befriends Josie on her first day at the school.Never been kissed has some really funny moments as Josie unravels in her frantic efforts to be cool. Example-the reggae bar scene.I also loved the appearance of Josie's brother Rob who also goes back and signs up as a high school student, the way that he helps to give Josie her dream of finally fitting in is just hilarious. At the same time, as Josie's woeful story of her original years in high school are shown in flashback it is extremely painful. You do not need to have had similar experiences in high school to Josie to be affected by her story-Drew is wonderful at making her character have a personal connection with the audience and we adore Josie from the beginning.there is a lot of mean girls a 2004 release, in this movie but mean girls honestly was a lot grittier. Never been kissed becomes very much a romantic pic as Josie develops feelings for a certain man and the question becomes will they get together.I liked this movie. It was really beautifully done in some areas. The movie is corny in some places yes, the last scene-realistic-no way-does this movie manipulate your emotions in the most obvious Hollywood way? Oh yeah yeah yeah baby! But it manipulates beautifully, there are some lessons to be learned here. The movie never preaches but manages to paint an accurate picture of what high school was like for a select few. I have actually met people who have had similar experiences to Josie-I've met people very much like all these characters-I think a lot of people simply don't know or can't conceive of the cruelty that can exist in the world of high school, and how hurtful it can be, but it's there. Not unrealistic at all. What struck me was Drew's speech at the prom, as she demonstrates the sheep mentality that can exist so prevalently -as Hollywood and manufactured as many think that may be, it was well done and very true. I'm making never been kissed sound a lot heavier then it is, in truth this is a perfect movie to pick when one wants a sweet feel good light heartwarming picture. It's engaging, sweetly acted and just Rufus. I'd say check it out. 8 of 10. "},{"Title":"Fluffy, Funny, Feel-good","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  *POSSIBLE SPOILER*I have to admit that I am extremely biased when it comes to this film. I happen to think that Micheal Vartan is an extremely talented (okay, extremely sexy) actor, and his portrayal of Mr.Coulson is filled with sensitivity, empathy and understanding. By no means could this possibly fulfil anyone's notion of an excellent film. The plot is thin, the script cliched, and the acting (at times) stretched. However, forgetting all of the above, it is an extremely witty, poignant, easily relatable, confidence-boosting, feel-good film.Drew Barrymore and Micheal Vartan share an incredible on-screen chemistry and their kiss at the end is one of the cutest.  "},{"Title":"Everybody wants to be accepted...","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love this movie so much. It always makes me cry. If you appreciate Drew Barrymore half as much as I do, you'll love this movie. It's got all the essentials I look for in a movie. It has good actors, good characters, good humor...a lot of heart-warming moments too. The flash-back moments when we see Josie in high school make me cry though. Every single time. I'm sure you'll like this one, don't judge based on the fact that it looks like a teen movie, even though it is, in a way, a teen movie. Sure, if you're a guy, and all you watch are hardcore special effect movies only in the top 250 movies of all time, then this isn't for you. But if you like romantic comedies you will not forget after seeing it, pick it up at a video store and enjoy Drew Barrymore is great in this one! "},{"Title":"Second half was better","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought my one-line summary was going to be 'this was a very bad idea', a line spoken by Drew Barrymore's character.  At that point in the movie, there were no likeable characters to speak of, except maybe Drew's brother. But Drew's character grew on me.  And her brother played a bigger role in the movie's second half.  Overall, things started getting better as time went on.  And the best acting performance, to me, was that of the actress playing a nerdy kid who became Drew's friend.  I was pleasantly surprised to find the name Leelee Sobieski in the credits.  She has impressed me before, without my knowing who she was, and she did it again.  By the end of the movie, I was feeling pretty good.  It didn't have to be quite so dirty, though.       "},{"Title":"Really good movie","Date":"7 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Josie is a reporter from a newspaper is set a task to go back to high school as she is going to be 17 again. .As she is there, she remembers some really awful stuff thats happened to her the first time she was in Highschool as we see in flashback scenes.In the flashback they show that (little spoiler) Josie was kind of a nerd in high school and was picked on a lot and one day the cool guy tells her that he is taking her to the prom, only on the prom night as she leaves her house she gets egged by the ass hole and his bitch. what a horrible thing to do (some will find this hard to watch as it so nasty and it will make you feel warmer to Josie).I did not find this movie that funny but there was some really funny stuff in the office scenes a lot more funnier then anything that happened in the school.This movie did have the perfect happy ending, as it did bring tears to my mum and sister eyes. The acting in this movie was not outstanding, it was good for the most part of the movie, there is some poor acting in some parts of the movie.I going to give this movie 7 out 10. "},{"Title":"Very Good Movie","Date":"2 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought this movie was really awesome! One of Drew's best. I am also a fan of Michael Vartan so I thought he was so hot in this movie. Why all the bad reviews. I would want to watch this movie over and over again if I could. I also loved the ending. This movie clearly has shown a smile on my face! I was also surprised that James Franco and Jessica Alba were in it. I love them both so I also highlighted this movie. At the end, when Drew is making the huge comment about the truth it really told the truth of what sometimes happens in High School. Again, the movie was amazing. Defiantly a 10/10. Hope this comment was very useful to any IMDb readers. "},{"Title":"Good movie, but there is space for but","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie for a first time years ago, when it was still new and I was satisfied. It's a great Hollywood make-belief story for teenagers. However, it's not lifelike. As much as you would want to believe it, these stories never happen. That's why it is irritating to watch movies like that. They play with teenagers' minds, just imagine how many girls still in high schools believed in that magic and got disappointed. I wouldn't recommend this movie to my little sister or my cousin. The director should have spent some more time thinking about the plot instead of thinking about actors. Yes, they (actors) were good, but the idea isn't worth a 10. There are a lot of films about teenagers. So why don't we make a better one? "},{"Title":"I wish I'd watched it 4 years ago.","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not a fan of teen comedies but this was on ITV at the weekend so I thought I'd give it a go. I didn't know much about the film except that Drew Barrymore (I'm not a big fan) was in it and what genre it was classed in.*SPOILERS*About an hour into the film, I considered switching off because the plot was too outrageous and the characters so 2-D and typically American, but I watched it through and although the ending was a bit too over the top and predictable, I found Drew's speech about high school never changing hit the mark. It was true for me particularly as it is my last week at college - that's UK college, like high-school in the US - and I saw her stereotypes of school. It made me realise I wasn't gonna be in school any longer (sniff) and that school is probably the best time in life.Personal thoughts aside, this isn't as good as She's All That but fun to watch anyway. 6/10. "}{"Title":"Doesn't matter","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  it doesn't matter whether drew or leelee are total babes, but there are a lot of girls who are so pretty and hot but they appear to be so nerdy. This movie is not oscar type of movie but it has at least a good point of view of what life is like for young people or for real people.  It made us laugh and learn to accept others for who they really are. this movie represents the real world and that what really matters.    "},{"Title":"This movie is so Rufus!","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In today movies, is very hard to found good teens comedies, but famous Mean Girls (2004) proves that this genre is not death. And i think that films like Never Been Kissed (Althoug its 8 years of been realized) are another great teen comedy with successful characters that don't fall in an awful cliché, as its plot.Never Been Kissed told us the story of Josie Geller, a young reporter who has a big job to do. She has to return to High School to do an impressive report about life of its students. But she don't want do it ... she remember all the pain that she passed when she was in it. She remember that horrible prom night... but now she took a risk and return to school, where she going to learn not only about the typical life of high-school students ... she is going to learn about true friendship and true love. Starring by Drew Barrymore (Fantastic, maybe in one of her best as Josie Geller), Michael Vartan, David Arquette, Leelee Sobiesky, Molly Shannon, Jeremy Jordan and John C. Reilly, Never Been Kissed is a beautiful nostalgic romantic comedy, with amazing performances, cool music and a funny and entertaining story.Is good to found films like Never Been Kissed (Or its Spanish title Jamas Besada). A film for all ages. No matter if you pass that years, its time to remind them. And learn to appreciate them if you are in them. Highly recommended.*Sorry for the mistakes ... well, if there any. "},{"Title":"A feel bad movie....","Date":"22 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I had nothing to do before going out one night so I didn't want to watch anything too heavy, I picked the perfect film. This must have been a gift to Barrymore from someone she slept with, the director Raja Gosnell has made nothing but silly crap and the writing on this one is just atrocious. In what high school can you register without a parent present and no proof of age or former schooling? They let kids all come to the prom with no shirts, in skin tight leotards, ass shorts and one girl was dressed as Eve wearing only fig leaves? She announces that she's 25 and her brother is 23 but there is no reprisal from the school, parents or lawsuits of any kind against the newspaper for fraud or spying? The newspaper boss wants to catch the teacher in an underage sex scandal but doesn't realize the teacher is coming on to a 25 year old so any case would be entrapment? They allow a camera in and record peoples private conversations with under age kids? I wonder if I hired my younger sister to go back to HS with a camera on her and filmed under age girls for my personnel use I would not get in some kind of trouble??? NAHHHH No problem. Didn't she have to take gym or go to the bathroom at some point? The secondary characters in this were like cardboard cutouts of what high school students are thought to be and everybody was a stereotype. Jessica Alba is just embarrassingly bad in this mugging for the camera at every chance. In what world do the parents not get suspicious when their uber-geeky daughter is miraculously asked out by the school stud to the prom? And they don't ask the guy inside to meet him like every other parent in history. If some guy in my school or any other school for that matter had conned my sister and thrown eggs at her in her prom dress he would have been in a body cast for the rest of his life. This movie is so contrived and predictable it's nauseating, and why at the end is everybody (the Alpo girls included) cheering for this chick when two days before they hated her????DUMB, DUMB AND DUMB. "},{"Title":"Waste...","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Wonder how old most of the reviewers, here in, are? Read a few pages and most are raving... about? Whole thing was unbelievable, no plausibility whatever and a one dimensional caricature. What a waste of time, money and celluloid. So the nerds win... They win all the time where it really matters by being society's innovators. They just don't win by being empty prom queens. If one 9 to 15 or so, this might be an enjoyable afternoon. Though I'm not sure I'd want to put such trash into a young brain. But if you're reading reviews, you might think at least twice. Drew is Drew. She was extremely cute in ET & here she's still being cute and Drew - zip depth or growth. I'd expect some at 25 but she doesn't have to. With Spielberg as her godfather and the Barrymore name behind her she can be cute for ever. She'll always have work and money. It's her birth right. She's capitalizing on the name, her money & social position but not the acting. She can't act at least not in this film. So No acting from anyone one; absurd story line; a caricature of a film. You decide how to your precious time. "},{"Title":"Good film that's very funny, romantic, and touching","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" To me, NEVER BEEN KISSED is a good film that's very funny, romantic, and touching. I thought that Drew (Barrymore) and the entire cast did an outstanding job. Even though I've only seen a few of her films, I think she's a good actress. I felt sorry for Josie (Drew Barrymore) because she was tortured in high school. You poor thing. Each time that happened, I wanted to cry. This was because I could sort of relate to how she was tortured. Even so, this film made me laugh at times. Mainly, it made me feel good. To all you Drew Barrymore fans that have not seen this film, I highly recommend it. When you see it, prepare to have a good time and be touched. "},{"Title":"Been there, still recovering","Date":"19 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Like Drew's character, as she stated in the voice-over in her article at the end, I have never fully recovered from what happened to me back in high school. That was over a quarter-century ago! I'm 44, married and have a beautiful daughter with my best friend, my wife! I left the state I grew up in for the final time in 1999; to this date, never to return. Unfortunately, the bitches and bastards who tortured Drew; and later the same ones who nearly succeed in torturing Sobieski are all too commonplace in real life! In a sense, I should congratulate myself for the very fact that I'm alive! If my nemeses had succeeded in their goals, I would be long dead! They tried valiantly to drive me to suicide! Some of those same people went on to succeed to a reasonable degree in adult life. This may sound evil and un-Christian, but I found out that one of the girls who gave me the most grief in junior/senior high school is now a drug addict and has several mugshots available for view on line. Apparently, she has committed a lot of fraud offenses to get money for drugs. I smiled from ear to ear and jumped for joy when I realized the tables had turned! One guy is now a crooked public servant in a major Kentucky city and also an obsessive body builder. He's more than likely still a sadistic and evil horse's ass! Again, it may sound ugly and un-Christian, but I would jump for joy and dance in the street if I found out he somehow died -- violently, at that!Back to the movie I think the Barbie bitches and the hunks got off far too easy! I'd like to have seen Jessica Alba's boyfriend, the one with the dog food can in his hand, get his arm broken since his intent was to use it to humiliate poor Leelee!! Unfortunately, I'd still like to see that comeuppance be delivered to the real-life meanies (Barbies and hunks alike)! Just the image, real or imagined, of the nerd triumphing over the bully, and I mean standing tall over the crumpled figure of the bully, spirit broken beyond repair, still appeals to me! "},{"Title":"Never Been Kissed &#x97; High school drama and rejection observed from the outside","Date":"28 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Never Been Kissed plays on the angst of the teenage reject, the need to be cool, how it translate to adulthood, and how one can escape from it. High school is isolated from the real world, yet it has impact on your life beyond it. That's what's presented in this piece.The story has some interesting twists, and some nice take on some elements, but it doesn't bring anything new to the table. All the teens are played by mature adults, which kind of breaks the mold. That's the usual practice, however, in this case, it is pushed a bit too far. I guess it's to make Drew Barrymore's undercover character seems more believable.The whole movie is over done with clichés, and none so bad as Drew's persona. They even start her as a really unattractive person, which she's not.What makes the film any good is the fact that it's funny, and that you root for the main character who transform in a beautiful swan. Costume and makeup are responsible for the metamorphosis, all Barrymore had to do, was to tone down the awkwardness according to the scenario.It's entertaining, but don't expect too much beyond you're usual romance. The lie even rear its monstrous head. "},{"Title":"I like Drew Barrymore, I liked this movie...","Date":"1 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Never Been Kissed is not a perfect movie, but I wasn't expecting that. The story is predictable yet simple and the ending is hokey, but I still liked the film. Why did I? Firstly, Drew Barrymore. There may be people who don't like her, I do and I have since seeing her in Ever After(and that was a wonderful film). Here she does what she does best, which is cute and funny romance, the result is that we are treated to a fun and captivating performance. Secondly, David Arquette is a lot of fun as Barrymore's slightly odd older brother, and I also enjoyed Leelee Sobieski's minor turn here. Michael Vartan is charming in his own way as well. The script does have its humorous moments, the film does have a nice feel-good element to it, the direction is fine and the soundtrack is nice. Overall, an enjoyable movie, not a masterpiece, but just a nice bit of fluff. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Two Seconds of Music in a Song We All Have Heard Before Make This a Good Movie","Date":"21 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Spoilers I have read the negative reviews here on IMDb and many comment that the movie is terribly unrealistic. When I watch a movie, especially this type of movie (high school/romantic comedy), I don't usually want to see a documentary. If you like watching a feel good movie, there are a lot of reasons to watch this movie.The movie has a message of redemption, in that a woman, with a terrible teenage-hood/high school experience of having pranksters torture her, gets to relive high school and gets to set it straight.The movie sends a powerful overarching message, loudly and well stated by Drew Barrymore's character Josie. She tells off the prankster girls for trying to pull a prank at the prom on the pretty nerd, by saying some people will always try to put others down, but putting people down does not make them better. By telling them off, she set it straight and what she says is the truth, despite the unrealistic nature of this movie.But the main reason, I like to re-watch this movie over and over again is two seconds of music from a song I heard many times on the radio, but never seemed to hear the notes, I hear when it plays in the climax of this movie.During the movie's climactic scene Josie (Drew Barrymore) stands on the pitcher's mound prior to a big high school baseball championship game waiting for a man, who she accidentally hurt, to come give her, her first kiss. She hopes he will come within a five minute window, prior to the big game. She had previously written a newspaper article to make this a public event. Many people turn out to see it. They cheer for her. She puts five minutes on a clock and waits. The five minutes pass, the cheering turns to sad sounds, the crowd grows quiet, and then (if you watch this movie you should turn the volume up here and watch this scene for yourself and listen to the sounds you'll hear combined with the sights you'll see, at this point). Yeah it's predictable. So what? Most good movies are. The action of the scene and the background sounds are choreographed perfectly to the song. The last lines represent a fantastic summary of the movie and are said well.I rate the movie an eight because, it does drag at points, but I never get tired of watching that climactic scene.For those of you who really don't want to watch it, I'll add a big spoiler here (Don't read this if you intend to watch this movie)At the point just after the crowd goes sad and silent, the crowd suddenly begins to cheer again. The camera searches and we also see Josie searching through the stands but we see no one. The song Don't Worry Baby by the Beachboys begins. Then the camera finds the guy. It is the guy Josie wants to come to kiss her. He comes running out of the stands to the pitchers mound and at the second before the kiss, the familiar song suddenly has a string/violin section which makes a sudden build to a crischendo climax (I never heard this string crischendo before). At the same time, we are looking at the couple with the camera on his back and at Josie's face and Josie during the build up to the crishendo suddenly looks up at him with tremendous excitement in her eyes. Then he kisses her, and the crowd cheering noise hit a tremendous a crischendo with the crischendo of the the strings. After a long passionate kiss he comments Sorry about being late; it took forever getting here. She comments I know the feeling. They continue kissing for several more moments, as the crowd continues frantic cheering and the song plays out.It's definitely worth watching, and I don't care how predictable or unrealistic it is. "},{"Title":"Insults the genre","Date":"9 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love high school movies. For some reason I have always loved the genre and have been able to tolerate flaws and suspend my disbelief for the sake of the entertainment factor. Of course there must be witty, intriguing characters who I care about to see what happens to them. Even when I am certain I know what is going to happen I want to know how it is going to happen. Some charm the audience with unknown or barely known actors. Well, all that is lacking in this dud. Totally unlikable, uninteresting cast who lack any semblance of humor or charm. What is ironic is that it is packed with a big name cast (a poor one at that). It has a pretentious feel throughout as if it thinks it is way cooler than it is. This ain't Clueless or Legally Blonde. Not even close. "}{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"8 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Never Been Kissed is a great film. Not excellent, but it is enjoyable to watch and anyone who was an ugly duckling or basically just an outcast in high school can relate! (Like Me). Drew Barrymore plays Josie Gellar, the youngest copy editor at the Chicago Sun Times. To get a promotion she gets a chance to write an article about the lives of modern day high school students. But in order to do that she has to go undercover as a high school student. I thought this was an interesting plot and it worked well for this film. I loved all the characters and there never was a dull moment in this film for me. Sometimes Drew Barrymore can get on my nerves with some of her movie roles but I loved her in this film. She played geeky so well and I loved her transformation from geek to chic! And there were plenty of laughs in this film too. It was basically just a fun film to watch and a great way to pass the time. Never Been Kissed won't win any awards but it will certainly put a smile on your face. I love this film! Definitely one of my favorites. Thank you for reading my review! "},{"Title":"Much better than expected!","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I very strongly dislike teen movies.This one sounded like all the rest of them but it wasn't.Drew Barrymore plays Josie Gellar,a former high school geek that everybody couldn't wait to make fun of.She gets a chance to go back to high school, undercovered, for a story for the Chicago Sun Times.She finally fits in thanks to her brother(David Arquette) and she develops a crush on a teacher(Michael Vartan ~sigh~). This was not a laugh out loud funny movie.But it does posess a sweet quality to it that is nice.You know how it is going to end before you even watch the movie but the whole point is to see how they are finally going to get together in the end.Michael Vartan is the best part of the movie.I mean look at him! Reccomended...*** "},{"Title":"Not that bad","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  'm not a big Drew Barrymore fan but this movie was kind of good. I didn't rush to get it when it came out I thought it would be stupid but i finially pick up in 2001 and sat down and watch and it was not that bad. Drew Barrymore was very funny in here even through she acted stupid it was funny... This movie is good for a laugh. David Arguette was great in here it was differet from his scream role Dewey Riley. I never thought see him in this kind of role but he pulled it of. This movie is good  but it not great. I seen better but it not bad to pick it up one and while to get a luagh I give it a 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"great movie i know 'cause i've been there!","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen this movie along with my wife many a time. I've thought it was a fantastic one because of the small sense of triumph it brought. However, I find myself skipping scenes because they remind me oh so vividly and painfully of my own trials and personal hell I went through at that age. Yes, I was treated very cruelly and sadistically by the lowlifes who were popular back in the day. I'm still recovering from a lot of it, and I'm 33! I doubt if I will ever fully recover! I read a comment from another user, who said that if someone is tortured and belittled long enough and severely enough, that the targeted person comes to believe it and that self-esteem can ultimately be destroyed. Whenever I hear about a tortured kid finally having had enough and killing their tormentor(s), I have absolutely zero sympathy for the deceased bully/(ies). I truly believe they deserved what was coming to them. These kids have nobody to turn to. Lord knows they can't defend themselves, much less win. It also doesn't help that they have absolutely no emotional support from their parents. I would not be surprised if there were a real-life instance that imitated the prank where the Barbie girls and their boyfriends were about to soil Leelee Sobieski's character with pet food. Here's what would happen they would have succeeded in humiliating her. They get their jollies from making themselves feel good at the expense of someone else's dignity. Shortly thereafter, the popular oppressing kids are all either dead or crippled. The picked-on kid has had enough. I give kudos to the kid (or whoever fought back) and smile at the prospect of evil kids being killed so they can't hurt anybody else, ever again. They get what they deserve! I would have liked the movie a little better if there were more severe punishment for the characters played by Alba, Ladd, and Shelton. "},{"Title":"A great teen flick, rated by an extremely non-teen","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Even as a late 20-something, I love teen flicks, but would rate many of them below a 6. (That's a failing grade in my experience.) This one however, is the best mix of campiness, charm, stereotypes, and good characters. Who can criticize Drew in a geeky, loser, vulnerable role - So good to see her in (almost) each role she takes, but this one is especially endearing.  Great cast overall with many entertaining moments - many outclassing the teen flick genre, no matter what era. Solid 7 out of 10. If you like this one, try 10 Things I Hate About You and Drive Me Crazy, other semi-intelligent teen flicks. "},{"Title":"Oh, the oppression...","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ...Of upper, white, suburban life.  I'm tired of little cute, fairy-tale-like movies such as this one.  This would NEVER happen in real life...The plot if predictable and has been done only about...1 billion times. I just have no sympathy for the characters in this movie.  Drew Barrymore playing a nerd...yeah right!  She's gorgeous.  I mean...I'm not halfway as cute as she is and I find myself more popular than she was.  Then there's LeeLee...who's equally as gorgeous as Drew, if not more.  I hate the way movies now a days make it like smart people can NEVER be popular.Is this the way that suburban high schools are really like?  Thank God that mine isn't like this at all.  You can only be popular is you dress like a slut, wear tons of lip gloss, act like a ditz, and fail all of your classes.  Now I thought this was a pretty good movie...just too unrealistic and predictable.  I seriously was making bets when I was watching it with my friend and little sister in the movie theater.  Of course...they didn't want to disagree because they knew that it would happen too.  What's the message of this story?  Lie and cheat and then you'll be popular and get the guy. "},{"Title":"THIS MOVIE ROCKED MY WORLD","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Don't listen to any of those negative comments, Never Been Kissed is a sweet and hilariously funny little piece of cheese.  So it is not very believable and so it is quite predictable, but it is entertaining and that is what movies are made to do.  ENTERTAIN.   Drew Barrymore plays Josie to perfection, David Arquette steals the show as Rob, Leelee pulls off the whole geek thing and Jeremy Jordan is lust worthy as Guy.  My personal favourite was Michael Vartan though.  He is seriously babelicious, much better than those over rated actors such as Leo Dicaprio and Matt Damon. Go see this flick as it is seriously RUFUS! "},{"Title":"A so-so movie, nothing new here.","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Maybe it's just because I'm not a huge fan of Drew Barrymore's work, or perhaps it's just her character in this particular movie, but I find this movie pretty hard to like. Although, it does have some good stuff in it, mainly the beautiful women, David Arquette, and few other cool supporting characters, but other than that, there isn't really a whole lot going for this movie.The story is fairly interesting, but nothing terribly profound or intriguing, granted this obviously wasn't intended to be a profound or intriguing movie. All in all, it's just another run-of-the-mill love story, nothing you haven't seen a thousand times already.The actors were all pretty good for the most part. David Arquette was one of my favorite characters in the film, and he seemed to be the only one I was truly rooting for. I'm sorry but I didn't really care if Josie (Drew) ended up with Sam (Michael Vartan) in the end or not. Alyds (Leelee Sobieski) was my next favorite character, she did a great job with the role.  John C. Reilly also did a fine job with his role, although his character was nothing to get excited about. Marley Shelton, Jessica Alba, and Jordan Ladd played the perfect popular girls, and looked nothing less than fantastic throughout the film. The three of them are reason enough to sit through the film. Sean Whalen played a particularly interesting and funny character, although not a very important character (Josie's male secretary/assistant). Molly Shannon is just one of those actresses that doesn't sit right with me. I'm sorry, but I just don't find her funny...I think it's because she acts EXACTLY the same with all of her characters and her comedy just gets old after a while. Like I mentioned above, I'm not a huge fan of Drew Barrymore, but I can DEFINITELY say this is one my least favorites of her roles. Her character was pretty annoying throughout the film, and overly whiny. I'm not really one to complain about sappiness either, but her character was a little too sappy as well.In the end, I definitely wouldn't recommend going out of your way to see this film, but if you get a chance to see it for free, or just feel in the mood for another love story...then go ahead and check this one out. If you're a fan of Drew Barrymore, I guess go ahead and check this out, but don't get your hopes too high. In any case, if you do end up seeing the film, I hope you enjoy it. Thanks for reading,-Chris  "},{"Title":"Waste of time, waste of money!!!","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I heard so many great comments about how funny this movie was, I really wanted to see it - my first mistake.This movie dragged, showed no signs of intelligent life, and the acting talent was EXTREMELY LIMITED. The script was terrible and the only good acting in the entire movie was performed by David Arquette. He was hilarious, but there was no way he could carry the entire movie himself.If your only choices for Saturday night are going to see this movie or cleaning the refrigerator - clean the fridge!!!  It'll be more fun, and it won't be a total waste of time. "},{"Title":"You've GOT to be kidding!","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  OK, I have seen fluff before, but this REALLY takes the cake.  The story depicts a 25-year-old news reporter who must relive the horrors of her teen years as she is required to go undercover as a high school teen.  So, once again she must go through the insecurities of trying too hard to fit in.  Excuse me???  What 25-year-old is going to stress over whether she fits in with a crowd at least eight years younger than she?  To top it off, her brother, also an adult, decides to do the same.  While trying not to offer any spoilers, I will say that the storyline and ending is way too predictable.  My only reason for seeing this is because I am a fan of Drew Barrymore, but I feel it was a waste of both her talent and that of Leelee Sobieski to stick them in such a story.  I would suggest seeing this only if you are fans of any of the actors in this movie; otherwise, it is not worth your time. "}{"Title":"A feel bored movie","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I hated this film. The whole plot is so predictable. Hollywood - Come up with something new please? This film is about this 21 yr old reporter, who was a stereotypical type of nerd, braces, huge glasses - you get the picture. She wants to get promoted (?) and her assignment is, go undercover as a popular girl in high school. Guess what? She falls in love, breaks heart, everything goes wrong blah blah blah. I'm not going to ruin the surprise. But if you want to spend 1½ hours on something good, watch something else. This is probably the worst film Drew Barrymore has been in. If you want to watch a good chick flick, watch In her Shoes or something enjoyable and keeps you interested. "},{"Title":"Kiss this one good-bye","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is absolutely the worst teen movie I have ever seen, although that does not say much because I have not seen many since the nineties started, and I am a teen.  The new movies are really shallow.  However this movie is one of the most shallow and superficial teen romances EVER.  It is false, and it never makes any logical sense.  I should know, I go to high school.First Drew Barrymore plays a shy reporter who is walked upon.  She gets her first assignment to go to high school undercover and get a good story on teenagers.  She is excited until she remembers high school.  She was a geek, is a geek, and forever will be a geek according to the movie.  The only thing about this movie is to have the socially-adept, but mentally-handicapped kids accept you, you must have somebody just as moronic get you into the good crowd.Drew cannot play this role at all.  From the first couple of scenes I wanted to kill her.  I just wanted her to maybe have a reaction to the teasing, and commit suicide.  That is how annoying she is.  At the end of the movie, I laughed at her, because she deserved it.  I won't tell you the ending, but you will guess it about 1/3 to 1/2 through the movie.  The people I saw this with called it word for word.The school is so fake, I wish the writers had a memory lapse to excuse the falsity of this movie.  First they let the students wear sport bras to school.  At our school the girls cannot even show their belly-buttons.  At prom Dewey goes as Tom Cruise from Risky Business in his underwear, dress shirt, and socks costume.  There is also Adam and Eve.  The girls go as a form of Barbie.  There are metal detectors for one scene.  The school allows prom to overtake academic life.The students  According to this movie, you are either really smart or really cool.  You cannot be both, until Josie breaks that mold, and then it is reformed.  The smart people are losers who form their own clubs.  The cool people are extremely dumb and do not have an ounce of intelligence or sense to them.  There is no in between.  Also, all cool people are really mean. Apparently, Rob also is cool. He becomes cool by doing stupid pet-type tricks.  Eating coleslaw but the bucket, and acting like a moron.  I wanted him to just run away.  he was cool enough to survive, but dumb enough to dislike.I hoped that there would be some humor to help the movie, but I laughed at all the wrong parts.  I laughed whenever Josie went down, and swore whenever she was lifted.  I hated her with a passion before and after her coolness hit.  I would have made fun of her just because of her personality. First, see if she has anything to offer, then, if she doesn't, mock her.This movie made me puke.  The people I went with wanted Josie, and Rob, her brother, to get together.  Don't see this even if you have nothing better to see, because EVERYTHING IS BETTER THAN THIS.  I give this -infinity out of 10. "},{"Title":"Nothing in this movie rings true","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film looks like it was written by people who never went to high school, who instead formed their impression of human experience by watching TV shows. Watching this film, you'll learn* If a nerd tries to buy a ticket to the high school prom, she'll be turned away.* The prom queen can instantly lose all her friends at the prom by putting a stop to a prank.* If you are a reporter writing a story and you get scooped, you'll be fired immediately.* If a male high school teacher rides on a ferris wheel with a female student, and tells her that men will chase after her when she's older, he'll be the subject of an expose in the local newspaper.* If you're a nerd, and a cute guy asks you to the prom, say no if you say yes, he'll pass you by in the limo and throw eggs at you.* If you're a newspaper reporter working on an undercover story, you'll wear a little camera in a pin on your shirt, and your exploits will be beamed back to the paper where you work, where all your co-workers will watch everything that happens to you.* A 25-year-old woman who's never been kissed, and who dreams of falling in love with the right guy, will, once she meets the right guy, advertise in the paper that she'll be waiting for him to kiss her in front of an audience of a few thousand people.I don't think I can think of one authentic human moment in the whole movie. Ugh. Ugh. Ugh. "},{"Title":"Never been cool","Date":"6 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Josie Geller apparently has never been cool. Well, not in highschool anyway. She was an outcast, ridiculed, and mocked during her original highschool experience, and Josie starts getting ridiculed and mocked again when she goes back to highschool undercover from the Chicago sun times at age 25. Josie really is clueless, just look at what she wears on her first day back in school, and look how stupid and awkward she acts in her first class (I came from Billy, Billy Bali, I was a sheep herder). She accidentally said Billy cause she thought she saw Billy, her old highschool crush (who didn't like her anyway) for a second. But why would she think that he would be going back to highschool too, on the same day, in the same class. And even if she did accidentally say Billy, she could've thought of something better to say then Billy Bali, and 'I was a sheep herder. Don't ask questions. At lunch when seeing a popular guy named Guy, Josie says  yes, you are a guy. What a guy...Yikes!..Bikes! That's right, I'm serious. At age 14, I would've known cooler ways to act in school, and she was 25! Josie only later becomes cool because her brother Rob enrolls, becomes cool on his first day when winning a coleslaw eating contest, and tells the other popular kids Josie really is cool. Yeh. Like that will automatically change things. In my four years of highschool, I never knew of any kid who became popular on his first day at a new school by eating a gigantic trash barrel sized container of coleslaw. Another thing I noticed about the highschool in this movie was the scantily revealing outfits the girls (such as Jessica Alba) were wearing in school. Don't most schools have dress codes? I mean, they have strict airport style security at the school entrances and take away straws and nail files from you saying that they're weapons, but they let the girls there dress all slutty. And the airport style securities were never seen again after the one scene the whole rest of the movie, but Josie and other characters were still seen coming into school entrances several more times without the securities anywhere in sight. Then there's Josie's 23 year old brother Rob there who looks at the girls and says things such as looks like we have some underage hottie's on our hands. And he starts going out with a 16 year old gymnast. In real life, I believe he would be in jail. Then there's the unpopular girl who becomes Josie's only friend on her first day. Why is she unpopular? She is just as pretty as the popular girls. She just isn't a complete bitch who dresses like a slut, and she's on the math team. Wait, I just answered my own question. Then there's Josie's workplace at the Chicago sun times. Josie's boss Gus (Jon O'Reilly) yells at her way too much like he just simply hates her. But I believe part of the reason of that is that Gus's boss Gary Marshal in the board meetings is such a jerk to him. I mean, Gary says that if Josie screws up, he won't just fire Josie, he'll fire both Josie and Gus. Then there's the hidden camera on a pin button that they put on Josie's shirt before she enters the school. I am able to know that such a thing is illegal. It's a violation. I mean, everyone at work would be able to see everywhere she goes, including the ladies room. Then after they put the button on Josie's shirt, suddenly everyone at the Chicago sun times is suddenly not doing anything anymore except all sitting around watching Josie's day on the TV. So did everyone else at work have no other work to do anymore? "},{"Title":"Pucker up","Date":"9 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The late 90s saw a brief resurgence in the teen comedy genre (Humorously parodied in the underrated 'Not Another Teen Movie', a movie I cannot recommend to you enough), many of which have blended together into a fuzzy mosaic of mediocrity in our collective memory a decade and a half later. This otherwise forgettable Drew Barrymore vehicle stands out (relatively) thanks mostly--perhaps exclusively--to her energy and charm.Every cliché box is checked and no surprises await the viewer here, but Ms. Barrymore smooths over the movie's cracks like an adorably lisping spackle. "},{"Title":"A very depressing movie..","Date":"30 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Y'know this movie will make you sigh a lot because most scene's are depressing. Drew Barrymores character always gets bad luck and even near the ending! She really lets other people put her down for who she is and it's like so unfair! She really did act like ugly duckling the whole time and it's like she's a nobody! C'mon, evil people for example sex offenders or killers should be ignored, not like an innocent people like Josie. It really does related to how bullying is cruel and dangerous to one persons mental health. I suppose that's why she was smiling a lot because she was devastated inside. She is who she is, I would love to have her as a friend!I did find it funny in some scenes but it was too serious really to be laughing the whole way through! "},{"Title":"After This Film You Likely Won't be Kissed Either.","Date":"2 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Never Been Kissed (1999) Dir Raja Gosnell / Cast Drew Barrymore, John C. Reilly, Leelee Sobieski, Molly Shannon, David Arquette Teen comedy that can be delightful or painful depending on one's personal view of high school. Title gives way to hope with Drew Barrymore as Josie Gellar whose high school experiences were nightmarish with chants of, Josie Grossie! Now working as a copy editor where she hopes to become a reporter her opportunity arrives when she is assigned to go undercover at the local high school. Premise is promising but the material has more promise than it actually delivers. Directed by Raja Gosnell as an improvement over the dreadful Home Alone 3. Barrymore pretty much carries the film with a funny yet sympathetic performance. It is obvious that she will be kissed but unfortunately her Prince charming is no more life like than a mannequin. Supporting roles are the flat cardboard variety expected. John C. Reilly plays her standard demanding boss. Leelee Sobieski plays the standard cool crowd leader. Molly Shannon plays Barrymore's brainiac friend who should have stuck with playing Mary Katherine Gallagher. David Arquette plays Barrymore's brother and perhaps some viewers will call that a stretch. Although Barrymore doesn't pass as a high school student, she scores higher grades than the film's social and traumatic viewpoint. Score 4 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Solid high school dramedy with Drew Barrymore","Date":"14 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Released in 1999, Never Been Kissed is a cross between a romantic comedy and high school drama. Drew Barrymore stars as Josie Gellar, a geeky copy editor for the Chicago Sun-Times who lands her first journalistic gig masquerading as a 17 year-old at a local high school. With the help of her hip brother (David Arquette) Josie hopes to be a popular kid rather than a persecuted outcast, as she was when she was in school. Complications arise when Josie hits it off with one of her teachers (Michael Vartan).The movie is filled with peripheral stars or up-and-coming stars John C. Reilly plays her boss at the Sun-Times and Molly Shannon her best friend while Leelee Sobieski, Jeremy Jordan, Marley Shelton, Jessica Alba, Jordan Ladd and James Franco play teens at the school. Marley Shelton, by the way, wins the Best Babe award.The first time I saw the film I was a little disappointed, but I saw it again last night and enjoyed it more. I must not have been in the mood for a romcom the first time I viewed it. While I'm not big on romcoms, I do enjoy high school or college dramedies now and then and Never Been Kissed delivers the goods. It's not great, but it's certainly good enough. The cast is great and it's fun seeing all the up-and-comers. It features quality subtexts as well.The film runs 108 minutes and was shot in the greater Los Angeles area and Chicago.GRADE B "},{"Title":"Leelee Sobieski Steals This","Date":"5 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was sat watching TV, waiting a TV show to start, with twenty minutes to spare I stuck with the channel I had on and Never Been Kissed a romantic comedy film from 1999 starring Drew Barrymore, John C. Reilly, David Arquette, Leelee Sobieski, Jessica Alba, and James Franco in his film debut came on. I ended up drawn in and watched the full thing and missing my TV show.Plot In A Paragraph Josie Geller (Drew Barrymore) works for the Chicago Sun-Times. One day, her editor-in-chief, Rigfort (Garry Marshall) assigns her to report undercover at a high school to help parents become more aware of their children's lives. Her first day back at High School is miserable. Josie reverts to the old geek self that ruined her first high school life. She also has a run-in with three horrible popular girls (one of them Jessica Alba). Josie loses hope, but is reassured when a kind-hearted nerd girl named Aldys (Leelee Sobieski) befriends her.Drew Barrymore is OK as is David Arquette (if you can subscribe to a world where they can pass as High School students). Jessica Alba is not required to do anything other than look cute and stare disapproving whilst John C. Reilly. But for me, Leelee Sobieski is the stand out performer as Aldys. She shines in every scene and I fond the movie poorer when she was not involved after Josie predictably ditches her for the cool kids It's silly, routine, predictable, cliché and unoriginal. but I enjoyed it for the most part, especially early on when Sobieski was involved more.Normally I'd have given this a 5/10 as whilst sweet at times it was average with a lot of faults, but I'm giving it an extra bonus point for Sobieski. "},{"Title":"Been there, Seen that.","Date":"24 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you are in the need to watch a clichéd film I think this would top the list. In all honesty the major issue that I have with the film is the sheer predictability that it is overweight with. Drew Barrymore tries to fit into the role only barely managing to do so despite her attempts to fit in as the geeky turned cool kid. The supporting cast is decent with the occasional stars that outshine. The back story is stale and suffers from a lack of research on the writers parts. For a late Friday night watch the film managed to keep me awake with the occasional laughs here and there. There were a lot of comparisons drawn with Fast times at Ridgemont High and having to choose between the two I would have chosen the latter.The music is below average with the soundtrack not really adding to the storyline. By the end of the film you will be probably be betting that you could have written a better script than the dude who wrote the script for this film.Seven stars primarily because it's not a bad film. It's just not top of the league. Having watched all of John Hughes teen comedies I really don't think I can really give this film more than seven stars. "}{"Title":"Dream On","Date":"8 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Well, given that this movie's title seems to tell a completely clichéd story, I started watching it without much excitement; in fact, I was ready to see a bomb. Fortunately, this is not what it turned out to be. Never Been Kissed has a very creative story, and I was amazed for such good ideas these filmmakers had. Josie goes undercover in a high school class, in order to discover some interesting story to tell in her job as a journalist. However, once she gets involved with the students-- and with one teacher--, she starts remembering what high school was like when she was actually there, bringing some nostalgic thoughts in her mind. It's interesting to notice nowadays known actors doing their jobs when they were younger. In this case, Drew Barrymore's character looks much like the classic Cindy Campbell from Scary Movie franchise-- except for the spectacular Campbell's dumbness. The film is full of funny situations; one, in particular, is when the rude big boss screams at everyone in the first reunion. The other happens when Josie eats cake in the party, mainly when one Rastafari dude tells her the cake contains vitamins t, h and c. The bullying portrayal in high school isn't anything different from what you've seen in other movies, so you may not expect much from it. One thing that irritates me is the tradition that Hollywood has in portraying all nerds wearing braces; I mean, only geek people are born with flaws in their teeth? What's wrong with common people using them? The film's ending sadly appeals to cliché moments, but, in my point of view, the overall qualities turn that forgivable, and the outcome is positive for the viewer. Never Been Kissed is, with a few exceptions, a relatively intelligent work that deserves to be seen, even if you've already seen a thousand of high school movies out there. It's better than the most, I assure you. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Insane Plot.","Date":"24 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I do not write reviews about very many movies. Only when one has touched me, either inspiring me or provoking me. Never Been Kissed is one of the worst, most mean-spirited movies I have ever seen. I would hate anyone if they had done this to Drew Barrymore, who we all love, but alas, she voluntarily accepted this part. I was going to go along with the plot when she said she was going undercover back to high school for the newspaper piece, but when I heard that, I thought, Oh. A returning student in her twenties. It happens. Shouldn't be too traumatic. The cruelty and naivety of what happens in the film, however, was too much to bear, as this twenty (or thirty) something tries to act not like a 16-17 year old, but a drunken 5 year old. The moment when the teacher asked her if she was really 17 was excruciating. The gym class scene was heart-breaking, all the more so because it was Drew Barrymore, who, as in most of her films, plays a character with a tender, sensitive disposition. This was a perverse film, full of emotional sadism on the part of the other students and inexcuseable naivety on the part of Ms Geller. After the insults and pain she had experienced in high school (the first time), she should have returned ready and willing to devastate the opposition with her knowledge, education and experience. Besides the ethics and legality issues involved in obtaining personal information from minor children under false pretenses, this film actually gives us stern warning about ambition, self-delusion, deceipt and imitation. How many people will we lie to for money, mis-representing ourselves and for how long? What is the price we pay when the punishment that we are begging for comes to be? What is our pleasure when tender hearts are devoured by other's egoism and self-absorption? "},{"Title":"Unbelievable syrupy sweet and cute...you will come out with cavities.","Date":"7 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There are things you can say about Never Been Kissed that are exactly accurate. It isn't a laugh out loud, roll in the aisles funny movie. It is an incredibly adorable, pinch its cheeks, sugary sweet chick flick that doesn't try to be anything else. It does try to throw in just a tiny little dirty joke here and there but immediately covers its mouth and giggles nervously about it. You won't find any Oscar winning performances but you won't find any eye rolling performances either (except for maybe being just too insanely cute.) The film is one step away from being acted out by a team of homeless kittens and bunnies. There are some genuinely funny moments and it also follows the necessary recipe for a well received romantic comedy/chick flick and follows it to the letter right down to the grand gesture of love at the hand that will have sensitive movie watchers tearing up at. I can't say much more than that because Never Been Kissed should be exactly what you would expect from it. It is a movie I have watched more than once without batting an eye over it, it is one of wife's favourite films and I can understand why because it is simply just dang likable.And that in a nutshell is also Drew Barrymore. She is just dang likable, adorable, sweet and innocent...looking. Once a wild child and now America's sweetheart usually in films and it works for her. This character takes every day innocence to a new level because she is book smart but so out of touch with romance. She makes it believable and she makes even some of the minor plot holes seem reasonable...especially the constant flirting she does with her high school teacher which is addressed in a small way but mostly ignored. Her romantic counterpart is played by the ridiculously handsome and yet average joe seeming Michael Vartan. Their chemistry is very good though they are very different characters. They connect intellectually and it works very well for the movie. I still feel like Vartan is a little drab at times but nothing that holds back the film. David Arquette is, surprisingly so, quite good as Barrymore's caring and popular brother who happens to have not made much of himself. He has a small role, definitely supporting but it really is a good part for him and he adds something to the story. Him and Barrymore are terrific together. Supporting cast are all quite good including Molly Shannon (who I find hopelessly irritating but this is a role that actually was okay for her,) John C Reilly, Garry Marshall, Jeremy Jordan, Marley Shelton, Jordon Ladd and even Leelee Sobieski somehow pulls off an excruciatingly stereotypical and predictable character quite well.If someone told me they hated this film I could sort of see were they were coming from. Although, I'm not sure what sort of expectations they had from it because you can read the back or watch a trailer and essentially know what you're in for. Still, there just isn't a lot of depth here. This isn't a smart film but so what!! We need movies like this because they are simple fun and sweet and enjoyable for a little relaxation. There is no intensity here at all but at the same time the story works and has a great pacing. Raja Gosnell, best known now for successfully bringing The Smurfs to live action and big screens, has a talent for fluff. That might sound like an insult but it isn't meant to be. He creates light fluffy adventures and stories that are fun and enjoyable and Never Been Kissed is simply enjoyable. Love it for what it is!! 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews","Date":"20 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Never Been Kissed The hardest part of going back to high school undercover is getting your acne to flare up again.Luckily, the undercover journalist in this romantic-comedy has her virginity to draw upon.Sent back to high school by her editor (Garry Marshall) to get the scoop on today's youth, Josie (Drew Barrymore) jumps at the chance to show her skills.But the thought of returning jogs her own high school memories of being a loser.Unable to escape that categorization again, she's lumped with bully target Aldys (Leelee Sobieski).Meanwhile, Josie has her first romantic relationship with a teacher (Michael Vartan), who believes her to be a student.Despite the earmarks of a typical rom-com, Never Been Kissed exceeds its own classification with smart writing and astute observations on the teenage animal.Incidentally, I thought he/she was an undercover journalist is a good excuse for any teacher accused of sexual interference.Green Light vidiotreviews.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"A Story about revisiting the past","Date":"17 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My friend said once that one can enjoy a movie yet it is not a good movie. This is an example of such a movie. I enjoyed this movie but I really do not consider it to be a good movie. Even then, it does have a few interesting points, but unfortunately these points are not drawn out more, but even then, they are sacrificed for a more important idea.Never Been Kissed is about a young lady that had a hell of a time at High School, and she is given a job to return to high school and learn about what high school kids are up to these days. As such we have a jump between the time when she was in high school previously and he current time at high school. The title of the movie describes her desire to find the perfect man. Of course we quickly work out who this man is, but unfortunately she is masquerading as a student so her options are limited.One of the ideas is the mask, and this is paralleled with Shakespeare's play As You Like It. The English teacher describes how when one is disguised as somebody else then they can do things that they would not normally do. This sinks into the woman, but it is never drawn out. She really does not act as she would in real life because there are more issues that she must face.Her goal is to get into the in crowd and she spends a lot of time trying to do this. Unfortunately it reeks of effort, and this is never drawn out. She tries hard to get people to accept her, but she always ends up failing, and in the end never is accepted for who she is because she is trying to be something that she is not. She does get into the in crowd but not through her own actions but through the help of her brother, who has always been in the in crowd.Finally this movie compares what it was like then to what it is like now. They show a lot of differences, including the searches at the entrance, and the fact that she was not a part of the in crowd and now she is, but the conclusion that the movie comes to is that all of these changes are superficial. Everything is really the same - the same quirky teachers, the same studley, and the same brains.I felt that this movie had some interesting ideas, but it fell down when trying to pick up on these ideas. There were a number of different ones which meant that other ideas had to fall behind when a more important, but less relevant one, came about. I guess it could have been better if it focused either on the mask, or the attempt to try and work one's way into the in crowd. The first would have had her behaving in a way that was not herself, and then realising it later when her true friends are hurt, or she tries so hard and fails, and then realises that her effort is going to waste so she resigns to being herself and succeeds. "},{"Title":"Lovable Drew makes pathetic character watchable","Date":"28 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Josie Gellar (Drew Barrymore) is a Chicago Sun Times copy editor. She's a stiff perfectionist, and not aggressive enough to be a reporter. That is until the owner arbitrarily assigns Josie as an undercover high school student. Only she was a loser nerd in her high school years, and she returns as a loser nerd in her new undercover work. With the help of her younger drop-out brother Rob Geller (David Arquette), she gets a makeover and infiltrates the popular group.She is scary nerdy and humiliating. It's really not funny unless we are supposed to laugh at her. Luckily for the movie, Drew Barrymore is impossibly lovable. She makes us love her no matter what, and makes this sad pathetic character somewhat watchable. "},{"Title":"Cute/Girly Movie to Be Taken with a Grain of Salt","Date":"17 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Never Been Kissed is a cute little movie with a silly plot- A newspaper editor named Josie Gellar, played by Drew Barrymore, dreaming of becoming a reporter is given a story to go undercover and to write about the high school scene.Having been a nerd and taunted a lot in high school, she sees this as a second chance to be cool. With a makeover by her brother, she enters the high school scene. Her brother starts to get excited and decides to go undercover as well. Josie manages to become friends with both the popular and geeky kids and her second chance in high school becomes the life she always dreamed of.She becomes well liked in the school and starts to fall for her teacher.As school life and fun as a teen starts to get to her head, she begins to get closer to her deadline and must make a decision between blowing her cover and possibly dating the teacher or simply just writing her story and being done with high school forever.And to top it all off, she hasn't been kissed and would love for her teacher to be her first kiss. This leads to complications. If you're into girly movies and high school movies and feel good movies, you will LOVE Never Been Kissed. I was a big nerd in high school who wasn't really popular and thus, I hated high school like Josie did. While I wouldn't want a second chance, it was fun seeing Josie relive her high school days and having fun. It's one of those movies you really don't have to take too serious mainly cause the plot is kind of unrealistic. Other than that, you'll enjoy the movie. It's got a Romy and Michelle's High School Reunion feel to it! "},{"Title":"Good fun","Date":"16 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" An entertaining movie. I found myself clinging to the edge of my seat, eager to see what would happen next. Drew's performance is hilarious and adorable. As an audience it is impossible not to empathize with Josie's embarrassment, sadness and excitement. She shares great chemistry with her teacher (Michael Vartan) who is also well played and a likable character. Guy (Jeremy Jordan) is insanely attractive, making the movie even more fun to watch! Some may call this a cliché story, the loser girl in high school becomes cool and catches the eye of the most popular guy, but I found it quite unpredictable. First of all, she does not do that typical transitional makeover that changes everything, her outfits remain just as ludicrous throughout the film. Secondly, although she may find Guy attractive, he does not end up being her famous first kiss, which was what I had expected. Overall it's one of those movies that put you in a good mood. Watch it! "},{"Title":"Never Been Kissed","Date":"1 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I had heard the title many times from various sources, and I had always known who the leading actress was, so when I got the opportunity to finally see it, I did, from director Raja Gosnell (Home Alone 3, Big Momma's House). Basically twenty five year old Josie Geller (Drew Barrymore) is a clever but at the same time simple and clumsy copy editor for the Chicago Sun Times, and she has ambitions to make it as a real reporter. She gets the chance to achieve this with her boss, the editor Rigfort (Pretty Woman director Garry Marshall) sending undercover in a high school to see what the modern teenagers are like. So at South Glen South High School she poses as a student, but with her simple ways she is instantly looked on as the accident prone brainy geek, and this does not do her any favours as in her real life Josie has never been kissed romantically. Her brother Rob (David Arquette) does his best to make her over, and soon enough he poses as a student in the high school himself, and the siblings both find love interests, in Josie's case she has feelings for her bachelor teacher Sam Coulson (Michael Vartan). The deadline for making her story is drawing closer, and the risk of blowing her cover is becoming even more large as her personal feelings towards the school inhabitants are getting in the way. In the end, even though her true identity is revealed, Josie does manage to write a very concise and informative story about her experiences acting like and being teenagers, and of course, with the help of her story, she manages to get her true love first kiss with Sam. Also starring The Wicker Man's Leelee Sobieski as Aldys, The Grinch's Molly Shannon as Anita, John C. Reilly as Gus, Marley Shelton as Kristin, Spider-Man's Octavia Spencer as Cynthia, Jessica Alba as Kirsten and James Franco as Jason. Barrymore does give a charming performance being constantly clumsy and trying her best to fit in with the crowd, Arquette gets his time as her odd but likable brother, and the other cast members are fine as well, the person pretending to be something else for some reason is not all that original, and the same goes for the love story element, but there are some likable and funny moments in this alright romantic comedy. Okay! "},{"Title":"Before 17 again (dvd)","Date":"18 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There's an American trend of having adults going back to high school.As the movie illustrates, the basics stays the same from 1955, 1985, 1999 or 2007 the nerds, the playboy, the sportsman, the brainless chicks and the famous prom-night. In France, we have the same people (i was a nerd) but no rites high school finishes with the exam the administration puts up the result and it's the vacations no prom night, no ceremony, welcome in the solitary adult life! I admit that i chose it because it stars Jessica. But as it counts for her first movie, she says only a very few lines (like James Franco). But she is perfect as the brainless chick she dresses flashy and when the movie slows down, she wakes you up.I wouldn't have bet on Barrymore but she gives a solid interpretation and embodies a totally honest story being a nerd is difficult, it's good to be accepted but when it happens, it's not about losing you soul and your beliefs.In conclusion, this movie can be kissed and offers the best original end credits! "}{"Title":"Should have been called Almost been kissed?","Date":"13 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Never Been Kissed tells the story about a 25 year old named Josie Gellar(Drew Barrowmore from MUSIC AND LYRICS)who poses as a 17 year old high school student(the girl didn't even look like a high school student)so that she can write an article on todays high school students for the Chicago Sun paper. Of course she falls in love with a teacher named Sam(MOTHER IN LAW'S Micheal VARTAN)who teaches English in the movie. Of course she herself was classified as a nerd back when she was 17 and she gets to see someone else follow in her footsteps.The film wasn't that bad I liked some parts of the movie and I am not really a fan of Drew Barromore I liked her in 50 first dates and she was quite OK in Music & Lyrics. The music was alright.If you liked How to lose a guy in 10 days, She's the man then you will like this. "},{"Title":"Eh it's okay","Date":"6 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My main complaint about the movie is the character Josie. I found myself watching a movie with a main character that was totally obnoxious. I'm sure that the director was aiming for the audience to feel sympathetic to the character but I just found her so pathetic that it drove me insane. I couldn't help but laugh at her because I didn't understand how some one could be so clueless and socially awkward. Was it supposed to be funny? Or was it just terribly corny acting? Both? Who knows. I'm not sure what the director was trying to accomplish.I only watch it to see a young James Franco and Jessica Alba. Not worth watching in my opinion but who knows people actually liked it so figure it out for yourself. "},{"Title":"5.7 ?","Date":"8 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Never Been kissed is a great film delight. Because some people could actually relate to what Josie Geller(Drew Barrymore). Though I can't, Never Been KKissed is a film that seems real. I don't know if the kids in 99 actually used words like Roofus or any of that crap. Because that doesn't even sound cool. Roofus actually sounds like a dogs name, so I don't find that cool. Never been kissed has many emotions expressed in it. Never been kissed is part comedy, part romance, and part drama. I hate to say this but some of the scenes in Never Been kissed are very sad, and all I can think is What a bunch of dicks. Never been kissed has a great cast that even introduced the hottest woman on the earth, Jessica Alba. Alba was also in Idle Hand, but I think that Never been kissed was her film debut. The film also includesDavid Arquette(The Scream trilogy, Beautiful Girls)Michael Vartan(Monster in Law)John C. Reilly(Step Brothers, The Perfect Storm)This is Raja Gosnell's best film to date. Gosnell did both Scooby Doo films and Your, Mine and ours. I love Never Been kissed, and I think it deserves a hell of a lot more credit than it got. I can't believe it got a 5.7. I think it at least deserved a 7.0 at least. Never been kissed is romantic, funny, and sad, and I truly do love it. The PlotNerdy columnist Josie Geller is assigned to be a reporter. She will be reporting something on High School today and will go undercover as a high school student. Problem is, she was a nerdy High school student and was bullied constantly. She is afraid of what will happen if she goes back. "},{"Title":"Wonderful, amazing movie!  Very funny too.","Date":"15 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I never tire of this movie. That is the true sign of greatness. I have watched it many, many times. It gets better with age. I first saw this in the theater and was already loving it when at just the right time Don't Worry Baby blasts into my ears, which to me is one of the greatest songs of all time. Pure sonic heaven.Anyhow, I thought the movie was very funny (especially David Arquette.) It also was touching. The prom flashback was truly heartbreaking. Also amazing is how unattractive Drew Barrymore was as Josey Grossie. I think she is generally very attractive, but they really hit the nail on the head in this movie in making her plain.I enjoyed Leelee Sobieski quite a bit and find her very sexy in general. She did great at her part. The plastic friends and over-clichéd teen roles for the popular kids was a tiny turnoff but the positives far out-weighed that.Molly Shannon was a hoot. John Reilly was perfect in his role.Good job Drew and company! Favorite quotes, You don't think I can grab a bull's balls? (or something like that) I know, I made it up. I didn't think it would catch on like it did. (in reference to David Arquette's character naming his sister Josey Grossie) "},{"Title":"The Drew Barrymore Show","Date":"14 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Drew Barrymore is totally charming in this movie about a news reporter who poses as a high school student to get the 'big story'.Witty dialogue, likable characters, and funny situations make this an engaging film as Drew meets a teacher (Michael Vartan) whom she finds interesting while Drew's brother (David Arquette) also returns to the classroom so he can help out his sister. Really cute most of the way except for Drew's corny little just be yourself speech to all the high school kids near the end of the movie. Still lots of fun, especially Drew's bubbly performance.You know what's a weird word?.... fork. "},{"Title":"A good 90's movie.","Date":"21 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought this movie was very believable and cute. Drew Barrymore was exceptional and did this role unbelievably well. A lot of kids/adults can even relate to this movie, and it makes sense how they touched this subject. However, although the acting that Alba has done in the past has made her a sensational icon, and has included her in extremely worthy movies, Alba delivered a not so sensational performance in this one. Her 'stupid' acting was less than worth it, and made her just look bad rather than a good 'dumb' popular. Bottom Line With this movie, it can make you cry, make you laugh and even make you smile. Definitely something to rent. Check it out! "},{"Title":"Who Wouldn't Want To Be Kissed?","Date":"25 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Josie Geller (Drew Barrymore) is given a life-time opportunity to prove her journalist skills working undercover in a local high school. Josie is not exactly never been popular when she was in high school and have no idea what todays kids dress and do. Josie tries to find out what do the teens do and where they hang out etc.. She makes friends with geeky Aldys (Leelee Sobieski). It takes no time when the most popular guy, Guy Perkins (Jeremy Jordan) sets his eyes on lively and quirky Josie... Sam Coulson (Michael Vartan) notices talented Josie and starts to courage and help her...Never Been Kissed is one of the most wonderful romantic comedies of the end of 90's. It is a self-discovery story with the promise that you can conquer all your fears through new experiences. Josie proves she's not a prisoners of her own past. Never Been Kissed says that what you have in yourself is more important than what you look like.Drew Barrymore fits in the role of a bit nerdy Josie. Michael Vartan is wonderful as handsome and kind Sam Coulson. Molly Shannon makes a funny role as Josie's slutty colleague Anita. John C. Reilly and David Arquette are also on board. Romantic comedy director-wizard Garry Marshall makes an appearance as Josie's hilarious boss.The movie makes you smile and laugh! "},{"Title":"Impressively Moving and Challenging","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What a realistic and thought-provoking look at high school. I have rarely seen such close screen adaptations of high school. From the start, the film makes the audience believe in it. But it does more than that. While aiming to be a comedy (which it does well), Never Been Kissed does something much more extraordinary It teaches us a valuable lesson. This means a lot to me personally because I am an aspiring screenwriter and I have written a screenplay about high school, that tries to, like this movie, teach the audience. I love the fact that this film tries to show us through Josie's flashbacks how what we say and do really and truly hurts people- sometimes for life. It's a message I'm passionate about and this movie is incredible for teaching it to America in a fun and inspiring way. I admire this film for being brave enough in the modern world to try and touch America's youth when everyone else tries to bring them down. It makes you laugh, it touches your heart, and it leaves you wanting to be a better person. The message of the film works entirely. I applaud it for it's willingness to break the status quo and provide teens with and entertaining and thought-provoking film. 7/10 stars!Jay Addison "},{"Title":"Like having candyfloss shoved into your eyes - 39%","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" As much as it depresses my Better Half, I'm afraid I'm one of those people who can look at Drew Barrymore all day long and it has nothing to do with her acting ability. Sometimes, she really impresses on screen such as the blonde temptress from Poison Ivy but these days, her career seems stuck playing opposite a variety of guys in lightweight romantic comedies. From Fifty First Dates to The Perfect Catch to this, the formula remains essentially the same. As my Better Half sat me down in front of Never Been Kissed like a parent with a troublesome child, I figured I might as well give the film a chance to surprise me. And it may pay to get used to stuff like this as she has many more DVDs like this for me to watch! Drew plays Josie, a timid single copywriter for a Chicago newspaper who longs to be taken seriously as a journalist. Before long, she's given that opportunity to prove herself on an undercover assignment at a local high school but for Josie, this is more than writing a report. Still traumatised by her unhappy memories from high school, Josie must now do what she couldn't before &#x96; become part of the in-crowd while still juggling her studies, falling for her new English teacher (Michael Vartan) and, of course, attending the forth-coming prom.Like a giant mountain of candyfloss, this is lightweight fluff of the highest order that leaves a sweet, sticky taste in your mouth and makes you sick afterwards. Working out whether it's a teen comedy like Clueless or an out-and-out romance like Hope Floats (which is also, worryingly, in my Better Half's collection), it quickly descends into a confusing sugary mess trying to be both. Even the moral about being cool in school is lost &#x96; is Josie trying to be cool because her superiors demand it or because she never was cool before? Speaking as a fellow geek to the core, I can't honestly say that it made me feel better about myself or the film watching Josie become something she never really was comfortable with being. Peer pressure is a lot more malicious than this film portrays but then again, I never went to school in sunny California and this is as sunny a picture as you can get. Barrymore and David Arquette as her goofy brother are much better actors than this film suggests and it's strange to see Barrymore seemingly content with unchallenging roles like this. Is she furthering an acting career or merely paying the bills? I'll be the first to admit that I'm not in the target audience for this type of movie (i.e. teenage American girls) but I can't help but struggle to find what makes my Better Half enjoy this film more than I did. It has its moments and the largely unknown cast do a pretty good job &#x96; Leelee Sobieski doesn't get nearly enough screen time and a young Jessica Alba has gone on to bigger and better things. But with a film so light that it would fall over if you sneezed at it, there are bigger problems at heart. It's predictable to the point of being insulting and sickly sweet to watch, making this one for rom-com addicts (God help you) and Drew Barrymore fans. And as I said at the beginning, I'd rather look at Drew Barrymore than watch her movies and unfortunately, Never Been Kissed does nothing to change that. Stick to something like Notting Hill or even Bridget Jones' Diary for a quality rom-com. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" OK most people will know what this movie is about so I won't go into details and spoil it but I just want to say that This movie is one of my all time favourite movies. It has drama, comedy, romance everything it makes you feel happy inside and for everyone who was an outcast or a nerd in high school it makes you feel like there's hope that there is someone out there who will love you. It is a fantastic movie that you can watch over and over and you will never get bored of it. Loads of one liners that you will say with your friends for years and a fantastic soundtrack! Drew Barrymore at times can be a bit fake but it the scenes where it counts it makes you feel for the character and relate to her and David Arquette does the same. The cast is superbly put together and i just LOVE this movie! "}{"Title":"Believable, until midway through.","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Somebody on this board said that he doesn't believe a girl who looks like Drew Barrymore would be so unpopular throughout high school and beyond. If looks alone would've given her popularity in high school, I'd have girls all over me from elementary school through my senior year.Anyway, within the beginning of the movie it's entirely plausible that Josie Geller would have a tough time shaking her old high school demons while trying to pass as a high school student for an undercover news story. Her only friend turns out to be a malcontent nerdy girl named Aldys(Leeli Sobieski), who has enough sense to blast the whole high school social culture, especially golden boy Guy Perkins(Jeremy Jordan) who thinks he's better than her. Her teacher also tries to give her some encouragement, but also secretly harbors a crush on her, which he represses, because he thinks she's a genuine high school student. And just like in her real high school life ten years earlier, her efforts to mingle with her peers prove to be disastrous. Obviously, none of these girls learned anything from Heathers(1989). Only when her slacker, would-be athlete brother Robert(David Arquette) poses as a student himself, and makes up rumors about her does she gain some respectability... some of which you'd never expect her to gain any respectability from.At the prom, Aldys and her geeky gang go dressed as DNA, and somehow finally ends up getting Guy's respect after years of abuse and humiliation. If I were in her place, I would've kicked the MoFo in the crotch! Then again, I've got grudges against kids who gave me a hard time as far back as the first grade, so perhaps that's just me. "},{"Title":"Never Bother With the Second Half","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I first saw this movie, I was drawn in by the concept. Seems original enough -- one to which many can relate and wish they had the opportunity to do. Having gone through hell in high school, many people wish they could go back and live it over, knowing what they know now -- that it might be better, that it just might work. As Drew Barrymore's character Josie quickly finds out as an undercover reporter posing as a high school student , that's just not the case. Not much has changed since high school, and Josie is just as much a fish out of water even after spending time as an older, wiser adult in the working world, she was when she left. She dresses funny, she acts funny, she becomes friends with the dorky math club kids (the ultimate stereotype), and is quickly ostracized by the popular girls. Good so far.Enter her brother, Rob (David Arquette) -- who, despite having spoiled her life when she was in high school by pinning the name Josie Grossy on her, is now willing to help her out and get her into that popular crowd. Here's where the plot takes a turn for the worse. Because HE was popular when he was in high school, he suddenly appears one day as a student, and all of a sudden he's popular again -- just like that? Don't get me wrong, but I remember what it was like when I was in high school, and it takes time to build a reputation; you don't all of a sudden become popular overnight. That plot hole aside, it doesn't make up for what happens when Rob does manage to get Josie in -- all of a sudden, Josie realizes how to act normal! Again, almost overnight, without anyone giving her any sort of instruction, she knows exactly what to say, exactly how to act, exactly how to dress. Amazing! If only I could've woken up one morning in high school and been able to do the same! In a matter of weeks she's gone from class dork to -- predictably -- homecoming queen. Yes, high school students are fickle, but considering just how much of an outcast Josie was at the beginning, this is still somewhat of a stretch. The scene where she finally reveals to the entire school at the prom that she wasn't really a student, but a reporter feels so forced it isn't even funny. People just aren't that preachy, just don't stop everything that's going on and bare their soul like that. She's a reporter; she knows her job; she'd know better than to reveal everything like that and ruin her entire story. Now she's just wasted all this time and money to no avail, with no story -- in real life, you could get fired for something like that.The whole subplot with the teacher (Michael Vartan), yeah, it's kind of cheesy, but, for the purposes of the story, it probably made more sense than some of the things I listed above. Though I must say, the way the story wrapped up, well, that just didn't work, either. Josie doesn't get fired, of course, but gets the chance to write a column in which she requests a certain teacher meet her on the high school baseball field and give her her first real kiss (in her life she's never been kissed -- get it?). Again, very unrealistic -- Josie must already be in hot water for blowing the original intent of the story; such an individualized request would *never* make it past the editors in a *real* paper, especially coming from a reporter in such a situation as Josie's. This is a NEWSpaper, after all, not an editorialized gossip column or a tabloid -- it just doesn't make any sense.Overall, the film had potential, but ultimately failed because of an embarrassingly poor plot. A note to teens who have professed to love this film I'm sorry, but real life just doesn't work like this. Watch Ever After if you want a Cinderella story with Drew Barrymore -- a much better film -- and at least there, in a fantasy world, you can suspend disbelief. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie because it did not focus on the perfect girl, with the perfect body, and the perfect boyfriend. This movie deals with everyone elses life in high school, who wasn't so popular.  i hate to break it to you all, not everyone was popular in high school and it was sort of nice to see the tables turn a bit. Most of use would like to relive our high school days.. and Josie had the chance to do that. I guess what I am trying to say is the movie is good and its fun, remember high school doesn't change..only the people attending it do!!! "},{"Title":"Feel Good Movie!","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERSI've seen this movie a few times now and I must say I just love it. I am a hard core movie fan/critic so I'm not easy to please, but I have to say that although this movie was cliche, and predictable who cares????? Most movies are predictable. That doesn't make them necessarily bad films. Drew Barrymore is so charming as the nerdy Josie Geller who at 24 years old gets a chance to go back to high school undercover to write a story about high school.Unfortunately her first time in high school was a total nightmare because she was the class geek and did not fit in. This is her chance to go back in time and get it right. Unfortunately she is quickly reminded that high school doesn't change and she hasn't changed all that much either so when she returns to school she is right back in the middle of her nightmare.Fortunately her brother who also has long since graduated high school comes to her aid and poses as a student assuring her that in order to be popular you only need one person who IS cool that thinks YOU'RE cool and you're IN! She doubts what he says but sure enough on his first day back in school he is immediately the most popular guy in school and everyone knows and loves him.Meanwhile despite all her efforts she is still Josie Grossy. Rob, her brother (who poses as an old boyfriend of josies) tells a bunch of the popular kids that he used to date her and that she's actually really really cool, so like the typical high school lemmings they all follow suit and decide to not only like and accept her, but she quickly becomes the most popular girl in school. Because she has all this natural charm, and now is allowed to shine she has the advantage of not only being accepted by the movers and the shakers, but she has a real advantage because she is very intelligent and let's face it, already been to high school.While this is going on she develops a crush on her teacher, who is gorgeous  ). It's pretty obvious that he is smitten by her too, even before she made it into the popular group. Since her boss (the editor of the newspaper she wrote for) was getting ancy that she still had not completed her feature story (the whole reason she was there in the first place) he decides that she should use this teacher to expose innappropriate teacher student relationships. She ofcourse does not want to do this, but she has not choice.After she is named prom queen, the piest de resistance of high school popularness she spots the cool kids planning a cruel joke on her good friend (who was deemed a geek) and she is horrified. She outs herself as an undercover reporter and tells everyone how she duped everyone into liking her and accepting her all for the sake of a story. Her teacher, Mr. Coolson hears this and realizes he is part of the ruse to be set up for this story and loses all faith in Josie.The end is ofcourse predictable. We all know that Josie and Mr Coolson will get together but so what!!!!! It would have sucked if they didn't. She arranges it so that the media will cover a high school baseball game and writes a story for the chicago tribune explaining her whole story and how a certain teacher was hurt during this experiment, and that she profoundly apologizes and that if he accepts her apology he will come to the game while she waits for 5 minutes on the pitchers mound for him to arrive and give her her first real kiss. So the game is packed and everyone is rooting for her and the five minutes go by and no teacher. It made me cry. Just watching her standing there so hopeful. Finally the crowd cheers wildly and Mr. Coolson runs onto the field and gives her a big smoocheroo. It is just so sweet, formulaic, cliche, predictable......but I just loved it.Who hasn't wished they could go back to high school and do it right this time???? I think everyone, even the cool kids can relate. "},{"Title":"Never Been Kissed","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have often wanted to go back and change something in my life. In the movie `Never Been Kissed' this is exactly what happens. Josie Geller (Drew Barrymore), a news editor for the `Chicago Sun Times,' dreams of doing an under cover story. She informs her coworkers of her dream, and they all tell her how she would not be any good at it because she is too organized. A reporter's life is messy, and she just is not that kind of person. The movie is cute with an original plot with a director who is trying to show how people can change. One day she is in a meeting, and her boss asks her to do an undercover report. He wants her to go back to high school and find out what teenagers are like today. All of her coworkers try to talk her out of it, but she goes for it. Josie tells her brother Rob (David Arquette) about how she gets to go back to high school. Rob remembers how she was in high school and she wasn't popular and didn't fit in. Her nickname in high school was Josie Grosse. She was the kid whom everyone made fun of the nerd. She wants to prove to everyone that they are wrong and that she is a different person now than what she was then. Director Raja Gosnell is trying to show how self absorbed people can be. Josie Geller was an intelligent girl with a bright future, but no one wanted to give her a chance because she was the labeled as the nerd. She wants to go back to high school to show everyone that she isn't `Josie Grosse' anymore. Her brother Rob even told her that it takes one person to like you and then everyone else will because they are too scared to say anything different. The director is right people are self absorbed. The only thing that people care about is fitting in. I liked the movie because it shows how people can change and learn to live with who they are and liking them for themselves. The director did a fine job when it came to showing the true colors of people. He also showed how what happens to students in high school doesn't matter because there is a big world out there where people's bosses aren't going to care if that person was the prom queen or the nerd. Take in life. Be proud of the person inside.  "},{"Title":"A Total Cliche","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was okay, but it was bacsically just like all the other movies. Drew Barrymoore could have definately turned to a more appealing role, after all her previous awesome performances. In general, I really didn't get why it was made if every other movie is pretty much like this one. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  THis is one of my favourite movies ever. If you think that I am just a teenager who doesn't really know any better, this is not the case. I thought this movie spread a message to everyone about being yourself, and that it doesn't matter what others think of you if you're true to yourself. THis movie quoted Shakespeare throughout, so I will to To thine ownself be true. That was what they wanted to tell people. Drew Barrymore was so convincing as 'Josie Grosie' that it was hard to believe she was the same person as the beautiful young woman dressed as Rosalind at her school prom. Mr Coulson played with role with truth and was exactly the sort of man I felt I could fall in love with, even though Michael Vartan once said it was the character least like himself. David Arquette was perfect for Rob with his boyish charm. THe other actors all helped to make this movie wonderful. It was funny, touching and heart warming. The soundtrack was also very fitting.  "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A wonderfully fun movie. Drew really shows some comedic chops. This film made me laugh...a lot. It's nice to see a beautiful actress put in a really good comedy performance, and be willing to humiliate herself a little in the process. She really becomes Josie Grossie quite well. Watch it and you won't be sorry! "},{"Title":"Great idea for a movie-bad actors for the parts","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  this was a great idea for a movie, and being some one who has never been kissed ((im 14)) can relate to her. but Drew Barrymore cant even act like an outcast let alone be one. She did a good job in the movie but the directors just didnt spend much time thinking who to cast for the parts, i love this movie and everythin but the actors werent right for the parts "},{"Title":"Like it much.","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is quite a good and promising drama and the story is good as well. The thing is the leading character do not have its real touch or in other words, they all don't look real, performance maybe. The supporting cast is brilliant, they act accordingly.Ms Barrymore's make up should be done more teenager like because her make up in this movie when she enrolled at the school is simply too mature, not girlish or looks like young adult. Other than that, i do like her performance, very different this time. "}{"Title":"All time favorite","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"   This movie brought back more memories(both good and bad)than any other high school movie I have ever seen. Drew is adorable in it, as she usually is in any movie, and the makeup artists did a fantastic job of making her look so horrible in those flash back scenes. The casting was just wonderful and the ending is the only movie that has ever made me cry. I give this MUST SEE flick a 10 out of 10. It will make you laugh till you hurt, cry, feel pity, and experience just about every other emotion you can imagine especially if you were one of those undesirables in high school. "},{"Title":"Heartwarmer","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was one of those ugly ducklings in high school, rejected by all except all the other rejects. I will always remember how I was treated and that was 24 years ago. There is such a thing as the self-fulfilling prophecy whereupon if someone is teased and tormented enough, they come to believe it of themselves and don't expect any other kind of treatment - they believe that they deserve it, that they are so ugly or fat or whatever, that since soooo many people tease them, they must be right. It can - and will - destroy your self-esteem, especially during teen years when your self-esteem truly begins to develop. Anyway...this movie brought back memories and I could relate to what Josie went through. I'd bet lots of us would like a second chance.The part of the movie that really gets me is the end when Sam runs onto the field and kisses her...I cry EVERY time - even if I've seen it twice in one day (HBO!). That part really gets me because I wish someone would love me like that! Especially as cute as he was! "},{"Title":"I thought this movie was touching, warm, and yet in some parts even scary...","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  that is, if you are terrified to be the school geek or cry in the bathroom because of some cruel joke the popular kids play on you.  Drew Barrymore was great in her role of Josie Gellar, the intelligent woman who has a yearning to be more in her workplace, and is sent back to high school for an undercover report.  I cringed when the popular kids made fun of her, I cried when she cried, and I was all smiles at the end.  Perfect heart-warming movie for anyone whose been there, for people who care about other people, no matter what their social status may be.  It's one of the best movies I've seen for awhile, and it continues to be. "},{"Title":"When did they fall in love?","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While I really do love this movie I have to ask when did they fall in love? It has been said that you never get over your high school experience.  Now that I've been out of high school for Over 3 years I have to say this is definitely true.  This movie rings so true to me in many ways.  I love how they revert to flash back of Drew's youth.  While it's hard to believe that Drew Barrymore could ever have looked that bad you get to relive those typical embarrassing moments of your youth. I found myself cringing at many of the flash backs.  Some of the things that happen to her are hard for me to believe, being from a small town kids were cruel but never that cruel.I think the love story between The teacher and Drew was well underdeveloped. I realize they couldn't go too far into a relationship because she was pretending to be a student but most of the scenes between the two of them were in this whole musical overplay thing that they use to fast forward in time.  I'd like to have seen more character interaction between the two of them before the ending. I do have to say though that I love the ending.  It's another of those stories that leave your heart pounding and you wondering why your love life can't be that awesome.  Drew and the other actors and actresses put in wonderful performances but given the script which was underdeveloped at best the movie is not the best on the market.  If your looking to fall in love and go back to high school for a couple hours it is worth your time though. Despite my complaints I really did like this movie but I think it's definitely more of a rent it on video movie than a go to the movie theater and pay outlandish prices for a ticket movie. "},{"Title":"Puffy Drew Barrymore, cute film","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Barrymore plays a newspaper reporter going undercover to do an expose' on modern high school life, but has to face her own demons and romantic ineptitude to do it. She succeeds and ends up a star.Alright. So the movie has an uncomfortably similar story line to Just One of the Guys, a sleeper of an Eightiesfilm. But this movie really wasn't too bad. Drew Barrymore was good (if distractingly bloated), and Leelee Sobieski did a good job as the cute nerd. That guy from the 1-800-ATT commercials who plays her brother usually ruins every movie he's in, but he was OK this time.A recommended view. Grade B.Things to look for Sprite can from the wrong era in a flashback. Question if she's 25 in 1999, that would mean she graduated in 1991 or 1992, right? Why are all her high school flashbacks from 1983??  "},{"Title":"LOVED THIS SO MUCH -BEST MOVIE EVER","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  this movie blew me away-drew was so believable and  passionate in the part and the supporting cast was sizzling hot-such as jessica alba and marley shelton-babe city,and the story and situations jossie is put in is so hilarious and so is the movie,the ending is bittersweet but it is the only movie apart from titanicthat nearly made me cry-and i bought the soundtrack-loved that too a few final words SEE IT LOVE IT AND NEVER FORGET IT  "},{"Title":"Its a great movie","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed Never Been Kissed. It managed to show that high school is not all fun and games! Drew Barrymore played the role really well too. The film showed that us teenagers have real problems too. Not being popular may seem unsignificant but during high school it is hard. This movie gave us the confidence to be ourselves though and I really admired that! I give it an A plus! "},{"Title":"Drew Barrymore at her comic best","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Drew Barrymore is definitely one of todays best actors. Her performance in this movie is unbelievable. It makes you laugh and cry at the same time and  It sure does bring back alot of those high school memories as I'm sure there is a Josie at every school. David Arquette can do no wrong as well. He is just as likeable in this movie as he was in the Scream series. Molly Shannon, Michael Vartan & Leelee Sobieski were also good as too were Jeremy Jordan ( his song on the soundtrack is also worth a listen - quite a huge difference to his right kind of love days)  & the girls playing Gibby, Kristen & Kirsten.Actually it is one of those rare films where the casting is spot on.If you haven't seen this movie you sure don't know what you are missing because it is definitely one of the best in the high school genre of 1999 ( with American Pie) and it is one to add to your video collection. "},{"Title":"Excellent Teen & Adult Movie","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Never Been Kissed is an excellent movie for both adults and teens. It is very real and shows the ugly side of high school and yet the hope of better life beyond. I'm still in high school, and luckily, my high school isn't like that, but so many high schools are. I could relate in so many ways! "},{"Title":"So so... not a very bright movie at all","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First, let me be honest. I have never really liked Drew. I think it has to do something about her chin. But, she came out quite nicely in Ever After, so I decided to take a chance on this one too. Well, yikes! She's done it again. And believe me, its her hair style. She can be cute-looking, but as the story wanted her to be uncute, so she tried desperately hard. Her original high-school scenes were horrific. Its a wonder she didn't commit suicide on her prom night -))Even at 25, she was always a bit too fat. The movie dragged along on predictable lines. The teacher bit was so predictable, and the ending sequence could have been taken from any of the zillions of movies which have a stop-watch running in the last scene. Only this time, it was far more inconsequential in the general scheme of the things.You can give this movie a miss. And continue hoping for something better from Ms Barrymore "}{"Title":"***1/2 out of ****; Grade B+","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cheerful, funny film about a twenty-something reporter going undercover in a high school.  Unexpectedly brave work from Barrymore, who heads up a very talented cast.  Manipulative in the best possible way, with moments of hilarity, embarrassment, and sadness somehow mixing to create a vivid and lovable entertainment. "},{"Title":"This was a really good movie!","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie because it gave a shy nerd a second chance at life and love. The ending was one of the best parts. She loved the guy and didn't know if he loved her back. It was kind of confusing at times because she was like two people.  But it all worked out fine in the end.  "},{"Title":"Saved by Drew","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  So, I've watched a lot of romantic comedies the last year or so, but good romcoms are hard to find. Never Been Kissed is not a masterpiece, but it's not as bad as e.g. It's All Cr*p either. Oops, sorry meant to say She's All That, -). What really makes it worth to rent is, of course, Drew Barrymore because she is (almost) always really good. She's really good here, if you ask me, and where the script fails Drew delivers. The script doesn't fail all the time, though, it's a very sweet story and it is rather funny. Over all, I'm glad I rented Never Been Kissed since I was entertained for about 90 minutes. (5-6/10) "},{"Title":"not the worst high school movie put out by far...","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i expected much less from this movie, but it wasn't half bad.  excuse me, but i steer clear of 90% of these flicks and this one was no different - the trailer did nothing for me, in fact it may have actually repulsed me from ever even *thinking* about seeing it.  call it bad marketing if you want or just my aversion to this genre of flicks.  this movie reached a bit in a couple of spots, but nothing more than we see in the huge majority of films put out by Hollywood in this day and age.  the rest of it was pretty enjoyable and darn it, dare i say interesting?  some of the same tired clicheswere there, no high school movie would be made without them i guess, but they aren't as rampant as you might expect in this piece, and Barrymore's performance which i assumed would be ridiculous was at times admirable and the rest of the time passable.next to the others i've seen (American Pie, She's All That), this was more than palatable.  worth a viewing if you're so inclined, or even if you're not at first, like me.  if you want a light entertaining teen- and 20-something movie, this just might worth your time. "},{"Title":"Not very intelligent, or fun either","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't mind movies that are dumb or lacking in plot so long as there is something else to hold my attention. The Bone Collector, for example, didn't have the greatest story, but it was exciting and sometimes scary and that was enough. Never Been Kissed is pretty clueless. It's not funny at all. Why? Because it's not smart humor. There's no intelligence to it whatsoever. The same goes for the story. Is it a romance, a comedy, or a drama? I don't think the movie wants to make up its mind here and that's its biggest problem. If it was a drama it could have focused on being deeper, a comedy funnier, etc.  Instead it is merely a lame and predictable story that not even an actress as cute as Drew Barrymore can save. I think this movie wanted to be Clueless with a different edge, but didn't even come close. "},{"Title":"Ok, predictable, but I liked it...","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  So maybe it's the vodka affecting me, but this movie made me cry.  As a 41 year old, I can totally identify with Josie Grossie.  The movie is a complete fantasy, but I think that's what was intended.  Don't we all remember our high schoolmates as stereotypes?  There were smart kids and popular kids, there were jocks and stoners.  I was invisible, which might be even worse.  > I think I look pretty much the same now as I did then, but maybe you won't agree with my own assessment of my looks )  Even back in 1977, I knew that looks weren't the most important thing. Some of the most popular kids weren't the best looking, somehow they just seemed to know something those of us who weren't couldn't seem to figure out.Who wouldn't love to have another chance to go back and do everything right?  That's what I liked about this movie.  Drew Barrymore's character got that chance! "},{"Title":"Barrymore tries hard with some success","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie lives and dies with Drew Barrymore.  She is incredibly likable as Josie Gellar, a 25 year old reporter, assigned to go under cover in high school.  However with the exception of the scene-stealing Molly Shannon and David Arquette the movie goes downhill as darker plotlines such as innapropriate student-teacher relationships are explored with Josie's teacher becoming attracted to Josie.  However this is kept light, but when Arquette (who is supposed to be 23) and Barrymore (who is supposed to be 25) start dating their 16 and 17 year old classmates it still makes you grimace.  The high schoolers portrayed are exagerated stereotypes, and there really is not a likeable one among the nerds or the cool kids.  The ending is somewhat predictable, but I will not ruin it for you.  If you are a Drew Barrymore fan chances are you will enjoy this movie, if you are not then you probably will watch this movie once and forget it.       "},{"Title":"Fluffy but cute","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  OK, this film was predictable, some of the slapstick humor was downright embarrasing to watch, and some of the characters were far too cartoonish - particularly that group of popular girls - but as a former high school nerd I found some grains of truth underneath all the silliness, and I was able to relate to it and enjoy it. Heck, I even had a crush on my cute, oh-so-cool English teacher when I was in high school, even though he wasn't as swoon-worthy as Michael Vartin. I really would like to see more of that guy! I like Drew Barrymore, and she really had her moments in this movie, but in a lot of her scenes I thought she carried the ditziness way too far. She was much better in Ever After. Still, Never Been Kissed was a pleasant way to escape from it all for a couple hours. "},{"Title":"Sweet, sweet movie!","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie, it made me cry, it made me nearly die from laughing! Drew was perfect for Josie, you really could feel Josie's pain, too. Mike Vartan who played (Sam)is a very beautiful actor and person, I happen to know him and he's such a sweetie and he's very talented. I don't understand why people left comments suggesting that pretty people can't be unpopular, all pretty people don't have friends, and they can be nerds, shame on you guys for saying that!     "},{"Title":"A Very Average Movie At Best","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Drew Barrymore makes a very convincing 17 year old. That's about the best I can say about this movie that follows her adventures as a reporter for the Chicago Sun-Times sent undercover to report on high school life today.For the most part the story-line is unbelievable to the extreme. (In today's day and age it is beyond imagination that an apparently respectable high school teacher would put himself in so many potentially compromising situations with a 17-year old student.) The comedy of the movie was underwhelming, and the ending totally (and boringly) predictable.Perhaps a movie for the juvenile set. "}{"Title":"9 out of 10.","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Of course, really experienced reviewers who like stuff like Star Wars and professional crap will definitely drag this movie and say really bad comments about it. But really, it is enjoyable teen comedy with an awesome story and good acting.Josie Gellar (played well by Drew Barrymore) is part of a news-reporting team and she has been offered a ('real') job - she has to go back to school and find out what teens are like these days. Well this goes alright, until Josie remembers her horrible time at High School and gets freaked out. But she's never been hip, never been cool, never been popular until now!Sit back relax and enjoy with Never Been Kissed! "},{"Title":"realistic issues","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i love this movie. it focuses on both issues reality and fantasy. reality because hey, we all wanted a date from that popular guy Billy. and some of us haven't been kissed yet, right? be honest!another real issue is because of the pain people gain from teasing. and whoa, high school life. remember it? the fantasy is finding your true love, when you're 25 and still in high school. not really fantasy, but close enough!although some parts are unbelievable, it was a great movie. there are no other words to describe such incredible work. and the story was wonderful. Drew Barrymore did a charmingly wonderful job, same as the hilarious David Arquette. the people who worked in the movie are all wonderful. didn't i just repeat that?Never Been Kissed is one of the movies that the later generations should watch. it shows reality and some-not issues for people like you and me. "},{"Title":"Doesn't quite live up to its potential","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've been a Drew Barrymore fan ever since E.T., and was very impressed with her performances in Gun Crazy, Boys on the Side, and Mad Love. I think of her as one of Hollywood's most underestimated actresses, and trust she'll be going on to even greater things. When I saw the trailer for Never Been Kissed, I thought this was the one. A movie that would cater to all her strengths- her natural beauty, her comedic flair, and her skill for expressing deep emotion. For the most part the movie puts Barrymore, who also served as a producer on the film, to good use. Sadly, it also plugs her into some rather lame jokes and slapstick humor that falls flat. The movie tries to be too many things at once, and nearly implodes. Going for  the teen comedy audience and the adult female crowd is pretty ambitious, and proves to be too much to handle. For every moment that is heartfelt, there's one that feels phony and forced. The cartoonish depiction of high school kids is especially frustrating. All the students (including the guys) are gung-ho on finding an original theme for their prom.  It's a competition between all the local high schools. If that wasn't unrealistic enough, the popular crowd suddenly embraces  Barrymore's previously loathed character the second she comes up with the prom theme. We then get a montage of her shopping happily with a trio of shallow bitches who have been going out of their way to make her life a hell. This hurts the believability of the character, who is ecstatic to finally be accepted, despite all the hardship she has faced at the hands of these types. There's a difference between naive and stupid. This flick was obviously intended as lighthearted, but thats still no excuse to make the heroine so oblivious to what is so obvious. Still, Barrymore succeeds in injecting her role with alot of warmth and charm. Leelee Sobieski and Michael Vartan also stand out in the rather overstuffed cast. John C. Reilly, Molly Shannon, and Garry Marshall are also good with what they are given to do, but seem underused. All in all, a watchable movie, but one that is likely to having you shaking your head at all the little annoyances in the screenplay.  **1/2, but easily could have been a solid *** with some much needed rewrites. "},{"Title":"Great entertainment and uplifting","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There is little more that I would like to say about this movie than it really can touch your heart if you let it.  Sure, it's surrounded by all the stereotypical Hollywood stuff, but I found myself actually engrossed in this movie and very interested in the outcome.  I'd recommend it to all you romantics out there in a second! "},{"Title":"Excellent - Feel Good Film","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  'Never Been Kissed' is a real feel good film.  If you haven't seen it yet, then rent it out.  I am going to buy it when its released because I loved it.  Drew Barrymore is excellent again, she plays her part well.  I felt I could relate to this film because of the school days I had were just as bad. I thought the plot was well written, there was comedy and romance which are the type of films I love.  I loved the ending because even though you know what's going to happen, it still leaves you sitting on the edge of your seat waiting - anticipating!!   "},{"Title":"Very sappy, very predictable but enjoyable to watch","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie turned out to be pretty much what I expected.  Of course it's sappy, of course it's predictable.  We all know the fairytale.  But knowing that when you go to watch it, it's enjoyable enough to watch.  It was funny and sweet.  I did find it annoying that they showed geeks as either kids who didn't wash there hair or kids who loved math and joined clubs about math and wore T-shirts about math.  I was an outcast in high school and I didn't do these things.  It goes much deeper than that.  Having to do with many things, some of that being how much money your family has, how much you are willing to hide your uniqueness and how mean you are willing to be to other kids.  Anyway, I won't get into it.  I don't agree with other opinions that Drew isn't convincing as a geek.  With braces, no make-up and unwashed hair, I don't think too many people would be drooling over her. And even when she goes back to high-school and sheds those things.   She's still wearing the wrong clothes, wrong hair and has the wrong attitude to be considered cool.  And her other geek friend may be beautiful but it doesn't matter, where I come from, you can still be an outcast and be beautiful.  (inside and out) "},{"Title":"more than it seems","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie may superficially appear to be flaky and for teenie-boppers. It seems to be the stereotypical high school movie. But in fact, it takes an honest and touching look at the high school experience. It doesn't propose some unrealistic ending where the geeks and the popular kids reconcile. It doesn't change what happened in adolescence; it just attempts to reckon with it. This is a really great, fun, heart-warming movie, good for teens and for those who can still remember being one... "},{"Title":"one overlooked aspect","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  fine little comedy.  One overlooked part of the movie was Jeremy Jordan's performance as Guy Perkins.  Jordan is an unconventional choice for the part, but he brings softspoken intelligence, confidence and cockiness (watch the brief moment when he gets Josie's choice for prom theme instantly accepted) to the part and does a great job.  I felt that had the movie tried to develop its characters a little more, it would have been much better. For example, Jordan seems to sincerely fall for Barrymore at a point and having that played out would have generated an interesting romantic triangle between Barrymore's adult-posing-as-student, Jordan's stud and Michael Vartan's teacher.  Anyway, just wanted to mention it, since Jordan's performance doesn't seem to have been recognized. "},{"Title":"Wonderful and enjoyable.","Date":"10 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie, it was humorous and all the cast did a great job. It was not only enjoyable but was what probabally most people can relate with at their schools.It was a beautiful story and story line and I think everyone did a terrific job and I give them 10/10. Well Done People! You Did Well.  "},{"Title":"Drew as the Lowest Common Denominator.","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Every ingenue should get at least one opportunity to star in and carry her own fluff piece.  Drew Barrymore gets her opportunity with Never Been Kissed, the story of a twenty-something misfit who returns to high school.Drew is Josie Geller, a grammar-nut working as the copy editor for a Chicago newspaper.  She isn't crazy about her job, her life is in a rut, and most remarkable of all, she has never been kissed.  Josie's big dream, other than finding her prince, is to take on an undercover assignment.  After much begging, she is suddenly offered the chance to pose as a high school student to get the straight dope on what America's kids are up to these days.  A thrilling opportunity?  No.  However, just the opportunity this vehicle needs to get Drew back into high school.As a teenager, Josie was hugely unpopular, and her crush on a classmate was fodder for the terrible pranks her school mates played on her.  As she returns to high school, Josie finds that things haven't changed much, and before long her awkward personality gets her lumped in with the unpopular kids.  Never Been Kissed is about as predictable and contrived a plot you could hope for.  We know instantly that the hot young English teacher is going to be the big love interest in the film.  We also know that Drew is going to soon have to make a choice between the class geeks and the princesses.  And of course, we are never surprised by any of the choices she makes. Drew Barrymore plays a bit of a character role here.  As a clumsy oaf she pulls it off ... barely.  While she manages to look the part, sometimes dowdy, sometimes ugly, I still suggest that she spend a bit more time with an acting coach.Molly Shannan plays her over sexed best friend in a supporting role complete with a sub-plot that is (thankfully) never realized.  As Josie recounts her dream of being kissed by Mr Right, hot-to-trot Shannon is reduced to tears.  I didn't buy any of it for a second.I must admit, that despite its faults, I did enjoy Never Been Kissed.  A predictable piece of fluff, this film has some cute moments, and while the premise is unbelievably forced it is never dull.  Even though she has a long way to go before she can call herself one of the great Barrymore's, Drew is fun to watch, and this no-brainer serves as a perfect time waster should the need arise. "}{"Title":"cute !","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was great, not only because of it's storyline but because it was portrayed greatly by the excellent cast. I read that Drew Barrymore wasn't exceptional as Josie Geller because she is beautiful. Yes she maybe but in the movie she played outside herself, which brought on a plain girl searching for who she is in the world.  The story is sweet and definitely for the hopeless romantics out there, I for sure am. David Arquette is mad as her brother Rob, and Michael Vartan is gorgeous as Sam Coulson. Leelee Sobieski did an excellent job as her mate Aldys, someone who wasn't afraid to be herself. I think this movie should get more credit rather than being branded as a teeny boppy  flick "},{"Title":"Fun even if we've been there before","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"     Drew Barrymore gets second chance at high school, on undercover assignment as newspaper reporter.  In flashbacks, we see that the first time around was, to put it mildly, a major disaster.  David Arquette is amusing in modest role as Drew's brother, who also enrolls to help out sis.  Lots of subplots endanger but never overwhelm simple charm of movie.  Drew keeps making her niche as major innocent-sexy light comic actress. "},{"Title":"Cute little movie","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this movie for the second time with my 8-year-old daughter and I remembered why we liked it the first time. All these people who say it is bad are too uptight and critical! It is simply an entertaining little movie, it's not supposed to change the world. I thought all the actors did a great job with their characters. (Except for Jeremy Jordan as Guy--he was a maggot who looked seriously in need of soap and shampoo. If HE is supposed to be the hot guy in their school, then they've got slim pickins'.) But I digress--Drew Barrymore was delightful, as usual, and David Arquette was even enjoyable, and I usually can't stomach him, if only because of those STUPID AT&T commercials! Molly Shannon is always entertaining, and Leelee Sobieski did a great job as a tortured brain. Some parts were actually painful to watch, reminding me of high school. Even though I thankfully didn't get made fun of, it made my heart ache for those who do. Movies like this are actually good for children to see--my daughter made several observations about the cruelty of some of the students and how wrong it was. This movie is appropriate for anyone and a good way to while away 2 hours. If there's ever a time you want to see a lighthearted little movie with a happy ending where you don't have to think very much, then this is definitely a consideration. "},{"Title":"7 on a scale of 10","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Women will like this movie better than men. Of course, women like all romantic comedies more than men - on average. I generally like romantic comedies quite a bit, however I considered this a 5.5 for the first 50% of the movie and about a 6.5 for the next 40% and about a 9 for the last 10%. So, begrudgingly, I will rate it a 7. I tape and keep all movies rated a 7 or better and none that are a 6 or worse - at least that's my objective. I have over 1200 movies, so why keep the dogs.My wife liked this movie quite a bit more than me, though I'm not sure why. I am a bigger Drew Barrymore fan than she is.The whole point of this movie was about a young woman who goes back to high school (undercover) to write a story about the high school experience nowadays. She was a dork in high school the first time around and has to learn how to be cool the second time around. Her journey toward cooldom, as well as her falling in love with a teacher, is the story.What drove me nuts for the first half the movie was just how mangy she looked. I wondered why they would pick her for this role until I realized how capable she is at looking like a dog. So much so that I truly don't think I want to see her in 15 years when she gets up in the morning. ARGH!  Naturally, she transformed into a rather attractive (cute) woman by the end and she became very popular.The ending is about a 9.9 on the very sweet scale, so you sappers out there will like that. Otherwise, it isn't very memorable and easily missable. "},{"Title":"drew barrymore makes this movie","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After seeing this movie, I came to the realization that Drew Barrymore is a great actress.  This movie wouldn't have been watchable without Drew.  The fact that somebody as attractive as Drew, could actually gross me out, and she did when she was Josie Grossie.  Her attempts to transition as the cool girls called it were hilarious, especially her trying to dance at the night club.We also had SNL favorite, Molly Shannon, playing a great part as Anita, Josie's best friend.  One of the funniest scenes in the movie was Anita trying to teach the class sex ed.  This was one of Mollys funniest performances and best.Leelee Sobieski also had a great part and I really felt for her, because I know people like her that got tortured like that.This movie is a must see for Drew Barrymore fans, because Drew makes the movie.   "},{"Title":"Romantic comedies","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Drew Barrymore is such a great actress when it comes to these kind of movies. She stars wonderfully and gets away with the quirks and jokes. Romantic comedies like this suit her and I believe that she's done her best so far. Check out her other romantic comedies. You'll see what I mean. "},{"Title":"Great Message","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Drew Barrymore shines in this film, that she also helped produce. I absolutely loved it. Although, it is certainly amazing that the gorgeous Drew had Never Been Kissed it was great seeing her try. Her acting was great, as was her character. I cannot imagine anyone not liking her in my school, though. The nerdy her, was not bad at all. I have been a huge fan of Drew since i saw Scream, ever since then, I have watched everything she has been on. Her pictures, their on my wall, and although she may not be the sexy Poison Ivy in this film, or the cute Casey Becker, she is still gorgeous.Also good-looking are, of course, the in-crowd. Which includes the gorgeous Jessica Alba, Jordan Ladd, and Marley Shelton. All of these girls, will be seen in the future. Their acting was great.David Arquette, once again, goes for the off-beat character, but it suits him. And Michael Vartan is good as Drew's teacher.Molly Shannon, I found enjoyable, and she seemed like the perfect best-friend.Rent this comedy, with a friend, or by yourself, and if you're in high school, as i am, you realize that popularity doesnt matter once you graduate. It doesn't give you a good future, it doesnt help you make money. And I think Drew is the perfect role-model, for sending out such a great message. "},{"Title":"Did I see the same movie?","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I am trying to figure out if I saw the same movie as others who have commented on this film, largely because I had no problems with the casting in this film except that Drew was too young to play David Arquette's older sister.In my opinion, Drew Barrymore is not exactly the most attractive girl around, and when they uglified her for the original High School stuff she looked absolutely like a geek nightmare. She didn't look that much better when the teacher was supposed to be finding her attractive. Whoever did her makeup must have had bad light to do it in. Leelee Sobeski wasn't exactly supposed to be ugly. In fact, the point was supposed to be that just because some one is different doesn't make them less of a person and that beauty is in the eye of the beholder.Yes the film is predictable but there are some great lines in it and performances. David Arquette seems to be carrying on the slacker character that he created in the long distance commercials though and turning it into Rob Geller. The only problem I had was trouble figuring out why Sam came back in the end. I mean hey the guy was packing up to move during the last sequence. They don't let you know why he just shows up.It is otherwise a cute film and something that people can identify with. All of us have felt lonely. We also had our moments in school when we were felt miserable about ourselves. "},{"Title":"Sweet but illogical","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I do agree that this film is indeed charming, given that we are forced to accept Drew Barrymore as the typical nerd of the 90s. However, i was questioning the existence of realism in this film. Could a professional reporter be incognizant enough to know what's hot and not? Is it sensible to see a profesional reporter that does not know what time has influenced by? Is it possible that there exists a graduate soul that has not evenly transitioned from her stage of maturity? I guess Drew Barrymore's charm has made the film overlap to the bounderies of reality.But i guess it is not truly important, if we keep in mind that films are made to entertain, and not to be questioned.6 / 10 "},{"Title":"Totally Awesome Movie!","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think that Never Been Kissed was a totally awesome movie. The casting was really good and they acted very well. I really like Drew Barrymore and of course for me it was excellent. I was scared at first because it said that it wasn't coming out on video. Boy, am I happy that it is because it's a beyond cool movie. Go see it if you already haven't! "}{"Title":"cute and funny teen movie","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked this movie, you could atribute that to the fact that I am 16 years old or that I am a total sap for romances but regardless I think that it is a very nice (not wonderful) teen picture.  I thought that Drew Barrymore was totally believable as the unpopular and unattractive teen/adult in this well cast well written comedy.  No one could look at this movie and say that the young teenage Barrymore would have been given any kisses looking the way that she did.  The only thing that I found slightly unbelievable although very nessisary to the plot was the hard noised editor Garry Marshall.  I liked this movie and would recomend it.  To those who share my opinion I would suggest a veiwing on another teen picture, Ten Things I Hate About You "},{"Title":"Crazy High School Comedy meets Romance with a Capital R","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked Never Been Kissed. I'll just let that sentence stand alone for a bit because much of my reaction cannot be explained. I laughed, got excited and just admired this movie. That said I'll put some of my feelings into words.The camera simply loves Drew Barrymore's face. It expresses many emotions well in a quirky, individual way. No other I actress I have seen lately could have pulled this role off because of how goofy the movie is. Barrymore oozes sincerity in an otherwise silly film and makes it work.Part of Never Been Kissed is a throw back to the nutty school comedies started by Animal House. These characters are not close to being real. They are played for laughs and I did laugh. The scenes in the newspaper office are just as wacky with good supporting actors led by Molly Shannon. One thing I liked a lot about this movie is that many of the actresses including Barrymore did not look like they are dying of starvation.An obvious theme is that high school is a shallow, phony, cruel world. Whether one can relate to this I believe is very personal. People who think high school was the most wonderful part of their lives may be offended by the humor here but to me it was right on. Underneath the crazy comedy and satire, this is romance with a capital R. The film makes it super clear that the idea of the disguised person falling in love is as old as Shakespeare! I like romances and this one followed the rules (unlike You've Got Mail). It is super clear that Barrymore's character and the high school English teacher, Sam, are very compatible.This is not a great movie. It is a bit of fluff. Many of the situations are very predictable especially the ending but romances usually are. And as for the rest, personally, you either can relate to the comedy, satire and romance or you don't. I did and recommend Never Been Kissed.  "},{"Title":"A Wonderful, funny film!","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie, in my opinion, was a wonderful, funny movie.  I thought that Drew Barrymore did a wonderful job in this movie.  I liked the idea of her going back to school to get a report for the newspaper.  I read some other comments that said that it was too predictable.  Well, I couldn't predict anything that happened in this movie.  It kept on surprising me.  I don't think that it was the same-old story either.  It's about Josie Geller going back to school to get a story for her first job as a newspaper journalist and in the process, she realizes that nothing has changed since the last time that she was in high school, when she was considered a geek.  It is not about a geek turning popular, even though that does happen.  That is not what the main plot of the story is, it is mainly about her trying to get her story before her deadline, or she and her supervisor will be fired.I thought that this was a very funny movie.  There was one particular scene when they were in sex ed. that could be inappropriate for small children, but other than that, it's great.  I work in a video store and I have been recommending it to just about everyone who wants a funny, romantic, and heart-warming movie. "},{"Title":"This summer's most overrated film?","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Before I write this, I should make one thing clear - I entered this film against my will and with extremely low expectations, having physically flinched at some of the moments in the trailer.  But if the trailer was bad, then the film itself is far, far worse.It's basically  a direct clash between high-school film and newspaper drama, but of course with all the intelligence, wit, character development and anything else that makes a film watchable surgically removed so as to appeal to the Hollywood target market of asinine 12-18 year old girls.It's a film that sacrifices logic on the altar of a hook (Drew Barrymore - DREW BARRYMORE - as the outsider?  Suddenly sacrificing her principles towards the end?), and instead of characters has empty cliches, ciphers created just to jerry along the plot.The acting (in most cases) veers from second-rate to incompetent, with honourable exceptions being Arquette and Vartan. I could go on.  The directing is just about adequate but pretty uninteresting and the script is caught painfully between the stools of comedy, romance, self-discovery and teen flick.It's a waste of time.  Do not see this film.  End of story. "},{"Title":"short and sweet","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  never been kissed was boring, but the teacher was pretty nice! i quite enjoyed it, but it was too predictable. however, some of the characters, e.g. josies friend at work help to spice up the plot. turnip, turnip, turnip. i apologize, i meant no disrespect. "},{"Title":"GREAT","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In my personal opinion the movie might have been predictable(young girl falls for the sexy teacher)it wasn't very clear what the young outcast would do next,I mean did you know she would start dancing on stage(i didn't)the story line was one that the end you would know what happened. I mean I knew he would show up a comedy doesn't have a sad ending.I just have to say I really loved the movie and recommend that all people who have not watched it go now!!!! "},{"Title":"Fun Comedy For Everyone","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  	During the summer I saw the movie, Never Been Kissed. I thought that it was a great comedy for everyone. The film was humorous, well acted, had a great story line, and had a lot of feeling in it. The plot was creative and realistic. It shows the meaning of life through high school, and how hard it can be with all of the different cliques, and how hard it is to fit in when you don't mesh with the popular kids. Through this film you can see how cruel teenagers can be to each other, especially the dorks or the not popular kids. The statement is kind of saying that some teenagers think that if you are not in their clique then you are no one. 	In the scene where Josie (Drew Barrymore) tries to be cool and all on the first day of school, is hilarious. She had gone shopping and got all of the clothes and accessories that she thought would be cool. But actually when she gets there, no one else looks as pathetic as her. Then at lunch she goes up the the most popular girls in school to ask them what their hopes and dreams are, and they act towards her as though she is from a different planet or something. Josie had been wearing white pants, and as she got up to leave, she spilt her drink all over her pants and then leaves school because she was so humiliated. Josie was terrified and didn't want to ever go back, but she knew that him she didn't then she would be fired.	One night she goes to a party where all of the popular kids are going. When she walked into the club, they stamped her with a stamp tat said DE-LOSER. She ate a brownie from some guy, but what she didn't know was that there were drugs in it so she got really high and started dancing on the stage and everything. She slept in late that night and woke up, but was late for school! So she put on a sweater , still wearing the clothes from the night before, and went off to school. Everyone was laughing at her and she didn't know why. So she ran in to the bathroom and saw that LOSER was on her head. She had slept on her hand last night so half of it came off on her head.The scene was hilarious and very humiliating, for Josie.	The film, Never Been Kissed, is a very fun comedy for the whole family. It is full of happiness, humiliation,  humor, and romantic. The ending is great and all over it is a great story line, I highly recommend this movie.   				By, Hayley "},{"Title":"A nice way to while away a couple of hours","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a really nice little film, even if not as good as 'Ten things I Hate About You'.  Sweet without being sugary. Light without being too shallow. Touching without being preachy or pompous. Incredible but somehow you want to believe it. I liked it.The opening scenes are of Drew Barrymore standing on the pitcher's mound (Is that right? I sometimes have trouble with this Transatlantic language lark) in a baseball stadium. But why is she there? Why is the clock ticking?Barrymore's character is that of Josie Geller, a, ferociously efficient but retentive 25 year old copy editor who longs to be a reporter. Her big break comes when the manically self obsessed proprietor of her Chicago newspaper gives her an  assignment - to go back to high school, an environment in which she suffered mightily first time round (who didn't?), to dish the inside dirt on the youth of today. Brief and incomplete plot synopsis followsYou don't need to work too hard to guess what happens, but in general things are, as P G Wodehouse might have said, &#145;pretty scaly'. As before, she is reviled by the beautiful young things who gravitate to the social circle of the boy-who-has-everything. Eventually, through the intervention of her brother (a baseball whizz but, at time of telling, another of life's losers, working in a dead end job), she eventually gets accepted by the very kind of social group that made her life a misery in her real school years. On the way, guess what? She loses sight of the unconditional friendship given to her by the school geeks (errr, what, you mean her alter egos? Gosh nearly missed that.).Things get more complex when she falls (mutually) in love with her English teacher. A whole lot of ducking and diving ensues until the eventual denouement. The misunderstandings lead us back, via a favourite device of American directors, the prom night, to the opening scene. We find she is actually waiting, in front of a huge TV audience, for the teacher to come to her and give her her first real kiss. Does he arrive? I shall let you find out.This is not all sweetness and light; there is a harder edge. The depiction of the relentless school prejudice against oddballs is horribly true to life (even if Aldys, the ringleader of the main oddball group, the Denominators, falls into the Laney Boggs camp). There is even a line referring to &#145;Carrie'. It is made as a throwaway, but it is a neat reference; there is a real sense that it could all go very ugly very quickly indeed.On the other hand Barrymore turns in yet another sterling performance in a romantic comedy, a field she is rapidly making her own. The Prom Queen speech may be a bit heavy handed (oops, I gave away a plot line), but it does have the ring of truth about it, and she manages to pull it off without an outbreak of mass wincing in the audience.Go and see it, not because it will expand your mind, but just because it is a really nice film.  "},{"Title":"Best I've seen in years!","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Congratulations Drew!  Never Been Kissed is Da-Bomb!  I think Josie is one of your finest roles ever. You have always been a great actress, and you continue to amaze me with each new film you appear in.  For those of you that haven't seen this movie, it is a must!  You will not regret it! "},{"Title":"What d'ya mean, 'Never been kissed'?","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow, Drew Barrymore looking like a dog, never thought I'd see it. But it wasn't for long, and when she wasn't looking as though she'd been dragged through a hedge backwards, she was looking as gorgeous as ever.And the film was very good. Mind you, it was extremely loved up, so I'm not sure that if I hadn't have had my boyfriend with me it would have been as good.A pretty unbelieveable plot, though it was nice, and the guy that plays the teacher- now he was hot!See it, but prepare to be depressed if you don't take a partner. "}{"Title":"Enjoyed it all","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie last week and I have to say that most of the 'teen' flicks are the same, but not this one. It's true that all the movies do have something that makes them different from the rest and Never Been Kissed is no exception. Drew Barrymore portrayed the outcast exceedingly well and was completely believable. I think she was perfect for the role. I think that quite a few people could identify with the character to some degree which makes the film that bit better. I guess the film was all about believing in yourself and I think that a lot can be learned from that. I did really enjoy this film. I would recommend this movie to anyone although it is probably more a 'chick flick'.  "},{"Title":"An Excellent Film--Drew Barrymore Shines","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went into the theatre never before having seen a Drew Barrymore film and came out a changed person.  I thoroughly enjoyed every aspect of the movie Never Been Kissed.  Being a student myself, I can attest that this movie--while sometimes slightly exaggerating reality--is an extraordinarily moving and realistic portrayal of high school life.  Drew Barrymore absolutely shines.  As Josie faces her demons and comes to terms with who she is, I found myself feeling and reacting similarly.  Only the best movies can have that effect on a person, and this one certainly is one of the best. "},{"Title":"soo surprised, though the plot was predictable","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Basically me and a mate went to the cinema to see a movie that we had not yet seen, Never Been Kissed was it.  The trailer basically told the story, the plot was never meant to be a surprise.  A little secret, my friend has never cried at a movie as long as I have known her, that was until now!  we both cried at the ending.  Even though it was so very predictable, it is exactly what we want, it wasn't a dull predictable ending, more of a classic feel good ending.Drew Barrymore, I believe made a good geek in the flash backs.  She made us snigger the whole way through with her goofy ways that made us cringed! We both believed that if we had to wait that long for our first kiss, standing on a baseball pitch in the arms of Michael Vartan (even though he is in his early 30's) would be it.Where has Michael Vartan been hiding all these years anyway? I hope we will see more of him in the future "},{"Title":"Aaaaah, isn't that nice...","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I walked into the cinema and didn't have a clue what this film was about.  I had wanted to watch South Park, but the people I was with wouldn't let me.  So here I am watching a romantic comedy, when my favourite movie is Goodfellas.  You get the picture - this film was going to have to do a lot to win me over.  The idea itself was OK.  But the casting? Imagine the scene.  All the people sitting round a table, fairly young person who we can dress up as nerdy.  How the hell did they get Drew Barrymore.  Anyway if you leave that aside, the film gets into it straight away.  You learn that Barrymore is a journalist, with an obsession for being tidy and organised and everyone laughs at her. The whole film includes flash-backs to her time at school, which is some kind of false character development.  We get the point that she's a nerd and if you want to include these, then at least make them interesting and unpredictable. But those two words had never occured to the makers of Never Been Kissed.  She falls in love with her teacher, meets his beautiful girlfriend, who he then splits up with, there's romantic tension between them, and so on and so forth. The filming is un-dramatic, the story predictable and un-original and then it turns out nice with her hard-done by brother getting what he always wanted, her getting kissed, and everyone is happy. If you like this kind of nice and happy film, then it's well made.  But, Goodfellas it isn't.  The film didn't win me over.  And I wish we had seen South Park. "},{"Title":"What a great movie","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen this movie 3 times.  It never gets old.  I love the way the characters are played.   Drew is just brilliant. Michael Vartan is also great. If you enjoy a movie where the girl gets what she really deserves you will love this movie.  It is a chick flick.  I have recommended this movie to all of my friends.  It is truly a great heart warming movie "},{"Title":"Enjoyable!  Go, see, forget!  Have fun!","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an enjoyable way to spend the evening - you could certainly do a lot worse than see this film.  OK, it's not Oscar-winning, mind-blowing, event movie stuff, but it passes a very enjoyable couple of hours.  Drew Barrymore turns in a remarkably well-rounded (if somewhat clichéd ugly duckling/swan) character, David Arquette's character is good fun, and Michael Vartan (aside from being stunning to look at) makes a likeable love interest.  We all remember our High School days, and perhaps that's why the film will do quite well.  Because, love them or loathe them, it was those days that helped shape us into who we are today - and all of us have some great memories, and some not-so-great ones (I was the one always picked last for sports you remember, glasses and freckles?).Watching this kind of film frustrates me a bit, because Americans get to have proms, and fairs and are allowed to wear their own clothes - all I got in rainy England was a mountain of homework and Saturday school.  I want a carnival like at the end of Grease, too.  No fair.Well, never mind - because we don't forget those magic days, and secretly, we all want to go back and have the chance to do it all again.  But we can't, because we're stuck in our nine to five jobs and have bills to pay.  So it was nice to have Drew and the rest of the Never Been Kissed crew to remind us.  Chuck in a little romance, a lovely soundtrack, a potential crisis, the will they/won't they factor, wait for the happy ending, and ding!  Your recipe for success.So, all in all, it was a little formulaic and slightly stodgy in places (it could have afforded to move a lot faster, probably because the audience knew what was going to happen before it actually did).  You know who's going to get their come-uppance, who's going to be the belle of the ball, and you can more or less guess the ending.  Does that make it a bad film?  Nah, I don't think so.  I buy into this cheesy stuff, bring it on.  It makes you giggle, it makes you go aaaah, and when the credits roll, you leave and don't think much more about it again.  It's a great way to leave your troubles at the concessions stand.Will I buy it on video?  No.  Will I go to see it at the cinema again?  No.  Will I forget about it in a couple of years time?  Probably.  Will I recommend it to my friends?  Certainly, because I didn't have to think, enjoyed it, giggled, went aaaah, and surely that's what I was after.  A little diverting piece of fun and that's what makes Never Been Kissed so great. "},{"Title":"Predictable but enjoyable","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  O.k. so there are very few surprises in the plot of this film, but that doesn't mean it wasn't an really enjoyable movie. The best romantic comedies are predictable and mushy in parts that is their charm. It was also really funny in places, and you walk out of the theatre feeling happy,that sometimes things do work out for the best. If you dislike sentimental films which romanticise love all out of proportion it's probably best to steer clear of this. But any woman in her right mind would be swayed by the lovely portrayal of Josie's teacher and love interest, Sam Coulson, by the gorgeous Michael Vartan, worth the admission only believe me. Not a groundbreaking film by any stretch of the imagination but a good piece of entertainment. Go see it! "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  okay...i`ve seen this movie, and it was great! Drew Barrymore was at her best playing Josie, she has wonderful talent and the movie is fantastic. I love the part in the movie, the ending, and the part where Josie went to the mall with the girls from her school,where she became popular in the end, and they started playing,  Heaven Tonight by the group Hole. It was perfect timing to play that song and i, myself, love Hole and Courtney Love and Drew Barrymore is one of Courtney`s closest friends, so it was really interesting! I thought it was amazing when they started playing the song, the timing was great, the movie was hilarious and sad at times, all in all, i loved it! -love, bijou "},{"Title":"Pleasantly Surprised","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought to myself as I watched the first few minutes of this movie and wondered how I let my daughter talk me into going to watch this movie.Jessica Alba (alone) was worth the price of the ticket.  I predicted that she would be a star when I first was her in the Flipper TV series.Leelee Sobieski... she just makes you pay attention to her even if she is in a silly movie like this one.  Leelee is the young lady who stared in the TV series Joan of Arc and played the shop keepers daughter in Eyes Wide Shut.  In this movie she plays a supporting role and still makes the most of it with seemingly little effort.  She's good.I don't like Drew.However, I left thinking that this would be a good time to tell me daughter how cruel people can really be.It was cute, had cute girls, and had a romantic ending.7/10 "},{"Title":"I saw this movie 4 times in the theater and i wanna see it again and again!","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie. Drew Barrymore is da bomb and so is everybody else in the movie. I laughed and I cried. It was one of the best movies I have ever seen. I love the song Erase/Rewind by the Cardigans and I'm getting the soundtrack. If There was one movie you could go out and see make it be Never Been Kissed I loved it and I'm sure if you like a comedy romance then you'll love it to! "}{"Title":"A very touching movie!","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's more than your average summer teen flick... This movie made me feel real bad in the sad bits and even worse in the happy ending(that's not really a spoiler- it's an American teen flick for god sake!)... I also had similar nerds in my school and I was quite a creep to them too. Nothing like what was done in the movie, but that's not saying much. The happy ending was another sad touch as I know in real life those outcasts usually lose.The movie mixes humor well with some extremely well done sad scenes and Drew Barrymore is a great actress her Josie reminded me a lot of a girl I used to make fun of in my class... Boy, do I feel like a jerk.The story is a collection of cliches mixed together with a nice new spin. The ending is a bit weird, but interesting and enjoyable. This is my favorite teen movie of summer '99 (with the competition being She's All That and 10 Things I Hate About You). "},{"Title":"A True Look Of High School","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having been a high school outcast myself, this movie really hit home to me. Because in high school, sometimes it's not about what you look like or how smart or how nice you are, it's just about getting accepted.  That's why this movie stood out to me, because it's a true loser in high school getting a chance at what she always wanted-popularity.Watching Drew's character Josie go from a geek to pathetic to the most popular girl in school is both entertaining and true to life.  I assure you that if an old friend of mine had transfered to my school, become popular and built me up like Josie was built up, I would too become popular.In the end, when Josie talks about the different groups in high school, tears came to my eyes.  Tears remembering the people who impacted my life, never knowing that they did.  What we all wouldn't give to, six years later, go back to high school.  Being better looking, smarter and more prepared. But the truth is, some people are cruel in high school.  Those are the people who will always rememeber high school as the best years of their lives.  But most of us are like Josie Geller.  Living high school wishing for popularity, feeling like it was all unfair.  I'll tell you something, high school is unfair, it doesn't matter if you look like Drew Barrymore or a super model, the only way you won't be an outcast is if one person thinks you're cool.To me this movie was more accurate than the cute She's All That because Josie wanted to be popular.  And it was that need that kept her from her popularity.  I would recomend this movie to anyone. "},{"Title":"Never Been Better","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I give it four stars out of four.  Drew Barrymore has never been better in a movie.  I loved it so much that I saw it four times in a theater, and it STILL wasn't enough.  Drew played a great role as a high school ugly duckling who turned into a beautiful swan.  Not only did she become popular, but she used it for a good cause.  On the night of the prom, her true love stood her up for a sexy broad...but she got another chance.  I will buy this movie, and you should too.  It has a lot of heart.  It was Drew's best since E.T.. "},{"Title":"Drew Barrymore is a very talented actress","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Drew Barrymore plays Josie Gellom who is trying to get a story on a school and her teacher. Good for for Drew even though she plays a nerd but that's ok Drew can do any kind of role if you ask me. Leelee Sobiaski who played the girl that was in that club did a good job. This is a good movie has some funny scenes in it. The ending is really different with Drew just standing out on a baseball field waiting for the teacher to come and kiss her and everybody starts yelling Josie,Josie,Josie,Josie. I give this 4 **** stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"A fun movie to watch with friends.","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Drew Barrymore does a great job in this fun comedy about a reporter going back to high school in search of a story.  Some people might not take Drew very seriously but she is a talented and versatile actress.It isn't boring or too intense, just a great funny movie to enjoy with friends.  When you see it at the video store pick it up and call some friends for a night of hanging out.  I highly recommend you take the time to see it.   "},{"Title":"Disappointing but still good.","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must admit that I was a little disappointed when leaving the cinema. Don't get me wrong, it was still a fairly good movie. I just expected it to be more like 10 Things I Hate About You. Drew Barrymore and David Arquette play their parts well. "},{"Title":"Never been kissed.....A GREAT movie that leaves the viewers thinking about certain things that are SO TRUE...Nice","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is just one GREAT movie, one of the best about modern romance. It´s not a typical lame and long romantic movie No siree!It makes u laugh a lot and Drew Barrymore shows and demonstrates she can do comedy. YOU GO GIRL!!!!! EXCELLENT MOVIE!GO SEE IT!I GIVE IT 10 THUMBS UP!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"don't go back to high school","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I almost walked out of this one! Leelee Sobieski was the only saving grace of this movie. Everyone else in this movie looked horrible (poor Drew), and the plot was so unoriginal! "},{"Title":"Excellent!!","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie!!! Drew Barrymore is such a talented Actress.  Her co-star Michael Vartan is such a babe, and a wonderful actor.  I don't see how anyone could hate this movie. I loved it. 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A Pleasant Surprise","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This teen-oriented comedy is a cut or two above most.  I found it highly enjoyable and very funny, thanks in no small part to the charm of Drew Barrymore, who demonstrates a continued flair for light comedy that started to blossom in The Wedding Singer.  She's very endearing here as a slightly daffy plain jane copy editor who gets her first big news assignment....to go undercover at a high school and get the scoop on today's high schoolers. Her efforts to blend in with the 'cool kids' make for some hilarious and surprisingly pointed scenes that will strike home with many.  A vast array of familiar faces in the supporting cast and some smooth, assured direction by Raja Gosnell help smooth over the sometimes predictable plot.This one's a winner.  3 *** out of 4 stars.  "}{"Title":"Giggle Glut","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Drew Barrymore as an ugly duckling, seventeen year old schoolgirl?Some films force you to think of the camera, looming behind the actors, displaying the star and  Never Been Kissed seldom manages to push the film production process very far away.That Drew Barrymore is the executive producer of Never Been Kissed might have had something to do with this but it was the overwhelming  falseness of Never Been Kissed that really threw the I can't believe this anymore sentiment into sharp relief.This film is absolutely stuffed with Barrymore's forced girly giggles and shoulder shrugs, gestures guaranteed to have all but girls who giggle squirming.Add to this  the set retinue of stock characters who always get paraded in these sorts of American movies and we have an entertainment that is likely to have you squirming within the first reel.Josie Geller (Barrymore) is a 25 year old  assistant editor at the Chicago Sun Times. She asks for and gets an assignment as an undercover reporter at her old  high school. Her assignment - to find a story, any story worth printing.She was a dork 8 years earlier when she was in her final year at high school and had found the experience humiliating. She's not much more socially adept these days.Josie gets spurned by the kool at school and predictably the other geeks befriend her. They are led by Aldys, played by Leelee Sobieski, the girl from Deep Impact.The film makers milk the geek at high school comic factor as far as possible and Barrymore in turn hams it up mercilessly. She was charming in her sparkly new, good girl, guise in Ever After and in The Wedding Singer  but here she's just embarrassing.You can pick about 15 minutes in that Never Been Kissed will head for the prom and that there will be the usual reckoning and comeuppance we have seen dozens of times in film. There is a final scene that is a bit of a surprise and this is a genuinely nice moment but it's not worth waiting for.  "},{"Title":"Trip down memory lane","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although I wasn't treated as bad as Josie when I was at school, I was definitely her. Watching this movie reminded me so much of what I went through (the constant name calling, being tripped over etc etc for no apparent reason. Why is that just because you are popular it gives you a license to treat the rest of us like dirt?)Drew Barrymore is such a wonderful actress that so many times during this movie, tears came to my eyes because it was like I was watching myself on screen. I have a younger brother who was popular and he, like Rob does in the movie, became my saving grace - even though I never did become miss popularity.Anyway, Drew and David Arquette are my favourite actors today and they were great in this movie and it is wonderful that David is getting such great exposure that it has been a long time coming. Jeremy Jordan was also good as was Michael Vartan - I could go on all day about how great he was in this movie.Never been kissed is definitely one of the better movies in its genre and it is one you must add to your video collection. "},{"Title":"Drew has Never Been Better!","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When my friend brought the video over to my place, my first thought was boooooring! But as the story began to unfold I find myself more and more interested. I thought Drew Barrymore was great in the movie as she was able to portray Josie Geller very well, both as a geek in high school and a modern career woman. This movie was touching yet romantic at heart and in the words of Josie Geller herself, what I discover was myself. This movie is is totally rufus and the soundtrack was awesome. "},{"Title":"Yet another boring teen flick","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yawn! Let's see, this film end at some dumb high school prom like all the other stupid teeny bopper movie do. Man!I want something new, I don't want the dumb same old crap that I've already seen like a billion of times.If you really want to make an good movie, TRY MAKING YOUR OWN Than copy other people's work.No Stars "},{"Title":"I loved it!!!","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was great....it's sure to go down in history as one of the good romantic comedies. And Drew Barrymore is absolutely great. She is a wonderful actress and proved herself to be just as excellent in producing. Along with one of her other movies, like Ever After, Never Been Kissed will definitely be added to my collection. Keep it up Drew!! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly coarse","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I expected silly humor. I expected some meanness, this being a film about high school kids picking on other high school kids.  But I didn't expect the degree of coarseness with which this movie was made.  It had potential, mostly in the appeal of the actors, but that potential was smothered under cruel slapstick and overly-geeky costuming, makeup, and mannerisms. Considering that (at this point) Notting Hill has been rated close to the same as Never Been Kissed, go see Notting Hill instead.  It's much more subtle, and better executed. "},{"Title":"I thought this movie was the greatest.","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have so far seen this movie 3 times and I could go see it again.  I took my niece there and she says it is better than Ever After it had a fabulous ending and I recommend that everyone go see this movie. "},{"Title":"Princess Drew Makes It Likable","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went and saw this movie just because of Drew. I enjoyed it, even while inwardly shaking my head at myself for enjoying it. It has every cliche in the book, but somehow Drew's earnestness radiates through the whole thing, so it didn't rankle. There were scenes when I thought the rest of the crowd was going to throw up they were laughing so hard, and I'll admit that I was laughing right along with them. I felt genuinely upset for Josie when that jerk threw eggs at her. Some of the lines made me cringe, like when Drew was mad at the prom. Come on, Drew, surely you can work up some actual anger, even if sugar wouldn't melt in your mouth in real life. But what the hay, it was a stupid-fun, enjoyable way to spend an afternoon.  "},{"Title":"Funny and bordering on Chick Flick.","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved the movie.  The cast was excellent.  It was kind of boring at the very beginning, but when Josie Geller (Barrymore) started High School, I practically couldn't take my eyes of the screen.Drew Barrymore did an exquisite job. She proved that if you want something bad enough you work hard and really truly want it you can get whatever you want.As soon as Jeremy Jordan (Guy Perkins) entered the picture I was hooked 100%. Jeremy Jordan is not only a talented actor, he is also extremely attractive.  I loved how he portrayed Guy, first as a jerk and then a nice guy, somewhat.  Not many people could pull off such a transaction, you've got to be a talented actor to do it. Jeremy is definitely a talented actor. He should be around for some time.David Arquette was exquisite, he makes the perfect funny man.  With movies such as Buffy, the Vampire Slayer, Scream, Scream 2 and the awaited Scream 3, and now Never Been Kissed under his belt, he'll be around for quite a while.I enjoyed this film and wouldn't mind seeing it a couple more times. "},{"Title":"Yea Drew!","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have to admit that I was a little embarrassed walking into this movie-- after all, it really is for pre- teens-- and I didn't have very high expectations for it, but I was pleasantly surprised by how well written it was, which isn't to say that the script was some kind of masterpiece, but in its own way, it was quite insightful and very very funny.  What makes this film a sheer joy is Drew Barrymore.  Why can't she be in every movie? She's tough, yet vulnerable, and in my opinion, nothing less than a comedic genius.  She's one of the only Hollywood actresses who, despite her effervescence and good looks, women can really relate to.  There's just something so honest about her.  Sorry to gush, but she just lights up the screen. The film also does a very nice job of exploring (albeit in a fairytale sort of way) just how rotten high school and adolescence in general can be, and how as silly as it may seem, the trauma we attain during that period of our lives can affect us in very damaging ways as we get older.  I'm sure someone is reading this review and rolling their eyes.  Yes, this movie is a light comedy which follows Hollywood conventions closely, but it has a point to make and it makes it very well. "}{"Title":"One of my faves!","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a fantastic movie for anyone who understands what it's like to not be the most beautiful girl in the world!  It took me a long time to recognize that it's what I've got inside that counts, and this is the message I got from 'Never Been Kissed'.Josie is a wonderful person who definitely deserves the happiness she found. I don't know if I would personally want a second chance to relive my high school years, but I certainly enjoyed doing it vicariously through Drew Barrymore.  This movie had all of the necessary elements to put it in a class of its own - romance, humor, tons of emotion, and lots more.I've been to see it 4 times now, and I don't think I could possibly get sick of watching Drew light up the screen as Josie.  And what a wonderful ensemble for the supporting cast, too - David Arquette is just plain adorable; Molly Shannon rocked my world as sex-crazed yet 100% vulnerable Anita; and what can I say about Michael Vartan except just plain ol' *WOW* - that guy's got a screen presence that just won't quit! )  Even Guy Perkins and his amazing Lemmings (sp?) were great!  And besides Drew, I must say that I thought the highlight of the movie was Leelee Sobieski as Aldise - that girl is definitely going places...All in all, this is one movie that will be a constant fixture in my VCR when I'm able to purchase it.  It doesn't get much better than this! "},{"Title":"great story, great acting by Barrymore and Arquette","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This has to be one of the greatest films I have ever seen. I am the ultimate, number 1 Drew Barrymore fan. I dont care if you're a guy and just think she is hot, she is my idol, now on the movie.  Sure, it is a very cheesy plot, and for that reason, I was reluctant to see it the first day it came out. but when I saw it for the first time, I realized that they were so good at making movies, the story made up for the plot ten times. when Barrymore makes a geeky mistake, you find yourself shriveling up and feeling really bad for her, when you hear her correct people, it annoys you, and when you hear her giving a heartwarming speech, you think, that's talent. I wish I cold go on fanatic and tell her how much her acting does for people, how it inspires me, but you have to be 18, I'm not. I cried because of how unique her acting is. This movie is amazing. "},{"Title":"How bad was it?  When I left the theater, I felt dirty.","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As I sat down in theater, I was determined to be unbiased.  That feeling did not last long.  This is a movie that based completely around cliches.  It probably did not help that I had seen Election the night before, and that was a bit more intelligent.  This movie is a big slow-witted oaf of a film that tries to hard to get the laughs, and the laughs were few and far between.  The cast is deceiving.  Drew Barrymore, John Reilly and David Arquette are all capable of getting the job done.  But as I watched the movie, I really felt sorry for them.  I am sure at least once they were embarrassed to read those god-awful lines.  I would be.  I could go into every flaw of the movie but I have to keep it under 1,000 words so I will save myself the effort.  This movie is gauged directly for really really stupid yuppies and for fourteen year old girls who feel insecure about puberty and their braces.  As I left the theater, I felt dirty.  I knew that somewhere out there a starving artist had an awesome script that could have been made into a great film.  But a Studio Head thought it would be a great idea if they made another movie about high school. (That must be the big thing right now)  Instead of helping the starving artist, I gave seven dollars of my own money to these bone heads so they can only put out another movie.  I am guessing that we can expect more movies like Never Been Kissed. "},{"Title":"A little something for everyone who's Never Been Kissed","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This flick is for everyone who was just a bit nerdy in high school.  It reminds us just how cruel (and kind) kids can be.  Drew Barrymore was perfect in the title role.  A true ugly duckling turned graceful, beautiful swan.And the comedy doesn't bite, either!  A good time for everyone who might like a second chance to make that first high school impression... "},{"Title":"A great chick flick and date movie!","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw Never Been Kissed twice and I absolutely fell in love with it. It has to be one of my favorite movies!;-)It is sweet, funny, romantic, sad, etc! there are some hilarious scenes! (i.e. Josie (Drew Barrymore) hits her teacher, Sam Coulson (Michael Vartan) in the face with a condom!;-) LONG STORY!!!! With the humor of Molly Shannon & David Arquette, the chemistry between Drew Barrymore and Michael Vartan, Never Been Kissed is a winner!Definitelly check it out and check out the soundtrack! "},{"Title":"A Waste Of Time","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a big disappointment. I love Drew Barrymore and her acting is the only saving grace. The script is terrible and totally unbelievable. The music is great though, probably because I grew up in the 80s. I definitely wouldn't recommend this to anyone unless you're a die-hard Drew Barrymore fan. "},{"Title":"feel good chick flick","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Definitely a feel good movie, the kind that you tend to go see with a large group of friends or your significant other.  The main character is of the misunderstood nerdy female variety (the one audiences love to identify with).  The plot, a prodigious yet low self-esteemed writer faces a series of humorous yet predictable dramas.  In the end, our hero somehow musters up the inner strength to solve all her problems and ultimately gets the boy. That is what you are paying to see, and the film does not disappoint. "},{"Title":"rufus!","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Rufus! The film was cute and quirky at the same time leaving us with morals. The script was witty, despite the other reviews I've read. It was not 'that' realistic but who cares? I was entertained and I guess that's what I'm looking for in a movie. Entertainment.Plus, the fact that Michael Vartan, David Arquette, and Jeremy Jordan were there was enough to make me watch!   "},{"Title":"Wonderful romantic comedy","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have read a lot comments about this movie, some being very favorable and others trashing it. I must say that this movie was a wonderful romantic comedy, the kind that I, a cynical moviegoer, loved wholehearted.Sure the plot has holes (as a magazine editor, I had trouble believing that a copy editor would have two assistants) but they are easily forgotten because of the charm of the movie and its talented cast, mainly Drew and Michael Vartan.Drew Barrymore was at her charming, engaging best. What other young actress of her fame and talent would allow herself to look so unattractive most of the film? To humiliate herself in front of millions by dancing like a dork? Certainly not that insipid Gwyneth Paltrow or any of the other hot young actresses. Drew is one of the few who is willing to go the extra distance. Her transformation from ugly duckling to beautiful swan is both exhilarating and painful to watch. Painful because we have all faced bouts of inadequacy and exhilarating because we can all overcome them.Where do I begin with Michael Vartan? He is simply divine! Jaw-droppingly beautiful and talented. I have seen most of his other films and he gives his whole self to each role, whether it is as a lawyer, a murder-minded college student, or a tragic French soldier. He has more talent in his little finger than most other hot young actors. The only other actor that I feel has as much captivating screen presence and intelligence is Ewan McGregor. And they are drastically different actors.Vartan brings such charm and earnestness to his role as Sam Coulson. His romance with Drew was touching and believable because of their on-screen chemistry. I know that if I had an English teacher that good looking when I was in high school ten years ago, I never would have gone to college.Vartan is going to hit the stratosphere. I'm very happy to see him get such a pivotal role in a major studio pick. Drew deserves credit for pressuring the studio to hire him even though he doesn't have a big name. That will certainly change. "},{"Title":"Charming!","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Anyone who felt awkward during high school can totally relate to this movie. I had a smile on my face from the beginning to the end.  Even the closing credits are amusing, showing the cast and crew in their high school pictures.  Drew Barrymore has never been more appealing in a film and her personally hand-picked co-star, Michael Vartan, steals every scene he is in. "}{"Title":"Good movie.","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed Never Been Kissed quite a bit. Drew Barrymore was very funny in this film and David Arquette added a nice comic touch as well. The film isn't perfect but will leave you thinking about your high school days. "},{"Title":"Could've been better","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought that this movie wasn't half bad, but I guess, being the sensitive guy that I am, there were some teary parts.  This movie had some flaws (the loser on her head should have been backwards, unless that was a really weird stamp), but I think it was a good one to take my girlfriend to. It kind of makes me wonder how others at school view me. "},{"Title":"A Sweet Romantic comedy","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As usual the critics are wrong. This movie is a wonderfully poignant, funny and romantic movie. Drew plays the geek very well who blossoms into her full potential while enduring high school again for an undercover story. Not many of us would want to do that but if I were guaranteed the ending she got I might do it. Her supporting cast, especially Michael Vartan and Leelee Sobieski were great.  I think most of us can relate to Josie in that we are not all jocks and cheerleaders yet we are all human beings deserving of respect and consideration not humiliation.I highly recommend this movie. I have now seen it twice with friends and we all have loved it. This is a movie I will buy to have in my collection. Drew picked another winner. I can't wait to see what she does next. You will walk out of the theatre smiling with this one. "},{"Title":"Not just another Clueless","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Don't get me wrong.  I'm probably one of the biggest Drew Barrymore fans out there, and if I ever meet her, I'll propose to her on the spot.  However, I wasn't expecting too much from this movie.  The previews and vague story-line echoed Clueless (not a hideous film in its own regard) and Peggy Sue got Married.But this movie was like Clueless with a clue.  It used the ditzy theme to its advantage, and reversed it to promote a more realistic story.  If Drew had been too confident or mature, it would have seemed out of place in a High School.  There are a few scenes that make you groan how cheesy they are...but then again, highschool was like that.I especially liked how her entire backup crew went along for the journey with her.  Although it was she who was reliving her past, they all connected with the struggles, regrets, wishes and feelings of being able to turn back the clock and do it all over again.Bottom line  This movie is best seen as a whole.  It's not Barrymore's best movie, but hardly by her own fault.  That's just personal preference talking.  Behind the plastic mask of a superfical setting, this movie has real feeling and guts to it's story and characters.I look forward to Flower Pictures' next movie, knowing it will be even better as it evolves and tests out its wings. "},{"Title":"David Arquette and Drew Barrymore are a winning combination","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Never Been Kissed provides lively entertainment for the viewer. Drew Barrymore is charming as Josie Geller, a 25-year old reporter who receives the assignment to go undercover as a high school senior.  Josie had always been a geek in high school and is hoping to make a better impression this time.  David Arquette, one of my favorite actors shines as her brother Rob.  David Arquette is in my opinion one of the most under rated actors out there.  He is hilarious and great entertainment.  With a great supporting cast, including Molly Shannon and Michael Vartan, this romantic comedy shines. "},{"Title":"Likeable in spite of itself","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie manages to be fun and likeable despite an uneven script.  It's likeability is mostly due to the cast, especially Drew Barrymore, who has certainly found her stride as an actor.  She's very sympathetic, as she was in Ever After and The Wedding Singer.  David Arquette is a big plus, too, and it's nice to see him back in a decent quirky role and not just AT & T commercials.  Unfortunately, the movie is totally predictable, and not one detail in the newspaper room rings true (especially Garry Marshall as a tyrannical editor).  Despite knowing exactly what was going to happen, I had a good time at this movie.  See it, but don't think about it too much.  "},{"Title":"Does It Really Matter What Your Place is in High School.","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Never Been Kissed, staring Drew Barrymore, is a new comedy about a 25 year-old women named Joise Gellar, who realizes it doesn't matter what your place is in High School.  Very CUTE film.  Drew Barrymore has never been better in Never Been Kissed. I recommend this film to others. "},{"Title":"ditzy, funny, trippy, young love kind of movie","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Twenty-five year old Josie learns that she becomes a high school girl again when she hides as a student reporting for her real job in life is. It is her big break and she learns the good times and bad times. What is really neat about this movie is that they go back in time when she was in high school. Being a geek and treated very wrong. Even when she is under cover she first gets treated bad for a few times but most of it was her fault by being ditzy anyway. It really was funny for that though. Trippy enough when people turn to her for advice and finally getting popular. Falling in love with a teacher who really is about her true age and having a young male fall in love with her who isn't her age. So who will kiss her? Watch it and find out when and how. "},{"Title":"Drew Barrymore is a very gifted actress.","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought it was an awesome movie and Drew was wonderful in it.  She has been wonderful in all the movies she has played in.  She is truly a very gifted actress. "},{"Title":"Funny How Good a Movie Can Be When Expectations are Low","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw Never Been Kissed last Friday after Matrix was sold out.  I like Drew Barrymore and had heard good things about her performance but was not expecting too much.  Boy was I surprised. This is a pretty good all around movie with some excellent comedic performances (most notably Molly Shannon and David Arquette). Sure you have a pretty good idea what's going to happen but there is a terrific laugh every minute. I also loved the prom scene which is a nice spoof of one of the all time great movies (I won't say which one).  A nice light date movie that left me smiling long after it was over. PS Definitely better than the Wedding Singer.  "}{"Title":"Take Me Back!","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found Never Been Kissed to be quirky, cute, romantic, and a flashback of high school!  I thought it was a great film and Drew did a fantastic job of making you relate to Josie and how she must have felt back in high school. I'll go see it again! ) "},{"Title":"Surprisingly sweet and funny film!","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A couple of things about this movie  1)Drew Barrymore plays a great geek! and 2) when the credits start rolling, I couldn't resist giving my honey a big kiss!  Never Been Kissed is cute, light, and fun. "},{"Title":"Awesome movie!!!","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed the movie a lot. David Arquette is so funny!! I want to see more of this Michael Vartan guy, he did such a good role of the teacher. "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a great movie about how life really is for teenagers. I can definitely relate to Josie in many ways. If you need a wake up call, this is the movie to see. Funny and touching at the same time. "},{"Title":"The tragedy of high school","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a lightweight comedy all about the torture that is high school and how some of us never get over it.  Actually, I don't think high school was ever as bad as its made to seem in the movies - I thought junior high was worse!  The movie is enjoyable but forgettable, and passes by pleasantly. Its not to be taken too seriously, so don't even try to, because it doesn't bear close inspection.  Drew Barrymore is cute as ever - how can you possibly dislike Drew? - but there are certainly times when her comic touch could stand to be a bit lighter, if you know what I mean.  The awkwardness is just a little bit too awkward.  Still, there aren't too many actresses who would have posed for her hilarious yearbook picture with the braces, or consented to appear in what must be the most hideous prom dress ever.  At least she's a good sport!  One problem  the romance with the teacher is more than a little bit creepy when in real life there are teachers being arrested for just that sort of activity. "},{"Title":"A movie with a lot of character.","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's nice to see that sometimes movie stars can just taking a break and do something fun.  Never Been Kissed was a quirky, hilarious love story that sometimes makes you cringe and sometimes makes you smile.  I have always kind of put myself in the character's shoes, similar to reading.  Some of the scenes that should have been hilarious, made me wince, which isn't great, but better than nothing.  I want to see more of Micheal Vartan! Everytime he was in a scene, all the girls in the audience squealed and sunk way down in their seats.  He's much better looking than most young guys that Hollywood has been producing.  Drew Barrymore was as charming and fun as ever.  Much preferable to the ideal teens we see in the new surge of dumb teen flicks.  And David Arquette!  Adorable, what else can be said. Likable characters really helped this movie.  Congrats to Drew, on her first producing job! "},{"Title":"Never Been Kissed Should Never Be Missed","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well Drew Barrymore hits pay dirt again! Following the disappointment of Home Fries, Drew hits a second straight winner with Never Been Kissed. Drew who recently charming in Ever After is delightful as Josie Geller the routine high school nerd turned return to high school standout. Drew is a daring reporter who awkwardly at first, then with her brother's help successfully infiltrates a local high school, becomes a student again and charms her way to gaining the acceptance she never had the first time around. It's a perfect feel good movie about the opportunity to do high school over again, a surprisingly good thing that most of us never get a chance to do. Drew however proves rewards await if you try to return to school to erase your past mistakes. The supporting cast is top notch with Michael Vartan as the quintessential cool teach, and and Jordan Ladd, Cheryl's cute daughter leading the obligatory group of snobs. Additionally young Helen Hunt prototype Leelee Sobieski soon to be Joan of Ark on tv plays leader of the eggheads. Anyway the film is super! Bravo Drew! It far exceeds the way off base review by some reviewer for ew magazine who keeps attacking every feel good movie around. This is a sure fire a+ movie , not the d he gave it. Ultra recommended! 10 out of 10!!! "},{"Title":"a very cute movie!","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i saw never been kissed just today.it was a very cute movie.it starts out good then for about 45 minutes it's up,and down.sometimes entertaining some times not in that 45 minutes.then the last 20 to 30 minutes of never been kissed is unstoppable. it's just great.it's a great date movie.you can relate to this movie so much.it's a bit better than the wedding singer.the prom scene is the best i've seen in a long time.drew barrymore is so hot,and very cute in this movie.this movie also has good music.all in all a very cute,and entertaining movie.i give this movie *** out of ****  "},{"Title":"cute but unworthy of Drew's appearance","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although the premise of this film is nice (loser goes back to school and becomes cool), Drew's appearance, and her talents, do not help this flawed movie shine any brighter.  The entire cast's relatively lame performances bring this film down as well.  It's a cute film, but unworthy of Drew's talents.  All in all, see this only if there's nothing else playing in your area, or if you are a Drew fan. "},{"Title":"DREW IS BOX OFFICE DRAW!!!","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Drew Barrymore is utterly enchanting in her role as Josie Gellar.  The film follows Josie's present day life as a newspaper reporter to her NEW past as 17 year old high school senior, an undercover assignment issued to her by her boss. Josie is reborn and refurbished, but soon realizes that life in high school is still very much the same!  With the aid of her brother (Arquette) who registers along with Josie, helps propel her popularity status from Loser to Totally Rufus! Josie makes the rounds with the cool cliques, snubs the brainiacs (which she used to be the first time around in high school) and falls for her English teacher. Barrymore gives a great emotional testimony for every person who thought that high school was hell.  Molly Shannon shines as Josie's co-worker at the paper, Anita.  I would recommend this film to everybody. Go see Never Been Kissed it's totally Rufus! "}{"Title":"A Perfect Blend of Comedy-Drama","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Never Been Kissed is as funny or even more so than the most humorous comedy this year Analyze This and in addition, it has a charming blend, probably the best this year of combining drama and comedy which made the audience both laugh hilariously and cry teary eyed at the same time. There is a compelling, mature edge to this movie also, which make this movie a definite cut above most teenage school movies.  This is a must see because of its harding hitting approach with a lighter twist in even the most dramatic scenes.  Except for a weak renaming prom theme scene and a weaker climax than this movie deserved, it was perfect in its charm and finesse with romantic love and the riot experience known as school.  Drew Barrymore is a hit.  4-1/2 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"I would definitely recommend it to friends. )","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Going into the theater, I was assuming it was going to be another Romy and Michelle. I was expecting Drew to show off to everyone, trying to make herself fit in. ...Which she pretty much did. But it was so much better than Romy and Michelle. Drew's performance was shockingly good. A big step up from her dreadfully awful one in Everyone Says I Love You. In Never Been Kissed, she really seemed to know what she was doing and everyone in it made the movie really believable. I was pleasantly surprised by it, and of course... had a good cry in the end. ) "},{"Title":"great movie and Drew is as cute as ever","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this one and it is a hilarious movie about how cruel high school can be and how cruel teenagers can be.  But in general it is a funny, lightweight romantic comedy. It is a little unrealistic that 2 25 year old's could effectively register in highschool and that Rob (David Arquette) could get on the baseball team, but remember this is hollywood and you have to suspend reality.  Anyway, I give it a 9.  Drew was great and she had an outstanding supporting cast and she did a very good job in her producing debut and this movie will only boost her career to a new level. "},{"Title":"A college perspective of Never Been Kissed","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This Movie was great.  I thought it would be mainly for a younger audience, so I didn't have good expectations.  It met and surpassed anything I imagined.  Drew Barrymore and David Arquette were hysterical, but Michael Vartan as the teacher was the greatest too... and he's definitely worth paying the ticket price to look at! "},{"Title":"Excellent film and a great start for Drew!","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although the critics will be looking at the inaccurate views of working at the Chicago Sun Times and the modern-day teenagers, we people who just go to watch the movies and not critique it find it to be great!  Drew Barrymore really lit up the screen, as it was a perfect role for her and she really *acted* perfectly.  The supporting cast was excellent and the storyline was one that we can all relate to.  Being a teenager myself, I have tried to fit in, but it's really not the important part of high school.  If this movie doesn't top the box office, I'd be surprised, because it is one for teenagers and adults alike that keeps you laughing the whole way through!  I loved it - and Way to go Drew!!  "},{"Title":"If you had a chance to do it over again---","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Never Been Kissed tells the story of copy editor and would be reporter who gets a chance at a do over.  That is, she gets to repeat her high school career that did not go well the first time---socially---as an undercover reporter.  The story is not always believable but this is teen romantic comedy but it is almost always entertaining and has moments of hilarity and poignancy.  The leads, Ms.Barrymore, Mr. Arquette, and Mr. Vartan were all very good although I'd say Mr. Arquette stole the show as the whacky brother and Mr. Vartan shows a real stage presence.  The kids at school were also good. As entertainment I'd rate this two and half stars. "},{"Title":"Fun and non-stop comedy!!","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one of my favorites. I thought it would be one of those cheesy > There's Something About Mary type of movies, but it wasn't, I loved it! I give it a 9 out of 10, that's how good it was! I'm a shy person and whenever > I go to the movies, I try not to laugh that loud, but this time, I was laughing through the whole movie (I even caught myself laughing out when noone else was). Drew Barrymore does a terrific job in this movie, going from a smart newspaper editor to a wild high school student! If you want laughs and romance, then this is the movie to see! Funny, smart, romantic, and lots of teenage fun!!!  "},{"Title":"Josie Geller is forced to confront her high school memories, to complete her first assignment as a reporter","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was an excellent movie that had its funny, sad, and romantic parts. There are some of Josie's memories where the entire audience fell to a hush, because what was being depicted on-screen was so real to people. In some of the scenes, the audience was crying, because Josie was being treated so cruelly. Of course it ends with everybody getting what they wanted.This film was one of few that can be drama, comedy, and tragedy all at once. There was much to learn in how we treat each, but it is presented informally in actual situations in the movie. Definitely see this one! "},{"Title":"She's done it again!","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Fetch the sacrificial goat, Drew Barrymore's got another movie out. Hail Drew, princess of pop culture! Okay, I'm done. I know a lot of people didn't think much of this movie, and I can see where they're coming from. The plot was completely unrealistic. But I have to say, I didn't notice that Never Been Kissed even *had* flaws until I saw them listed in other's comments about this movie. I personally thought it was a great story, and the movie should still have been made regardless of the numerous plot holes. There were some very touching flashback sequences, and Drew Barrymore illuminated the screen yet again in her role as an extremely convincing nerd. I loved every second of this movie, from the Truman-Show-esque scenes in the office to where Josie twirls around in her living room in a *hideous* pink lame` prom dress to Madonna's Like a Prayer to the really sappy ending which actually made me cry. And I do NOT cry at movies. Drew Barrymore, who could get me to watch a documentary about three-toed-sloths if she was in it, was by far the most adorable she's ever been as the shy, studious girl who constantly corrects people's grammar(!) How do they come up with this stuff??? With anyone else that would have made me want to smack the girl, but of course I would never dream of striking the great and powerful Drew Barrymore. What can I say, she just keeps topping herself. Go see this movie if you're a Drew fan, but otherwise you may hate it.  "},{"Title":"Never heard an audience laugh so hard","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a huge hit at the sneak preview I attended. It might have been more believable if it had starred someone edgier than Drew Barrymore, who always seems to glow cheerfully from inside, but I personally wouldn't have liked it as much.  It's hard to think of any movie, except maybe Saving Private Ryan, that wouldn't be improved by Drew Barrymore's presence.  "}{"Title":"Not just a teenage movie, many will like.","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a very cute movie. I would absolutely recommend it to many other people.  Although it is a chick flick some guys will still like it. I was touched by this flick and I think that many other people will be too.  Drew Barrymore was excellent for the part because she had the abilities to play both a sophisticated copy editor and a teenager. I would give it 4 stars. "},{"Title":"This is a great light-hearted comedy that honestly portrays how hard it can be to find yourself, and how good it feels when you do.","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Drew Barrymore plays a very convincing geek of a newspaper reporter who returns to her old high school to do an undercover story on teen life. Along side her is the always funny David Arquette, portraying her older and hipper brother who decides to help her get popular when she finds herself being treated the same way now as when she was really a student over seven years before.  Among the rest of the cast are the stunning young actors Michael Vartan and Jeremy Jordan, who both possess enough beauty to distract you from the scene.  All of these performers, along with the other great supporting stars in Never Been Kissed, make this so called 'coming of age' flick touching and believable. "},{"Title":"A light Tuesday night date movie","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Never Been Kissed  As Josie Geller, Drew Barrymore is a conservative copy editor with a dream - she wants to be a reporter.  She gets her chance when her boss gives her an assignment to go undercover, enroll in high school and do an expose.  Josie is both ecstatic and terrified.  In high school she was the penultimate loser smart, unattractive, and teased incessantly (she was known Josie Grossie).  She is a hopeless romantic, and, as the title implies, has never been kissed.Josie is convinced that this time around things will be different, but becomes an instant pariah, avoided by everyone except the pretty smart girl who accepts her into the nerd fold.  She is only saved when her supercool brother enrolls in high school with her, and gets her accepted into the important cliques.The angst filled teen years have been fodder for many movies (Pretty In Pink, Can't Buy Me Love, etc), and will be for many more.  Everyone knew a Josie in high school, however when Barrymore plays her, you probably feel more empathy for her than you did the genuine article.  Barrymore is riding on the success of Ever After, and she's just so damn sweet it's hard not to like her. David Arquette  was great as Rob, Josie's over the top brother who sees his own salvation in Josie's quest.  Finally, Josie's boss -played by a manic Gary Marshall- was an excellent breath of fresh air ( taking us back to his days on  Murphy Brown where his erratic self serving egotist was always good for a laugh)I particularly enjoyed the subtle in-jokes scripted for the over twenties in the audience Josie is named after Josie, of the Pussycats fame, and the Village People at the couples dance, among others. Also, any movie with a band playing the theme from the Simpsons can't be all bad..I did find  however that the movie spent too much time in flashbacks  to show  Josie's tragic existence in high school.  And the depiction of the cliques was too black and white for my tastes  the geeks were all ugly, uncoordinated losers (save the leader played by Leelee Sobieski) , and all the cool kids were gorgeous buffoons.  Couldn't they just for once have a little more diversity?In summary, this movie is not the best of its kind, nor is it the worst. It is a good cheap Tuesday date movie, which I think most people will enjoy. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully Predictable","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't help but fall for the predictable types of movies and this certainly goes in that category. The movie has many twists and turns Barrymore has to overcome before being fired from her occupation at the Chicago Sun-Times. At the end, the couple lives happily ever after (as most couples do), but, of course, it's not as easy as it seems. Barrymore did a terrific job in her role as Josie Grossie except for the over-exaggerations in her crying scenes. She had about 50 of them. "},{"Title":"This Movies grabs you into the life of Josie and you really become a part of her.","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is another great Drew Barrymore comedy/romance. It is this year's Wedding Singer except Drew Barrymore stars opposite David Arquette, not Adam Sandler. Drew Barrymore shines, and you really get into her life. I knew how great this movie was going to be by just seeing the previews on TV. Do not miss out on this clever, witty, and fun movie.    "},{"Title":"Ok, but not great.","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was really looking forward to seeing this movie, because the previews made it look hysterical.  I was surprised that this is one of the first movies that I have ever seen that doesn't give away the ENTIRE plot in the trailer.I was glad that I got to see the movie, but I came away feeling that the movie was really inconsistent.  It is not up to the standards of some of the other teenage-girl angst flicks (She's all That and 10 things I hate about you come to mind).  The heroines in those movies could wipe the floor with any of the characters in Never Been Kissed. "},{"Title":"Well worth the money","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watch a lot of movies.  In the past few months, I have wasted good money on lousy movies.  There's nothing more annoying than shelling out eight bucks to walk out of the theater in disgust.This movie was different.  I GOT MY MONEY'S WORTH.  Imagine that.No, it's not a perfect movie. But it's pretty darn good for its genre.  I wasn't expecting Shakespeare; I was expecting a fun date movie.  And I got it.And who knew that Drew Barrymore could be so funny?!?  I hope to see more of her considerable talents in the next few years. "},{"Title":"Great fun thanks to Drew Barrymore","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Drew Barrymore makes this movie fun and engaging. Some might say that this movie doesn't really have a convincing love story, but it's not really about love, despite the title. It's about Drew Barrymore's character, Josie, learning first what it's like to be popular, and second how useless it is to be popular. It's about Josie figuring out that it's better to be accepted for who you are, rather than be accepted for being what others want you to be. Drew Barrymore is absolutely adorable in the role, making it easy to sympathize with her situation. There are lots of funny moments dealing with Josie's experiencing in high school, and also lots of poignant moments. Flashbacks between Josie's current experiences in high school and her original ones help to establish her fears and dreams.  The ending is a little bit cheesy, but that's typical of a teen movie. The other characters' storylines are woven in very well, enough to enhance the story and provide a foil to Josie's experiences in high school without sticking out or detracting from the main story. Overall, the movie is light-hearted and enjoyable, and well worth a watch. "},{"Title":"It was great!","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I would recommend this to anyone who wants a good laugh. Drew Barrymore was excellent in this film. There were many moments in this movie that you couldn't help but feel sorry for her. And she was very self-conscious, and had low self-esteem. It was great when she finally stood up for herself. The only weird part was that the teacher would actually fall for his student. Overall, the movie was great!  "},{"Title":"Lighten Up! See this movie","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you want to have a enjoyable, silly movie experience, see Never Been Kissed  you will leave the theater in a good mood, and after all isn't that what entertainment is about.  Of course it's unrealistic (my English teachers never looked that good) but just suspend reality for 2 hours and enjoy yourselves!!! well worth my $7 "}{"Title":"Math","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really liked the movie, even though I have a big gripe.  I have a bizarre fondness for Drew Barrymore because she and I have the exact same birthday... as in the SAME YEAR.  So in this movie she plays a year older than she is... 25.  Her age is mentioned several times. The thing that bothers me is that every time they flash back to her first high school experience they make it the '80s.  Even one year older she would have STARTED high school in the fall of '88.  And this is supposed to be her senior (or at the least junior) year, so it would have to be '90-'91 or '91-'92. Sorry, but it bothered me.  I thought the credits were very cool, because they showed old pictures of everyone as they listed them, even people like the costume director and such. "},{"Title":"Pretty people, funny movie","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just saw Never Been Kissed at a sneak preview and I must say that I enjoyed it. Yes I am a teenage girl, the target market for this film but I did enjoy it. Like all movies of this type the plot can be a tad unbelievable at times (Last time I checked there weren't any teachers at my school that looked like Mr. Coulson but oh well, my loss) but what do you expect. It's a silly romantic comedy, with plenty of good looking guys and girls (even if they do take the stereotype to the max) and lots of comedy. I thought it was well worth my $8.50.  "},{"Title":"How true that is","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I admit it, I'm in high school.  I also admit that I loved this movie. I'm not going to prattle on about the good acting, because I've seen plenty. What I haven't seen enough of is movies that show high school as it really is.I recently saw She's All That, which is a prime example of unbelievable teen movies.  Like none of us could see that if you take off her glasses and do her hair she's a babe.  Drew, on the other hand, made a painfully realistic nerd.Not everyone is cool in high school.  In fact, most of us are/were at least slightly geeky.  I think that's why we identify with Josie so much.  Not a soul among us has never felt, at some time or another, like a geek.  So when Josie goes back to high school, it's great!  She gets to re-live those horrible  years, but this time, she can right the wrong.  She's not Josie Grossie anymore!What I love about this movie is that it points out that not everyone was cool in high school, and it doesn't matter.  And with Rob we see that he may've been cool in high school, but he said himself that everything since then stunk.  So even if you aren't cool, it doesn't matter.Some may say that things such as the costumes were unbelievable.  They've clearly not been to my high school.  I'll admit that Rob's Risky Business costume probably wouldn't go, but there are some things I've seen at school that leave little to nothing to the imagination.  I've seen girl's butts hanging out the bottom of their shorts.  I've seen shirts so low that most boys were embarrased to be around them.  The outfits in the movie seemed fine to me.In a nutshell, this movie was rufus! "},{"Title":"Drew strikes again","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think that Drew Barrymore has become an actress who can carry what ever movie she is in as the lead actor.  After a very good outing in Ever After she follows it up with this movie.  It left me feeling good and that is all you can ask. "},{"Title":"slow start, a little pick up in the end","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I got to see a sneak preview of this movie yesterday and I'd say that it started out very slow and picked up a little, little bit in the end. I saw The Mod Squad right after this movie (part of the sneak preview deal) and liked The Mod Squad much better. "},{"Title":"YUCK!","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie Never Been Kissed.The problem Josie Geller (Drew Barrymore) has never been kissed.The bigger problem She talks to her pet turtle.The even bigger problem The movie stars Drew Barrymore (The Wedding Singer, Home Fries), who is a top candidate on my list of worst actresses ever.The insurmountable problem The movie is an inferior rip-off of Romy and Michelle's High School Reunion (1997), another back-to-high school comedy set partially in the &#145;80s.The premise Barrymore (The Wedding Singer, Ever After) is Josie Geller, the youngest copy editor at The Chicago Sun-Times. Despite her career achievements she desperately wants to be a reporter. After repeated requests she is assigned an undercover high school expose. She enrolls as a  student in order to scoop out the as-of-yet-undecided story.Further problems Jossie doesn't have fond memories of high school the first time around being teased, picked on and asked to the prom by the school hunk, only to be stood up as a joke. Not to mention her nickname `Josie Grossy.' She is hit with a major case of  deja vu when she is thrust back into high school and the only people who befriend her are geeks, nerds, dweebs and social misfits. More specifically, members of the school math club.The straight and narrow Never Been Kissed is full of knee-slapping laughs and poignant romantic moments. Problem is that the time between greatness is crammed with unbelievably unoriginal slop.The good David Arquette (Scream) chips in as Josie's hilarious older brother, Rob, a high school drop-out who re-enrolls along with his sister in pursuit of his dream of becoming a major league baseball star.The great The movie sends the message that friendship is more important than popularity.The lowdown Watching mold grow is a more constructive use of one's time. "},{"Title":"Nerds of the World Unite!","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is fluffy, but it's good at being fluffy.  Very cute.Anyone who has ever been picked on by other kids should see this movie.  I had planned on seeing something else, but saw this as a Sneak Preview instead.  I'm glad I did.  It was refreshing to see Drew in a smart person role instead of the ditsy, but lovable character she usual plays.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful comedy, yet slight tear-jerker. Wonderful meaning... hidden as well as obvious!","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a wonderful movie!  Although Josie was 25, it shows how you can change, even from one certain instance, no matter what others around you say.  It shows that it's cool to stick up for your friends, no matter who they are, or their height on the popularity scale.  It sends a message to kids that no matter your age, no matter your appearance, and no matter who you are... you may change, and you may stay the same -- but deep inside, there is a special part of us that will always remain, and is the key to our soul, and the true part of us that our families and friends should love the most. "},{"Title":"a pretty cute movie, it grows on you","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is your typical romantic comedy in the sense that you know how it will end, it is only a matter of time till it does.  But, it is still very cute, at the end I was in full support of Josie and hoped she'd get the love she desired.  One thing about this movie though, is that Drew Barrymore looks so awful and acts so stupidly in the first half, that I could understand why she had no friends in high school either time she attended. As the movie progresses, Josie gets half a clue, and the movie gets better because of it. I recommend seeing this movie if you like romantic comedies that aren't too deep in plot, but are a good time anyway. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the better movies that I have seen in recent months (and I am an avid movie goer).  It has the blend of comedy, sweetness, and reality that most movies can't even come close to.  Nothing was overdone, but it did make you feel for the characters.  I highly recommend it to everyone.  It has aspects that will appeal to anyone.  "}{"Title":"A date movie this misses too often.","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really wanted to like this movie.  After seeing Ever After, I was excited for another Drew movie.  And Drew is good. But this movie has too many Saturday Night Live skits that just don't work. In fact the first half of the movie is rather hard to sit thorough.  No one in the audience, mostly blond high school girls, just did not respond to what were supposed to be gags.  Blame it on the character that is Drew's assistance.  He is just, well, not funny. It is not until the brownie that the movie takes off.  Then followed by the character's brother showing up.  Now he makes the movie from then on. See, I told you it was worth waiting around for. I'm sorry that the prom is shown in such a manor.  In the South, proms are about gowns and tuxes.  It seems that only Drew and her escort figured out what was appropriate to wear.  The theme would have been better suited for a regular dance. Nerds will be nerds, and nerds are attracted to other nerds.  At least that seemed to be the theme of the movie. Then the story starts to open up. But we have to wait until the end to tie up loose strings about what the undercover story is going to be about.  I wish they had spent more time on the romance side between the teacher and the student and less on the Barbie angle. Not a Cinderella ending, but still a feel good twist. Drew is very good again.  The brother is better, and the supporting cast back at the office need to get a life.  Thanks for the sound/video van for providing comic relief and some reality. And not even a trailer for Star Wars, and this is a Fox movie! "},{"Title":"SO SWEET!","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a wonderful sweet movie.  It showed the importance of being true to yourself no matter what other people thought.  It also showed how special true friends are, and that love is sometimes where you least expect it to be.~~~~~~~~an easy A- "},{"Title":"Enjoyable film!","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just caught a sneak preview -- Drew Barrymore is as likeable as ever, and this film, although it started out slowly was really funny, even if the romance subplot was a little bit underdeveloped. The flashbacks to the 80's alone make this one worth the ticket. All around good acting. "},{"Title":"A solid film for Drew-fans and others","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw Never Been Kissed at its sneak preview (I'm a huge Drew Barrymore fan) and I was thoroughly pleased. The film has plenty of laughs, and even though it doesn't take itself too seriously, it also has genuinely touching moments. If you're looking for a cute movie, you should enjoy yourself. And if you like Drew, this will be a treat. "},{"Title":"Why can't all movies be rated PG or PG-13.","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a fun movie! Too bad we all can't go back to high school and re-do what we didn't like about ourselves.  Hopefully, the young people that see this movie will realize that friendship is more important than popularity.   "},{"Title":"SUPER FANTASTIC MOVIE!! IT WAS RUFUS!","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was the sweetest movie I have seen since the Other Sister. I really enjoyed it. I went and saw it with two of my best friends and they both enjoyed it equally. Drew Barrymore was a riot. It was a Rufus movie. Jonthan Jackson was a bad guy in the movie but I have to give him credit. I live about 3 miles from where he grew up. Most of my freinds went to school with him so to see one of our own on the big screen was great. Over all it was a great movie and I will be buying it when it comes out on video and I will also be seeing it again. "},{"Title":"It left me with a warm fuzzie feeling","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Never Been Kissed was an adorable movie about the neverending quest to be accepted.  If you ever felt that you just didn't fit in or were just in the out crowd this movie is for you!  Drew Barrymore played a wonderfully inept woman posing as a teenager trying to do what she could never do the first time she was in high school, be popular and be part of the in crowd. In the end, we are left with the feeling that yes, we all have our place, and we do not have to be limited by the cages others put us in.  Be your own person, and take off the mask!   Great date movie. "},{"Title":"Kissed with charm...","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Never Been KissedIn the midst of her career renaissance, Drew Barrymore stumbled upon a secret talent she has held her whole life, the power of her charm. Since her fierce return to the big screen in 1992's Poison Ivy, Barrymore has given the audience more and more reasons to fall in love with her over the years. Last year's Ever After showed the world that she could carry a film on her own, Never Been Kissed proves that was no fluke.Barrymore portrays Josie Geller, a newspaper employee for the Chicago Sun-Times, who is given a reporting assignment to return undercover as a student in high school. The catch being that the last time the 25 year-old was in school, she was the class loser. With the help of her brother (David Arquette), Josie climbs from the lower ranks of the high school cliques to become the most popular girl in school. Trouble is, she has fallen in love with her English teacher, and he thinks she's only 17.Barrymore, who produced this movie, has wisely surrounded herself with a fantastic supporting cast. David Arquette brings his usual goofy self to the proceedings, but he is one of the few in this film who can make a joke work. I stood up and noticed Leelee Sobieski in last year's painfully underseen A Soldier's Daughter Never Cries. She is a actress who has remarkable inner strength for her age, and as the nerdy girl, she gives a wonderfully sturdy performance, never once letting her character become a joke. Molly Shannon and John C. Reilly are also just as good in their roles as Josie's co-workers.The director, Raja Gosnell, worked as Chris Columbus's editor for many years, cutting such films as Mrs. Doubtfire and Home Alone. This is his second film, but yet the Columbus influence remains. Some of the best laughs in this film have an amazing sense of timing and great camera placement. Oddly, the material seems deflated due to the high self-conscious humor in much of the film. This new crop of teenage high school movies seems to forget that the actual educational experience wasn't as pat as EVERY film chooses to show. I was annoyed at how the teenagers are presented in this film. As bumbling, mean-spirited idiots, the kids are bland and one-dimensional. And they are dressed as only a cinematic costume designer could imagine. I know that this is a movie, but what suburban Chicago high school is going to let a girl wear a belly shirt that practically cuts off at her nipples?There is charm in Never Been Kissed, but this is only because of Barrymore. She has been such a breath of fresh air lately, and I pray she doesn't ever lose that. This film could have been better, but at least it chooses to be more adult than other current tripe aimed at 16 year-olds this year.-------- 7 "},{"Title":"Excellently Done!","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  We just returned from the sneak preview of Never Been Kissed and boy, did they do a great job on this movie!  It really took me back to my high school days and I could definitely identify with Josie Grossie!  The storyline is very good and the acting is wonderful.  Drew Barrymore is forever great in all her roles and this one is absolutely NO exception!I am recommending this movie to anyone ... humor, romance, new slang words... ah, the memories.  At the end of this movie, the audience clapped, and that is always a good sign -)  I will run out to buy this on video/DVD once it arrives, just like I did for Ever After. "},{"Title":"Great, funny and sweet depiction of high school","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Drew Barrymore hits the high-school experience right on the head with this funny and sweet romantic comedy about a misfit copy editor who goes back to high school to fulfill her first reporting assignment. What results is a series of misadventures which not only elicits laughs, but also memories, good and otherwise, of many people's lives in that hell known as high school. This makes for a great date movie and should be a huge hit on video. "}{"Title":"Newspaper reporter goes to high school undercover and does high school better than the first time","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A delightful surprise throughout.  Since there are many more people who thought high school was a time of unlimited embarrassment and would love to do it one more time so they could hang out with the most popular clique, this film will be a winner.    Drew Barrymore, who allows herself to look like the beast from the pre-clearasil ads, is totally winning.   The film is hilarious when it needs to be, only a little clumsy at resolving the BIG problem wait, if a 25-year-old dates a 16 year old, almost whatever they DO is criminal sexual activity!  It even has a tear jerker ending, which is phony and yet emotional.    I loved this movie! "},{"Title":"Going Back to High School was Never This FUN!!!!","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ..Never Been Kissed is a funny, and down to earth movie.  Drew Barrymore's performance was convincing and brought an added sweetness to the movie. Definitely recommend this to people of all ages!! "},{"Title":"Better coming of age film than most out now.","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Even though Josie is 25, it's still a teenage film about maturing. I think it's pretty well done. There were no moments where I was embarrassed for the actors (which seems to happen more now than it used to). In fact, the scenes where Barrymore's character is humiliated, etc. actually got to me. Of course, I was a geek in high school too so maybe I can relate! Overall, I thought it was a sweet love story (reminiscent of Hughes' Pretty in Pink). The film lacks the boring heavy-handed message scenes but does have several really funny moments. I recommend it.  "},{"Title":"Don't worry baby, Everything will turn out alright.","Date":"4 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Never Been Kissed sees Drew Barrymore's copy editor, Josie Geller, yearn to be a reporter. Something that comes her way when by way of a fluke, she's selected for an undercover mission at High School. Trouble is is that she's got to be 17 again, and that's something that brings back all of those horrible moments from her school days. The time of having no friends, the butt of the jokes and ignored by the boys (all told in cringe inducing flashbacks).Cue much fun as the 25 year old Josie not only tries to bluff everyone that she's 17, but to try and fit in with the youth who have considerably changed from back in her days. Enter cool as ice brother Rob (David Arquette) who decides to lend a helping hand, with some funny and excellently scripted results. Not only this but we of course have the obligatory love interest, only this is a kicker as it concerns Josie's teacher Sam (a sickeningly handsome Michael Vartan). Cue Sam on mind overload as his feelings lead him onto what he thinks is morally dubious ground...It's as frothy as can be is this one, perhaps in the running for the 90s most chickiest ckick flick? But, and I say this as a middle aged guy, the jokes are spot on, it's endearing as heck and it boasts a quite marvellous turn from Barrymore. It's the sort of performance that could light up the most turgid of comedy movies. It's a threefold character portrayal of some depth and no little charm. She's well supported by the always likable Arquette, while notable turns comes from John C Reilly, the ever reliable Molly Shannon and Leelee Sobieski. While the sharp eyed will spot future Green Goblin James Franco and Susan Storm herself, Jessica Alba, nestling in amongst the teen performers.Nothing remotely new here, but for some genuine laugh out loud comedy moments, a feel good factor soaring through the roof, a kick-ass soundtrack and Barrymore herself, this is more than recommended as a pick me up movie. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"I love it !!!","Date":"23 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just wanna say that i really like this movie, it is very funny and romantic. I have seen it many times and I never get bored. Sometimes I identify myself with Josie Geller and that makes me wanna cry. Drew Barrymore and David Arquette were just amazing in the act and Michael Vartan is so hot as a teacher (I would like to have teachers like those in my school). Drew also play a difficult character as young Josie that I never thought possible on her. The film tells exactly how it's high school like, with posh girls, the brains and the handsome guy and gives a good message The final part was awesome. Finally, a movie to watch again and again ;) "},{"Title":"I could watch this movie again and again.","Date":"26 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I thoroughly enjoyed this movie and Drew's performance. She chooses wonderful projects that enhances her talents. I wish Drew had more films like this. I could watch them over and over. She was awesome in Ever After. She is funny and wonderfully geeky at the same time. I have liked the movies I have seen her in. She reminds me a lot of Sandra Bullock and the nice girl next door. I think she is an underrated comedian and would love to see more of her. I would like to be able to show my younger children her movies, but some scenes are not appropriate. She would receive a wider audience if these scenes were cut. I feel these scenes are unnecessary and do no justice to the film. The music in this film also enhanced the mood for this story. I wish Gary Marshall had a bigger part in this film to show off his comedic talents. I also enjoyed the other unknown actors in this film and hope to see them in other movies. This was a wonderful part for Leelee Sobieski. I would like to see her in more films that show her funny side. "},{"Title":"A classic that will be remembered like Sixteen Candles","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Gosh, I have heard a lot about this movie, especially from my girlfriends. I'm not into the romantic comedies though, I'm not lying, I enjoy some, but I'm just not the biggest fan of 'em. Normally, they are the same with the deja vu ending every single time. While, Never Been Kissed is nevertheless the same thing, it's over all still a decent and cute movie to watch.It was fun to see a young Jessica Alba with Drew, both actresses are just too cute in this movie. I also liked the over all message of how high school people will never change, the popular kids will still treat most like dirt, the dorks will become smart and rich successes in life, and the jocks will only go on about the good old days. It's very true. While this movie didn't blow me away, it's still worth a watch and I think people will continue to talk about it for years to come.6/10 "},{"Title":"The original Mean Girls!","Date":"28 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this flick back in 1999 after I had finished high school. The trailer was quite funny and I though, what the hell, Drew Barrymore looks cute in it! My first reaction was Wow! Where have I seen this before? Note the hint of sarcasm in that sentence. Does it mean I dislike the movie? NO! I thought this was an okay movie that took too long to get better.What do I mean? Check it out, Drew Barrymore is an up and coming reporter with an assignment to review the high schools of modern day. Of course, her high school past catches up to her and the geekiness comes into play. As she goes undercover, we have to writhe in horror as Drew tries to re-connect with her peers and just falls flat on her face all the way.For nearly an hour into the film, we watch Drew crumble before us and it is a BIG pain to watch. It isn't until her brother (David Arquette) joins the fray that the movie starts becoming watchable and fun. David practically steals Drew's thunder and basically scorches his way through every scene he's in. Whether he's dressing up as Tom Cruise's character from Risky Business for a costume ball (you know, the sunglasses, white shirt, and underwear), spreading good lies about Drew, or even talking about Drew being an heir to the Ex-Lax company, you can't help but thinking that the movie can't get any better.Here's a good example of one of David's scene stealers After David tricks the school into accepting him as a Senior, the first thing he does is win a coleslaw-eating contest in the cafeteria. All the cool kids in the school immediately chant his name and fully accept him as their own. Just watch as Drew watches in horror as David steal the entire scene from her (which took nearly an hour to get to)!Again, Drew plays the geeky part so bad that she tries to make you sympathize with her as she finds peace with her past. On top of that, you've got Michael Vartan playing her almost-turning-to-a-pedophile-without-knowing-it Shakespearean teacher. He plays the straight role pretty well but then again, he ain't no David Arquette.Same goes to Drew's co-stars John C. Reilly (always great to watch, saw him in the local mall once which was cool), Molly Shannon (looking much sexier than she does in Saturday Night Live), and my favorite, Jessica Alba.Speaking of Jessica Alba, let's discuss about her and her role. She, Marley Shelton, and Jordan Ladd are the original Mean Girls. Before Lindsay Lohan came about, Jessica, Jordan, and Marley just scorch the screen with their steely-eyed hatred for anything geek-related. Watch Jessica get her mean streak going and HATE her (I say that in a good way). This is Jessica's only other flick I've seen (besides Idle Hands) where she gets to flaunt her stuff both physically or mentally. You'll hate her feisty bitch character (and her crew) and you can't take your eyes off her finger-lickin' badness! She sticks like glue!All in all, Never Been Kissed is a fun flick AFTER David Arquette kicks in the door. Jessica Alba just simmers in her feisty bitch role and Molly Shannon and John C. Reilly kill! Rent this flick if your sick of watching dumb Drew stuff like Fever Pitch or 50 First Dates. "},{"Title":"A good lesson in acting","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Never Been Kissed is a great example of production overcoming a formula concept.  It is also a good example of an actor not afraid to look stupid.  Drew Barrymore has a lot of guts and shows her courage in this role, which makes the movie infinitely more likeable than it should have been.  Anyone who can get up on a stage and dance like an idiot with a boa between her legs deserves kudos.   "},{"Title":"For genre fans only","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Josie Gelleris the youngest copy editor at the Chicago Sun, a career that belies her reputation as a geek who has never had a serious relationship.  Desperate to land an undercover journalist job, Josie is overjoyed to be given a story about how teenagers are, requiring her to go undercover in a high school.  However when she remembers how hard high-school was the first time round she begins to regret her decision and she finds that her geeky image is very hard to shake even years later.At around the time of this film there was a slue of teen movies that went back on the cliché road of ruin and had the old geek/jock stereotypes running through it.  This is yet another of these and true to form it fails to really stand out as anything new.  The plot goes just where you expect it to and it's all very average, although the flashback parts do add something new to the mix, albeit superficially.The comedy is what usually makes or breaks these films and here it is pretty lame.  It is amiable enough but has no real belly laughs to speak of and is unpleasantly sappy at times.  Barrymore is OK but her character is difficult to get behind because she is very wishy washy and almost brings the labels onto her self.  Arquette is better because he is a funnier character despite being in a different film.  Vartan is a solid enough actor and does well here while that other TV performer Jessica Alba is so sexy it hurts despite having few lines and an unlikeable character.Overall this does exactly what it says on the tin and does it without too much in the way of flair or effort.  Fans of the genre will enjoy it but it may prove too basic for a wider audience. "}{"Title":"I didn't used to like it, but now I do.","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can remember renting 'Never Been Kissed' when it first came out on video and being absolutely bored with it as I watched it.  Then it finally made its way onto cable, I saw it again, and I liked what I saw for some reason. While this movie is meant to be a comedy, I kind of had a hard time of actually categorizing it as that.  I don't think it was funny at all (there were a few scenes here and there), but it's basically just a cute, fun film.I'm not a big Drew Barrymore fan but I keep finding myself watching her films.  I don't know, I guess she's just one of those actresses who grows on me as time goes on.  Anyway, Barrymore is pretty good in this role.  Plus, she's the executive producer, so I guess she can't be all bad.  David Arquette has a minor role even though he is listed second in the credits.  I thought he had a small role but apparently it wasn't that small.  He's goofy, he's crazy, he's wild, he's just being himself.  And though normally I would find somebody of his character to be extremely annoying, I admit that I like him.  I've liked him for a while now.  Best thing about this movie?  Michael Vartan.  Oh, I could watch him for hours.  I absolutely adore him.  He does a decent job in this film; nothing great, but it's Michael Vartan, so how can I say something bad about his performance?  Minor roles are filled by Molly Shannon whom I've grown fond of over the years no matter how much she tries to irritate me, Leelee Sobieski, who for some unknown reason was cast as a geek, Jeremy Jordan, who is quite good (I've seen him in one other film and he was good in that too), and John C. Reilly, who is in an unbelievably small role yet still manages to bring a smile to my face.  The cast overall is good.The plot is different and that's what I like to see.  Hollywood is starting to run out of ideas.  It's simple and somewhat short, so I don't have a problem with that.  'Never Been Kissed' is basically a cute film that has an interesting outline and a good cast.  Did I mention that Michael Vartan is in this?  Though it took me some time to actually like it, I now find it to be simply a fun film to watch every now and again. "},{"Title":"There are lot more Josies out there!","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It is nice to see a good girl like Josie Geller finish first for a change. I am happy to watch this film. It brings back memories of high school. Rather than dwell on being unpopular and a social outcast, I now look back at my high school days fondly. I am a college graduate who is going to Graduate school to teach high school students. I work in a high school and I always identify with the outcasts and misfits. I cannot imagine fitting in anywhere which is why I understand Josie's plight and trip into being popular at the risk of selling soul to the devil. The popular ones makes the self-sacrifice of creating us to be the outcasts in society. Eleanor Roosevelt's famous quote was Nobody can make you feel inferior unless you give them permission to do so. This film is one of Drew Barrymore's best performances. I loved to see Molly Shannon in something different for a change too. While the film acts more like an unrealistic fairytale, it still is a gem of a film and worth watching. Just imagine Shakespeare's own role in this film with the backdrop following his classic comedy, As You Like It, about disguises working better for one in the costume just like Drew's character, Josie, who becomes somebody else. "},{"Title":"Great fun and Drew Barrymore is fantastic.","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Never Been Kissed is absolutely brilliant. Sure, it's quite predictable at times but it's still very enjoyable. Drew Barrymore is absolutely brilliant in her role as Josie Geller. Other good performances come from, David Arquette, Leelee Sobieski, Jeremy Jordan and Michael Vartan. I give Never Been Kissed a 10/10.  "},{"Title":"Who'd Want To Do High School Twice?","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not crazy about this type of movie, the romantic comedy; at least not in it's modern Julia-Meg incarnation. Too bad this genre is where Drew Barrymore has also staked out her territory, because I'm crazy about Drew. Therefore, I watch her movies, and then go into an emotional form of insulin shock. Never Been Kissed is not quite up to par in my opinion; Home Fries and Ever After are better, more 'real' movies. But Never Been Kissed is not that far off the mark.  It's about a young newspaperwoman (Barrymore) that goes undercover to her old high school, posing as a student. The first time through was pure Hell, demonstrated by many flashbacks. This time is not much better, and soon Drew is scheming to be accepted, regressing back in emotional age to a high schooler. Except when she's falling in love with her young English teacher.Aided by a good supporting cast, this movie was right on target until the gooey, over the top fairy tale ending. Then my eyes glazed over. Romantic comedy and Drew Barrymore fans, you'll love it.  For those of you who thought Gladiator too sentimental, beware.   "},{"Title":"Ridiculous and embarrassing","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Everyone connected with this movie should be in hiding.  Not only was this movie an absolutely predictable rehash of about a thousand other films, the acting and dialogue are insults to the audience's intelligence.  My wife and I finally turned it off after 38 minutes, and I rarely give up on a rental DVD.  I loved Drew in Ever After and The Wedding Singer, but her always-on-the-verge-of-tears performance here is one giant step backward. NBK was obviously made for 12-year-olds.  I would suggest that anyone older try another movie.  Maybe 10 Things I Hate About You. "},{"Title":"For Drew Barrymore fans","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A VERY predictable story (girl who was an ugly duckling goes back to high school undercover years later, meets and falls in love with her high school sweetheart...) done pretty well.  You're always two steps ahead of the plot, but it's pretty well-acted (with the sole exception of David Arquette--God, is he annoying) and never really dull.  But it's a great movie if you're a Drew Barrymore fan (like me).  She gives out a terrific performance and makes her character warm and believable.  My only big complaint is the ending.  The movie should have wrapped up everything at the prom--the ending at Shea Stadium was VERY anticlimatic.  That aside though, I enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Because my first love was a sad and very long one, and for I'm single since then, the movie title is true for me. And I also wasn't very popular at school, just like Drews character Josie (and also like Drew herself, as I have heard) here. Too, I'm a total Drew Barrymore fan, damned, let me die just for a smile of this goddess. Finally, I really didn't expected very much from this movie here, because I've already read that it isn't a good one.So the preconditions to enjoy this one - at least a little bit! - anyway could have hardly been better, couldn't they ?But that was still not enough. The script, even if it contains some good jokes, was often that embarrassing that I couldn't even watch the screen. Instead I looked to the ground. The final end was that unlogical, supercorny and bad, that I thought about running out of the cinema crying out loud, for I couldn't stand it anymore. In fact, thinking of leaving the cinema was one of my main occupations during this picture.But even more unbelieveable than the script was Drews acting.It was absolutely horrible!! I really was shocked!!Of course it looked very cute for she wore her sweet sugar smile during half of the movie. But that looked often like an excuse oh sorry I have no clue how I should act right now. And she really had none. When she should be a pedantic newspaper editor which can't accept even the tiniest kind of chaos around herself, she smiled instead. When she talked to her assistant which shows no respect to her at all, again she just smiled. And so on, during the whole movie.I had never thought of Drew as being such an acting giant like, for example, Sarah Polley, or Alison Eastwood, but she was never bad, instead she had been better than before in every film in the past. For example, in my last years absolute favorite movie, Wedding Singer, her acting was fantastic.But here I've no idea how the director even could accept some of these scenes this way. Was it because Drew was producer ? Or was he fallen in love to her and was therefore unable to criticize this beauty ?The acting of the rest of the crew was mixed, but in general good. For example, David Arquette was as good as in Scream. Another good thing about this movie where the clothes Drew weared throughout this picture, they where often very amusing.At the end of the movie, I saw that the script authors where two very young people (maybe teens ?). That could have been the reason for the bad script. I think they should wait with their next script until they have learned a little bit more about life and people.As I have already stated, there where good jokes in the script, which would have worked very well if the rest would have been okay, too. Some scenes where not that bad, for example the one on the ferris wheel. But the script in general lacked something like dramatical realism, surprises, coolness, or other kinds of entertaining structures. It was too much like a bad teacher, too moral in a really uncool, unrealistic, boring, pedantic and finally simply embarrassing way.If you an absolute fan of Drew just like me, no warning could keep you from watching this, but everyone else should better, for example, kiss your beloved for two hours instead. That will be far more entertaining than watching this picture.  "},{"Title":"Never Been More Bored","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had to think for a while before reluctantly deciding to rate this movie a 2 rather than a 1.  I reserve 1 ratings for movies that absolutely no one could possibly like, and I suppose that there might be some poor someone out there who could perhaps find something they liked about Never Been Kissed.  Happily, though, I am not such a person. "},{"Title":"Never Been More Disappointed","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie had a great premise that's been done a million times before and much better. I expected a lot more from Drew but I found it very hard to even like her character enough to care! The whole side bit about getting the teacher for sexual advances toward a student seemed very last minute without much thought. Sorry Drew, well, since it's Halloween weekend maybe I'll go rent Firestarter. "},{"Title":"Predictable & boring. Blah.","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  We arrived just in time to see what was the highlight for me -- a Jimmy Eat World song in the movie. That was probably the best scene. My room mate says they changed the words, but who cares. Good bands can brighten up even the lamest of movies, of which NBK certainly is. Drew Barrymore was a loser in high school (yeah right) and now is an aspiring reporter whose first assignment is to hang out with the cool kids at a high school and find a story. Now we're asked to believe that a 25 year old sexy Drew Barrymore isn't accepted by the cool kids. Well, with the cool kids that exist in this movie, who *would* want to be accepted by them? They're all MORONS. Some of the stupidest people that I've ever seen portrayed on a movie screen. They're only 1-2 years younger than me, but when their English teacher mentions Gordie Howe, they all give him blank stares. Anyway, Drew does not find a story, but she does fall in love with her English teacher. The film moves quickly, fortunately, and before you know it, it comes to its predictable end. The 1-800-CALL-ATT guy plays Drew's brother, a sports-loving pedophile, and while his performance is with ease and almost good, every time he opens his mouth you expect him to say Call 1-800-CALL-ATT!. Catch this one on cable, for free! "}{"Title":"This Movie is Awful","Date":"26 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There is a reason to call this a teen flick. Out of 100 possible points I would put it somewhere in the teens. It is predictable, the acting is horrible, especially the minor roles, and above all else it is super predictable. The ending is so hokey that I should have left early and maybe it would have passed. By the way, could you call the male lead a pervert? I bet if it really happened, someone in my school district would have said so. Finally, in the school I grew up in, even though the average class had over 1000 students, we could have picked out a chump like Josie as being a fraud and we would have singled her out of the crowd. My final word is save your time, when it comes on TV watch something better, like the stock quotes. "},{"Title":"let it pass you by","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A Romantic comedy about a girl (Drew Barrymore) who has to return to school to do an undercover story about school life, while at school she was a nerd (and she still is) and because of this she never really interacted with the opposite sex, hence 'Never been kissed'. Anyway while she works on the story, she falls in love with a teacher, Blah, blah, blah! The Trouble is this, it has too few funny moments, too many boring moments, and very shallow characters.Unless you really like Drew, or are just a sucker for romantic comedies, think carefully before you watch it.4/10 Although my wife and Daughter did enjoy it. "},{"Title":"painful to watch","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What's wrong with all these people and their reviews? This movie is terrible. Plain boring and painful to watch with all those stereotypes. I watched it with my wife and we both suffered. Don't waste your time! "},{"Title":"A perfect example of what is wrong with our society","Date":"24 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" After having the misfortune of watching this movie i was surprised at how many people liked it. This movie gives a horrible message to any young person watching. the main character (Drew Barrymore, who is not sexy enough or talented enough to have a movie) is a reporter who sacrifices her career for popularity.The message is as horrible as the acting. She prefers to be a victim of the judgment of teenagers and keep a fantasy view of romance (never happens in real life) rather than maintain her professionalism or advance her life. any mature adult watching the movie should see the immaturity of the main character, her failure to move past her primitive teenage instincts. It seems to praise women who are too emotional for professional positions in lucrative careers and are too immature to move past high school. While there is no problem with a movie about a girl who goes back to high school, elevating her for doing so is appalling and shows that the character has de-matured and fallen into a world of fantasy.It was painful for me to watch this as it was not comedic or effective in sparking emotion for me to recommend to anyone. This is perhaps the worst movie i have ever seen. "},{"Title":"How did this get made?","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Am I really getting too cynical in my view of films?  Would this have been a film that I would have enjoyed 10 years ago when I was 16?  Am I really turning into Siskel ( God rest his soul ) and Ebert or ( God forbid) Liz Braun?The answer to that is a resounding No!  I am not too critical of movies. I can sit back and relax and enjoy a film that has nothing to say yet does it's best to entertain us.  Such is not the case with this film.  In one sentence, I really hated this movie.  I hated everything about it.  And why people enjoy this film is beyond me.  Maybe people should look at movies like Pretty In Pink and Fast Times and The Sure Thing and you will see a great example of coming of age.  This film is a disaster from beginning to end.  And frankly, I was even embarrassed to watch and sit through some of the so-called humour.  There was nothing funny about this film with the exception of David Arquette.  He did an adequate job with what he was given. But Drew was just awful and to think that she had an executive producer's credit on this is really sad.  This is the best that she could come up with?The supporting characters in this are awful as well and the pacing is terrible.  I can't understand how this movie was viewed so well.  This is not entertainment, this is one of the worst examples of film making I have ever seen.  And that's the bottom line.  Hollywood is getting desperate when movies like this get made.  But they make money because high-school kids don't realize that there are better movies out there on video.  "},{"Title":"I relate and treasure this film","Date":"10 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have to say this film is too nice to watch once, you have to watch it over and over and over again. I have deep pleasure thinking about this film and can watch it all from beginning to end in my head. I remember i watched it when i was at school and remembered i've yet to be kissed for one. that was when i was at school though i been kissed when i was 17 because i got married...And i knew exactly what Josie was going through with all those mean past experiences and the present horrors that surround her at school. It's horrible to be bullied, but because it's a movie you can laugh because that's what it's made for, except i really felt sorry for Josie and sometimes i often cried while watching this film. Everyone at the cinema was staring at me and said laugh it's OK I couldn't i felt so sorry for her. I just loved all the actors and actresses in this film, I loved the cool gang and everyone at the school. I liked the flashbacks they went really well with the whole story and blended in at just the right time. Her friends were really great you can seem to understand how difficult it was for her when she had to be cool to get published or risk her career, but that meant NO hanging around with the brains. I loved the teacher and her, and the fact that she'd fallen in love and couldn't tell him her secret it must have been a real drag dragging a huge secret over burdens of work POOR Josie... I think the kiss was great amazing i am glad they got the nomination or award. ha ha ha they deserved it. I kind of loved James Franco in this film and believed he should have had more lines and credit he would have been a lot better than Jeromy Jordan i mean in my opinion he looked better for the part. I gave this film a ten i'd give it a million i treasure it with all my heart it's one of my all time favourites... Maybe forever until i am 60 odd i may still watch this film with my Grandchildren if they like it i hope they do! Thankyou ever so much for reading my Comment on never been kissed. "},{"Title":"A Naive and Silly Cinderella Fairy Tale","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Josie Geller (the lovely Drew Barrymore) is an editor of a newspaper in Chicago who gets her first chance as reporter in a matter about the life of the high-school students. She is a dreamer that has never been kissed and wonders that the penguins have a perfect relationship (only one partner for the rest of their lives). She was not a popular high-school student. On the contrary, her brother Rob (David Arquette) was very popular in high school and became a looser in real life, regretting for not having a chance as a baseball player. She applies herself in high school to get the matter, followed by her brother, who decides to help her to be popular. Then both will have a second chance for their lives and Josie will find her enchanted prince. The plot is very predictable, silly and naive, but entertains. Drew Barrymore, with her face of child, is perfect for this type of role. My vote is six.Title (Brazil) Nunca Fui Beijada (Never Been Kissed) "},{"Title":"Gidget Goes Back To High School...another let-down for Barrymore-addicts","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Drew Barrymore doesn't always play the ditz--she was tough and smart in Everafter and I loved her sinister side in Poison Ivy, but her role in this film marks a step backward for her. It's a plastic affair that puts Drew (a 25-year-old copy editor at the Chicago Tribune) back in high school, undercover for a story. What story? Pot-smoking in the girl's room? Turns out 'today's youth' is just as brainless and insensitive as yesterday's, and poor Drew is forced to pratfall her way into their hearts. The serious undertones here are well-intentioned but poorly-placed (there's no way we could take any of this premise halfway seriously) and the romantic finale fails to satisfy. It's aimed at juveniles, and might provide fitful entertainment for young teens too immature to scoff, but Never Been Kissed is just a retread--a rerun of Gidget--and, worse, a disappointment to all those Barrymore-ravers hoping she'll become the next Julia Roberts. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Awe-inspiringly bad","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I couldn't even begin to talk about all the things wrong with this movie.  The movie is a waste of talent and film and time.  Drew is totally unbelievable in the lead and no one else fares any better. I had wanted to see Leelee and I liked Michael Vartan in To Wong Foo so I was curious to see what this movie would be like, but boy was I sorry I bothered.   "},{"Title":"Cliched, horrible teen movie","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film has just about every teen movie cliche in the book.-Geek turned cool. check -Cheezy ending. check -Sterotypical characters. check -A laughable moral dilemma. check -One cool teacher who really understands you. checkOh, and if I see one more film that ends at a senior prom I think I may have to take my own life.And let's not forget the bad writing. I mean I thought Drew was supposed to work for a major newspaper, but all she seems to be able to compose is trite sappy articles that no paper in the county would even think of publishing.Some of the scenes in the film where beyond stupid. One scene shows Drew's teacher talking about his break-up with his girlfriend as they ride a ferris wheel. Now I don't know what high school was like for the rest of you but our teacher's love lives where usually not discussed at length with students.One also needs to remember what a unbelievably bad actress Drew is. I actually caught myself laughing aloud during the films serious moments. Many times durring these moments I sat waiting for the punchline only to discover that there was none.To put it simply save your money and your time this film is rotten to the core and a complete waste of time.  "}{"Title":"Old, defunct but reasonably pleasing","Date":"25 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I again catch another glimpse with packs of romantic comedy movies, Never been kissed was one of my choice list. It talks about the familiar situation about girl having bad history of high school (no, not bad records but awfully bad treatment from others), and that is what Josie Gellar portrays, surprisingly I love the theme of the movie bearing in mind that I'm a quick affectionate viewer, I get easily in touch with movies that has strong influence with its prime topic. Never been kissed was one of my frequent movie list I use to watch when bored, It's not tedious but an averagely gratifying film about usual teenage wannabes, plastics and flamboyant attention-getters. One of the primary reason I watch this, rather than it is entertaining is David Arquette's on screen performance as well as Drew Barrymore and Michael Vartan as well If you're in a plan mood watch it.. "},{"Title":"Rufus!","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Teen movies do not get any better then this! Never Beeen kissed is one of my all time favorite movies. I love Drew Barrymore and this is one of her best roles ever! This movie is deeply romantic and always makes me cry mostly because of the beautiful way the movie ends and depressing flashbacks especially the egg scene! The soundtrack of this movie is grate.If you enjoy movies like Clueless, Mean Girls and 10 Things I hate about you definitely give this one a try! It is a perfect chick flick for a girls night in! I highly recommend this movie to you.10/10! "},{"Title":"Never Been Kissed=GREAT MOVIE","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Never Been Kissed, may it be a chick flick, was a great movie for all generations to love! Its a story about self-discovery and love at the same time, and it provides viewers with comedy. I love the entire thing and I do not see how people think that it was a waste of time. I could watch this movie over and over again and it never gets old! The ending is the best part, every time I see Michael Vaughn run down the baseball stairs I almost start to cry because you just feel so close by the time the movie is about to end. It makes every teenager, especially those that are in high school feel at home and not out of place. It also shows the ups and downs of high school, which I find to be a plus! "},{"Title":"I Love Michael Vartan n GUY","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" One of the best movies of all time. A very romantic comedy that u will love n waste your time if u decide to watch it. The character Guy is hot and so is Michael Vartan. The storyline flows with each other n makes u enjoy every scene. Drew Barrymore does a wonderful job by changing who she is. It shows how it was in high school and you see how it was if u were geek or cool. Everybody ends up falling in love with drew Barrymore's character. David Arquette plays Drew Barrymore's brother which makes even funnier. If you love those romantic scenes with the music in the background u will love this movie. Another reason u will love this movie is Jessica Alba plays a very mean character but of course she's one of the cool girls. "},{"Title":"I'll kiss you Drew.","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Drew Barrymore is far too attractive, too cool to be playing a nerd. It doesn't suit her. It's obvious why she likes to play in these goofy movies, but she is capable of more. She could play that girl that walks into a private eyes office and announces trouble. She has such a playful voice. This movie wouldn't even suit her if it was her style. It is a bad eighties style movie with cardboard characters that was casted by a moron. No two people who produced Drew Barrymore would ever conceive David Arquette. Leelee Sobieski may sound a little nerdish, but she is far too beautiful to be unpopular. Molly Shannon and Michael Vartan are both cast well, but aren't given that much to do. The cast is good enough to take you through this, but you won't get much for your patience.P.S. So, how that January '95 Playboy issue...never been kissed my a**. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Watchable Teen Comedy-Romance","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" NEVER BEEN KISSED *** A surprisingly watchable teen comedy-romance that casts the adorable Drew Barrymore as a shy copy editor who is sent undercover at a local high-school to turn in an article regarding today's teens. Entertainment ensues as dork-turned-chick Barrymore peeks into the lives of her popular classmates while befriending a friendly senior named Aldys. The plot is paper thin and things don't really elevate to a very deep or inspiring level, but Barrymore's charm keeps the film moving along as she tries not to trip over her own two feet in the school hallways (which she incidentally does not manage to achieve). Check this one out for the cast or for the light entertainment that follows. "},{"Title":"Cute, Frothy Romance","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Drew Barrymore is good in Never Been Kissed, but I kept waiting for her to come out of the ugly duckling phase to be, well, Drew Barrymore (she was so gorgeous and good in Mad Love). But she stays in character with annoying mannerisms to just become a presentable duck rather than her swan-self, oddly enough. The best parts are the EdTV aspects as the office watches her life on a hidden camera.David Arquette is basically playing his 1-800-Call-ATT role. Jeremy Jordan as the school hunk and the teacher are cute but don't really push my buttons.The terrific Latin band Ozomatli is prominently featured, as is some other neat music, though the final use of Don't Worry Baby was a bit odd choice. (originally written 4/11/1999) "},{"Title":"Heartwarming and great fun!","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie. The actors were brilliant and the end scene is one of the most romantic I've ever seen.The story is about a girl (exellent played by Drew Barrymore), she was never popular in high school and now she is given another chans when her boss sends her on a mission to find out how high school is today. When she arrives she becomes who she was when she went to high school herself, a geek. But then her brother shows up to help her, he get's popular quickly and tell the popular kids that she's soo cool. Anyway, it's a romantic comedy, right? So who is that special someone in this film? Answer Her English teacher (brilliant act by Michael Vartan). The fact that she's working undercover makes things just a little bit complicated.David Arquette plays Josie's (the girl) brother and he is great. The movie is painful to watch since the kids are so cruel. But the movie is still great fun and heartwarming. "},{"Title":"School Daze","Date":"14 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a fun feel good movie. Go back to school but knowing how to be an adult. It shows how young teenagers really are. I liked this film a lot as it allowed high school to be a reasonable time before having to grow up. Drew plays the idealistic and romance obsessed Josie trying to be 17 but innocently flirting with her teacher.The world of tough reporters and heavy handed bosses is almost the fake world with ott but fun performances. Drew can look go from pretty to plain jane in a second and still get away with being likable. She is a sweet teenager and lost 20something.I still don't want to go back to school though. Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Predictable but Cute and Fun","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie isn't any epic masterpiece or anything but it's fun, low key and cute. Drew Barrymore plays a nerdy copy editor named Josie who is sent back to high school for her first undercover story, her dream come true. The movie follows her as she makes her way into the popular group and falls in love with her English teacher Mr. Coulson (Michael Vartan) (who likes her too but has to keep quiet because he thinks she's only 17). At the prom, the whole story comes out and Mr. Coulson is mad and blah blah blah. The ending is the best part so I won't tell you what happens. This used to be my favourite movie, I've gotten over it over time but I still really like it and would recommend it for a fun, sleep over type movie. "}{"Title":"Drew Barrymore did an outstanding job!","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Never Been Kissed. Drew Barrymore, John C. Rielly, Molly Shannon, David Arquette, Jessica Alba,The Plot - Josie Geller thinks she can take a reporting job. She was a former geek ion high school so she takes a job where she has to be 15 again. She plays an outstanding job in her efforts and falls in love with a teacher but they do not know she is a reporter. They think she is a 15 year old student.Review - I think this movie takes some people back to high school because this movie that Raja Gosnell has created is just like some High Schools, They never change with the geeks and nerds. I think this movieshould get a 10/10 for it's realism and stuff in it. "},{"Title":"Drew Is 17 Years Again!","Date":"25 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love to Drew Barrymore, when i watched her in Scream, i said what a wonderful actress, in the film she had 17, she was murdered so i cried. After two years, we can have her back in Never been Kissed, playing Josie Geller, the best character ever. In there, Drew has 17 again (ok, 25 years) I bougth it on DVD so i can watch it every time. The three popular and cute girls was the best on it. Jessica Alba (Dark Angel) and Marley Shelton (Sugar & Spice and Valentine) are pretty and smarts and much more. I hope Drew makes the sequence then we'll know what happened with Josie and Sam, if they had children or he dumped her, i don't know!. Thanks Drew for make the best movies in the world. Also i recommend Scream, Ever After, Home Fries, Charlie's Angels, Duplex, 50 firs dates and Donnie Darko, among others. "},{"Title":"Good til the end","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" While seeing this movie, I thought it was great. Then came the ending. It was as though the writer left and a hopeless romantic took over. Don't get me wrong, I am a romantic. But my love life is my business and no one else's. I do not go to baseball games and announce my love to everyone. But Josie did. How stupid is that? If she wanted to apologize, she should have done it in private. I would never show up in a public place (with everyone watching me) to confess my love and hope that was okay with him. What if it wasn't? Then she has just embarrassed a guy in front of thousands of people. Plus, I am not a big Drew Barrymore fan. I kept wishing her love was unrequited. This is a good example between reality and fantasy. Reality is based on life. Fantasy is based on dreams. Please think about it before you see this movie. Or you may end up rolling your eyes more times than you can count. "},{"Title":"Really Never Been Kissed","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Never Been Kissed is by far one of the BEST movies I have ever seen. Definately something I can relate to.  I love how that moment is described of a first real kiss, because it's true.  That thing. That moment. You kiss someone and it's like the world around you gets all hazy and the only thing in focus is you and this other person and you know that one person is the person you're meant to be kissing for the rest of your life. And for that one moment you've been given this amazing gift and you want to laugh and cry at the same time because you're so lucky you found it, and so scared that it will all go away.What girl wouldn't want that? Also thanks to that movie I'm madly in love with Michael Vartan.  His character is awesome! And just the way it was filmed it's amazing, and the music added to it.  Also the context of the movie.  There is sooo much to say about it.  However I lack the words to express what a great movie it is. "},{"Title":"Never Been So Lame","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Another story of loser in life wins in the end for doing 1 noble act. At least you get to see Leelee Sobieski (if you are an admirer)  I fall in love with her every time I see her.  It seems lately that Drew Barrymore is a signal the film is going to be dumb (i.e. Charlie's Angels).  This movie was really geared for kids in high school and adults with childhood issues. Did anyone not know how it was going to end?  This movie is for the people who were misfits in school and has no appeal to the rest of us. "},{"Title":"Painfully true for so many people!","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think I enjoyed this film so much because when I went to see it in the pictures, I was 14, and it was so painfully accurate to my own life! I think thats why many people enjoyed it.  Apart from the fact that I could relate to the main character, I found it to be quite a funny film in places, usually the scenes with David Arquette were the funniest (especially his 'Risky Business' impression!) An OK film, mostly decent performances, I liked it, so I gave it a 7 "},{"Title":"Enjoyable nonsense.","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not well acted, not well written, a basic, predictable chick flick. But, like all of them, with a few good songs, a hot guy as the supporting lead, this movie is a bit of fun for a sleepover or cheering you up when you feel depressed. However it's only for girls aged 11-14. After that, everyone 'hates' it (or just doesn't admit to liking it!) "},{"Title":"Sweet","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, there's something about this movie that makes it just sweet and charming. I liked everything about it but at the same time I just hated everything about it. I thought it was pathetic and stupid but then again I'm wrong. Barrymore delivers a high school sweetness and charm and dreams to the screen. This role reminds me of Barrymore's Cinderella story Ever After. And it got to do what she always wanted to be. The main character, Josie just funny and hilarious but well, like all fairy tales go, she ends up in the right place and ends at the right time. The other actor that succeeds to the fullest is David Arquette which I favor in this movie because he's just funny and just believable even though his role was not that big but his importance to be part of it. I liked this movie. 7.2/10.0 "},{"Title":"Typical modern-day teen flick...","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ho-hum comedy/romance with the basics kissing, sex, and relationships. Drew Barrymore plays a highschooler who has never been kissed; she falls in love with her teacher and you can kind of guess the outcome early on. In light of recent teen films this isn't half bad, but when compared to more intelligent and witty teen films such as Ferris Bueller's Day Off...this just is below-average.3/5 stars --John Ulmer "},{"Title":"classic","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  honestly it's one of my favourites, its the type of movie you can watch over and still laugh out loud, i thought the characters were great and the plot was very funny.  i think for people who aren't picky and just want to enjoy a light film this is a great one to get. "}{"Title":"Always been one of my favorites","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my ever-lasting favorites! Every time it is as touching, entertaining and genuine. Drew manages in her role (or should I say roles) in a excellent way and I have to wonder how her appearance has been changed in two totally different direction and how she can act both of the undercover and the old, high-school Josie so well. And Michael Vartan is so cute and intelligent as Coulson - Josie expresses extremely good taste!  "},{"Title":"Go watch Heathers instead","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think I must be getting a bit too thoughtful/ pretentious in my old age, but I actually found this film disturbing. What on earth was its message?! The whole idea of Josie's big moment prom speech where she rounds on the shallow popular girls for their obsession with boys and looks as opposed to 'being yourself' when the movie itself suggested that in fact the only way to get ahead is to be good looking (contrast old Josie with braces and brown hair to new blonde Josie). This was just typical Odeipal wish fulfillment stuff - you can seduce your male authority figure (for teacher read father) - you can beat down your horrible old female authority figure (for boss read mother) - you can become a fulfilled adult. The thing I found really creepy was that the teacher's crush on her was Ok when she was 25 but would have been abusive when she was a student. Did the teacher somehow magically sense she was actually 25?! No, but hey, he gets to have sex with his daughter! somehow Christian Slater trying to blow up the whole school in Heathers becomes positively healthy! (or maybe I just need to calm down?!)   "},{"Title":"A neat idea completely wasted","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The concept of returning to High School is a good one for comedy, yet somehow there are no jokes in Never Been Kissed, just cliche's.  The script is lame and predictable and even Barrymore can't save it, which is a shame because in better hands, NBK could have been great.In its favour, it's colourful, and Barrymore's growing relationship with her teacher is genuinely sweet, but hampered by awkward sex jokes and toilet humour.The director doesn't trust his audience with any intelligence, so the film is not only predictable, but insulting.  A wasted opportunity. "},{"Title":"Save some time, just see the trailer","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Save some time, just see the trailer from that you know the whole movie! This is another nerd girl in high school who suddenly becomes popular and everythings perfect until her fake is revealed 30min from the end but when it`s 5min left of the movie everythings perfect again! movie. have you seen one of thoose you have seen all of them!  "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I encourage this movie to most women, however most guys will be turned off by the ridiculousness of the plot.  Of course, I didn't find high school that interesting and cliques never appealed to me, and my entire HS experience scarcely resonated.  Nor am I a woman.  Since I share none of the characteristics that the protagonist has, I had to rate this one slightly lower.  However, there are plenty of jokes to keep you watching while your girl enjoys it. Which we appreciate )7/10 "},{"Title":"Sweet Movie","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen this movie five or six times and I think it's cute every time I see it.  It has the cutest ending that leaves you feeling happy inside.  Drew Barrymore is great in it, and Michael Vartan is so extremely handsome.  I wish they had made Drew look a little more with it though, she looked pretty ridiculous until the last 2 or 3 scenes.  But it was all really funny, even if it was pretty predictable.   "},{"Title":"A disapointment? Not for those who enjoy a laugh","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  'Never Been Kissed' is the perfect film to just lay down on the sofa and watch when you're feeling depressed. It has a bit of everything in it humour, romance, love, hate, and of course that small bit of suspension at the end. Drew Barrymore fulfils her role in an excellent mannor, along with all of the other actors and actresses. If I was the director, personally I would have changed the way some bits were done, though everyone has their likes and dislikes. So, if you haven't seen it, why not sit down and give it a whirl? "},{"Title":"A great movie that gives non-kissed-people a chance","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  NEVER BEEN KISSEDSTARRING DREW BARRYMORE; MOLLY SHANNON; MICHAEL  VARTANJosie Gellar (Drew Barrymore) has been an outcast in school.Horrible hair, braces, and a huge crush on the class hottie. Herhigh school past had been ruined when her crush framed her togo to Prom and instead left her alone. Later on when she has asteady job working for a newspaper, she is given her firstassignment to go back to highschool as an undercover student.During the process, she learns to be accepted by the geeks andthe popular people, gets asked out by the new generations classcutie and crushes on Mr. Sam Colson (Michael Vartan) who alsoends up falling in love with her.Never been kissed is a great movie for teenagers. Adults may notbe able to cherish it as much but its a great movie with comedyand romance that keeps everyone laughing until the expectedending. I give this movie **** out of ***** "},{"Title":"not much good","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What can I say that hasn't been said before? I didn't like it, at all. Very unconvincing, tries hard to be romantic, but fails. Looking at other reviews, perhaps this particular movie might be of more interest to the female viewer, although Im trying hard not to discriminate. "},{"Title":"Typical high school movie","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is kind of like your average high school movie, with a few small differences. It always seems to be about trying to fit in nowadays, in real life also. Even though in this movie Josie (Drew Barrymore) isn't exactly a real student, she finds herself within the process of trying to be cool. It's one of those movies where you're supposed to think 'I don't need to try to be cool', kind of like a feel-good movie. The thing is the movie has sudden story line changes - one moment Josie's trying to cool and the next moment she's writing an article about her first kiss. It has nothing to do with her original assignment. Oh well, guess that's what's supposed to happen. Overall, it's pretty cool, just like every other teenage movie in this world. "}{"Title":"let down by weak material","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Overly contrived story about a mid-twenties, onetime high school loser who's put her unpleasant past behind her and become a newspaper editor on the rise. Ambitious and wanting to give her career the boost it needs, she agrees to go undercover as a high school student and find a juicy story. Unfortunately for her, times haven't changed much and she finds herself reliving the same nightmare of taunts and torments that were prevalent during her high school years. Another one of those breezy films that tries to coast on the appeal of a likable star (Barrymore), but the script is far-fetched, uninspired, and doesn't have the wit or charm it needs for a story like this to work. ** "},{"Title":"Bad movie","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Badly made romance comedy movie that has very poor all around production.Caters to big fans of romance comedies revolving around High School pecking order intrigues.Many fans of this particular genre will be entertained however due to the scarcity of films like these made by big name superstars like Drew Barrymore (who does a great job here).Will be a cult favorite despite poor production.The story is quite decent and so is the soundtrack despite the terrible sound quality.Bad cinematography as well.Only for fans of this particular genre and big fans of Drew Barrymore......   "},{"Title":"Great for what it is! One of the best teen chick flicks ever.","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved the movie and hats off to Drew Barrymore for picking a great script and doing it well!!!!  I also loved the performance of Michael Vartan who I have been watching since the Pallbearer.  He was great in this movie and if you can find them watch is french films. The 3 I have gotten a hold of have been great.  I have to admit thought, he is quite the hottie.  It must be the French side. I loved the Friends and the 2 ally mcbeal's that he was on. "},{"Title":"Sure.  And neither have I.","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The premise of this romantic comedy/teen escapist fare is, what would it be like to go back to high school a few years later? Would you with your worldly wisdom triumph over the brutal social structure that so onerously held you down, and would you join the socialites at the prom with the cutest guy? Inquiring minds want to know.First of all, we want to know how Drew Barrymore, the sweet, trashy siren of the first Poison Ivy (1992), and the way accomplished actress and sex symbol of sixty (count 'em) other flicks, could be cast as a Josie Grossie nerd of a clumsy, socially inept wallflower? Make-up, yes. Good editing of course. And some fine acting by Barrymore, an actor not afraid to look her worst, and indeed she does look her worst here. Alas. The clinging gowns, the ratty hair, the make-up emphasizing her worst features (a nose looking a little on the Miss Piggy side, shot from slightly below) and down-playing her best, her pretty eyes, her sensual mouth. Instead of looking pleasingly plump, Drew comes off as plainly fat. But this is all the better for the metamorphosis to come.I didn't stick around for that, secure in the knowledge that it was inevitable (but you might want to see for yourself). Incidentally, Drew was the executive producer, which shows she has guts as well as some loose change for such ventures.Second question does Drew sell out her chess and math club friends to join the cheerleaders? And if so, how does Director Raja Gosnell pull that off without making the darling of E.T. (1982) look like a shallow social-climber?I'm not sure that was pulled off as well as it might have been, again not sticking around for the finale, but you might want to check it out. Also worth checking out (if you're a girl) is Michael Vartan who does a fine job playing Drew's sympathetic teacher.Bottom line Connoisseurs of Drew will find much worth while here, as will 15-year-old home alones on a Saturday night plotting their eventual triumph, but experienced movie-goers will probably want to watch reruns of Seinfeld or Just Shoot Me. Or better yet, if you're looking for a girl-nerd flick that really is funny and painfully sad and true-to-life in a totally original way, I highly recommend Welcome to the Dollhouse (1995) which really is brilliant.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Never Been Kissed rules!!!","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a very funny movie and i reccomend it to all movie-goers, or just anyone who wants a laugh. My personal favorite scenes are when she's in the bar dancing up on stage, and when she's at the school dance. The geeks are hilarious and everyone plays their part well! THey could have found a better hunk for Barrymore to date (except for the teacher, who was okay) but other then that this movie is the oposite of a letdown and will make the grumpiest person happy. I reccomend it big-time!! "},{"Title":"What a new-age, unique romance!","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was interesting and intrigued me throughout the whole thing! The story of a girl who had a very rough time in high-school is re-lived when she becomes a reporter, and her first assignment is to go back to high school in hopes of getting a story about today's teens. However, she gets to live what she never got a chance to - including becoming popular, and getting a date to the prom. However, when Josie Gellar falls in love, what's going to happen? See the movie to find out! "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  At first I thought it would be a total chick movie, but when I saw it, it was pretty damn funny.  Most normal girls (maybe even really sensitive guys) will cry at some parts.  My opinion....it was great. "},{"Title":"Funny, Touching, Sad and Great!","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen this movie many times and I never get tired or bored of watching it. It's such a touching movie and it's all because of Drew Barrymore. She does an incredible job of portraying the geek who is picked on by everyone. The best part of the movie is the flashbacks to Josie's high school past, I can't believe how mean these people were to Josie, it's so sad. You really sympathize with Drew's character because you wouldn't want those things to happen to yourself. No matter how may times I watch this movie, I almost cry when I see the cruelty. Drew's acting is really first rate and as for the script, it's good. There are some good one liners in it and it's written well. The movie flows really well, it kind of dips towards the end but not that much. The only negative thing I can think of, is that in real life, Drew doesn't really come off as a high school student, but hey, this is a movie. In the end, it's a great movie to watch with friends. "},{"Title":"Lovely, funny flick for those of us who were geeks in high school","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is loads of fun. As one of those who were geeks in high school (yes, even the cute people can be outcast geeks -- especially the smart/shy kids), this movie is fantasy-fulfillment What if you could go back & do it right? No, the plot isn't realistic, but that isn't what fantasies are all about. This is one of those movies I put on when I don't want to think - just to enjoy a flick! "},{"Title":"LOVE IT! LOVE IT!","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen this movie at least a thousand times and every time it gets a little better. Drew Barrymore was absolutely perfect.....sure I could have seen Sandra Bullock in the part but Drew did a great job! The whole thing is just lovable and funny. The movie keeps you sympathetic with all the characters and by the end you're in a better mood than you started out with. Cute, fun, romantic comedy everyone should see. Kudos to Drew Barrymore, and David Arquette!! 10/10 "}{"Title":"Adorable!","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Finally a movie that can be related to.  Nerd meets expected job turns would-be-reporter meets dream guy falls in love blah blah. Funny thing is, I am watching She's All That while writing this review and am thinking how similar the two are.  Both have a seemingly lame theme, but NBK has a bit of substance, it has a plot.  Although its 30 minutes too long, I enjoyed it.  Jeremy Jordan and Michael Vartan make the movie quite droolful (is that a word?). )  - Oh and Martha Hackett?  (Seska Star Trek Voyager major flashback) - Out of 10, I give Never Been Kissed 4 1/2.  Don't rent it though, wait 'till it's on Cable or Network! "},{"Title":"This film is incredible!","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is utterly incredible! I love the whole concept. The script is witty and sharp, the music is never too overpowering and subtly adds to the story and doesn't detract from it. The ending is a little predictable but it does have a slight deviation from the norm, which is refreshing! Unlike most 'teen flicks' this film manages to tackle the social insecurities and fickleness in teenagers and doesn't gloss it over and pretend that everyone always gets on, or that the 'popular' kids won't turn on you once you're admitted to their inner circle. I have never cried so much at a Romantic comedy! The director didn't try to make Josie into a beautiful slim girl once she was popular she still retained some of her geekiness and insecurities and this shone through. The film was positive and makes you feel good about yourself. You feel that you too have a chance with the guy/girl of your dreams. Drew Barrymore was inspired in her role, and you could easily believe that she was only seventeen, unlike many actors who try to be teenagers! My total respect goes out to Michael Vartan he tackled a really difficult dilemma with sensitivity and never once appeared as sleazy or out of line. This guy is amazing and very yummy too! The director has outstanding talent and the way he switched between the Tv. screen and Josie's colleagues and her view was a good idea. The only thing that this film, and all teen flicks, that is bad is that it doesn't fully develop the potential there is for the relationships between the friends. Why do all directors think that we're all shallow and incapable of talking amongst ourselves about current issues at 16? I'd give this film 9 out of 10, but my vote got pushed to a 10 by the handsome good looks of Mr Michael Vartan! We want more of him soon! "},{"Title":"A Hilarious and Fun Film!!!","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"        Never Been Kissed is a great film with a great cast and brillaint and funny story! Drew Barrymore, David Arquette, Molly Shannon Leelee Sobieski, Jessica Alba, and Marley Shelton are great!!!! This is a great comedy & romance film. This is one of the best films ever!!! This great and hilarious film deserves a 10 out of 10!!!!!     ) "},{"Title":"Good film that's very funny, romantic, and touching","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  To me, NEVER BEEN KISSED is a good film that's very funny, romantic, and touching. I thought that Drew (Barrymore) and the entire cast did an outstanding job. Even though I've only seen a few of her films, I think she's a good actress. I felt sorry for Josie (Drew Barrymore) because she was tortured in high school. You poor thing. I wanted to cry each time that happened. Even so, this film made me laugh at times. Mainly, it made me feel good. To all you Drew Barrymore fans that have not seen this film, I HIGHLY recommend it. When you see it, prepare to have a good time and be touched. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, Magical and thats just Drew Barrymore","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was one of my favourite films of all time. Its not often a guy likes a chick flick but you really find yourself rooting for Drew because she's just so cute. Only one thing wrong though! I can't believe she's a nerd. It just wouldnt happen. It really wouldnt! How could any guy refuse to go on a date with her.  She is also a fantastic actress and David Arquette is hysterically funny as her brother. The rest of the cast support well and the end is fantastic. Okay it can be a bit predictable but who cares? "},{"Title":"Alright Movie","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was more fictional than real, but it was pretty good. Smart people seem to be always the dorks in movies, but in real life it seems different. Drew Barrymore isn't even as ugly as this movie makes it seem, but thats ok. I enjoyed watching it at the movies with my friend and her sister. But it seems more fantasy than real. The people that make movies always think the smart people are nerds or dorks....when actually they are the ones who have a future. But anyways, this movie is one of those fantasy dreams that would never come true. Even though it's actually quite good. Like I said, Drew Barrymore is a very pretty lady and she doesn't seem all that bad in the movie. She's a great actor.  "},{"Title":"I wonder where my penguin is","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Another teen movie, I first thought. But this one had this huge quality Drew Barrymore was in the cast. Plus, I was in high school when it was in the movies and some friends used to say that it was based on the life of one of the boys. People say he also had never been kissed. But in our final party we almost kiss. Only he and I knows that we ALMOST kiss, the rest of the gang doesn't. So, I technically first kiss him. And, as I want to be a filmmaker, they said I did it because I wanted to make the sequel...Silly story, but anyway, I looked forward to see it. Unfortunately I end up waiting almost two years to finally see it. Totally worth it. I absolutely loved it. It has all magical characteristics that a romantic comedy must have, it also has some clichés... but it's not the point.It just make us think about real love and soul mates and kisses that make our world turns upside down. The way Josie describes what she expects on a kiss, inspired me and I realized that I have never been kissed, not this way, and I bet a lot of people haven't either. It's so hard to find our match. You know, penguins spend their entire life looking for their one other, and when they finally find them, they spend the rest of their lives together. I need to find my penguin. I wonder where he is. "},{"Title":"Drew is Princess Charming","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Drew Barrymore - your acting ancestors would be happy with you and your performance in this film and all your others!  You made me smile and I really felt for your character when she got pelted with eggs prior to her prom.  I am a new fan.  Thanks for the smiles and the tears.  Keep up your terrific body of work. "},{"Title":"Serendipity","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Expecting an average film, I was very happily surprised at the overall quality of this movie. Drew Barrymore played a believable character quite well, and this is the best performance I have seen from her. Her supporting cast was also very good, and the themes of high school's potential unfairness and many challenges were displayed, as well as the relative triviality of high school in the grand scheme of life. This production was entertaining, realistic overall, and touching at times, thanks to the excellent acting in a relatively simple plot. For those reviewers who did not like the film for inaccuracies and technicalities that they pointed, get a life! "},{"Title":"This movie is so cute! I love it!","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Drew Barrymore is so cute in this movie! She plays a loser reporter who goes undercover as a high school student to right an article about what teens are today. Along the way, she falls for handsome teacher and makes a new friend with a younger, but also mature girl. Drew is so funny and clueless in Never Been Kissed! I would give this movie 8 out of 10! "}{"Title":"This movie is so cute! I love it!","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Drew Barrymore is so cute in this movie! She plays a loser reporter who goes undercover as a high school student to right an article about what teens are today. Along the way, she falls for handsome teacher and makes a new friend with a younger, but also mature girl. Drew is so funny and clueless in Never Been Kissed! I would give this movie 8 out of 10! "},{"Title":"The best Romantic comedy I've ever seen!","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  You should see this movie twice to agree with me! I am a fan of Romantic comedies and the first time I saw this movie it was just a regular comedy. After seeing it for the second time I just couldn't leave it without watching for a few times. Drew Barrymore was the best possible actress for this movie and she acted very well! I can't give you any comments other than WATCH THIS MOVIE! "},{"Title":"Reality Check!","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was unable to enjoy this movie because it is totally unbelievable.Drew Barrymore's character of Josie is a copy editor at the Chicago Sun-Times. As a member of the print media, there is no way possible that a copy editor has her own office and even her own secretary!! Copy editors at my place of employment don't even have their own desks! (they are shared between 2-3 people!) If newspapers gave every copy editor an office and a secretary, they would all go broke in a week. Most newspapers are struggling to stay afloat as it is!Secondly, to have a journalist go undercover as a student breaks just about every rule of ethics in our profession. There is absolutely no way whatsoever that a reporter would be permitted to go undercover as a student. No newspaper would allow it, nor would any school administration!I wish the filmmakers would have done more research about the newspaper profession before bringing this totally implausible story to the screen. "},{"Title":"Great movie, but false portrayal","Date":"16 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Never Been Kissed was a great movie. I enjoyed very much. Drew Barrymore did an excellent job. The storyline was quite moving, and the scenes were hilarious. But there is one thing I would like to comment on which is the movie's false portrayal of the popular people. I don't consider myself as one of the popular people, but a lot of my friends are considered popular at our high school. I can tell you straight off that they are not the stereotypical people everyone thinks when they hear the words popular people. They are not ditzes and are not mean. (Well, some are, but they're not my friends.) They are taking honors courses and are in math courses one grade higher, just like me. I had just moved to our middle school and was very scared and nervous, but these people helped me. They weren't mean and didn't make fun of me. They befriended me, no questions asked. I just wanted to say that not all popular people in every high school of America are ditzes and cruel. My friends are different and they're tight. I love 'em! "},{"Title":"Pretty damn good!","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The whole teen comedy genre has had it's ups and downs. With hits like American Pie, She's All That and Bring It On and flops like Whatever It Takes, Dick and 10 Things I Hate About You it's nice to see a comedy that can pull in the punters as well as have a half-decent storyline.Never Been Kissed is about 25 year-old Josie Gellar, a reporter for the Chicago Sun Times who goes undercover at the local high school to find out what makes teens click. But what she got, was a lot more than what she bargained for.He memories of her social outcastism during her own high school years have haunted the young reporter, and must become popular very quickly, or she might end up losing her job!ET starlet Drew Barrymore delivers yet another great performance as main character Josie, and Scream's David Arquette stars here aswell, as Josie's older brother Rob, who also ends up joining the high school. Rounding out the rest of the cast are Leelee Sobieski, Molly Shannon, Jeremy Jordan and Michael Vartan.The storyline was a little predictable towards the end, but generally, the script was very funny and the plot not too dull. I really enjoyed the scene where she goes to the nightclub!! Very funny stuff! 7/10!! "},{"Title":"What is Criz talkin about??","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What are you talkin about Criz?  Of course the characters are believable! Where did you go to school?  No offense but I think I will move to Saskatchewan too because it sounds like you grew up in some Utopia where people are treated the way they deserve.  Half of the people who are outcast in the wonderful society of high school are people who are not at all deserving, many of them attractive people who just don't have the best makeup sense, taste in clothes, money, connections...  Drew Barrymore is perfect for the role, someone who, when you get to know her, is a wonderful person, as well as attractive; someone who should be popular except that kids can be cruel and find any flaws and magnify them, to make even intelligent, good-natured, attractive girls feel like c**p and be looked at as losers.  Leelee Sobieksi is also perfect, her character looks really dorky and chooses to publicize her interest in math - I don't know anyone in high school who was considered cool after admitting to liking math, no matter what they looked like!  I hope you are not assuming it is unbelievable that an attractive girl could like math!It is sad but this is the way our society has been for a while now; saying that the characters are unbelievable is totally off-base.  Actually they are perfectly representative of real life.  Hopefully kids who see this movie will get the message but more likely they will go on judging each other based on stupid criteria that have nothing to do with a person's personality or good nature.  I highly recommend this cute, funny, thoughtful statement on what really makes someone cool. "},{"Title":"Josie's Second Time Around","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Josie Gellar (Drew Barrymore) had a painful high school experience.  She was branded the name everyone in high school tries to avoid  Class LOSER!  Now out of high school and a journalist for Chicago paper, Josie is assigned to go to high school and investigate modern teenagers of the 1990's.  Josie is all excited until her brother, Rob (David Arquette), brings her back down to Memory Lane.  Even Josie's second time around in modern day high school isn't any better...in fact it's just as bad.  Josie makes friends with school nerd, Aldys (Leelee Sobieski), and is a special member of the Calculus Team (Oh...how fun!).  Yet her boss wants Josie to hang out with the popular crowd, the crowd that will do anything to avoid losers like Josie.  That is until Rob, who was Mr. Popularity during his high school days) comes to the rescue, helping Josie's challenge into a superb triumph.  Yet Josie's biggest challenge was always love.  During her high school days, Josie set eyes on Billy Prince (Denny Kirkwood), the most popular guy in school, who of course totally ditched her.  Now, Josie has her eyes on her English teacher, the ever gorgeous Sam Coulson (Michael Vartan), and this time, Mr. Popular Guy Perkins (Jeremy Jordan) has his eyes on her.  Yet neither of them knows her secret, and only one of them will be the lucky guy to present Josie with her first kiss ever.Sad story almost...isn't it?  Okay.I thought this movie has a lot of strong points that Drew's character, Josie, points out, and I think that a lot of the school outcasts could relate to how Josie feels between peer pressure and trying to fit in.  Of course, as I watched this movie, there were only two things I thought 1.)  This movie has a lot of strong points about being yourself and not caring what others think no matter how bad they are!2.)  Well, it sucks to be class loser!  Glad I wasn't class loser during my high school days!But anyway, this movie's both good and great (in a minor way).  Good because it's full of laughs and it's bright and colorful.  And great because I'm sure that a lot of girls and guys who feel like an outcast can relate to Josie! )  I really think this is one of Drew's best career moves, though I think that the film has a few weak points!For one, the prom looks more like a costume party than a prom (I'm disco Barbie!), and of course..the party.  YOU CALL THAT A PARTY?  Where were all the drunken people?! *lol*Oh well!!!  Great movie though! )  **CHEERS to Drew and the whole cast!!!** "},{"Title":"The little movie that'll steal your heart.","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie for people who like to watch films with heart. Never Been Kissed is well written, acted and directed. Drew Barrymore plays a nerdy 25 year old copy editor for a newspaper who finally gets an assignment as a reporter. She must go undercover as a high school student to find out what 90's kids are like. Barrymore does a very good job playing Josie, she  captures the never-give-up spunk that carries her through the humiliations she must endure. The story gives Josie a hidden camera in a pin and her co-workers from the newspaper watch and become engrossed in her struggles. They provide comedic and touching commentary and add a depth to the film that I enjoyed very much. Never Been Kissed is very contemporary, but it also feels much like a screwball romantic comedy from years past. Perhaps the best part of the film is the ending. Josie's heartbreak and pain is so perfectly captured by Barrymore that I was totally swept up in the moment. Not to worry though, the movie does not end on a down note. If you like films with heart, you'll be smiling as the credits roll. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie- one of my all-time favourites!","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this film so much that I am obsessed with it! I can relate to Josie's teenage angst and the conflicting priorities that she was in, in terms of her loyalty to her job and a potential love interest.I truly recommend it to all ages.  It'll make you laugh, laugh out loud and cry yet happy, all at once sometimes!PS Michael Vartan is a very sexy man indeed! "},{"Title":"Wonderful!!!","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is sooo good! It tells the story of Josie Geller, (Drew Barrymore), a 25 year old journalist who has to go back to high school, to come up with a story. If she doesn't, she and her boss will both get fired. Her brother Sam reminds her that she was a geek in high school and she must become popular to get herself a story. So he also goes in disguise and makes her become popular. While trying to find a story, she falls in love with the teacher. But when they find out that it was all a scheme, she doesn't know if he'll forgive her. So she writes all the things that happened in the newspaper, and asks him to give her a kiss in front of all those people who watch them. Will the teacher forgive her and come to kiss her? Watch to find out. This movie is funny, sad, and romantic. I cried at the end and at the part where her prom date doesn't take her to the prom, but instead throws eggs at her. I watched this movie because I'm a Drew Barrymore fan, but I realized that it was good. Drew Barrymore is usually in love movies like this one and she's good at playing her part too. I think that you should see this movie. I watched it a year ago, but I still like it. Rating10 "}{"Title":"Barrymore makes this movie shine","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Drew Barrymore is such a delight to watch in this movie. She has so much energy in this film, and it's completely effective and charming. Without her, this movie wouldn't have been nearly as enjoyable. Yup the movie is definitely predictable, but with Barrymore, the movie is a lot of fun to watch. Leelee Sobieski has a supporting role here, but she's amazing to watch anyway. I'm glad I finally had the chance to rent this and watch it. It's well worth it "},{"Title":"could it be cuter?","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  this is one of the best teen movies i've seen in a while...god, i laughed. so maybe the storyline was a little weak, but there are some great comedic moments in this, and i'm not talking about the part where she has eggs thrown at her because that wasn't funny (and i heard people laughing when i saw it in the theater...that's just cruel). the best part about this movie is the credits...what an original idea to put high school pictures of cast and crew in. nice touch.  "},{"Title":"A cute fluff of a movie, watch it if it is free!","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I like Drew Barrymore. She was wonderful in Everafter - A Cinderalla Story, and even pretty good in The Wedding Singer.  But this movie, Never Been Kissed, which Drew produced as well as starred in, is just too silly a premise to take seriously. Plus, it didn't have enough original humor either.  I give it 6 of 10 and was overall disappointed, even though I reluctantly watched the whole thing.Her character is a 25-yr-old copy editor in Chicago who goes back to school as a 17-yr-old senior to make a story. That premise could have been the springboard to a really fine movie, but this one never quite made it up to that standard. "},{"Title":"fun but overly broad romantic comedy","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Drew Barrymore is the saving grace of Never Been Kissed, a fun, lighthearted, but overly broad piece of fluff that falters most when it lapses into point-making sentimentality.Beginning from a far-from-credible premise, the film presents Barrymore as a completely unconvincing cub reporter for the Chicago Sun-Times who is assigned to go undercover at her old high school, although it is never clearly explained either to her or to us what the journalistic goal of the effort is.  The rub here is that Barrymore herself was (and still is) so hopeless a nerd that infiltrating the elite tier of the school's social strata becomes next to impossible without some drastic makeovers on her part.Actually, despite this almost hopelessly inane setup, much of the film has an energy and drive that at least keeps it interesting and there are a few hearty chuckles scattered about as Barrymore stumbles through her fish-out-of-water escapades with an aplomb and naive goodnaturedness that are truly infectious.  In fact, it is Barrymore herself who makes the film watchable.  She is utterly delightful in her bemused innocence, as she takes on this adolescent world of phony class values and sometimes vicious callousness.  The film makes effective use of humorous character reaction shots as it races along quite quickly to its predictable upbeat conclusion.  The film is least successful when it turns into a conventional polemic against the evils of teenage snobbery, territory that is more than shopworn at this late date.  In addition, much of the humor seems forced because the director all too often allows the broadness of the premise to get out of hand rather than simply relying on the gifted Ms. Barrymore to underplay the more obvious hyperbolic elements of the role.Still, Never Been Kissed makes for a passably entertaining evening and emerges as one of the better teen romantic comedies in a season that has so far seen far more than its fair share.  "},{"Title":"Funny moments inherit a predictable and soapy plot. *** out of ****","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I remember when I was in school how many people thought I was the geek.l. They called me names I really can not print on this screen, and did things to me beyond human compassion. While I don't believe that I had things as bad as Josie Grosie, I found Never Been Kissed to be an easy to relate to look at the high school life. One that finally, may I add, that doesn't glamorize the behavior of teens, and tells it how it really is.The movie stars Drew Barrymore as Josie Gellar, at 25 years old, she's the youngest reporter for the Chicago Sun-Times. As the film opens, she is given an assignment by her boss, Gus since she looks so young, she must go back to her old high school and report undercover as a senior about today's teens. The only problem is that when she used to be in school ,her classmates hated her clumsy guts. We see with many nice flashback scenes about how they called her Josie Grosie, egged her on prom night, made fun of her looks, and played cruel tricks on her constantly. Does she really want to relive all that?Yes, and instantly when she gets there, the immature jocks and beauty babes stars making fun of her. She does notice, however, that one of her high school sweethearts is now working at the school as a teacher. Silent attraction forms between the both of them.In the process of her undercover task, she meets several outcasts sort of like her, including Aldys,  a nerdy looking egghead. They become friends, go to parties, and have fun together.Meanwhile, at her work life, Gus sees little progress in her duties, thus forces her to do her story on popular kids at the school. In result, her brother Rob joins the program and being the popular stud he used to be, easily becomes well known and well liked the first day of enrollment. Trying to help out his sister and baseball career he  spreads rumors, secrets and tells tales that turn Josie into the eventual  prom queen.Drew Barrymore is easily one of the most inspiring actresses in Hollywood today. In Never Been Kissed, she once again brings a certain glowing charm to the big screen, leaving us breathless while watching her. She's a fine young actor on the rise, and I eagerly wait to see her in her next role.The film's opening is quite soapy as it describes the main character's sappy idea of what the perfect kiss would feel like. This scene in particular is way over the top in emotional development, as it is reluctant with the audience.There is nothing wrong with the characters, there are just too many of them which are unneeded. For instance The Molly Shannon character, Josie's work friend who has sex with many men and shares it openly, is completely useless. She provides only a hint of relationship with Gus, but their love sparks are completely forgotten throughout the story, and nothing eventually forms between them.Never Been Kissed is not a perfect film, but thanks to Drew Barrymore, it turns out to be an acceptable piece of comedy worth the ticket price and the mileage to get to the theater. I enjoyed the movie enough to recommend. I do need to add a comment about the finale, however, which was just as predictable as it was uplifting.  "},{"Title":"Excellent movie, great score!","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Being a big fan of movie scores, I must say that, once again, maestro David Newman has done a wonderful job here!  I also really like the barely heard, but effective, 'surf' music sequences.  "},{"Title":"What a fake movie!","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A horrible, horrible movie! Spend your money on 10 THINGS. NEVER has simplistic dialogue which comes out as forced and fake, even through Drew Barrymore's skilled acting. She is truly the only saviour of this 2-dimensional picture. Her comedic talents surpass David Arquette's one-note character and the logistics of the film have to be interpreted by the viewer no one really knows why Drew is sent back to high school, what the teacher see in Drew? (i guess he falls in love with an intelligent 18 year old, not some whiny self-victimizing and utterly depressed 25 year old) and the same old stereotypes are back... ick, ick, ick... "},{"Title":"Barrymore tries to replicate success of 'The Wedding Singer', on her own...","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ... that she doesn't quite succeed is down to the humour; perfect for high-schoolers themselves, but not so great for those of us who want to look back and laugh.We're expected to laugh with - not at - Josie; but the problem is, no-one's convincingly that 'awkward' as an adult - outside of movie-land, that is. It's not Barrymore's fault for her typically beguiling interpretation; it's just that people so 'gregarious' yet childlike rarely assimilate themselves into regular adult life in the first place. She could never have plausibly made it as far as she has in life, and yet still remained the same person; maturity would have forced her to change, or else left her ostracized - neither of which happens in the movie, of course, because the script wants to have its cake and eat it. 'Popular, yet geeky too' An incongruous combination.Leaving aside the absence of romantic interest - for that doesn't in itself signal social ineptitude - Proper outcasts in real life wouldn't even make an attempt or want to go to the lengths Josie does to fit in. If they really are that clueless - by the time they reach a certain age they'll know immediately that it's hopeless...Trying to paint Josie as anyone's credible idea of a misfit almost never works for the comedic situations, because her character simply consists of Drew Barrymore 'regressing'. While that might be fitfully charming, if that's what you REALLY want then for unmistakable authenticity you might as well just re-watch E.T. for the umpteenth time... ! "},{"Title":"Stop this.","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Man all I see is all this rich white teen movies all of them is the same. I know we can't go back to the porky's heyday but man they keep on why make the same teen movie over and over and over. The only thing I like this firm was it was over fast James Franco was cool but I wish he had a bigger part. "},{"Title":"Never Been Pis--d","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't know if I have ever been so intellectually insulted by a film more than this (and I have seen a few of J.C. VanDamme movies). First, off, Josie Geller (played by Barrymore) is such an unlike-able character, it is easy to understand why she was a loser in high school, and even as an adult has no friends. Neurotic, bordering on psychotic, somehow her antics endear her to the IN crowd and she swoons the dreamy teacher, despite having no charisma or desirable traits. Secondly, her 20-something brother (Arquette) decides to enlist in high school to join the baseball team and hopefully catch the eye of scouts. Does no one in this movie have birth certificates, or do high schools just allow people to enroll in high school without a certificate or parents?To further illustrate the stupidity of the script, at the end, Josie waits on a baseball diamond for studly teacher to come and meet her at the pitchers mound while a scoreboard clock counts down to the fateful moment. Question Why is there a scoreboard clock at a baseball field? "}{"Title":"Complete nonsense","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen some bile in my time, but this has got to be well up there.Drew Barrymore as an undercover journalist going into high school, apparently convincing everyone she was 17 when she looked in her mid 30s, the incredibly annoying David Arquette as her brother, who also convinced one and all he was a high school student.  Tripe.There was so much more to it, the ugly geek who gets the mysterious boy on prom night, when she wasn't in the least bit ugly, the best friend who you wanted to be hit in the face every ten seconds because she was utterly nauseating, her predictable relationship with the boss...Good to see if you ever want an insomnia cure.  Yawn-o-rama. "},{"Title":"I know it's corny, but the actors pull it off and make it unique","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Drew Barrymore plays a completely believable, and well-acted, nerd who gets another chance to live as a high school student and be the person she always wanted to, but never had the guts (or soap and water) to then. This may not appeal to the movie-goer who insists on putting some actors, or actresses, in pigeon holes as the cute heroin or loser geek, but to the rest of the people who watch movies, this is refreshing.Drew Barrymore shows what all women know- even if you are normally a model of wonderful fashion/hair/body, anyone CAN look the opposite of sexy and cool.  Drew's hair and make-up accentuate her absolute worst features while she's a nerd, and though it's hard to watch her public blunders, her acting is flawless.  The greatest part is that these people are truly the way high school kids are- the nerdy kids can be mean and nerdy, the cool kids can be nice, and vise versa.Some people may not like this movie for it's admittedly corny and sugar-coated ending- everyone, and I mean everyone, in the movie ends up happy with the outcome and there are no bad guys, but really that's how life works sometimes. Bad things happen to good people, good things happen to mean people, and sometimes the good times all line up. These characters, like real people, have many facets and the movie gives you a chance to see them.  I would like to point out a couple of thingsWatch for Jeremy Jordan's Guy, the popular high school guy, as one of the evil college guys in LOSER. See Jessica Alba, Kirsten (not Kristen) in the Dark Angelo series- a much cooler role for her.All in all, this is a light-hearted movie, excellent rental, and something you can watch with your parents and your friends, which is rare these days. "},{"Title":"Great movie.","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Maybe it's a bit unrealistic but a true chick flick.  Drew is precious as always and really has you rooting for her and her dream.  There's a number of great underlying messages....go for your dream and believe in yourself. I highly recommend this movie, particularly for women who want to relive that first love feeling and teenage girls who might not have been there yet. Hey my husband even got a kick out of it. "},{"Title":"wiggers laugh at a normal girl..","Date":"28 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" value this piece of crap.entertainment  gross, totally gross. it's a downright ugly film.couldn't entertain,well, douchebags.drew 's acting is OK, the rest are human trash... the saint/role model Morgan freeman is weeping come, brave supreme Sidney Poitier,take our women, save them from drug/sex addiction..rating0/10the message of life the only normal person is the girl Drew plays, but gradually she gets involved in wiggerism.... finally becomes the best of them . the message is to urge you into wiggers circle..hurry up. you'd be out of fashion. rating 0/10general objectionable things well it's probably the begin of stoner films ... everyone knows that Hollywood had promoted smoking , now drugs... rating 2/10overall all 1/10 "},{"Title":"Class clown just turned chic? Nah, she was chic all along!","Date":"17 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have never really been a fan of Drew Barrymore, but after seeing Never Been Kissed I think I'll have to change that! Never Been Kissed is a heartwarming romantic comedy that touches your heart and makes you relate to the characters completely. It has a great vibe to it, its a really feel-good film, and guaranteed it will leave you smiling. Drew Barrymore touches your heart so innocently and naturally that you want her to get happiness in the end! The film also deals with and shows the peer pressure that we have today - and how important it is to stay cool. It also gives us a peek the lives of people who would do anything to be cool, and how important it is to be yourself, because that's what is going to get you true friends, and make you happy.I thoroughly enjoyed this film! Watch it! "},{"Title":"Totally Unbelievable","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"9 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This charming little picture is the latest in a flock of stock high school productions. (Ever wonder why all the teen flicks are about high school? At least in my experience, junior high was FAR funnier and sexier than anything in high school.)The problem with Never Been Kissed is not just that the storyline is yawningly predictable. (Outcast girl meets handsome older guy who sees her as a hidden gem and sweeps her away.) The bigger deficiency is the casting--for one, we are supposed to accept lovable, agonizingly sexy little Drew Barrymore as a mousy outcast. NOT GOING TO HAPPEN! In real life, anybody as adorable as Drew would be on the receiving end of sloppy kisses from every dude in the history of the school who ever wore a jock strap. Try as you will, Drew honey--and this was a good effort--you just ain't unpopular or undesirable. (I would have cast Janeane Garofalo or Christina Ricci in the lead role.)A similar problem plagues would-be calculus nerd Leelee Sobieski. If you can get past the ridiculous name, Sobieski is actually a good actress. A great actress. (Check her out in A Soldier's Daughter Never Cries. Your TV will explode.) Sobieski suffers from what one writer suggested is Emily Bergl Syndrome--she's WAY TOO HOT to be an outcast. Sobieski and Barrymore as unlovable nerds? It takes one to know one, and angels, you definitely don't make the cut. Unfortunately, the creators of Never Been Kissed made the identical mistake as the director of She's All That--casting an ultra-cutie as a despised nerd. (Rachael Leigh Cook did a swimsuit shot in the June issue of MAXIM and I almost had a coronary.)Anyway, as my testosterone tachometer slides back to normal level, let me suggest 10 Things I Hate About You. It wasn't as popular as Never Been Kissed or She's All That, but it's far funnier, more creative and more enjoyable to watch.    "}]