[{"Title":"Another misunderstood masterpiece.","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"41 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When Melville's Pierre; or The Ambiguities hit bookstores in 1852, his first publication since Moby Dick a year earlier, the public response was similar to that found among the IMDB reviews of POLA X.  Newspapers even published headlines like Melville Insane! which, of course, he wasn't.  But, when one compares the writing styles found in Moby Dick and Pierre, one finds in the latter a sharp departure from the simple and often declamatory style found in the former.  Clearly, he was mimicking the overly florid style of the now-forgotten Victorian Romances that were easily outselling his immortal Moby Dick.  He was not content, however, to turn out the sort of product that his publishers wanted, and that surely would have sold.  His version of a Victorian romance was a twisted, cynical one, perhaps, but brilliant in its synthesis.  The alternate title The ambiguities is quite appropriate.  As Pierre searches for, and thinks he finds, truth, we become more and more uncertain what and whom to believe.  As he searches for happiness, he becomes more and more miserable.POLA X is a fascinating adaptation of this novel, set in modern or nearly modern France.  Though, in some ways, it leaves little to the imagination, and shows us graphically the incestuous relations that Melville could only hint at, the ambiguities which make the novel and its message so alluring are perfectly in tact.  The questions it raises are ones that few films have thought to ask, yet the answers are left to the viewer.I recommend a reading of the novel, which is much shorter than Moby Dick, before seeing this movie.  I hope more people discover this tantalizing film. "},{"Title":"The downward spiral presented as a genuinely bold and intense cinematic achievement.","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" As others have no doubt previously noted, 'Pola X' (1999) was the much anticipated return feature from former cinema du look stalwart and infant-terrible Leos Carax; a bold and imaginative filmmaker who made a name for himself in the early to mid nineteen-eighties with the quirky and melancholic romantic fantasy films Boy Meets Girl (1984) and Mauvais Sang (1986), before taking his central themes of unrequited love and alienated Parisian youth to the next conceivable level with the film Les Amants Du Pont-Neuf (1991). That particular film was supposed to be the one that would finally introduce Carax to a wider cinematic audience; finding the filmmaker refining his usual themes and structural preoccupations with a larger budget and much in the way of creative freedom. Sadly, things didn't go to plan; the eventual film - a wildly uneven though often quite captivating blend of romantic folly and violent social realism - went massively over-budget and over-schedule before finally limping out with a limited release almost half a decade after Carax had initially started the project.As with films like Apocalypse Now, Blade Runner, The Adventures of Baron Munchausen and the work of Rainer Werner Fassbinder, subsequent years have seen a re-appraisal of said film, with many people being drawn to Les Amants Du Pont-Neuf; seeing it as some sort of flawed epic or a minor masterpiece showcasing the triumph of imagination and free-thinking independence during the last gasp of intelligent, daring and entirely unique European film making. Time, however, has been less kind to the film in question; with the general consensus of most viewers and professional critics being that Pola X is muddled, confusing, plodding and pretentious. One wonders if these people are familiar with Carax's previous work at all.Pola X is loose adaptation/up-date of Herman Melville's controversial novella, Pierre; or the Ambiguities, the title here an acronym for the novel's original French title, while the X denotes the number of drafts the script went through. Carax moves the story from old New York to contemporary Paris, spending the first half of the film projecting a backdrop of sun-kissed gardens and stately manner houses as we are introduced to the spoilt and carefree existence of our young hero. When we meet him, Pierre (Guillaume Depardieu) is living the good life, sharing the family house with his glamorous mother and about to be married to his beautiful fiancé. Pierre has also written an incredibly successful novel, albeit, under the pseudonym Aladdin, giving him much in the way of acclaim and public interest and the offer from his publisher to create a follow-up. Things become complicated, however, when Pierre follows a dark and mysterious young woman who has been stalking him, and, in one of the film's most talked-about and visually cryptic sequences, discovers that the woman is in fact his half-sister.What follows requires a great leap of faith on the part of the audience, as Pierre, hooked completely by the confession of this wounded lost soul, takes it upon himself to atone for the sins of his father, who abandoned the girl when she was still a child, and carries her under his wing in an attempt to make right what was wrong through the writing of his second novel. The film, like Carax's earlier work, specifically Les Amants Du Pont-Neuf, skirts freely between the idealised and romantic poetry of his grand visual gestures and the squalor and violence presented by the real world. As a result, it's an incredibly bleak work; one that visualises the slow destruction of the central character's world with an opening montage of world war II stock footage over a clanging industrial soundtrack from Scott Walker that re-appears throughout the film as the grip that Pierre might have had to the world he once knew becomes more and more strained.Some problems that people have with the film include the fragmented narrative, which has characters drifting in and out like leaves being scattered by the wind, and the uncertainty and blind faith presented in the central concept, in which Pierre gives up his idyllic, affluent lifestyle to live a destitute existence on the fringes of society; all for a woman that he's never really known and only has her word on the matter that they are in fact brother and sister. Another point that many take issue with is the prolonged and sexually-explicit love scene that takes place during the second half of the film. Although shot in almost total darkness - recalling the aforementioned scene in which Isabelle (Yekaterina Golubeva) makes her confession to Pierre as the couple wander lost and confused through a darkened woodland - the scene, regardless, is no less intimate; featuring fine performances from both lead actors and the provocative inclusion of an un-simulated blow-job and vaginal penetration shot.The explicitness of the sex scene here is intended to drive home the potential illicitness of this union between brother and sister and how the love that grows between the two of them will only end up destroying everything that follows. For me, the film gripped from beginning to end, mostly because of the powerful central performance from Depardieu, who brings a De Niro-like level of intensity to Pierre; this loveless character who only wants to do right and to experience something deeper and more real than the sheltered and carefree existence that he had previously known, undone and corrupted by a the secrets and sins of a world he never knew existed. Carax's direction is more understated than his first two films, capturing the raw intimacy central to the relationship between Pierre and Isabelle and the spiralling sense of squalor and personal despair that Pierre descends into; finally manifesting itself in an impressive CGI dream-sequence in which Pierre and another central character are washed away on a tidal wave of blood. A fitting prelude to that unforgettably downbeat final. "},{"Title":"Truly breathtaking; a modern masterpiece.","Date":"8 December 2009","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Pola X is a beautiful adaption of Herman Melville's 'Pierre; or, the Ambiguities'. The comments on here surprise me, it makes me wonder what has led to the overwhelmingly negative reaction. The shock value is the least appealing thing about this film - a minor detail that has been blown out of proportion. The story is of Pierre's downfall - and the subsequent destruction of those around him - which is overtly demonstrated in his features, demeanour and idiolect. The dialogue and soundtrack set this film apart from any other I have seen, and turn a fundamentally traditional storyline with controversial twists into an unforgettably emotional epic.I can't stress enough the importance of disregarding everything you have heard about this film and watching, as I did, with an open mind. You will, I hope, be rewarded in the same way that I was. I felt on edge and nervous from around the half-hour mark, however the film is far from scary in any traditional sense. It will leave you with 1,000 thoughts, each of them at once troublesome and thrilling. I know I'm gushing here, but I feel the need to make up for the negative perception of this film. It's the best I've seen all year. "},{"Title":"Writer's Block.","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I wish Depardieu had been able to finish his book and see it become a dazzling success. At least he'd have wound up with something that would interest and perhaps comfort others. We all know that, outside of a dog, a book is a man's best friend. Inside a dog it's too dark to read.The film struck me as pointless, rambling, and very stylish, like some other recent French films. Not to knock it. Most recent American films are pointless and rambling and have no style whatever. We should be grateful, I suppose, for photography that evokes a European city in the midst of a wind-blown Continental winter, and for elliptical conversations that challenge our ability to understand what's up.But there can be too much of a good thing. Golubeva is found stumbling around near the sea in the middle of the freezing night, carrying on in a bad accent about dreams and such. (There are a few sequences of dreams that include things like swimming in a river of blood. You'll love it if you're Vlad the Impaler.) Lots of people die. Catherine Deneuve dies in a suicide by motorcycle. I don't know why. Golubeva's young girl dies too, and I don't know why she dies either. She gets slapped in the face, falls to the pavement, and dies.There is supposedly an explicit sex scene too. I'll have to take their word for it because, although it is stylishly photographed, it is stylishly photographed in almost complete darkness. Don't worry about the kiddies being shocked. They'll probably be asleep by this time anyway.Depardieu isn't a bad actor. As we see him deteriorate from a carefully groomed handsome young man -- well, handsome except that his nose can't seem to get out of his way -- to a limping, murderous, hairy physical wreck, we feel sorry for the guy. Golubeva has a wan pretty face, with enormous half-lidded eyes and wide cheeks, like a doll. Her next movie should be a remake of Lewton's I Walked With a Zombie. Then there is this mysterious guy who leads a band. I guess it's a band. As far as I could make out, the band is made up of about a dozen drummers and a dozen musicians playing electric guitars. Every viewer will find the resultant sound interesting but uncultivated listeners fond of easy listening might not enjoy it. If you don't like the music, there's a payoff involved because the sinister composer and leader gets whacked over the head with Depardieu's walking stick.I must say, I found it barely worth sitting through. (And it's a longie, too.) At times it was like waiting in your car at a railroad crossing while a long long freight train rumbles slowly by, sometimes stopping entirely. I wish it had had a few jokes. "},{"Title":"Fascinating Aesthetics","Date":"15 August 2008","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched Pola X because Scott Walker composed the film score and I admire his music a lot. Frankly, I expected a somewhat pretentious and possibly incoherent French movie. I was wrong. The vision of the film quickly managed to engage my attention to the fullest - starting with the opening sequence, which shows black and white footage of military airplanes throwing bombs at graves at the sounds of music and Scott Walker's beautiful wailing voice. The film explores the identity crisis of Pierre (Guillaume Depardieu - a brilliant choice for the role) and his consequential (self-)destruction. The story is divided into two parts &#150; the first depicts Pierre's carefree life in a beautiful house in the French countryside and the second follows his utter personal disintegration after he abandons everything and moves to Paris to live in squalor with his supposed half-sister. Both parts contain some amazingly stunning photography &#150; the first very colorful and bright, the second utterly gloomy and nearly apocalyptic - adding up to a true aesthetic feast. Pola X is a fascinating and quite unique movie experience. "},{"Title":"is pretentious always a bad thing?  maybe not, even if it keeps from being very recommendable","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I kept thinking watching Pola X, the first Leos Carax film I've seen yet, what it means for a film or any work of art to be pretentious. The dictionary defines it as being or seeming to be expressive of affected, unwarranted, or exaggerated importance, worth, or stature. Carax does indeed want his film to be important, and sometimes he does go to exaggerated lengths to get his results, of the 'artsy-fartsy' kind that one would only find in small art-houses in NYC (in fact, this was probably a film that screened for at least a month at the Angelika in Manhattan). But there's an intriguing conceit that Carax has with his material as it goes along it's almost as if he's critiquing pretension, mocking it in subtle ways as he shows his disparate and desperate character heading towards an uber tragic end. It's a story that unfolds too thickly in hopelessness, where the characters don't seem to mind it as there is hope for two of them, at one point, that things will get better until they start getting horribly worse, sometimes in the abstract. Try as I might have at the half-way point to dismiss it as rambling pseudo-poetic French dreck, there's an appeal and watchable quality to it all, and I'd almost be inclined to call it a good effort...Almost.The story is taken from a Herman Melville novel, though I'd wonder how much exactly was changed in the adaptation (incest, anyone?) Pierre (Depardieu, son of Gerard) is a novelist engaged to beautiful Lucie, and lives with his mother (Deneauve), but is torn away after finding one night in the woods that he has a long lost older sister who was raised elsewhere in Europe. He moves with her to Paris, and after getting rejected by a cousin (Lucas, disappearing for a long while in the film then returning in act three, or five, or whatever), go to live in a big warehouse type of loft where a weird avant-garde rock band practices and records songs. Meanwhile, a new crazy book is in the works, a child that was tagging along with another woman (I'd assume Isabelle's friend or caregiver or something) is killed randomly, and pretty quickly Pierre goes as insane and rambling as his book. Now, granted, a lot of this is presented matter-of-factly, but there is a mood that Carax creates that makes it affected. There's a tint, for example, that sometimes makes characters look all blue- which works more or less in the revelation of who Isabelle is to Pierre in the woods- and scenes that aren't totally clear as to whether they are really real or imagined (Deneuve's fate on a bike is shot and executed almost as a parody of itself). And Depardieu himself is like a walking pit of uncertain angst. He plays him adequately enough, but there is the creeping sense, as with the film a lot of times, that there isn't quite as much dimension as one would hope, or at least would think the filmmaker would recognize.Not that this is a total deterrent. I like when a filmmaker isn't afraid to plunge the viewer into unconventional duress and ambiguity, and for at least a few scenes Pola X does feel thriving with a sense of drama infused well by the exquisite but anxious camera-work (the child's death is one of these, as well as the climax that gains momentum in a style comparable to Strosek, minus the chicken). And the actual band in the movie itself seems to be Carax commenting on what he must realize is over-reaching in other sections; is it to be taken seriously, really, when we see the lead singer or whomever it is doing a weird body movement while the abdomen is covered in red? There's even a trippy dream scene with characters in a river of blood that treads that pretension line you can sense the filmmaker behind it is so happy with how it came out as mad as it is, and it's actually quite an eye-full. Carax also pulls off one of the most explicit sex scenes in film history (full penetration, among other acts of foreplay), and this oddly enough does serve an emotional point- it feels eerie in the light, but strangely intimate.All of this adds up to what then? Is Pola X worth watching? If you're familiar already with/admire Carax's work, it's a pretty safe bet as an act of semi-experimentation. For a first-timer to his work, like myself, it's a hit or miss experience, but one I wasn't too upset at having. At the least, one can say, Carax didn't go to the lengths of the man who directed a film Carax once starred in Godard's King Lear. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Melodrama at Its Most Extreme, a Phantasmagoric Trotskyite Fantasy","Date":"5 January 2008","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" No one would ever question that director Leos Carax is a genius, but what we wonder about is is he an insane genius? So many people hated this film! I am normally the first person to accuse many French directors of making offensive, boring, disgusting and pretentious films (such as the horrible recent film 'L'Enfant' and the pointless and offensive 'Feux Rouges'). But strangely enough, I actually think that 'Pola X' is an amazing film, made with great skill and passion by a master of his craft, and containing remarkable performances. The film does carry melodrama to more extreme lengths than I believe I have ever seen on screen before. But then, Carax is extreme, that we know. The film also contains what I consider way over-the-top Trotskyite or Anarchist fantasies and wet-dreams, what with a mysterious group of young men training to fire machine guns at the bourgeoisie in between playing Scott Walker's rather fascinating music in a band which has its recording sessions in an abandoned warehouse filled with squatters and fires burning in old steel barrels. Guillaume Depardieu plays a rich young man in a château (whose step-mother is Catherine Deneuve, and he wanders into her bathroom while she is naked in the bath, by the way). But he suddenly 'snaps' completely when he discovers that his deceased father, a famous diplomat, had fathered an illegitimate daughter who had been effectively disposed of by Deneuve as an inconvenience. This is because the sister suddenly turns up as a kind of Romanian refugee with wild dishevelled hair, expressionless face, and little ability to speak French coherently. Depardieu then transforms himself into a 'class hero' of the far left and wants to kill or destroy his family for their hypocrisy and corruption, and lives in squalor and extreme poverty, while scorning a vast inheritance. He then commences an incestuous sexual relationship with his half-sister, which is shown in an explicit sex scene which has offended many people, though I have no objection to it, as I think people are far too hysterical about sex, especially in America, where apparently it never happens. The intensity of the acting and the filming make this unlikely scenario come off as an experience of powerful, if depressing, hyper-melodrama. The differences between Carax making an extreme film like this and the numerous extreme French films which I think are pretentious and disgusting are (1) that Carax is an excellent filmmaker, and (2) he is seriously attempting to explore a meaningful, if harrowing, extreme emotional condition, whereby a human being disintegrates and turns against his background. Many would say that the extreme elements in this film were gratuitous, but I don't agree. I believe Carax was genuine, and was not making an exploitation picture at all. It is very difficult to defend a man who goes that far and who, for all I know, may be a complete madman, but I believe he deserves defending for this remarkable cinematic achievement. "},{"Title":"interesting","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie starts off somewhat slowly and gets running towards the end. Not that that is bad, it was done to illustrate character trait degression of the main character. Consequently, if you are not into tragedies, this is not your movie.    It is the thought provoking philosophy of this movie that makes it worthwhile. If you liked Dostoyevsky's 'Crime and Punishment, you will probably like this if only for the comparisons. The intriguing question that the movie prompts is, What is it that makes a renowned writer completely disregard his publicly-aproved ideas for another set? The new ideas are quite opposed to the status quo-if you are a conservative you will not like this movie. Besides other philosophical questions, I must admit that the movie was quite aesthetically pleasing as well. The grassy hillsides and beautiful scenery helped me get past the slow start. Also, there was use of coloric symbolism in representing the mindstate of the main characters. If these sorts of things do not impress you, skip it. Overall I give this movie a 7.      "},{"Title":"Deconstructing romanticism","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" At times I really wonder&#133; when I look at the comments here it seems as if most people have seen a completely different film than I have. I've just seen it... and liked it. Not in the way, that it made me happy, but in the way of having seen a good film!The film needs some patience, yes. And yes, the main character is REALLY annoying, but that I'm sure is by intention.Maybe it really makes a difference if you watch this film in a cinema or at home. Most people watch films at home like they are listening to elevator music. This movie definitely doesn't fit as background noise.And no. Good directing doesn't mean having five laughs or explosions a second. Good directing means following your subject and keeping the story and actors together. And while that doesn't work out perfectly, at least I think it works quite good.I liked the photography and sets, even if they brink on the surreal at times. The opening scene is really special.I also liked the acting &#150; Guillaume Depardieu is NOT playing Pierre. He is acting the role of a Pierre who is himself playing a role! Pierre is not the romantic hero that he so hard tries to be, he is a presumptuous and self-righteous idiot, a downright weakling who by and by harms all the people he claims to protect. That even his love for truth is simply a pose is beautifully demonstrated by his ongoing lying and not even once asking questions or explaining himself.People are wondering where this or that person came from and other stuff No character who is seen for more than two scenes is left unexplained, there is enough information scattered throughout the film on everyone.And even the strange building begins to make sense as soon as the target practicing is seen Remember that Isabelle fled from a war zone - and obviously this is a refuge for fighters in a civil war, most likely Bosnia (which was still going on, when the film was produced). At least that's what is hinted at by the story Isabelle tells Pierre when she first meets him and by the later scene where Pierre shows Isabelle the book with his father on the cover, which is surrounded by books on Bosnia. "},{"Title":"Violence, explicit/deviant sex and other shock used to propel story","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"16 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Imagine the 2,500 seat Lumiere Theatre at Cannes dead silent. No one breathed as the incestuous sex scene began.Understandably, half of the audience applauded as others booed the close of this film. The innovations in sound are remarkable, and locations stunning, but the crawling pace of a youthful cult leader's slow descent and eventual destruction of everyone near to him is arduous business. Thankfully it is broken up by strange twists of circumstance which justify those tortured looks from monolithic Deneuve and Depardeiu. It's just a bit of a shame that such traditional shock elements (an exploding head, a beautifully choreographed motorcycle accident) are precisely what the audience lives for to lift the weight of the rest of the picture. Carax's reply to the press between long drags on a cigarette, What explicit imagery? told me the rest of the story. "}{"Title":"Amazing visuals, earnest film","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What to say?  The film is overdone, for sure, but I can't agree with criticism of the lack of naturalism in the film.  It's melodramatic, yes, it's over-the-top, yes, it's self-important, yes, but for all that, I think it ends up telling a story with interest and passion that would be very difficult to tell except in this way.  It's a story about a certain, highly Romantic worldview that, yes, is basically horseshit, but at least Carax is honest with his audience about where that kind of self-aggrandizement leads.What almost saves the film from total pretentiousness is the fact that Pierre must lie in the bed he has made for himself.  If one demands so much truth out of life, if one rejects anything with the slightest tinge of falsehood about it, then that is yet another ridiculous attitude.  And by that I mean, yes, in the end Pierre is ridiculous, but maybe that's Carax's point?Maybe I'm wrong.  Maybe he does end up as a Romantic hero in the end.  And maybe it's not so original for that reason. "},{"Title":"To borrow from the film itself A raving morass that reeks of plagiarism.","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"26 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I want very much to believe that the above quote (specifically, the English subtitle translation), which was actually written, not spoken, in a rejection letter a publisher sends to the protagonist, was meant to be self-referential in a tongue-in-cheek manner. But if so, director Leos Carax apparently neglected to inform the actors of the true nature of the film. They are all so dreadfully earnest in their portrayals that I have to conclude Carax actually takes himself seriously here, or else has so much disdain for everyone, especially the viewing audience, that he can't be bothered letting anyone in on the joke.Some auteurs are able to get away with making oblique, bizarre films because they do so with élan and unique personal style (e.g., David Lynch and Alejandro Jodorowsky). Others use a subtler approach while still weaving surreal elements into the fabric of the story (e.g., Krzysztof Kieslowski, and David Cronenberg's later, less bizarre works). In Pola X, Carax throws a disjointed mess at the viewer and then dares him to find fault with it. Well, here it is the pacing is erratic and choppy, in particular continuity is often dispensed with; superfluous characters abound (e.g., the Gypsy mother and child); most of the performances are overwrought; the lighting is often poor, particularly in the oft-discussed sex scene; unconnected scenes are thrust into the film for no discernible reason; and the list goes on.Not to be completely negative, it should be noted that there were some uplifting exceptions. I liked the musical score, even the cacophonous industrial-techno music being played in the sprawling, abandoned complex to which the main characters retreat in the second half of the film (perhaps a reference to Andy Warhol's 'Factory' of the '60s?). Much of the photography of the countryside was beautiful, an obvious attempt at contrast with the grimy city settings. And, even well into middle-age, Cathering Deneuve shows that she still has 'it'. Her performance was also the only one among the major characters that didn't sink into bathos.There was an earlier time when I would regard such films as Pola X more charitably. Experimentation is admirable, even when the experiment doesn't work. But Carax tries nothing new here; the film is a pastiche of elements borrowed from countless earlier films, and after several decades of movie-viewing and literally thousands of films later, I simply no longer have the patience for this kind of unoriginal, poorly crafted tripe. At this early moment in the 21st century, one is left asking With the exception of Jean-Pierre Jeunet, are there *any* directors in France who know how to make a watchable movie anymore? Rating 3/10. "},{"Title":"A perfect filming of the most gut wrenching story ever!","Date":"9 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Leos Carax is brilliant and is one of the best film and camera guys in the business so it should come as no surprise that Pola X is an almost perfect filming of the most gut wrenching story ever. Seriously. If I could have figured out some way to climb inside my video monitor, I would have thrashed Pierre to within an inch of his life. No one has the right to be that self absorbed and that stupid, both at the same time, except maybe Heathcliff in Emily Bronte's Wuthering Heights. After spending 134 minutes with Pierre, I need a large glass of brandy. Never have I been so angry at a main character. Ok, having said that, Pola X is a stunning movie with one of the few totally honest sex scenes I've ever seen in any film....which means another piece of brilliant filmmaking....and I'm talking graphic here, by the way. Pola X will beat the hell out of you, though, so make sure you're up for it if you decide to watch it.  "},{"Title":"An under-appreciated classic","Date":"12 August 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This dark, moody French psychological drama/mystery has always been a favorite of mine. The narrative, based on a novel by Melville, follows an unusual but absorbing course. A young, upper class writer (well played by Depardieu) finds himself being stalked by a mysterious young woman, who eventually reveals some family secrets to him, sending him on a weird, downward spiral. Thrown into the mix are his suffering fiancée, an increasingly resentful cousin, a band of avant guard (I am misspelling this because IMDb's spelling check is not accepting the correct spelling) artists and revolutionaries, and beautiful Catherine Deneuve. Carax is a master at weaving together fascinating images, sounds (music by Scott Walker), and performances into an edgy, unique mix. Imho we need more films like this one. "},{"Title":"Not The Leos Carax Style We Once Knew, But Undenyably Still In Good Taste","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As the previous commentator said, Leos Carax's style did change, although I do not know why. I wouldn't say he has become a German romantic, because I still think Pierre, the protagonist is a man searching for an aesthetic truth within a self-destructing world. He is a newly disillusioned man, who goes through a psychological adventure bitter at the hypocrisy of his old life, striving to strike and lash at the world with the bitter truth he has acquired. Although one could see this as a clear-cut razor sharp character, I find I cannot help but see him as a poet-like figure, in a Paris as stark as it really is, but this isn't new because his depiction of Paris in his last film was far from idealistic..   "},{"Title":"Changes","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Leos Carax has made 3 great movies Boys Meet Girls, Mauvais Sang, Les Amants du Pont Neuf. In fact those films were not that great but it has the violence of youth, the beauty of juvenile  wilderness. Carax in these three movies was well aware of what cinema was, but he tried to make his own vision of the art, without thinking about about all he have seen, but using it and melting it into his times. Pola X is a very different movie because Carax made Les Amants du Pont Neuf, a monstruosity of 20 millions dollars, a film that  has destroyed everything on its way. After such a movie you can't do another one in the same point of view. So Leos Carax has to changed, and he did. The movie isn't as beautiful as its first, it's more reasonable, no more studio, no more dreamed Paris, Carax has entered at last reality. It's not clean anymore, it's not poetic characters. Carax have become a romantic in the german sense of it.  "},{"Title":"Inexplicable adaptation of Melville","Date":"1 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" With previous films including Mauvais Sang and The Lovers on the Bridge, Leos Carax's characters were constantly on the brink of madness, or at least a disturbing single-mindedness. This is a trend that Carax continues and expands with Pola X. In this adaptation of Herman Melville's Pierre, or The Ambiguities, Carax depicts characters whose madness is palpable as their behavior becomes more and more erratic. Main character Pierre, a successful writer who lives in a mansion on a rambling estate with his perhaps too adoring mother, abandons his family and loving girlfriend Lucie in order to strike out on his own with Isabelle, a foreign vagrant who claims to be his sister. Things take a dark turn quickly as his sister's odd companions get him in trouble with everyone he meets and his relationship with Isabelle becomes sexual. At the same time, he has trouble with his writing and becomes intimately involved with an unexplained cult. Eventually it becomes clear that he has left his old life because he felt that his way of life was not true enough, though ironically he is repeatedly accused of being an impostor in his new life, something that never happened before he set out trying to embody the truth. Later on, things take a turn for the darkly comic as Pierre introduces Lucie to Isabelle as his cousin in order to allay her suspicion about his relationship with her&#x97;given their odd relationship, she logically ought to be just as worried about his attraction to a female with a family connection to him. After this point, however, all logic is abandoned as Pierre and Isabelle become more and more unhinged. The problem with Pola X isn't just that it's generally inexplicable if not altogether incomprehensible because of rushed and underdeveloped characters and events, it's that Carax largely abandons the visual style he put to such great use in his earlier films, opting instead for a drab aesthetic that emphasizes the sordid misery of the characters' surroundings. Even the few unusual shots he employs here seem like half- hearted rehashes of better scenes in his previous films. Still, even lesser Carax is of some interest. "},{"Title":"I want to read the original Melville now","Date":"15 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I agree with johnlewis, who said that there is a lot going on between the lines in this film. While I do think the pacing of this film could be improved, I do think that the complexity of the relationships between the characters is fascinating.Examples  Pierre is going to marry his cousin, even though his love for her seems very cousin-y ? Pierre and his stepmother have a rather...curious relationship.Pierre, Lucie, and Thibault seem to have a triangular relationship, and the actual points to the triangle are not quite certain...Lucie's brother is a bit of a eunuch, or is he ? And Isabelle, who is she really ?? Overall, I think it was worth my time. An interesting film, and one that makes me want to read Melville. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly conventional and joyless for Carax","Date":"5 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Pola X is at once the most accessible and least interesting film from infant terrible Leos Carax. His modernised adaptation of Herman Melville's Pierre, or The Ambiguities is certainly less disjointed than his other features, but it lacks the inspired standout moments that make them worth watching even if they don't entirely work. If you're expecting something like the joyful sequence set to David Bowie's When I Live My Dream in Boy Meets Girl you'll be bitterly disappointed this is a joyless film that wanders into unintentional self-parody without ever providing much to smile about. This is self-conscious Miserablism in the classic tradition. It starts out as glacially classical French film-making before moving more into better photographed nouvelle vague with all the usual clichés &#150; self-indulgent disaffected hero (Guillaume Depardieu) flirting with ill-defined violent politics in the pursuit of an equally ill-defined truth while constantly lying to himself; utterly hopeless leading lady (Katerina Golubeva) that either producer or director wants to have sex with delivering a pitifully bad and painfully stilted performance; 'daring' unsimulated sex scene (albeit featuring body doubles); clumsy symbolism and a bleak-chic ending you don't need to have read the book to see coming. There's an interesting note of criticism in the anti-hero's search for truth in poverty and his need to increasingly create a fiction to support his self-image (he persuades his sister to pose as his wife and his fiancé to pose as his sister and while desperate for money constantly refuses to touch the money he and his family have) and it earns Brownie points for its attitude to racism in France, but it's not quite enough. Jacques Rivette declared it the best French film of the last ten years, but I guess that just implies he doesn't see many French films these days. "},{"Title":"Fantasy melodrama dripping in excess","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Even though it's set in the present time, 1999 POLA X is quite like a costumed melodrama. When the movie was through, it felt as if I just walked out of A Tale of Two Cities period. Writer-director Leos Carax did base his script on Herman Melville's 1852 Pierre, ou les ambiguites (P.O.L.A.) and the X in the film title being the tenth draft of the script.It is the depiction of a successful young man, a writer of novels, whose interest is pricked for something different, and has the grand illusion to seek out the truth, hence he's ready to believe whatever the mysterious woman is telling him. Such is the melodrama of him leaving his riches and comfortable life to tackle the change of living environment and be in the company of the poor and homeless, turning to cult community group living. The sparseness of things and possessions alters his frame of reference, and he throws himself open to this 'stranger' of a woman from a different world, the kind of tenderness he has not experienced before with his sister (portrayed by Catherine Deneuve) or his young and innocent rich fiancee Lucie. There are intimate sensual scenes captured for mature audiences only.The movie still revolves around Carax's staple theme of the pursuit of love - a young man attracted and drawn into the circle of a woman. You might need patience with this movie. (If you're a faithful Leos Carax fan, you probably can take it fine). If not, try his 1986 Bad Blood, a stylish gangster-love story, or 1991The Lovers on the Bridge, both films have Juliette Binoche and Denis Lavant playing opposite each other - it's fascinating to watch this godsend pair of dedicated actors.  "}{"Title":"Probably one of Carax's best films","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've tried to reconcile why so many bad reviews of this film, while the vast majority of reviews are given a rating of between 7 and 10. The reason may be this film is kind of hard to describe in a positive review, although a few have done that quite nicely already. This film is confusing, depressing, and doesn't have a happy ending. I still gave Pola X a rating of 10, because it is basically for me literature and art combined on film. That is really my favorite kind of filmmaking. I've only seen two of Carax's films this one and Mauvis Sang. As with this film, I'm being somewhat pretentious when I call this one of Carax's best films- but I am. Carax has a minimalist style. If that type of film does not appeal to you and is boring, then it would be best not to watch this. But Pola X was less minimalist than Mauvis Sang, so it had quite a lot of intensity for a thriller- at least for my taste. I found it quite interesting and absorbing. The two lead roles did an excellent job acting. (I mean the lead and the young woman he thought was his half sister.) Catherine D. is always great, but her role was not very large or significant in the story. But everyone did a fine job. I thought the cult stuff was great. It may have not been very believable, but that is due to its being rather abstract. There is a lot going on between the lines in this film. This is a very Freudian psycho-thriller. "},{"Title":"disappointed","Date":"30 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" i was looking forward to see this film but unfortunately i got disappointed very much coz simply i didn't enjoy it and sometimes when i was in the middle of the movie i just didn't know what is going on and there is a lot of questions left without any answers , for example , y Pierre's cousin starts to hate him suddenly while in the beginning of the movie they were fine and talking to each other ? another question .. how did Isabella find him ? and y they fell in love to each other in the first place  coz simply don't know each other  ? and y he left all things for her while he could stay in the big house he owned ?sorry but i was bored and kept looking to the timer to see when the hell this gonna end, so the conclusion is this is boring and not enjoyable one. "},{"Title":"Horribly disappointing.","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  (Spoilers)Oh sure it's based on Moby Dick.  Totally obsessed and it destroy's him.  It's a total folly.  The movie starts off rather well, but by the end of the film, everyone else is destroyed and the main star's mind is a blank.The supposed half sister is never convincing.  Some very poor lighting effects.  Music is interesting.  But little else.  It took me over a month to finally finish the darn thing.  I suppose if you like Being John Malkovich, you might like this.  But where as BJM was a great movie that I just didn't want to watch again, Pola X is a movie I just hate to high hell.  The only possible excitement in the film is the gratuatious incest sexual scene towards the end of the film.  (Hopefully yer not thinking of Catherine either.)This movie is severely boring, depressing, and poorly directed.  Not highly recommended.  If if you like french movies.  (go watch Crimson Rivers instead)4/10Quality 5/10 Entertainment 1/10 Replayable 0/10 "},{"Title":"Pestilence to conceited symbolic film-language and impervious chiffres!","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  French Cinema sucks! Down with all these psychiotric visions with their my-God-am-I-cultivated distinguished attitudes! Pestilence to conceited symbolic film-language and impervious chiffres! I'll no longer have a mind for that! Léos Carax, did you ever think about, that a dialogue in a film could be natural and vivid??? Maybe I'm too common to understand you? Or had it been your task to confirm all the clichés of a Frenchman the world can have? Guillaume the to-be-guilliotined comes to his home-palace, Mme. Deneuve, not in the picture, plays the flute Here am I, darling! In this moment, I knew, that she's in the bathtub, and we`ll see her lying in there soon. Don't misunderstand me, I'm not prudish, and the incestous sex scene was the climax of the film. But this is, in Berlin, we say etepetete, what means something like être-peut-être, a snobistic, self-satisfied, and, the worst, seen that often in French movies I can tell! Other example She, beautiful and willing, is looking at herself in a mirror, combing her hair, and her wild-bearded, dirty young guru rushs into the room, breathless shouting There's no escape, there's no escape! Forty years after existencialistic Sartres and consorts- what's new, what's exciting about? My God, there's that woman and she loves and admires you, what would be more natural to be happy with your life? And when you're not, please explain much better, why!!  Born French means you have to live a life in extravaganza, no escape, is that the point?  "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Disaster","Date":"1 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Following the mixed fortunes of his previous film, Les Amands du Pont Neuf, Leos Carax returned with an adaptation of Herman Melville's controversial novel, Pierre, or the Ambiguities.Unfortunately, for Carax and French cinema, Carax's film is a disaster. It may have visual flourishes and unforgettable images, but the film is a tale of two halves. While he first half is beautifully shot an d highly stylised; the tawdry second half is heavy-going and repulsive to watch, replete with brutal political statements that leave little to the imagination. Both halves seem like polar opposites. Maybe this was his intention, but Carax will doubtless lose many viewers after the second half. Catherine Deneuve is criminally underused, even though she was marketed as the prime appeal of this dire film. Although Guillame Depardieu gives a searing performance, the film s too small and delusional for his towering performance to evolve as anything substantial. The notion of tragedy is clearly evident in the film, but Carax executes his vision poorly. A far better example of such an approach is Choses Secrets, which leaves Pola X in the dust.The biggest problem with Carax as a director is his lack of subtlety or refinement as am auteur. Working with narrative does not suit his inimitable style as one of the proponents of cinema du look', a term he most likely despises. What's problematic about his penchant for image over narrative, is the emptiness of his images for the most part. Devoid of meaning, his images are there in Pola X to engage our superficial desire to see rather than any intuition.What's most disturbing in Pola X is the unrealistic progression from dream-like scenarios to brutal, unforgiving reality. What could have been a dreamlike, ambiguous piece becomes too literal and heavy-handed and embarrassing to watch in its mediocrity. A pity, Pola X could have been more ambiguous as Melville intended. "},{"Title":"One of these days","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Have you ever grown up hearing a word or two about mysterious, weird french films and had this imaginary assumption at 13 how weird a film could be? Well, 4 or 5 years later when I saw Pola X I realized this was a film that got there. I grasped that concept of film noir spook and the B movie spirit taken to the highest level. After I saw it I was like, what's for breakfast? but now thinking back I realized that I absolutely love this film. I'm not another imdb user who just saw the movie two minutes ago and decided to write a word or two about it. I'm someone who remembers this movie. And I think ten years later the fan base is definitely gonna be huge for Leos Carax. Just think of the titlePola X, cool cultish name right? Anyway, I think this film is really about delivering a feeling and concept for us rather than delivering a message. It's also extremely romantic and sensual. A classic french film. Thank to god this kind of movie could actually be made. "},{"Title":"Yeah, Yeah... Let's watch people think","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Take about 1 hour from this film and we might have something really worth watching. Starts with one of the most impressive visual starts for a film I've ever seen but goes down hill real quick. There's also a great computer generated dream sequence. All the characters are mysterious so it takes a few days to figure out what you saw and even then you still will not really understand the motivation for some of them. It's too bad because there's some very good working material here. Add a rather explicit love scene (with body doubles doing the hard work) and some overall oddness and you've got your basic French art film. Yeah, yeah.... "},{"Title":"Carax couldn't tell us his story, but wasn't it on purpose?","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  pola x is based on the novel pierre ou les ambiguités by Melville which is about a writer who can't manage to write his second movie. There's everything in this film a good story, interesting characters whose feelings evolved along the film. But Carax messed it up actors aren't well directed, the story is very badly told. The only good point is that there sometimes are very nice and emotive pictures. But the very fact that the movie is a failure may be the main point of it the incapacity to write was the topic of Melville's book, the incapacity to direct may be the topic that Carax wanted to explore. "},{"Title":"POLA X (Leos Carax, 1999) **","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Pretentious claptrap, updating Herman Melville (!), about a young man's vaguely incestuous relationship with his aristocratic mother getting transferred to his long-lost sister who has been raised by gypsies. Or something like that &#150; not that anyone really cares to unravel its multi-layered plot decked out with pornographic sex scenes, pseudo-symbolic imagery (the siblings swimming in a river of blood) and other bizarre touches (a gypsy child repeatedly insults passers-by in the street until she is anonymously beaten to death, the deafening music of a rock group utilized in the demolition of old buildings). Considering the source material and the presence of Catherine Deneuve (who at least gets to bathe in the nude), I was expecting a lot more from this one; apparently, there's an even longer TV version of POLA X out there&#133; "},{"Title":"Taking pretension to new heights","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had just returned from France and was craving a French film to take the edge off the end of a vacation. However, Pola X was the most disjointed and pretentious film I've seen in years. It felt like a bad parody of the genre -- bleak, stilted dialogue; freaky feral-women; and oh the agonizingly beautiful angst of it all. The X in the title apparently refers to the 10th rewrite of the script. One wishes he'd had the insight to take it to 11. "}{"Title":"Dark and so unreal","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is so unreal. French movies like these are just waste of time. Why watch this movie? Even, I did not know..why. What? The well known sex scene of half-siblings? Although the sex scene is so real and explicit, but the story it is based upon is so unreal. What is the use of it, then? Can you find easily in life, half sibling doing such things?Did I learn something from this movie? Yeah some people are just so fond of wasting time making such movies, such stories, such non-sense. But for those who like nihilism, nothingness in life, or simply a life without hope, then there you are.. you've got to see this movie.Only one worth adoring, though CATHERINE DENEUVE. She's such a strikingly beautiful woman. "},{"Title":"Height of French pretentiousness, with possible explicit sex","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I won't lie, I rented this film because it was an arty film with some possible explicit sex.  I got that scene and Catherine Deneuve's (briefly shown) breasts, but the rest of the film is just the usual long pretentious European art films with lines like Did I have a mother or father, I don't know (paraphrased).  Usually delivered in long soliloquies.If you are curious about the transition of art to porn, might be an interesting look, with use of the fast forward button (I was still too slow!) "},{"Title":"A sad disappointment.","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed Carax's Les Amants du Pont Neuf and was therefore expecting this film to be of a similar standard.  Well, the first 10 minutes were OK, but then it disintegrates into a rather pretentious journey of a young man looking for the essence of life.  A sad disappointment. "},{"Title":"excruciatingly boring, pretentious, a scam","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"11 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's difficult to express how bad this movie is.  Even in the 1950s when intellectual searching for the meaning of life was fashionable and beatnik rejection of physical comforts, clean clothes, haircuts, etc. was a common reaction to the smug middle-class mores of both the USA and western Europe, this movie would have been a stinker.  The plot is a mishmash of several dei ex machina (if that's the correct Latin grammar); the acting consists of deadpan stares broken by occasional hysterics (by the male lead as well as the females); the gratuitous view of Catherine Deneuve's (or somebody's) breasts are worthy of a Budweiser commercial; the repeated cacaphonous orchestra rehearsal in the abandoned building is I'm sure heavy with meaning in the director's mind but to me is just one more stupid symbol thrown into this meaningless movie -- I'm ranting because my time has been wasted watching this scam excuse for an art flic.  The scenery is beautiful and the sex scene is hot -- but underneath his clothes, this king has no substance. "},{"Title":"Turn the DVD to play, then go to bed.","Date":"20 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Turn the DVD to play, then go to bed. Be sure to open the windows in the morning to air out the bad vibes. Very bad take on Herman Melville's story The Ambiguities, or Pierre. Modernized in this film version, it loses it's gullibility and believability. Pierre should be savey enough to figure this one out, but you see, he's not 'wrapped real tight'. The implied ambiguities, that don't exist within the actual relationships in the book only complicated the movie's ambiguities more. The movie unfolds at a snails pace, so go to bed &#151; it may actually still be playing by the time you wake up. The ultimate question that exists is Is Isabelle, or isn't she? Pierre is pathetically living in his mind and dreams, chasing after ghosts and signs of truth. The obvious never occurs to him &#151; even preventable death. That nagging question keeps coming back Is Isabelle, or isn't she? "},{"Title":"Too awful for words","Date":"29 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The X in Pola X refers to the fact that this was apparently the tenth version of the script - and after going through the two-hour ordeal of watching this confused, pretentious, would-be art-house piece of nonsense, I would hate to see any of the other nine versions.The plot? Never mind, it goes something like this a depressed French writer sees a woman one and (for whatever reason is beyond me) thinks she is his sister. He follows her to Paris, joins a Yugoslavian trash/noise orchestra, the members of which live in a dilapidated industrial building, and becomes a sick and destitute cliché of an auteur. Finally, the woman gets run over by a lorry, which was greeted with enthusiastic applause by the (by then exasperated) cinema audience. It will probably start making sense after you've had your sixteenth gin and tonic.I suppose most viewers went to see this film because a) the director, Leos Carax, made the altogether wonderful Les Amants de Pont-Neuf a couple of years earlier, or b) it reportedly featured a steamy, real-life sex scene between the two main characters. Les Amants was indeed a true masterpiece, which makes Pola X an even more monstrous disappointment. The love scene was ill-lit, hugely embarrassing, and about as entertaining or sensual as watching white paint dry. Come to think of it, I would probably find the paint more arousing.I saw several viewers leave the audience during the film, and those who did stay until the end were obviously quite happy it was over. By the time the third line of the end credits appeared on the screen, everybody had fled the cinema. Even if you have a flair for French cinema, don't go anywhere near this.  "},{"Title":"Melville still spinning in his grave!","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm accustomed to being patient with films because I've generally found it usually pays off.  But a few works take tedium to new levels and enter the realm of provocation....Last Year at Marienbad comes to mind.  Well, Pola X ain't no Last Year at Marienbad.  I can count on one hand the number of films I've walked out on over the years.  Pola X achieved membership in that august group.  In my defense, I believe I made a valiant effort to stand my ground - hoping things would turn around.  However, I finally threw in the towel just shy of the 90 minute mark - quite respectable under the circumstances.  Pola X does not come anywhere near living up to the promise of Carax's earlier work.  After a 10 year hiatus, that must have been bitter for him indeed.  Melville is still spinning in his grave! "},{"Title":"pretentious crap","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie contains a very short scene of Deneuve in a bathtub. She looks absolutely stunning for a lady age 56, but this is the only saving grace of the movie. Otherwise, it has a mindless, unmotivated script and the lead actress has none of Deneuve's appeal. The director apparently watched too many Peter Greenaway films and Pola X comes across as a student's imitation of the Greenaway style, without any of his inspiration. "},{"Title":"Maybe The worst movie I've ever seen","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A ridiculous movie, a terrible editing job, worst screenplay, ridiculous acting, a story that is completely ununderstandable...If God was going to decide if movies should continue to be done, judging by this one, the entire world movie industry would now be dead...A wonderful movie to show that cinema should not be done by people who think they can make movies.I am still wondering who are those two gipsy girls who show up in the movie for over half an hour, and are never introduced to us... "},{"Title":"What would happen if a drunken, untalented and unintelligent amateur poet tried to make a movie?","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" You would probably get something like this. I'm translating movies for a living and this is the first movie in my 5-year working experience that I found offensive to my intelligence. Of course, there are stupid Hollywood movies about drunken teenagers on a spring break, but those movies don't even claim to be serious works of art. But when someone strives for greatness and poetry, but delivers a muddled (and often ridiculous) story, a bunch of disparate scenes, pretentious dialogue... Then you get the worst kind of a movie that some other reviewer very accurately defined as pretentious crap. To those who find this movie intelligent or even masterful, I can only say - it's your intelligence and your imagination you obviously used to try and make some sense of this pitiful attempt (it's in our human nature to try and make sense of things) .One more thing I can tolerate political incorrectness very well, I'm all for artistic freedom and suspension of disbelief, but the Slavic female character was just too much. I wish someone told the director that it's kind of ridiculous (even in an unrealistic art movie) to portray a Slavic woman as a half-articulate dishevelled creature connected to the forces of nature, probably due to the fact that she had spent her entire childhood looking at the stars and milking cows on a three-legged stool. "}{"Title":"A waste of time","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was terribly disappointed with this film. I think it is very very very bad. It is highly pretentious, which, at least, leads to some beautiful scenery and good photography. But a film is obviously far more than that. Most other aspects are dealt with so terribly the script, the acting, the story-line, the editing ... One of the worst scenes I have ever experienced is the rendition of the orchestra! It is really absurd. At least it gave me some pleasure I laughed and laughed. I watched the film till the end, and badly felt like discussing it with someone afterwards ... but halfway through the film, the rest of the audience had left! I have wasted more time than them on this film, and don't want to waste any more. So I stop here. "},{"Title":"This was a horrible movie... and there was only one part I even remotely enjoyed.","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" First, I don't see how the movie is on any best list or how it won any awards. Compared to La Pianiste, which is also on a best list, La Pianiste is gold. This movie lacked so many things, on so many different levels, but I can't quite explain why I disliked it so much. The lead actor was annoying, I felt as though I never knew what was going on, and I was BORED!! Even though this was supposed to be some worthwhile life change that Pierre was starting, I wanted it to end.... as soon as possible. Why did it have to be his sister and cousin? Ugh. And why did Thibault get mean? He just bipolarly turned mean. And also, was it me or did I miss the whole purpose of what that guy in black was all about? Who were all those people playing music in the big basement of the big warehouse? Why did they have all that weird equipment and the guns and all those extra rooms for people to live in? I mean this in all seriousness, but does incest happen a lot in French culture? European culture? I took 5 years of learning about the culture and I never heard anything about that! "}]