[{"Title":"Great","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"73 out of 87 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While not quite at the same level as _Breaking the Waves_, the only other Lars von Trier I have seen (his films are quite hard to come by in Midwestern American video stores, you understand), _The Idiots_ is still a great film, and, in some ways, is just as important. I have to comment on a lot of the reviews I've seen for this movie. A lot of viewers judge the film by the theories and views about the group's existence (particularly the view spoken by the most outspoken of the Idiots, Stoffer). This is surely not the way von Trier meant his audience to take the film. If you paid any attention to the film, you'll notice that the Idiots' lifestyle is never glamorized. Everyone's experience in the group ends in embarrassment and despair. You should also note that none of the Idiots has the same opinion of why they like to act the idiot. Stoffer might say that they do it to upset the bourgeosie (I don't pretend to know how to spell that word), but the next person might be doing it just to play around. The artist (whose name escapes me at the moment) is doing it to become a better artist, and the doctor is doing it almost for experiment. There is never a reason for the groups' existence that the entire group agrees upon. This is extremely important for understanding this film.The way _The Idiots_ particularly hit me was in the characterizations. The actors are so great in this film that they hit the level of Is this really acting, or is it just being? von Trier hit the same level in _Breaking the Waves_. These actors were so good, their characters just jumped out of the script. There are many characters, and only a few of them are characterized in the script extensively. Stoffer, although not the main character, is the most prominent character in the script. Many of the characters don't have all that many lines or screen time, but I felt I knew them all well.I also appreciated that it actually entertained me. I wasn't expecting to enjoy it so much. It is often very, very funny (if offensive). It also gripped me emotionally. I did not particularly comprehend the ending's meaning, but it left me with a powerful emotion. I did have tears in my eyes when I left the theater, and a lot of thoughts in my head. When a man outside the theater stopped me to ask me how I liked it, my lips and my brain were too dry to actually answer anything but, I liked it. I liked it a lot. 9/10 "},{"Title":"It takes a Dane","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"46 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As a Dane it may be easier to see where Lars Von Trier is coming from with this social criticism (satire of social criticism!) movie.First of all he comes from a country that prides itself in two traditions1. a state that takes care of and cares for everyone2. a country that has a long tradition of social-criticism in literature and moviesFor more than ten years it seemed that every big film project in Denmark had a social agenda...That was probably the only way to get financial support for your film project - which was most of the time, if not all of the time - supplied by the state.This film is poking fun - primarily - at this social criticism tradition, while it also renews it.But how much should we take seriously - Lars Von Trier would probably laugh at anyone, who takes this movie at face value - as a bona fide social criticism (which it is not!) and - of course - it fails as traditional social criticism, just look at it - this is not a film like Pelle the Conquerer, there are no drunken, heavy-set men seducing their underage nieces and abusing the working man sadistically.In short this movie wasn't meant to succeed in the genre in a traditional sense.It has a more profound agenda - I have a hard time putting words to it, because what the movie says is so very Danish. Certain scenes are simply great When they visit the factory and the idiots are allowed to turn the machines on and off...I can't explain why that is so intensely funny, but I'm pretty sure it's a Danish thing.This film is funny, sad, sentimental, wonderfully-acted... It comments on a social-democratic tradition and state that embraces you for better and for worse...It also talks about capitalism in this system...Maybe it's really all about the compromise inherent in a social-democratic tradition existing parallel with a capitalist system. Such a compromise could be viewed as hypocrisy from a philosophical standpoint.Central to this movie is the theme of honesty and sincerity...And all the while you don't want to take it too seriously, because you have a feeling that the director isn't all that serious about it himself...In short I find the movie and it's intention irresistibly confusing. "},{"Title":"One of Von Trier's best","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"54 out of 76 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This misunderstood and wildly underappreciated film is up there with Riget and Zentropa in the Von Trier canon, and in my opinion better than Breaking the Waves. Critics focussed on the film's perceived cruel attitude towards the mentally handicapped. Idioterne is actually a very personal film about revolution, healing and Danish society's attitude towards the 'retarded'. It is an incredibly brave and moving film that will have you dabbing your eyes by the end. Whoever decided that American filmgoers could not be exposed to the sight of penises, however, needs to lose their job. The absurdity of being exposed to full frontal female nudity--while being protected by big black floating boxes whenever a John Thomas is on screen--is an outrage. Did someone REALLY think this film would break through at the box office if these appendages were obscured? Were they concerned that Joe Six Pack was going to take the wife and kids to that new movie by that famed Danish director that's such a big hit with the arthouse crowd? The mind boggles. "},{"Title":"Astounding, brave, funny, touching.","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"38 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Look I know jack about Dogme, but I know what I like and I like 'The Idiots'! A LOT. I find it hard to understand how so much has been said about the lack of production values or the nudity in this movie, which to me aren't even worth mentioning, but hardly anyone comments about how astounding the ACTING is! The actors in this, and in Von Triers' previous 'Breaking The Waves', display completely realistic acting very rarely (if ever!) seen in Hollywood. So next time some Hollywood mediocre actor is up on the podium clutching their Oscar, force 'em to watch 'The Idiots' and see if they can pull off performances of this calibre! The biker scene in itself is one of the bravest, most funny/scary sequences I've ever seen in all my years of move watching!While I think all the actors involved are faultless, I would single out Jens Albinus as Stoffer as being particularly outstanding. I hope to see him go on to bigger and better things. I say better, but you won't find many contemporary movies better than 'The Idiots'! "},{"Title":"The Idiots may be von Trier's best","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"26 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have to admit I completely missed the mini-release of Lars von Trier's The Idiots last year - I even missed the release of the video!  But I spotted it on the shelf last night, looking for something spiky to tide me over Thanksgiving, and I have to admit - it really did the job!  This may be von Trier's best film, one in which he pretty much sheds the ponderous sexual melodrama that marred Breaking the Waves and Dancer in the Dark.Of course, be warned - this is EURO independent cinema, not American, which means it has a GENUINE edge - it's hardcore, in more ways than one.  If your idea of edgy or dangerous is Being John Malkovich or Boys Don't Cry, then you should probably avoid the Dogma-driven The Idiots, in which full-frontal nudity is de rigeur (and on-camera urination and sexual penetration occur as well).But if you want a funny, dirty, smart, irritating, and even infuriating satire of both the bourgeoisie and the bohemians who oppose it, then The Idiots is for you.  von Trier has assembled a furiously talented cast of unknowns to spin this tale of a Danish commune that pretends - to the horror of the middle class masses that surround it - to be a private institution for retards and spastics.The Idiots travel around town in their van, invading bourgeois precincts like restaurants and swimming pools, and then generally shaking things up; shedding all physical dignity, they begin drooling, picking their noses, disrobing, peeing, and messing with the personal space of the appalled citizenry.This is alternately funny, disgusting, and angering - but where the film becomes great is in its dissection of the bohemian mini-society that's perpetrating the big hoax.  Led by the bitterly charismatic Stoffer, the rag-tag bunch is populated by the usual sexual misfits, mainstream drop-outs and screwed-up idealists, who are in complete denial of the personal failures that are driving their participation in the collective.  The resulting scenes are instantly recognizable to anyone (like me) who's spent lengths of time in Bohemia - the irrational drift of the group's politics, the silly, self-serious conversations, the bickerings and territorial squabbles - in short, the bourgeois life writ small, only with more sex. (And believe me, it's a lot to pay for only a little more sex.)For me, the best scenes lay in the skewering of the group itself.  The scene in which one group member returns to real life, to attend a high-powered meeting at his advertising agency, only to discover his client is actually one of the group's own spastics, is priceless. This is then topped by a viciously hilarious sequence in which one young guy imposes himself on a group of scary, tattooed bikers, drooling and moaning away.  The bikers unexpectedly show fellow feeling, decide he must have to pee, lead him to the john, pull down his pants, and even aim his penis into the urinal, all as the poor kid desperately tries to urinate and stay in character.  I'm not sure I've EVER laughed so hard.The movie ends on a typically uncompromising note.  The most enigmatic (and most recent) member of The Idiots provides the biggest surprise.  When the test of going native rolls around - Stoffer challenges his followers to take their life style back into the real world - Karen rises to the challenge, and returns to a family that we always half-assumed rejected her. Only it turns out that SHE rejected THEM - after the death of her baby son, she didn't even go to the funeral - she just opted out of the tragedy completely.  The scene in which she returns to her grieving, stone-cold husband and relatives, and then begins to twitch and drool, is nothing short of unbelievable.  We can see in their chill why she left them - but we can also see how horrifying her behavior is in the context of insurmountable personal grief.  The movie ends with a slap and a departure - hopelessly, in a way.  There's no compromise between these two worlds - even if both are at bottom broken.(Btw, the video I saw actually had little black boxes blocking out the male - and sometimes the female - genitalia.  Look for the scene in which the little black box gets longer - it's a hoot all by itself!)  "},{"Title":"this movie defies criticism","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"37 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just got to see it for a first time, in our Film Center, on a big screen, in 35mm.  Then I hung around for the movie about its making, The Humiliated/De Ydmygede.  I ranked it a 10, and the movie about it was very good to see, too, and on a large screen, and in quick succession. I was very saddened by the only idiotic thing about this movie  the black censorship rectangles slapped over the print clearly not by von Trier the film-maker, over penises of actors or over some other frontal nudity or gasp actual sex.  In the context of this work,  this nudity was about as offensive or noticable as in a medical  context, that is to say, not at all. The censorship was not only ridiculously unnecessary but offensive in the extreme.  I feel ashamed of living in the US when things like this happen. To me, this was the true humiliation -- and Lars von Trier is to be congratulated for evoking that out of our sad country. The Humiliated was not edited, which, ironically, gives one the missing glimpse of anatomy, here and there.  How pointless to even care to censor -- but also, how revealing.  The two movies claw at the dishonesty of our culture and our hangups even in this wounded capacity as object of futile censorship. At first I was annoyed by the clipped faces in von Trier's framing at the beginning, but then I understood (this was not my first Dogme95; I just forgot about this aspect of it).  Once I understood, I got so absorbed in what was shown that I did not notice the passage of time and regretted when the movie ended. The Idiots could do well a TV serial.  It presaged the so-called reality TV and preempted it in one fell swoop.  I think it will age very well as important fingerprint of our times.  Maybe one day someday Americans will grow up enough to let it see the light of the projector or even TV without the silly black rectangles marring the print. All involved should feel very excellent about making this movie.  It does a great job approximating the complexity of real life, a little delicious, thoughtful corner of it, and an uncomfortable one, at that.  It defies criticism.  "},{"Title":"A stone in Your Shoe","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"28 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In Epidemic, one of his previous films, Lars von Trier noted that a film must be like a stone in the shoe. Eleven years after Epidemic, Lars von Trier is famous, his budgets grew larger and so do the stones he puts in the spectators shoes. No, reality is never what you think it is. It stops moving when you expect it to rush, and than it rushes in a way that makes you dizzy. People that you considered to be serious collapse when it comes to testing their intentions in reality, and people that you never took a note of will prove to be the real heroes of life. At the same time Lars von Trier and his excellent actor ensemble try to explain why (non violent) social experiments always fail, in spite of what we learn at school and watch on TV. They fail for three main reasons. First, the intentions of the hardcore of every movement of this kind are different that the ones they declare on. Second, the few who take a social project seriously will remain outside the hardcore group in a lonely, non-influential position. And third the external conditions for running an experiment of this kind are such, that it's impact is limited up front to zero, often without the acting persons realize it. A brilliant movie of a brilliant filmmaker, who revolutionized the cinema in the last generation. A must for every thinking person. "},{"Title":"As important, in a cinematic sense, as À bout de soufflé.","Date":"29 December 2007","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Most people are drawn to this film simply because of the chic (though quickly diminishing) appeal of the Dogme 95 manifesto, and through the curiosity factor raised by the film's brief, though certainly explicit, mid-narrative gang-bang. I think this is a bit of a shame, because beneath the façade of daring social satire and beyond the conceptual restrictions of the Dogme movement, there is a touching and affecting story here, which, in terms of emotional relevance and characterisation, is easily as endearing and beautifully realised as the bleak portrayals found in von Trier's other films, Breaking the Waves and Dancer in the Dark. It is important to note also, that The Idiots forms something of a loose trilogy with the two films aforementioned, in which von Trier, inspired by an old Danish children's book, set out to make three films that each dealt with a naïve and almost childlike female protagonist, who, during the course of the film, sacrifices absolutely everything that she had at the beginning of the story, in order to undergo a kind of emotional and spiritual transcendence at the end.As with many of von Trier's more recent films, the plot is deceptively simple... in the first scene (a disorienting mish-mash of fly-on-the-wall, candid camera and Luis Buñuel) we are introduced to the character of Karen, a meek and pensive woman, who, being unable to afford the more expensive items at a fancy upper-class restaurant, is chastised by the waiter and frowned upon by the curious clientele. At the far end of the restaurant we find a young carer, with two grown-up, mentally handicapped men. When one of the men takes hold of Karen's hand, our shy protagonist kindly agrees to help the young man out to the car. However, once there, the young man still refuses to let go, and the group, with Karen quietly in tow, eventually meet up with another group and embark upon a bizarre and shambolic tour of an insulation factory. These first ten minutes of the film (incorporating both the scene at the restaurant and the scene at the factory) are the most disarming, with von Trier throwing the audience into Karen's subjective perspective, and forcing us, as it were, to spend time with these people in order to understand and, to some extent, better appreciate the central ideology of the film.By the time we discover that the idiots are faking it as part of some ill informed social experiment, we are forced, much like Karen, to take sides and make the decision... are we willing to spend another two hours in the company of these idiots? The rest of the film unfolds in a similarly episodic, fly-on-the-wall style, as the idiots try to get one over on the bourgeoisie by spassing-out in public places (restaurants, swimming pools, parks, bars and suburban estates) or unwinding at the posh, upper-class house of their self-elected leader, Stoffer. As the group mentality is pushed further and relationships strained, we watch Karen come to terms with the group and the sense of emotional liberation connected to the inner-idiot. Whereas the other members of the group are privileged, arrogant and self-centred, Karen remains detached, though simultaneously in awe of the way these characters have seemingly cast off the problems of the everyday world and thus, as a result of this, it is Karen who remains the only member of the group willing to take her spassing to the next emotional level come the film's agonising closing moments.For me, it is the character of Karen that really makes the film work, and I feel saddened by the fact that the previous commentators have made little to no reference of her or the actress who portrays her. Here, Bodil Jørgensen gives a brave performance that is certainly less showy than some of the other characterisations (particularly Stoffer, Jeppe, Josephine, Axel and Katrine), creating a believable character who, throughout the course of the film, reveals subtle emotional layers that allude to some unspoken sense of personal tragedy that is only really discussed towards the end of the film. The final scene of the picture, for me, is one of the most important scenes of the film (much more important than the majority of confrontational scenes that became the principal talking points), with Karen allowing her emotions to completely consume her, and thus, illustrating the allure of spassing and the freedom and catharsis that can be attained through such an act of emotional simplification.It is of course important to take into consideration the group dynamic and the daring and emotionally honest performances from all involved (particularly Jens Albinus, Anne Louise Hassing, Nikolaj Lie Kaas and Louise Mieritz), though, for me, it is the plight of Karen and her sense of sacrifice that ultimately defines the underling message of the film. Naturally, there is no getting away from the formal and technical constraints of the Dogme movement, with the film employing hand-held cameras, jump-cuts, natural lighting, no props and no post-synchronised sound, however, these factors should be seen as part of the visualisation of the text, as opposed to an empty aesthetic. Those that see the film and merely take from it the sense of experimentation and the surface controversy of theme and content (the explicit sexual footage takes up about five minutes of screen time in a film that runs for more than two hours) are really missing the point, whilst to limit the effect and purpose of the film to something as juvenile and trivial as the miss-treatment of the mental disabled, is on a par with people citing À bout de soufflé as being noting more than the film that gave us the nouvelle vague.The Idiots is a film that goes much deeper than the central notion of intelligent characters acting the idiot, and instead, presents us with an honest and heartbreaking film about personal loss and the act of overcoming. "},{"Title":"Von Trier pulls a rabbit out of the hat","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"19 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is very explicit, and definitely not for the faint hearted - if you have a problem with nudity etc. you should stay away (unless off course you want and eye opener)The idiots was the second film made under the influential dogma rules (E.g. Spielberg (and others) has taken it up) and just as nr. 1 (T. Vinterberg's Festen) and nr. 3 (S. Kragh Jakobsen's Mifunes sang) the acting is superb, and almost too realistic. The shaking camera and the documentary feel really hits the viewer right in solar plexus. You want to cry, you want to scream!In my opinion the theme is self realisation, modern man etc. If one wants to it can even bee seen as a comment to Hitler, manipulation, group thinking, the power of the mass etc.It's not quite as tightly pulled of as Festen, i.e. the idiots is maybe five or ten minutes to long. However I claim that contrary to festen this movie is much more an art movie. It wants something more; it wants to constantly make the viewer aware of himself as a social individual with prejudice and more.I wouldn't want to label this film social criticism, rather individual awareness.As such it is the opposite of Von Triers Breaking the waves which was a very good movie as it made a very good impression of having a lot of depth that it just didn't. (which is a good achievement - I mean this)(Breaking The waves and Mifunes sang 8/10 Festen and Idiots 10/10)  "},{"Title":"I'm so glad this film was made!","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"25 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Punk exists in movies too! This is just a reaction to all the candy-assed Disneykids corny American filmmaking that absorbs money you could better spend on fighting poverty (not drugs). It makes me want to go out and see another plastic Hollywood disaster (without paying the fee) and spasm right there in the crowd! But of course I haven't got the balls for it.Speaking of balls, the sex scene is also a very bald critique towards ridiculous porn and corny porn lovers. I'm glad there's also films being made for real adults. This is not distasteful; this is a blessing for taste and style. A movie that should be looked upon with great respect. Lars keeps me happy! "}{"Title":"Is anyone not an idiot?","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"19 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A group of retarded guys & girls grabs on to Karen, a bystander to their moronic behavior in a restaurant, and they try to teach her and themselves how to bring out the idiot that's inside you (and me).  In documentary style, derived from the Dogma95 rules for the film maker, Von Trier reaches into our guts, twisting a knife slightly sharper than the one he used to Break The Waves.  A similar style was used in Epidemic, one of his first films, which shocks us with the reality of death from a plague, slowly crawling into the diagetic / real world.It's a social problem he addresses.  Is being normal normal?  Try thinking of this small society, a micro cosmos, as a way out from the problems of the daily life - trying to escape instead of coping, trying to hide behind social masks and hypocrisy instead of facing the society with our real self, our real power.  Notice who's the real idiot at the end of the film - who's the one who REALLY needs to escape and who ends up facing society fearlessly ? (I'll hint that these are two characters)    "},{"Title":"Dare to laugh","Date":"12 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's easy to confuse the adjectives controversial and thought-provoking. The difference is that the former is a concept manufactured by the media and the latter is the raison d'etre of film-makers like Lars von Trier. Ostensibly this is a film about a group of people pretending to have cerebral palsy. But obviously that's not what it's really about; and I think that only those without the inclination to seek one of many possible meanings would label it controversial on this basis. It's classic knee-jerk.The Idiots is a challenging indictment of middle-class hypocrisies and an enthralling deconstruction of the bohemian ideal.Early in the film the question keeps being asked Why is what we're doing wrong? Because you're poking fun. But who really comes out of the narrative looking idiotic? The stuttering patio-owner, fearful of a potential insurance claim? Josephine's father, who tears his weeping daughter away from her friends? Rarely it's The Idiots themselves, whose motivations are subtly sketched out as Stoffer's commune collapses around him.Stoffer himself is anti-middle-class, suggesting he's simply afraid of growing up. There's the doctor, constantly writing notes, who may be treating the whole affair as some kind of social experiment. There's the marketing man, using the commune as an escape from the superficiality of his truly idiotic occupation. And there's Karen, our silent observer, whose own reasons for falling in love with The Idiots comes to flatten us in the final reel. This leads to a gripe certain characters remain nothing MORE than sketches. I would have liked to see von Trier eschew some of the social confrontation scenes in favour of further narrative episodes.Some scenes - such as the door-to-door Christmas decoration sale, or the house-buyers' tour - may come across as crass and cruel, but they're fascinating insofar as they present the hypocrisies that lie in the heart of us all.Perhaps the impact of The Idiots' public spassing is softened somewhat in these post-Borat/Bruno days. But von Trier is a trickier customer than Baron Cohen. As such, we laugh aloud, but we're never quite sure of who we're laughing - or, indeed, if we should be laughing at all. Watch this, and then watch how all other films seem quaint by comparison. "},{"Title":"Mediocre film, childish manifesto","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What can you expect from a film based on a childish manifesto like Dogma 95? Bad lighting, bad acting (with a couple of notable exceptions) and a feeling that some of the scenes (like the orgy) were introduced only to prove that the Dogma was being obeyed...The story itself (a group of people pretending to be mentally retarded and interacting with the normal world, with each other and with themselves) is sometimes intriguing and certainly will not leave any spectator undisturbed, but it is not enough to make this piece remarkable.Only to be seen as a curiosity... "},{"Title":"Saint Paul's comment","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I totally agree with Saint Paul.I watched this movie a couple of days ago when it was already late. I switched on it while it was already playing so I missed the beginning. Because I didn't see the start, I didn't realize it was a movie at all. It seems like a documentary which fascinated me. Finally I saw some pure human essence on television! When I discovered it was a movie I was amazed by the acting skills of most of the actors.Just like it did by Saint Paul, it gave me some emotion. I felt some connection's. Always I am searching for the core of my live, as they did in the movie.If you are planning to see the movie, watch it alone so you can be all with yourself. "},{"Title":"Pretentious beyond belief","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"15 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This really is pretentious stuff. A bunch of bored 30 somethings, gather in a house an behaves like retards.. And thats it. Another movie about neurotic 30 year olds, who are unable to take responsebility for their own lives and the fact that they have grown up. Poor beyond belief. Poorly lit, filmed and directed (in following with the dogma tradition) but also poorly acted by some very unatractive people, including half professionel actors, pornmodels and denmarks most unatractive nudemodel, Trine Michelsen. Miss this at any price. "},{"Title":"An embarrassment to the art of film-making","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"17 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Where do you start on this, there is just a sense that anything goes just because we label a film as 'new wave' or 'experimental cinema'. It is an embarrassment that this film attempts to even class itself as one of those.In reality, this film should adhere to the Dogme 95 manifesto that it was made under. But looking at those rules, it clearly breaks a number of them. The 'Vow of Chastity' states that the sound may never be produced apart from the images, but this is definitely not the case on a number of occasions. Also(according to Dogme), the director must not be credited. So why is it then that Mr von Trier is credited as director on everything and everywhere we see this film. I mean if you want to be clever and write up a manifesto, at least lets stick to the rules. Looking at the DVD, his name and all of the actors are credited when really they shouldn't be. They shouldn't even be acknowledged on this website as having specific 'jobs' in the film. In all honesty there should just be one long list of names.Classing a film as 'new wave' or 'experimental' just seems to be a marketing ploy i.e. a bandwagon for everybody to jump on. Looking at the IMDb rating and some of the comments, lots of people have done just that.With this film it just seems to be a case of 'I know, we'll go into public places and pretend to be handicapped, we'll try to be as controversial as possible and get somebody with a shaky hand to film it all with a hand held digital camera. Then we'll edit it together in a haphazard fashion and say we're rebelling against continuity'. The film doesn't work, the ideas are weak and why you even need a director for this catastrophe is still open to question.Oh how I cheered when our lead lady Karen was slapped hard across the face in the final scene. It should have come earlier, but all the same it was well delivered and of course thoroughly deserved.I warn people, do not try to look for things that aren't there. This isn't a good film - it's a bad documentary. 0/10 "},{"Title":"Interesting perspective ; at least a ground breaking attempt","Date":"26 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Idiots cannot be defined a masterpiece, however, as many others Dogma's films, holds itself very tight, thanks to the honesty expressed by the filmmakers, and, by the actors, all brilliant, so effectively introducing us into a dangerous evil that lays underneath a seemingly, quite accomplished, group of upper class Danish friends, and, their less than admirable habits, with a raw style, that may be upsetting or shocking to many, but, that indeed showcases perfectly the moralistic northern European society setting, with a grieving, somber tone, that grows silently potent throughout the film, with touching intimacy, and, an authentic, livid, and,truly dark storytelling, that results enigmatic at times, as much as, it is profound and visceral. The second half of the piece gets an unexpected turn, that many have found too graphic, but, that others have found instead a ground breaking, utterly knife sharp, and, clever twist, that does certainly condemn, without pointing specific fingers against politics, or too specific, and, cheap motives, but, that serves with great effect to help us to a rather penetrating identification of all main characters, resulting under this lens, as if they were all victims of vices, and, obscure perversions, perhaps,caused by a general, wrong perception of their existences, infused by a lack of feelings, and,of a respect,that feels almost invisible in our modern world, which here seems always so advanced,and, perfectly modern, yet progressively loosing more, and, more attention to the single individual, sympathy for the minorities, and, that, in general, survives with boredom, accepting without any objection, a sickening lack of real love, trying to cope with damaged, personal relationships, often just by forgetting, or numbing their isolation, while, unwillingly, breaking hearts, ideals, and, hopes. It is a movie that i would not recommend to everyone, but, to those who love a certain type of extremely stylized, personal type of Cinema. In the 'Art House' crowd, and, within mature, more intellectual audiences, searching for movies that make a difference, just with their unique voice, and, beliefs, The Idiots should not disappoint, but, make for a piece that depicts with awesome strength, a questionable society, that seems inept, failing to hear, and, to listen with more caring, and, involved sensibility to all, so creating a painful array of lost souls, which are composing such unusual, frightening shallow group of friends, plagued constantly by controversial upbringing's, and, by an horrifying indifference, so realistically playing against odds in this unique movie that's able to convey with vivid contrasts, a series of highly dehumanized morals, and, an even more dangerous lack of perceiving, or holding onto faith. The Idiots does not certainly fails to outline some modern, steel cold events, bringing the over all meaning of violence and isolation, interior despair, and sense of loss, to a very interesting, if highly disturbing afterthought. "},{"Title":"Let us praise the inner idiots !","Date":"25 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Idiots is an absolutely interesting film to watch, not because of its obedience of the so called Dogme 95 manifesto but because it raises a lot of questions and challenges us with its not so much hidden political agenda to rethink the authenticity of our predefined social and moral codes. This is a study of how we choose to explore our inner idiots and external social tensions that follow these choices.The film follows a group of young people living together and impersonating mentally retarded people as an attempt to find their inner idiots and thus achieving true happiness, they do so in public places and when they're home and around each other and there are moments that they do actually seem genuinely happy but new circumstances appear that confronts them and us as viewers to serious questions about the morality of their acts and weather they deserve happiness under these terms or not. The Idiots is really about something. It introduces characters that we get to know and it has them ask bold questions and make an effort to find out the answers, even if there turns out to be none. What Von Trier does not only in The idiots but in some of his other films as well is to create these well thought, harmonious sets in the first half of the film only to dismantle and fall them apart in the second half where reality shows up and hidden brutal layers of their respective worlds can't help to leak in. The movie starts as what we think is a satire of bourgeoisie and middle class values by a group of bohemians but it goes on to being a satire of both groups, although it shows more compassion towards the latter, no matter how unconventional their methods are to reach some sort of peace and happiness. Everything falls apart only when they try to apply to their group the same despicable middle class principles that they were escaping from in the first place, by trying to assign winners and losers, who is a good spasser and who is not, who is more serious about this and who isn't, basically by asking all the wrong questions. On the other hand, this is only Stoffer's and maybe partly Axel's part of the story and his point of view and his take on this experience, he is the one hating the bourgeoisie, we don't really hear about the other's motivations until nearly the end of the film. The artist is there because he thinks it will help him become a better artist, the doctor is there to experiment, Josephine is using as a substitute to her medications, other's might be just playing around and Karen as it turns out by hiding out in the idiots world is trying to cope with the harsh reality of her life, the loss of her child. I think this lack of consensus is crucial towards understanding this film and characters and their final separation. The film can also be viewed as a social critic on the society's hypocratic behavior towards the mentally retarded, well maybe not in a traditional sense. The idiots are always taken care of and never disrespected by the people. Denmark is a state that takes care of everyone and this is visible through the entire movie but there's one thing that is hard to ignore and that is this sense of awkwardness and discomfort and embarrassment that they cause for the normal society anywhere they go, even there are is someone coming and offering them money to move to somewhere else, the couple who come to buy the house is obviously distraught and wants to get out of the situation as fast as possible, so is everybody else, the only person that they encounter and shows them love and compassion and not just pity is Karen who goes with them and joins them. "},{"Title":"Successful experiment.","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Idioterne is a good and enjoyable to watch Dogma movie. The style (or better said; the lack of style) and storytelling are unique and help to make Idioterne a one of a kind movie experience. Just like the story in the movie; it's a successful experiment.As a sort of a social experiment, a group of people decides to release the 'idiot' in themselves to see how the environments responds to them. Sounds like good enough material to make a hilarious comedy with but Idioterne never goes over-the-top and always retains a sort of realistic feeling. The movie is made in documentary style with some mixed results as a direct result of this. For most part the movie is realistic and it has an improvised feeling over it but some of the sequences are obviously planned and acted out. In those sequences it becomes painfully obvious that the actors in this movie aren't really first-rate. It makes those sequence feel forced and ridiculous. Those sequences are in contrast with the rest of the movie its style and overall feeling.Yet the movie remains perfectly good to watch. It never becomes really great or hilarious but the movie is simply perfectly entertaining to watch nevertheless.The movie has some interesting sequences and confrontations in it that all helps to make this movie quite a memorable one. It's a movie that confronts at times and makes us as viewers think about how we would respond and act if we were in one of the situations as portrayed in the movie.For fans of Dogma this is an absolute must-see. It has everything in it what makes Dogma movies so great. It's perhaps not the best Dogma movie but it certainly is one of the most enjoyable- and more light to watch ones.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Funny and exhilarating","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  From a North American perspective, it is quite delightful to see groups of intellectuals who are confrontational and oppositional - and by this I'm referring both to the characters in the film and to the filmmakers associated with Dogma95.At times this film seems to be motivated only by taboos, and there's little doubt that breaking taboos factors heavily into it.  However, some thought will show how skillfully the audience's feelings are being directed.  For example, the hardcore sex scene (the scene most likely to shock audiences and to alienate them somewhat from the camaraderie of the group) is followed closely by an intervention scene which suggests that the group is little more than a cult.  This intervention wouldn't have been nearly so effective if the viewer's allegiance with the group hadn't been shaken.The subtitles were somewhat difficult to read on the video that I saw, but despite having no Danish, I had no trouble following the film.  It's not really dialogue driven.  The immediacy of the Dogma techniques are inarguable, and easily transcends language barriers.  I've been thinking about this movie for days.  It's shameful that this wasn't given a proper release in Canada. "}{"Title":"vibrant, touching and 100% believable","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Idiots is one of the few films I have seen that vibrates. The no-nonsense, in-your-face visual style, tears down the boundaries between fiction and reality, and we go through everything that the idiots go through. A story as original as this, made as a documentary is utterly original. This is a masterpiece. All the scenes say meaningful things about being human, and this is one of the best movies this decade. It is impossible to disagree. And last, but not least møljepuling! "},{"Title":"De do do do De da da da","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  (Excuse my bad English). Like the idiots in the film is trying to break free of conventional thinking and behaviour, so the filmmaker Lars Von Trier is trying to break free from conventional moviemaking. Dogma 95 is meant as a onetime experiment to find new perspectives in moviemaking. Just as the idiots of the movie will eventually return to their normal lives afterwards, so the director of a Dogma-movie will return to making normal movies, but perhaps with a new perspective, free from conventional thinking. Von Trier is an excentric person and Dogma 95 was his brainchild, he didn't expect it to be a worldwide success, maybe he even dislikes it. He needed to do this as an experiment to break down some barriers. For people complaining about lack of plot and childishness, I can only say you're absolutely right - that's the whole point. Remember the old Police track De do do do De da da da, well as I see it, that could very well have been the title-track of this movie (if the Dogma rules would allow it ;o) "},{"Title":"Marvellous entertainment","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Although this is the second 'Dogme' film, this was the first that I saw. It began rather unsettlingly in a restaurant and from there the entertainment only went up, as the group of 'Idiots' became more in touch with their inner selves.  Showing themselves to be as vulnerable as the rest of the human race rather than special observers which they pretended to be brought them to the point of breakdown.  Karen, who wasn't part of the insular group to begin with, gets taken along as things escalate,  is shown to be a genuinely tragic figure. This film is definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"The Dignity of Sorrow.","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Pretending is not enough. Pretending can be serious, can be hard, can be almost true, but is is not enough. And the harder you try, the more ashamed, bad, naked and childish you find yourself in front of the real sorrow, in the end.In the end, the smart philosophical exercise just dissolves, in front of the simple dignity of sorrow.A wise, beautiful movie. "},{"Title":"The Shaky Reality of Documentary","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm surprised that no one commented on the pseudo documentary's shaky reality as mirroring the problematic reality of the Idiots in the movie. Their attempts to be real idiots so as to appreciate their inner idiots parallels the feature film's attempt to mimic the documentary format so as to achieve credibility. By showing the overacting and crew shots in the movie, perhaps it was the director's way of commenting on the the shaky reality of the Idiots existence.But even though we know that it's a feature film trying to be a documentary, we are still drawn to the vicarious experience of the movie - we still enjoy it as a movie. Perhaps another statement about finding happiness in a fake reality?Like Idiots, the audience goes into an escaped reality when they go to the cinema, hoping to experience what the protagonists feel on screen. But like the idiots, the denial is only temporary. The final fate of Karen seems to warn the the audience that at the end of the day, this escaped formed of reality is no match to the real world that is out there. "},{"Title":"An Exercise In Bad Taste, That Holds Well For The Most Part.","Date":"5 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Shot and finished entirely in four days. The Idiots is the second in Lars Von Trier's Golden Heart Trilogy, and the 2nd film of the Dogme Manifesto. The Idiots depending on your sensibilities will either shock, confuse and offend you. Most likely you will feel all three.The Golden Heart trilogy in a nutshell involves the female protagonist to remain completely naive throughout the story, and virtually give all of herself up to and for the people she loves.A lady named Karen becomes friends with a bunch of very intelligent, welcoming group of people. However she inevitably becomes invited into the groups hidden agenda, which is acting like retards to blend into the world and escape the restrictions of societal norms. Part of me got a little offended, due to having autistic friends and family. However I didn't dwell on those emotions, as I struggled to find a deeper interest in the picture. Sadly by the end of it, it's clear that from what I saw maybe Von Trier wanted to see how far he could go in terms of decency. Sadly, that's not a notion that manages to carry an entire film forward on that strength alone.Final Verdict I can appreciate the experimentation behind it. I was waiting for something to be said to justify this behaviour, or for the characters to bring me some kind of sense to their plan. Yet the more you analyse the movie, the more you begin to feel maybe the point of the film was to actually have no point. A crazy notion, but the only one I can get my head around. Not essential viewing, but watch at your own risk. 5/10. "},{"Title":"Truly an crude idiotic movie.","Date":"1 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Movie such as this is one of the reasons I can't stand any of the depressing melodrama for the sake of depressing melodrama that's over-saturating every medium on the planet these days. Enough of these bad things happen in real life, we don't need everything we watch nor read or listen to; to get away from normal life to be completely centered around the exact thing we're trying to take our minds off of. Director by King Dogma Attitude Lars Von Trier, 'the Idiots' is his try to make a film in compliance with the Dogme '95 Manifesto film making movement which he started. He fails to live up to it. What is the Dogme'95 Manifesto? Dogme '95 also known as Dogme#2 were rules to create filmmaking based on the traditional values of story, acting, theme, and excluding the use of elaborate special effects or technology following close to a Vow of Chastity rule. Like a whore in a nun's church, Lars broke the rules in this movie by bringing a prop onto the set and used special lighting. Von Trier also used background music (Le Cygne by Camille Saint-Saëns) in the film. The whole Dogme '95 movement collapse with this movie. Due to trying to live up to the Vows, the movie suffers from errors on screen such as boom mics or cameraman getting into the shots. The idiots also marks the second film in von Trier's Golden Heart Trilogy, which includes Breaking the Waves (1996) and Dancer in the Dark (2000) which had a woman put into wickedness actions. The woman in this one is Karen (Bodil Jørgensen) who is taken some interest in an anti-bourgeois group, leaded by Stoffer (Jens Albinus), whom spend their time acting like mentally disabled people in public to challenge the establishment through provocation. The idiots start to see that with they can get away with a lot with playing dumb, and see a romantic ideal of being disability gives until reality hit them hard. The movie is spoken in Danish, but I can't understand the message they are trying to say with this film. I can't decide if that dogma filmmaking method is admirable or intentionally hamstringing itself arbitrarily. The characters are unlikeable. The mocking of Down syndrome is rude. Then there is the pointless gangbang scene. That part of the film was pure hardcore porn. I know Lars Von Trier lived in nudist commune environment and yes, I know Danish has more lax attitude towards nudity and sex than the US apparently has by comparison, but honestly what was the point of that scene? It felt out of place. I felt that the Gruppeknald scene was just there to feed Lars Von Tier's pervert ego. Trine Michelsen is only in the movie for this scene since she is a porn star. Not a big porn star, but more importantly she is the daughter of the most influential Danish movie critic at the time Ole Michelsen. Ole Michelsen is famous for saying he reviews all types of movies except the type his daughter stars in. Lars von Trier makes a cameo in his movie in exactly just for this scene, by having Ole Michelsen was forced to review a movie that has the director sleeping with his daughter. That's pretty crude. For me, the idea that if someone is broken. I should be able to sympathize with their horrible behavior that demeans a group human beings that are already in an oppressed position to begin with is just no. That ending did nothing for me. I didn't feel sorry for any of them at all. This is not an art for art sakes, or whatever they made up to sound sophisticated movie, it's Z Grade exploitation either desperately trying or pretending to have a meaning. Mange tak, Lars. You made a pretty horrible movie. "},{"Title":"Experience 101 with Lars Von Trier","Date":"5 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Idioterne (1998) As I watched the film, I told myself a thousand times, this is definitely a Von Trier film. It is strange, it is provocative, and of course there are scenes where people are actually having sex, no not faking, but actually having sex. Von Trier is one of the few people who can bring such images into a film and make it into a strangely enigmatic film.To be precise, Lars Von Trier wrote the film. However, the activities that are in the plot are just a bit too important. The film has two things. One, it is a great experience. This film could have been Paosolini's 'Salo', in which I hate because even though there is perfection all around, the film is simply a bit too hard to enjoy because of the over the top violence. 'Idioterne' however, is actually quite fun to watch. I can see how some of the moments in the film might have been controversial, but it doesn't go to the extent of being disturbing. It isn't too sexual. It is simply a fun film.The other thing is the theme of the film. Beneath all the chaos, there is still a theme. The problem is, I do not understand the film yet. I simply had such a compelling experience that I haven't really thought about the film. It is so hard to think while watching this film. But let's try. The film is about a group of people intentionally being idiots because they think that it is deep to bring out the inner idiot that is inside everyone and pass around. But that's when it came to themselves and people they didn't know. In the end, when they came back to their original life, they realize how silly they're actions were and how embarrassing it was. But for some reason, a lady who just came into the group, spassed around the moody house in which her family lived. Of course, everybody thought she was insane, but she didn't care. She was the only one who could pass, and she was only in the group for 2 weeks.I can simply say that the film is trying to say that everybody does have an idiot inside of them. It's just how you control it. And I can easily see how much conversation and theories can come out of the film.But for me, it's more of an experience film. It usually was with Palme' Dor nominees. The film is quite a lot of fun. It may disgust you, it may alienate you. However, I had so much fun. I will admit, I was quite alienated myself. But no matter, that simply means that the film is not perfect.3.5/4 "},{"Title":"The Idiots","Date":"20 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" From director Lars Von Trier (Dogville), I remember seeing this Danish film at least once or twice, but I didn't really know what to think of it, the critics think it is good. Basically it sees a group of young adults, all normal, regular and intelligent people spend time together in a small society to find their inner idiot. This is to have some kind of entertainment in public pretending to be mentally retarded, taking advantage of the situation with those who fall into believing it. One of the newly recruited members of the group starts out going along with it, but slowly she becomes highly uncomfortable with the stupid activities they are getting themselves into, they are almost becoming what they are pretending to be, retarded. Starring Bodil Jørgensen as Karen, Jens Albinus as Stoffer, Anne Louise Hassing as Susanne, Troels Lyby as Henrik, Nikolaj Lie Kaas as Jeppe, Louise Mieritz as Josephine, Henrik Prip as Ped and Luis Mesonero as Miguel. To be honest the only bit of the film I can ever remember is the part when they are all taking their clothes off, running about naked, and having a near orgy, but I do also remember it having an interesting documentary style, it is a weird comedy drama. Worth watching, at least once, in my opinion! "},{"Title":"Could well be one of the greatest movies ever made","Date":"12 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I do not use the title to this review lightly, this film genuinely is that good. Von Trier manages to achieve in this film what visionary and influential directors such as Luis Bunuel, Michael Haneke and Remy Belveux et al have attempted in their own seminal works. Bunuel was extremely controversial for his time but even his most challenging and controversial films such as L'Age d'or, Le Discret Charme de la Bourgeosie and Belle de Jour look refined and elegant almost in comparison to the gritty, completely unapologetic cinematic equivalent to a stiff middle finger that von Trier has created here. Belveux, Bonzel and Poelvoorde take cinema to deliciously shocking and extreme levels with Man Bites Dog but von Trier shows that there were still frontiers to cross. Haneke shows no mercy with his astonishing accomplishment Funny Games but in a sense dulls the belligerence of his movie somewhat by allowing it to be channelled specifically in the direction of desanitising violence and thereby reminding it's audience of it's power and horror, providing a justification for one of the most disturbing films I've seen. This in no way takes away it's power as a film it just makes it less controversial than the almost completely indefensible The Idiots, which is what I'm here to review.Why is The Idiots (Idioterne) possibly one of the greatest films ever made? Simply because it doesn't provide any justification for itself and because it asks for no sympathy, whilst challenging the most deeply cherished and hard clung to values of society. This film essentially mocks mental illness, capitalism and corporations, the institution of the family, death and friendship, essentially almost everything that societies, Western societies perhaps in particular (though not necessarily), are based on. This film tears up the rule book and does what all art attempts to do find something that these rules are essentially based upon, namely, nature.It is intimated that finding the inner idiot is the way that the characters in this film try to discover their own inner nature but that's only a smoke-screen in terms of what this film is really about. It's not so much that being an idiot brings truth, it brings something much more important happiness. It is perhaps only for Karen that the two are one and the same. Every character is using the group as a way of making themselves happier. They're left to an extent unstimulated by normality and so they use being an idiot as a form of escapism, to provide that little extra that their normal life doesn't cater for. They don't ask themselves about whether what they are doing is moral because they don't care and in presenting this to us von Trier achieves the most powerful thing that art can render, the potential vacuousness of morality in the face of our own happiness. There is nothing objectively moral at all in the world or in our lives, it is a veil, or construct, we use to combat our unhappiness, namely to make ourselves look or feel better than we believe ourselves to be. Morality goes hand in hand with how a society operates and it works well enough for most, but then there are always those who need something else and this is what the group represents, that something else. Von Trier shows us that to appreciate life in a more honest and fundamental way means doing away with certain societal constructs, but of course those societal constructs exist for a reason, ie people want/ need them and the idiots in this film are in similar need of them to greater or lesser extents.Each character is distinctive in the way that they approach their roles as idiots, no doubt most interestingly Karen and so I shall say a little about her character. In Karen we see the stripping down of morality that I talked about in the previous paragraph. Karen is initially extremely resistant to the philosophies and behaviour of the group but the longer she spends with the group the more she feels it's impact upon her own life to be genuinely beneficial. The two weeks she spends with the idiots proves to be a genuinely happy one for her where she is able to adjust to the trauma that life has rent upon her. And here we see the power of von Trier's vision, what society would condemn as ghastly, inhuman and despicable is in fact the thing that helps Karen deal with her profound grief. What does it matter that people might say that what she is a part of is wrong if it in fact makes her happy? And when one watches the film to its conclusion one will see the profundity of the dilemma that awaits the many who would no doubt feel differently. The point isn't whether you ultimately agree with the idiots way of life but whether you see the fundamental dilemma that Karen's interaction with the group poses.Karen is not the only character of interest (one of the film's many strengths), I will end this review here though as I could really go on for an extremely long time about this film, from its technical Dogme 95 aspects to the extent that it is comic or tragic, etc. But what really matters here is the fact that the film is relentlessly human and relentlessly honest, something von Trier has a justified reputation for. It is also possibly von Trier's, or any director's, most creative, hilarious and immersive film yet and it is certainly his, and perhaps the, boldest.10/10 "}{"Title":"Movie Review of The Idiots","Date":"5 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" After viewing the movie The Idiots, by Lars Von Trier, I found that there were many themes evident in the movie as well as many dogma 95 techniques used as well. The Idiots was an almost documentary-like film about a group of individuals that all were staying in Stoffer's uncles house that he was supposed to be trying to sell. Instead of selling the house he invited over some of his friends and they all decided to find their inner idiot by spassing, also known as acting disabled or more blatantly&#x85; retarded. They do this both in public and in Stoffer's house and began to cross the line or make the viewers feel uncomfortable after the scene in the factory. Karen, who we are introduced to in the restaurant in the first scene, begins to find her inner idiot after staying at the house for two weeks and is actually the only one to act like an idiot in front of her family at the end of the movie, which was very surprising to me and I'm sure many other people that viewed this film. Some of the themes I found in this film were as follows public dysfunction, community, confrontation with inner self, freedom, and retardation. Public dysfunction I found to be the main theme due to the fact that the majority of the movie was based around the group of characters acting retarded in public. Next there was a sense of community on the house and when they performed their stunts or acts in public. Confrontation with inner self was another prevalent theme in the film, because the characters were all on a mission to find their inner idiot. As the characters tried finding their inner selves, this brought up the theme of freedom and the ability to act and say what the wanted too throughout the film. The last theme was retardation, which the film is built around as they are acting retarded both in public and at Stoffer's uncle's house. The key characters in the film were Stoffer, Karen, Susanne, Katrine, Henrik, Axel, Jeppe, and Josephine. Next I am going to talk about the cinematic techniques utilized throughout the film. Since this is considered a Danish Dogma 95 film, there are certain guidelines and rules that Von Trier had to follow. The most noticeable of the techniques was definitely the usage of hand held cameras. The scene that comes to mind when you can really see this is when they are throwing a spass birthday party for Stoffer and they are all running naked in the yard. Also another scene where it is easy to tell that the cameras are hand held is in the factory when the van is leaving. Each step the factory tour guide takes, the camera bounces along with him. Another prevalent theme is the fact that there was never any music being played in the background of the film. Also, we never saw any weapons or murder because it would have had to have been real. Some background information on the film I found was that the movie takes place in Copenhagen, which is the birthplace of Von Trier. This may be the case because he is afraid of flying and is forced to drive to wherever a movie is being filmed. Also, Von Trier's parents were nudists, so perhaps he was a fan of nudity in films because he was so accustomed to being around naked people and was very comfortable with filming and incorporating nudity into his films. The last piece of background information I found was that this film was written in four days, which on one hand is incredible, but at the same time in my opinion could be why I did not take a liking to the movie at all. Lastly, I am going to talk about my personal opinion about the movie. To begin, I will say that this was one of those movies that I will never set aside two hours to watch ever again. The beginning of the movie was funny up until right after the factory. After the factory scene I felt that the movie was very repetitive and I was having a lot of trouble sitting in my seat. There were a few scenes that were painful to sit through and made me uncomfortable such as the scene where they were hanging out with actual handicapped people and spassing with them, which in my opinion, crossed any ethical lines that had not already been crossed in the film. To continue, I can see why films like these are not available or screened in the United States, because the film was very offensive and emotionally traumatizing. Lastly, however, I thought the acting was very good and I was impressed with how the actors were able to keep their composer and not laugh while spassing in public. In conclusion, the film The Idiots was a unique film with an interesting plot, but I would never watch the movie again in the future. If I had to recommend the movie to another individual, I would say that it is a movie you can watch once, but will probably never watch again. "},{"Title":"The surprise behind rarely find in movies","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The core idea of surprise behind is to find something hidden..in this movie it is the way it shakes one's mirror, the way that lets you explore the normality (in you). Some users find the film disturbing. No wonder that it disturbs as it attacks the structure of self. So why to see how our self are built i.e. what is the core and what is middle-class shitted pants of socialization? Just because it is thus intelligent as our life on Earth is an instant flow of changes. We may be rebuilt .. only idiots are unchangeable, stuck to their old faiths, ready to fight to protect anything pride-directors cooked for them. See the definition of intelligence. PS I have seen it in Ireland, incl. oop knell the danish for gang bang, it is just so cute word. "},{"Title":"Almost unwatchable","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I barely got past the first half hour of this film. Not because I found it objectionable or anything but because half the subtitles were unreadable.Attention foreign film distributors, buy a clue from SBS (Australian multicultural TV) and learn how to use a f**king subtitle font and colour that stands out against the f**king video footage. In case that last sentence was too subtle for you, I'll be more specific spidery white lettering doesn't stand out against a white f**king t-shirt, or white f**king walls, or many of the other white or light-coloured f**king objects that often appear in films. I'm not going to learn Danish just so I can watch one f**king movie. Thank you.  "},{"Title":"Skip it unless you understand Danish","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have seen all the Dogme 5 films, including IDIOTERNE, the second one. This one, unlike the others, is a complete waste of time except for Danish speakers. The long, inexact subtitles are too demanding and misleading; not that there's much of interest in the images, but I'll give the language difficulty the benefit of the doubt. It has been well received by Swedes and Germans who (especially the Swedes) can understand some of the dialogue with some ease. I found this Dogme 5 film, and one by the great Lars von Triers, a complete waste of time. We've seen it all before. It was like an inferior FESTEN 2, without the interesting set of characters, family interactions, and surprise plot twist. I knew no more about the idiots after the film finished than I did at the beginning, having read several synopses beforehand. A total disappointment. It's no wonder it hasn't been released in the US almost two years after its premiere. As allergic as Americans (unfortunately and intransigently, and due to films like this one) are towards foreign movies, IDIOTERNE will wildly fuel the fire over the worthlessness of European movies. Lars von Triers, after BREAKING THE WAVES (which no average movie goer here saw in spite of the awards and nominations), should know better than to be so self-indulgent, and commonly absurd. It's certainly neither original nor entertaining, and definitely not shocking. Lars, Scandinavians haven't shocked the world since the 60's. Just give us a good film! "},{"Title":"Believe the tagline!","Date":"17 August 2011","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Lars Von Trier is the king of controversy. He deliberately adds scenes that aren't needed at all just to create shock from the public, he did it in Antichrist by placing a pornographic 3 second shock of graphic sex. Here he's decided to do it again by adding idiotic images like a fully erect penis and a pornographic sex scene. They may not be very long shots but they are simply disgusting and not needed. This film has confirmed to me that Lars Von Trier, how ever good a film-maker he is, is a pervert! He's recently even stated that whilst working on his latest film Melencholia he'd love to see Kirsten Dunst in a 10 minute porn movie! That's before saying that he's a fan of Nazis (as a joke, yeah real funny Lars!).But here we're getting off the point of the film. What was the point anyway? I must've completely missed the brilliance of The Idiots because to me it seemed like an even more pointless Jackass, watching pathetic idiots acting like mentally ill people by spazzing in public to find their inner idiot. There is little and almost no plot at all. It's a character piece, focusing on really unlikable people who have little interesting about them.The shaky camera seems entirely unnecessary with the boom mic and camera reflection clearly visible in some shots. The directing simply has no directing. Some intellectuals might consider it sponataneous and different but it's pointless and off-putting. The screenplay is also a complete mess. Maybe something got lost in translation but I couldn't particularly understand what was going on and what the point was of there actions.I also would not recommend watching this with other people because watching it by yourself is awkward enough. The final scene is really intense and not the good intense like Black Swan but really awkward and uncomfortable intense. It's horrible to watch and quite upsetting and I don't know why anyone would want their audience to feel that way. The reason for the extra mark was just for the power of the last scene and how the whole experience of seeing the film will take a while for me to forget.Intellectuals will only like The Idiots, they will see things I can't see because to me it's a confusing, boring and senseless piece of film making with some disgusting imagery and perverted writing. Stay clear of The Idiots like you'd stay clear of an idiot. "},{"Title":"The deep fall of Lars von Trier","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The &#132;Dogma 95` was a well-meant idea making films with minimum budget and without any technical specialities. Lars von Trier, who always wants to take part in everything, of course had to make a contribution to the &#132;Dogma` and so &#150; because he is also famous for his predilection for shocking, disturbing stories &#150; this strange film came out. I say strange not referring to the plot or to the production itself but to the deep fall of Lars von Trier. The natural light, the shaky camera and the &#132;intentional` continuity mistakes (one scene starts in the afternoon and suddenly we find ourselves at dusk!) make the movie seem utterly amateurish and not directed at all, which for von Trier is really unusual, when you think of his &#132;Element of Crime` or &#132;Breaking the Waves`. I once tried to make a small movie for fun with my friends. It was better than &#132;The Idiots`.Now, I don't mean to criticise the whole &#132;Dogma` project, only this film. It failed also in the other respect it is not shocking. The screenplay is poor, the characters are not convincing and so their fates gain no interest. The fact that they are only playing the idiots is supposed to provoke not only the passer-bies in the movie but also the audience. This in my case didn't work and as the film doesn't have any other attractions, &#132;The Idiots` is not more than a complete mess.  "},{"Title":"Pointless, Pretentious, Pornographic and Idiotic","Date":"8 August 2008","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I think Lars Von Trier ranks among the best filmmakers as I found his 'Breaking The Waves', 'Dancer In The Dark' and 'Dogville' to be exceptional films of a class apart. Then, I saw 'Idioterne'. I liked the story idea where a group of people form a cult and disobey social rules. However, the telling of it failed to impress me on any level. The execution is very amateur. While the intention of the shaky camera was to give the viewer a feel of being a voyeuristic outsider, in some shots you could actually see the microphone. There are some very explicit and pointless pornographic scenes merely put for shock value. I don't mind shock value as long as it's relevant to the story but what was the need to show a penis or sexual intercourse (where you can actually see penetration)? The acting is quite bad with the exception of Bodil Jørgensen who is terrific as the tormented Karen. Many seem to like the film because of the provocative theme and because it's 'different'. But is that all that makes a movie good? "},{"Title":"Utter crap","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm sick and tired of uninventive egomaniacs with nothing to say making crap and adopting a pretentious attitude regarding it. Truly creative people create worthy works. Dumb, ambitious people who don't like to wake up early in the morning and go to work at a productive job, find the perfect solution to their dilemma they decide become `artists'.Eventually, they don't actually become artists, but they think that if they act weird enough and say plenty of stupid, incongruent stuff, maybe some backward, lonely, self abusing inbred with a Doctorate in hopelessness will want to become his/her groupie.There are 2 main ways to making people believe you've become an accomplished artist1) By being one (hardest choice, it takes intelligence, knowledge and hard work) 2) By impersonating one (`- uh, maybe if I dress funny, act disgusted with everything most of the time, neglect my personal hygiene and criticize the System, people will think I'm an artist. Hell, that's what artists do. If I can't mimic their talent, I'll mimic their lifestyles peculiarities. And of course, I'll put a penis or two going in and out some girls vagina in a really close shot, and a bunch of people dumbing around with nothing to say but saying it anyway in a cynical, yet resigned to modern man's alienation, and I´ll instantly be regarded as a master of contemporary social critique')What the hell is going on in Europe ???  Is it that mad cow disease ???About Dogma 95 it's crap. Dumb crap. It limits an art form already suffering currently from creative mediocrity even more, with no evident reason to do so. It's like making pianists play with only 3 fingers. Of course, if there's not much you could play in the first place, this limits will at least level you with the more accomplished performers. Screw limits. The only limit are those of your creativity. Don't cripple others just because you are handicapped in that area.If von Trier is looking for Realism he should go to a pub and get wasted, or go mining for coal, and leave cinema to artists and less pretentious artisans. Filming uneventful stories with ridiculous characters in boring situations, using restrictive uninventive techniques (to put it mildly) is not Realistic Cinema. I don't no what the hell it is, but it sure is as merit-less as dropping a pebble and hitting the ground.By the way, ordinary people doing ordinary everyday things is not art. Taking a crap is not art. Poking is not art. Grow up. If you like your films sh***y and porny go ahead, knock yourself stupid. But don't be so serious about your own personal fetishes. They're just that. Make your own home-movies and then go lock yourself in the bathroom to see them, conveniently disgracing yourself for the better part of it. Just keep that out of theatres. Some confused youth might actually see it and believe it to possess some sort of merit. It doesn't. We all know how dumb confused, young people are.  "},{"Title":"This film just totally blows.","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Whereas Festen (The Celebration) has a great story and great character-development, The Idiots lacks both. What you see are a bunch of free-styling actors 'acting'. You don't see them as the characters they are trying to play. There seems to be no script and if you take a good look you can see a microphone occasionally. This film just totally blows. "},{"Title":"Somewhat Disturbing","Date":"18 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A seemingly anti-bourgeois group of adults spend their time seeking their inner idiot to release their inhibitions. They do so by behaving in public as if they were developmentally disabled.I guess this film is highly regarded and is listed in the 1001 Films to See Before You Die. I have seen more than 6000 films, and I am not at all sure I would have put this one on that list. Although I understand that is the point, it looks very amateur at times and this hurts the experience (although I warmed up to it). Generally speaking I am a fan of Lars von Trier, but this one just seemed wrong.It was like Sean Penn mixed with The Ringer with some mild pornography mixed in. It is not often you see erections and full sexual intercourse in a mainstream film... although I guess at the time this came out, von Trier may not have been seen as mainstream. "}{"Title":"The inner idiot...","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The second DOGMA movie was a little bit disconcerting a group of friends walk around pretending that they're retarded... the reason? Well, kind of a rebellion against the establishment, the occidental bourgeois fascist society. But then again, why do they pretend to be retarded? I keep asking that myself, and I haven't got an answer, I just watched the movie; but I'm sure that it scandalized the usual moralists. What begins being a game among friends ends up in something more serious, something that will test the real commitment of each and every member of the group.As usual Von trier empathizes the emotional aspects and there we find the more intense sequences of Idioterne. As for the DOGMA rules, I'm not in favor of imposing rules in art, so that amateur look with the camera on the shoulder and stuff is only good if the movie itself is good (as idioterne)... anyway, I think it's stupid to film like if you were a beginner (specially if you're not).*My rate 7/10 "},{"Title":"Hilarious, shocking Dogme 95 movie","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is not one of Von Trier's best, but still this is a very cool piece of cinema considering that also this movie was made with the Dogme 95 manifest, no sound effect, no lighting etc etc.The story about a group of people who are trying to conduct an experiment in which they are trying to find the physically- and mentally handicapped person that is supposed to be living in us all. They expose a small town to these hidden personalities, which delivers some hilarious scenes which will leave you crawling with laughter (although you are not supposed to laugh at these people).Stoffer, on of the group, develops during the film into the leader of the group and starts demanding more and more from the group and ultimately this causes the group to split up.This movie worked very well to my notion. I felt really bad in a way for these people who find themselves no longer inside themselves but only in these other personalities. They need these persons to feel real.If you are offended by nudity or strong language, this is certainly not the movie for you. Some scenes contain strong nudity, a word of warning is in order.If you like indie movie making, try this for a change.9/10 "},{"Title":"neither one thing","Date":"15 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I don't know what dogma 95 implies but suppose it has something to do with trying to be as realistic as possible. The movie looks like it is made with a simple video camera, including microphones and other cameras on the screen. Many shots were over-exposed. Also the actors sometimes played (or improvised?) so well that it looks like a documentary. And like often happens in a documentary, there is not a real plot or worked out characters. This is all well done, but it is also the problem I have with this film most of the times as a spectator you can't forget it's not real. Often the events or the acting simply aren't convincing enough. On me it never had the impact that a good documentary can have. Von Trier should have lived for a couple of months in some kind of sect, institution or whatever and filmed really from the inside. "},{"Title":"Beautiful DIsturbing","Date":"29 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Lars Von Trier's THE IDIOTS is the second movie shot according to the rules of DOGMA 95. This chart, signed by Thomas Vinterberg, the author of the masterpiece FESTEN, and Lars Von Trier is the sign of a romantic reaction against today cinema. Vinterberg and Von Trier say no to computer helped movies, no to sound mixing and editing, no to everything that is the trademark of 99% of the movies produced each year.So, if you make the effort to accept images which are always moving because the camera is placed on the camera operator's shoulder, if you don't mind to have the sound operator appearing sometimes in the middle of a scene with his micro, you are ready to experiment THE IDIOTS. To be honest, I wasn't disturbed at all by the appearance of the microphone in certain scenes because it strangely adds to the documentary atmosphere of the movie. You will also accept as natural and not at all shocking the few sex scenes, not simulated nor censored - at least in the European copies - , of THE IDIOTS.The main argument of THE IDIOTS is, on the contrary, very disturbing. A dozen of Danish young boys and girls, deceived by the society they are living in, decide to take revenge of this society by creating uncomfortable situations. So, as soon as they are in public places, they are pretending they are mental deficient people and don't hesitate to enjoy the multiple advantages this lie can create. If I enjoyed a lot the comic scenes of THE IDIOTS, recognizing the hypocritical attitudes of our society towards its weakest members, I was in the same time ashamed of my lack of respect. And, in my opinion, THE IDIOTS is a very important movie because, unlike the vast majority of the non-Dogma 95 movies, this film will touch your heart and the roots of your morals. "},{"Title":"https//twitter.com/#!/joesreviews91","Date":"23 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" At the close of Cannes 2011; Lars Von Trier's reputation as one of the most gifted yet controversial film makers around was firmly intact hitting new levels of outrageousness; however, it wasn't the first time he has managed to get the crowd at arguably the world's most prestigious film festival talking. In 1998 The Idiots aka Dogme #2 made its debut causing mass controversy; mass criticism; and mass discussion. Naturally for a film which caused such a stir it's an unusual watch. It's a strange sensation to be made to feel uncomfortable yet totally engrossed in a film and stranger still, feeling guilty for enjoying it. The term guilty pleasure is usually used to hide embarrassment e.g. captain of the school sports team loves a chick flick; yet here the term really is applicable.Credit to the cast who participated largely unaware of what the script would demand of them. We are introduced to Karen (Bodil Jørgensen, playing the films and our conscience) who is then caught up in an anti- middle class gang who spend their time in public 'spassing' out; in other words, pretending to be disabled (PC alarm bells ringing from the off then) in order to release their inner idiots. Rule three of Dogme 95; a hand-held camera, works particularly well; from the off we are thrown right into the heart of the group, we might as well be made to feel as if we are documenting it.The film certainly makes an interesting comment on how social behaviour can restrict us and, for lack of a better word, the licence given to those struggling with mental illnesses to behave more outlandishly. The character's main release is to pose as those without social confinements in public; however the gang eventually do away with only doing it in view of the public eye; is it a hobby or an addiction? Certainly different members of the group enter into it with different motifs and levels of seriousness.The Dogme 95 movement on the whole polarised audiences so to say that The Idiots; one of the most famous of all Dogme films, will not be to everyone's tastes is an understatement. The actual subject matter will be off putting to some; a topic such as this being played for laughs in certain parts makes for uncomfortable viewing; even more so due to the fact that it is funny. The film also asks the question of how disabled citizens are treated by society; nearly fifteen years on and it isn't hard to imagine people still being perturbed at the thought of allowing mentally disabled yet completely harmless people to walk around their garden. Throughout the film Von Trier gives us uncomfortable laughs; mocks the middle class attitude to the disabled; and manages to throw in a shockingly graphic orgy. All of this building up to a real emotional sucker punch of a climax. It isn't until the closing scenes that the film stops trying to provoke the audience's brain and instead aims straight for the heart. If nothing else, The Idiots will get you talking; as if Von Trier would have it any other way. 8/10 "},{"Title":"I laughed. I cried. I (almost) hurled.","Date":"15 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie challenged and moved me in so many ways that I know it will take several viewings to fully appreciate it.Many other reviewers have commented on the acting, and as with Festen and Breaking the Waves, the performances are excellent. I would genuinely like to know how people are able to do this.But best of all for me are the themes explored by the movie. I found 'Dancer in the Dark' too dark for my tastes, and 'Antichrist' really turned me off completely. I then watched 'Five Obstructions' and found it amazing (though its a collaboration, of course). With 'The Idiots' I think LVT hits the balance very well. There is enough here to make me laugh, wince, gasp (in disbelief), frown, and develop several lumps in my throat. You can't ask for more than that in a movie. "},{"Title":"Provocative and creatively challenging film....","Date":"22 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The first thing that has to be said is that The Idiots is definitely NOT for simple entertainment. But yet I doubt there is any other film out there quite like it...Von Trier is a great director, able to get the best possible performances from his actors. Unlike the other films that I have seen from him, the performances here come from the ensemble cast as a whole, and each is powerful in their own way. There is not one false note here. When reading the plot I thought that maybe this would be Von Trier's funniest film. Yet I was wrong. If anything, the obvious Dogme movement gives it an affecting and shocking look. I have to note that the plot itself is quite brave and completely unnerving, which is why I think that this is perhaps his most challenging film yet, and in a way, his most disturbing. From the five films that I have seen from him, this probably ranks last, just because as a film it doesn't quite get going, yet by the ending it still manages to have a great effect. "},{"Title":"Love-it-or-hate-it","Date":"7 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Never one to shy from a bit of controversy, Danish director Lars Von Trier caused a storm in 1998 with The Idiots. Since then, he has started making American movies that seem almost misogynistic in it's attitudes to women. His films put their female protagonist through horrifying and gruelling psychological and physical abuse. But the controversy stirred up by The Idiots wasn't because of its portrayal of women, but its apparently sadistic mockery of the mentally disabled.The film follows a bunch of young men and women, living together in a large house owned by the uncle of Stoffer (Jens Albinus), who spend their time pretending to be mentally ill and finding their 'inner idiot'. They pick up an apparently lost woman Karen (Bodil Jorgensen) at a restaurant and she joins them, equally fascinated and repulsed by their acts. As Karen searches for her inner idiot, the group continue to 'spas' (Danish equivalent of 'spaz') at various locations, seemingly for their own amusement. Stoffer is meant to be selling the house for his uncle, but since the group has settled their, he uses the group as a means to scare away any potential buyers. However, tensions start to develop in the group, mainly due to the increasingly aggressive and unpredictable behaviour of the unstable Stoffer.It's difficult to work out who exactly Von Trier is poking fun at. It could be the group themselves, who claim to be anti-bourgeois and anti- middle class, yet seem to only use this claim when it frees them from responsibility. A member of the group, who has run away from his wife and his child, thinks about returning, only to describe the thought of pushing his child around in a pram as 'so middle class'. Or the film could be making fun of society's attitudes to the mentally disabled. When a potential buyer for the house is told by Stoffer that a house for the mentally ill has opened next door, the woman is clearly uncomfortable at the idea of them encroaching on their ideal middle class existence. When the group surrounds her, she panics and flees, most likely never to return. It is not a film that lays out its purpose as clear as day. If there is a social message in the film at all is again unclear. What is clear is that The Idiots is a challenging, frustrating, funny, intelligent and extremely uncomfortable film. Von Trier's desire to be as controversial as possible has been evident in the majority of his films - the clitoris removal in Antichrist, the cold, brutal ending of Dancer In The Dark. I usually find annoying in a filmmaker (Gaspar Noe comes to mind, apart from his exceptional Irreversible), but Von Trier's ability to genuinely unsettle is the work of an extremely interesting and gifted filmmaker. Although it breaks many of the rules, The Idiots is the second film in the Dogme '95 manifesto, started by Thomas Vinterberg's Festen, using natural light, hand-held cameras, and avoiding anything implicating genre or superficial action. The film also depicts apparently un- simulated hardcore sex, in a highly controversial scene in which the group take place in a gang-bang while in their 'idiot' character-mode.A love-it-or-hate-it film, but I found it truly original and fascinating. www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Brilliant, bold, pushing the grey area in the moralistic spectrum","Date":"6 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I watched this a long time ago but never reviewed it. The Idiots' is a film directed by Lars Von Trier in 1998, it was made in compliance with the Dogme '95 Manifesto; an avant-garde filmmaking movement started in 1995, and was his first film. 'The Idiot's' focuses upon the tale of a group of people who feign mental disabilities in pursuit of their 'inner idiot', their 'spassing out' is an attempt to release their inhibitions.The film was deemed shocking, despite many disability groups approving of the film and agreeing that it exposed underlying social prejudices against disability. Micro-elements contributed to the shocking effect which this film induced upon some audiences. Realism was used to suspend the audiences sense of disbelief, such was achieved through sound, which was mainly diegetic. The dialogue seems real, unrehearsed and alike to everyday conversation but for the content of the conversations between characters. In making the dialogue believable, and in casting the characters to be believable, the film seems more real, thereby engaging the audience attention, forcing them to relate to it. The shock value is inevitably heightened.My personal interpretation of the film is that it aims to educate the audience about society's general view and attitude towards disabled people. The female main character begins oblivious to the groups intentions and ways (like the audience) and as she is led into their world so is the audience. The film seems to be about seeking deeper meanings, and sharing different perspectives, whether it be sharing the perspectives of someone completely healthy, someone disabled, someone inside the group or outside of it. I think that initially the main character acts as a representation of the ignorance of a lot of people to disability, and is a tool within the film to educate the audience. The film does not seem to hold bias as to a certain perspective, but rather it is exploratory of different perspectives, whether they be shown through conflict between the characters, or contrast between general society and the group.I highly recommend this film, and suggest viewers put aside their judgements until the credits scroll. "},{"Title":"A movie that will keep you guessing, and no doubt laughing.","Date":"4 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Idiots was an instant classic that kept me guessing the entire time. The basis of the movie was that there is this group in Denmark who would go out into public and pretend to be mentally handicapped, learning how to love their 'inner idiot.' The movie examines the various conflicts that occur within the group shortly after the last member, Karen (as played by Bodil Jørgensen), joins. She was literally grabbed by the guy behind the idea of acting like idiots, Stoffer (as played by Jens Albinus). She then became friends with the entire group, from the philandering Axel (as played by Knud Jørgensen), whose straying gets him into far more trouble than he'd bargained for, to the goofy Jeppe (as played by Nikolaj Kaas), who falls in love with another member of the group, Josephine (as played by Louise Mieritz), and of course the always-smiling Suzanne (as played by Anna Hassing), who is picked to be the keeper of the retards far more often than she'd like. One of the more interesting aspects of the film is the characters' motivations for acting the way they do. Some of them, like Ped (as played by Henrik Prip), view it as a social experiment, others, like Nana (as played by Trine Michelsen), as a kind of stress relief, and still others, like Stoffer, as a way of life, a path to a luxury most don't know they can afford. While it may appear to be a simple slapstick comedy to begin with, due to wildly amusing events like spassing at a pool and streaking, a variety of serious, controversial topics are covered in the movie, such as adultery, domestic abuse, orgies, and of course, impersonating the mentally handicapped.Overall, I enjoyed this film. It has a refreshing mix of comedy and tragedy that isn't encountered much in conventional films. The best part was that it was hard to discern the switch between the two gears; the transition was so smooth. The inter-character dynamics were both amusing and thought-provoking, and their less-than-conventional behavior entices you, leaving wanting more. It stirred me in a deeply emotional way, from making me laugh so hard at their wacky antics, like spassing while eating caviar, that I almost busted a gut, to making me almost want to cry at the end. This is definitely something I'd want to watch again, and share with my friends. I probably wouldn't share it with my family, though. R is not a high enough rating for a film like this, as the main shortcoming most would see in it is the extensive nudity shown throughout the film. Another possible downfall, which is also a strength to some, is that it is a Dogma 95 film, which means they traded off action and graphics for character development and a feasible plot. I didn't really have a problem with it, so I'd probably give this movie 8.5 out of 10, for having one of the most creative plots I've seen in my (quite extensive) movie watching career, as well as a cast of characters that were all easy for anyone to relate to.To recap, The Idiots was great film with a twist ending which I could never see coming. The art of loving you inner idiot turns out to be a great way to get laughs for anyone in on the joke. However, all good things must come to an end, and the group begins to tear itself apart shortly after Karen is dragged in. Watching the various actions and reactions in this movie would be a psychologist's playground. There are also morals to this story, and you learn that even close friends have secrets that remained buried just below the surface. The blending of genres, so often attributed to Dogma 95 films (which can't hold fast to any one genre), makes this a film filled to the brim with emotion, that you'll need to see at least one more time, if not more. The seamless fusion of the happy and sad elements made it hard to distinguish the two, and oftentimes I didn't know how to feel. The conflicts within the group were not only hilarious, but also inspiring, and I feel like a better person, just for having watched it. This film has a clearly established value as something that needs to be reexamined through re-watching. While some may be disturbed by the various scenes that are too offensive for American cinema, it will not deter me from watching this and encouraging my friends to drink from this particular fountain of wisdom. "}{"Title":"cut up","Date":"29 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I thought this movie was great. It's a bit slow moving at first, but once things get rolling and you really figure out what is happening the movie is quite comical and also quite true. It is not so much poking fun at idiots but normal people and how they treat people that are different than themselves. Living in a larger city, and having grown up in a smaller one, I see this all the time. And I think we have all been known to do it too.As for the DVD release of the this, I don't know why the gang bang scenes were cut for the American audience is beyond me. I saw this in the theater and there were black boxes covering all the naughty bits. When I recently rented the movie, the entire scene was gone. I thought I actually brought a lot to the idea of what was going on in the move, not just gratuitous nudity and sex, Is there any way to get an uncut version in America? "},{"Title":"Typically von Trier; untypically disappointing","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Idiots is definately not for everyone. It is disturbing, baffling and distasteful. At times it is darkly funny, and in true Lars von Trier fashion, the film never relieves the audience of its discomfort.Lars von Trier greatest strengths easily lie in manipulating an audience's emotions and in exploring human relations. Dancer In The Dark in someone else's hands would have been trite and melodramatic, but with von Trier it becomes transcedent. Breaking The Waves was a resonant film on the power of love - for both good and bad.In The Idiots, a group of people band together to act like the mentally disabled in order to expose people's discomfort, break confining social norms and to find their inner idiot - in a perverse theory that simpleness transcends bourgeous or middle class life. The premise is interesting, but the execution - surprisingly - does *not* strike the viewer as powerfully as past von Trier works. In this film, perhaps more than in others, it is essential that the message get across or else what you have is at times an offensive film that mocks the mentally challenged. However, to von Trier's credit there are moments where one shakes one's head at how society treats the disabled or patronizes them. Particularly in the opening scene in the restaurant or during an outing when the group, as idiots, tries to sell Christmas decorations door-to-door.The film follows the group through the eyes of Karen, someone who joins after seeing their performance in the opening scene at the restaurant. The focus of the film, however, is never clear. von Trier tries to juggle both issues of what Karen gets out of the group and what the group is essentially trying to achieve without ever clearly articulating his arguments. Interwoven into the story are some personal stories between the group members which prove to be a distraction.von Trier has made a film that is definately interesting, and has moments of raw power, sadly, it does not affect the audience as much it should - or with the intensity that we have come to expect from von Trier. "},{"Title":"A real masterpiece","Date":"29 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This must be a real masterpiece for I like it a lot and, speaking about Von Trier, this is the first time I do. Having also seen recently Vinterberg's Festen the differences between the two Dogma directors are evident. While Vinterberg is rather explicit, Von Trier's greater gift is to lead the attention astray more than once distracting the viewer from where the director finally means to aim. Von Trier manages a few times to have you think that he's missing the point, forcing you to concentrate more attention on the screen. And the final lesson is too strong are our bindings with our culture, with our education, with our family and neighbourhood traditions, too strong for us to be able to betray them (and us) behaving differently from how we're expected. Only few can reach the goal of effective freedom from bourgeois chains, for only few can see their vacuity and even less are those brave enough to break them definitively. An apology of revolution? Or anarchy? Or, to put it more easily, a story about the distance usually running between intention and action? However, a good film from the idea to the final result. "},{"Title":"the line is thinner than we thought","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  That is, the line between sane and insane. This is not easy to take. This is not easy to watch because you know deep down that you could do it yourself, if really needed. And yes, Denmark is a strange country, people are so free, maybe too free. This is not just a movie. I've always loved those. A quiet applause for the man, Von Trier. (clap clap)  "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  You either understand Dogma 95 or you don't. Von Trier and his friends are doing a great service to the world film clique. Because of films like The Idiots, aspiring film-makers like me will have a better chance in a worldwide film industry where good script writing and art are slowly fading out. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The build up for the last 5 minutes is just brilliant. And those last 5 minutes just gives it all. Very strong scene and it explains the purpose of the whole story. I say it again, brilliant! "},{"Title":"Von Trier, what are you doing???????","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I couldn't appreciate this new Von Trier movie. I don't understand what he wants us to see. After seeing The Kingdom and Breaking The Waves, films I really liked, I went to see this one with high-standing expectations. People trying to get out their idiots, see how society reacts on them and try to have influence on that; could have been an interesting subject. But after two hours, the characters were still superficial. Hardly see any working-out or depth in the characters. For instance; in the last 20 minutes we find out who this people are, but that knowledge hardly added something to the movie. I just wondered why this movie was made and what the message was. Couldn't answer that one to myself. Funniest part of the film were the outtakes!Sorry Lars, have seen you doing a better job!  "},{"Title":"Von Trier's visual interpretation of Dogme.","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Idiots as a film, could also be seen as a visual interpretation of Von Trier's own Dogme manifesto, stripping away that, that has become irritating to find something that would seem all that more pure. So as our bunch of heroes simplify themselves to reach an enjoyment of life, as does Von Trier for cinematic art. However does this make the Idiots a good film, many would argue no. But I find that with the Idiots Von Trier is trying to make points about everything that has troubled him in his life and work, too may people are to keen to attack his style, when the entire point of the film is to remove the style and concentrate on the characters situation.True, the Idiots is not the film for everyone, many people are going to hate it before they even see it. Numerous people have commented on how the film has no plot, just a rambling bunch of incoherent scenes. But the film would not work as a traditional narrative, the point of the film is, that these people have reached a point in their lives where they can no longer derive pleasure from everyday activities, they must find alternative ways to look at life (i.e. imitating the mentally handicapped). The actors in the film don't so much act the part but feel it, Von Trier specified that the actors live together in the house before hand to get used to each other, and the preparations really pays off, the actors portray every conceivable emotion during the running time of the film, and the performances are vital if we are to be accepted into the story. However this is not an entertaining film, it lacks the development of Dogme#1 - Festen, but it's a film that is important, a film that takes the viewer on a shocking, comical and dramatic journey, and at the end of the day, isn't that what cinema should do?     "},{"Title":"Awake your inner freak!","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Dogma 2 Idioterne is a radical masterpiece! Why? Because it shows the plain relationship between the society and people, who deviate in any way from normality. But it´s more than a simple social criticism. It´s a film about the inner freak that sleeps in everyone of us. It´s a film about madness and insanity. And it´s a film about the things we want to do but we don´t dare making them true, because we are bonded too much on laws, rules and our acquired behaviour. It´s a film about finding back to ourselves. This movie was shot with a handcamera, no scene seems to be posed and you´ve got always that feeling that you are a part of Stoffer and his group. It´s some kind of a cinematic experiment that includes the film the same as his watchers. So move on and get your own Dogma-experience! (9/10) "},{"Title":"Lars gives us lots to think about.","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Idiots is the kind of movie which long rambling essays are written about, I will try to my best be brief. It is also impossible to talk about such a film without discussing some the events that occurred.Lars Von Trier must be one of the most interesting directors working. This film is not only unique it is ultimately staggering. It starts out as one of those arty movies where middle-class types try to find their true selves by rebelling against the establishment and by taking advantage, upsetting and shocking others outside their group.The shock tactics of the group have some success, but does their behaviour really have the positive therapeutic effects they think it will have ?The characterisation is brilliant, Stoffer, Karen, Jeppe and others are quite superb, entirely believable it is like watching a documentary.The film say the the usual things about the restrictions imposed by middle-class lives, the desire to really express themselves free from protocol and exposing, as the group delightfully sees it, hypocrisy amongst others.To answer my earlier question, the 'idiots' play-acting has ultimately no therapeutic effects for anyone other than the existence of the group itself and the companionship, friendship and 'pleasure' it offered it's members. Otherwise, Stoffer, into rebellion and himself, gained nothing, Jeppe found love but would it last, most of group members were unable to carry on with their self-liberating play-acting outside of the group, and Karen's only - but important  - consolation was the fellowship she gained in the group.Karen's consolation carried her through to the final scene, as understated as it was, it went off like a hydrogen bomb, truly staggering. This is what Lars can do, he is an extremely clever man, anything he makes is worth watching. As for Karen's scene I have never seen a sadder, more poignant moment on screen about loss and suffering created so simply but with such force.There are one or two other punctuations in the movie, Stoffer going 'crazy', Jeppe's love interlude. The movie asks many questions and leaves the viewer to give the answers. Can you ever justify breaking one of the final taboos, pretending to have learning difficulties, and perhaps seemingly mocking the handicapped  ? This does not ever happen in the movie, except ironically via Stoffer's attitude on an occasion. Is the group's behaviour liberating and beneficial ?. How do people obtain comfort emotionally ? Lars lets us see answers to all these and more questions, brilliant. "}{"Title":"A commentary on society? Disturbing but a very good film","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Idiots will always cause controversy, but getting beyond this and trying to understand will be much more rewarding.After viewing this picture, I'm still in some shock and a little numb as I digest the film. Is it a great film? YES, fantastic acting and interesting direction. The photography is harsh, with good use of strong lights. There are some scenes which one will find shocking yet funny, even though you know you shouldn't laugh. Was this the intention of the director? To make us feel guilty?The film itself seems to be a social commentary on a group of people who try to find there inner idiot. They use it to get the perks for free, to blind people, to get a reaction that is not kind. It's satire but not extreme.The people who encounter the idiots show how a handicap person will always be treated, the worst will pretend to like their presence, some try to like them and show genuine love for them. This is just one aspect, the affect this behaviour has on their group, why are they doing it? Do they want social outcast? Does it make them happy? Is it anarchy? Is the world going mad?So many questions, but everyone must see this film, it throws up too many questions, yet we have so little answers. It's a picture which will great for a debate with your friends. "},{"Title":"Ugly, Beautiful, Challenging, Traumatic","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Idiots is the absolute example of a love or hate film.  If you can get past the taboo of imitation of mentally handicapped people and accept that there is a justification for it, there is a deep analysis of the transient nature of mental health and the difficult in it's definition.  Otherwise, it's just offensive and amateur.  I'm still torn, but the performances (if they can be called that, as the documentary style is absolutely convincing) are gobsmacking.  The horrible scene where one spazzer is left with the gang of bikers who help him urinate is particularly uncomfortable, but that is nothing compared to the revelatory finale.  There is a beautiful angle to The Idiots also, however, and the fact that many of us wise old adults try for most of our lives to recover the innocent happiness we had as infants is the shining ray of light that comes across in this film.  Although the group are imitating mental illness (as perceived) their instincts are pretty much those of infants, as the mentality of some of the arguments and frustration with others shows.  The appearance of the Downs Sydrome sufferers at the party midway through is a positive point towards the awareness of Von Trier as to justification for the film in a moral sense, but the quality of the acting and the raw, horrific at times emotions which are provoked make this film a little bit more. "},{"Title":"short bus jokes and all","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  say what you like about the success of the idiots as a satire i'd say it's hard to miss the biting wit and gasp-inducing daring behind this strange, sad little film. bad boy von trier seems determined to offend here in a naive schoolboy poop-joke sort of way, but although his exploration of the vulgarities of this group of players is exhaustive, it is ultimately not the point -- it is a device to keep us entertained and busy so that he can hit us upside the head with yet another breaking the waves-style melodramatic surprise ending. and, as with breaking the waves, it is completely effective -- the audience (myself included) was stunned, sobered, and silenced -- almost as if they had been caught laughing at the jokes and were then punished for it. the line between those who need to get in touch with something vulnerable inside and those who just want to act like children is clearly drawn, to highly dramatic and moving effect -- one can almost see the line of von trier's thought between breaking the waves's slow bess and these noxious pranksters, who spend their time trying to achieve her simplicity. i don't think i'll ever see anything else quite like it. "},{"Title":"Fun for the whole family with Lars!","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Can you joke about stuff like that? Being mentally retarded, having hardons, rubbing mayonnaise all over a pair of tits? Sure. If you have a sense of humor and the ability to see past the cheap tricks our dear friend Lars Trier throws our way. If you are faint of heart or some kind of religious nut you should stay clear. Otherwise, enjoy. "},{"Title":"A thrilling, ground breaking masterpiece","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In this masterpiece, Lars von Trier misuses the accepted rules of movie making in order surprise the viewer who would not expect a movie to behave this way. The outcome is genuinely thrilling, so is the remarkable performance by all (and I do mean all) actors. The Dogme 95 strict rules gives the movie a pseudo documentary look (which I usually don't enjoy), all together these elements produce some of the most brilliant scenes I have ever seen, from the hilarious to the painfully shocking. The rebellious cinematic scheme is also the heart of the movie's theme, the commune avoids the restrictions of society because no one would believe a normal person would behave this way. All of this anarchy is taking place, of course, in the Danish super liberal society, which the movie does not spare portraying it in it's weakness and stupidity on the one hand and hypocrisy on the other. But the main social statement is the impossibility of a real rebel, reminding of Orwell's Animal Farm. The leaders are never honest of their intentions and means, and will always abuse under the cover of ideology. And in the end the one's who will make the true sacrifice are the weaker one's which have the most to lose. This maybe a prophetic statement about the future of the tongue in cheek revolution of Dogme 95 - which promises movie making opportunities for the common man. People who are repelled by unabashed technical faults, non-glamorous looking actors and very explicit nudity can not enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"Brilliant sociological/behavioural drama","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a total one-of-a-kind.  Although the pacing lags in the middle, the overall result left me both moved and compelled.  The subject matter of adults behaving like children seemed offensive at first until the second half where I realised commentary the director was making which was anything but offensive.  I commend him for doing so.  It's a bold, brave, passionate, original film and has haunted me more than any other film I've seen recently.  Unfortunately, the print is only shown in the U.S. in a censored black box version which will probably prevent it from being distributed in the U.S. "},{"Title":"DISTURBING MASTERPIECE","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  THE IDIOTS is not a film for everyone. The theme - adults faking mental and physical illness, in order to find the idiot within - is sure to disturb, maybe even appal, certain viewers. But hasn't that been a feature of great film-makers down through the decades? Be it Luis Bunuel with his surreal vision of cinema, Alfred Hitchcock with PSYCHO, or Martin Scorsese with TAXI DRIVER, truly honest and reaching directors have always explored areas largely ignored or abhorred by the moral masses. Given a mediocre director, THE IDIOTS could have been insulting and degrading. But Von Trier is one of our very few modern geniuses - up there with 'Beat' Takeshi and the more mainstream (not to say familiar) Quentin Tarantino - and he has fashioned one of the most exhilarating and thought-provoking films of our time. Some great films make you laugh till your sides burst. Others pitch you into the darkness of the human soul and leave you bruised and numbed. THE IDIOTS does both. It is shocking, it is comic, it is repulsive, it is touching - but above all, it is majestic. Grim but beautiful, filmed with deceptive clumsiness. Von Trier has stretched the boundaries of filmdom with this outing - if you truly love movies, do yourself a favour and accept THE IDIOTS into your life. You'd be an idiot not to ... "},{"Title":"I left angry and upset!","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A film that manages to wake such strong feelings with me must be good. The reason I left angry and upset was the characters behaviour. Their acting was perfect and their characters very convincing. But I didn't like the documentary-style interviews in between - that didn't add anything to the film.I don't think the film was about attitudes towards mentaly retarded people, as many have suggested. It was rather about youngsters with no purpose in life, no aims and no more rules to break. Their solution to their meaningless life is to pretend to be mentally retarded and by that make fools out of everybody around them - and get away with it. The only exception was Karen, who had more serious problems in her life than boredom. "},{"Title":"Ahh! to be there the first time","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one of those films that makes me ponder what it was like for the audience when it was first shown. I try to imagine, there I am sitting amongst others, with no idea what is about to follow, how long it is, what it's about..etc. Bless. Why does this idea excite me? Because watching 'idioterne'I found my mind simply awash with ideas, memories,connections and possibilities. And I already know something about it! And that the film was supposedly 'controversial'. I just think what it would have been like to come at this fresh. Enough dreaming. I really valued this film The whole approach to filming, the performances, the committed way the subject was confronted. Brave, brave film making. Viva Von Trier! Of course one can find fault, but when critics are resorting to complaints about being able to see the camera and boom mics, that tells me they have been pretty shaken by the experience of viewing this film. Which of course is precisely what is intended. Made in 1998, still fresh in 2005. Try Noe's 'Irreversible' if you see 'idioterne' and are stimulated by it. TipDon't read anything about that film either. "},{"Title":"Thought-provoking and bleak but not really a comedy - 48%","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" You know when you're so tired that you can't get to sleep, the day's adrenaline refusing to wear off? Well, last night was like that. I got back from work in time to catch this strange Danish offering of Dogme from Lars Von Triers. Idioterne (or The Idiots for all you non-Danish speakers) was being shown as part of Channel 4's Banned season of films, though I must say that it feels harsh to include a film such as this in the same group as The Evil Dead and The Texas Chainsaw Massacre. Aside from a brief scene featuring penetrative sex, strong language throughout, frequent nudity and being one of the most morally dubious films I've ever seen, I really couldn't see what the problem was! The film focuses on a woman called Karen (Bodil Jørgensen) who is roped into a group of people pretending to be mentally disabled. Led by self-proclaimed class-rebel Stoffer (Jens Albinus), the group pose as an independent charity and visit various places while spazzing (as they call it) and disturbing the Hell out of anybody they find. At first, Karen is reluctant to participate but eventually, she begins to see the reasons behind the group's actions. The film is shot on hand-held cameras and feels like a documentary, exploring the group's members and the reasons for its eventual collapse.There is no disguising the fact that Idioterne is not an easy film to watch. It asks the viewer a lot of awkward questions about the nature of disability, the public's reaction to these people and highlights the appalling ignorance that continues to blight the lives of genuinely handicapped individuals. At no point do you ever feel sympathy for anyone in the group, regardless of how low they themselves sometimes feel. Only Karen displays any sort of reluctance or regret over the group's lifestyle and, in places, you feel angered or even repulsed by what these people are doing for fun. Personally, I found the sight of someone rolling their head around their shoulders to imply mental illness much more offensive than the frequent nudity shots or the gangbang scene.However, the film is not without some merit. It is undeniably compulsive, keeping me awake far beyond any sensible time for someone working the next morning. Despite the lack of any real story, the sub-plots add depth to the characters within the group and several good points are raised about the care of those who suffer from such problems and society's opinion of them. Von Trier's direction, however spartan it is, remains uncomplicated and minimalist. But in truth, it takes a strange sort of person indeed to find humour in this film. It is overbearingly bleak and stereotypically Scandinavean, with faded colour and long periods of silence. Fine if you like that sort of thing but I felt that the rules of Dogme (which, I confess, I know little of) acted both for and against the picture. Granted, it has some comic flashes such as the moment the group leader allows one of the retards to drive the minibus back to their base, to the obvious disbelief of their guest. But these are few and far between and the film feels more like an actual documentary instead of the comedy it claims to be. It is undeniably powerful and emotionally charged but I can't recommend this picture if you're looking for a comedy. "}{"Title":"Assault on the senses, maddening, sickening, funny, what more to say?","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While The Idiots was a noble attempt at social commentary, it doesn't quite fulfill that purpose entirely.  Just when you begin to think that it's about to make a message, they cut themselves short.  Sure, it's nice when Stoffer is screaming F***ing Fascists! at his neighbors and pointing out the faults of the middle-class, it just stops afterwards, with no real message or attack.  Still, the film does have a deeper and stronger meaning than simple social commentary.  Honestly, it's something I don't think I could ever put my finger on.  All I know is, I was trembling after I watched it and nearly broke down.  It certainly had an effect on me.  It will forever change your outlook on so many things.  There is so much pain and happiness in the film, it just might bring out your 'inner idiot.'  By the way, word of warning, don't show this with kids or highly sensitive friends around.  The sex is a bit out there, but more importantly it is too emotional for the wrong people and you could severely open their minds. Lord knows we wouldn't want THAT happening, now would we?  Seriously, though, no kids. "},{"Title":"interesting","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  there were parts of this film that i found really interesting, and parts that i felt were just too over the top for me.  i admire the dedication to acting and character in the dogma films and it certainly is apparent here. i like the storyline  - especially how karen fit into the picture.  and i thought the whole concept of the group and their purpose (although i am still a little muddy on their purpose) was very interesting.this film is not for everyone. "},{"Title":"What is the point of the film?","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" After a series of sometimes funny and sometimes surprising set-ups of this group of people playing tricks on different people and/or breaking social norms to get reactions there is a sudden shift. The movie changes from it's gag reel to attempting to now make the audience it's victim. The movie attempts to shock the audience with an extended group sex scene. Instead of showing other people being shocked or offended--the joke is now on you--By showing what is normally taboo behavior (group sex) the audience can now feel what the bystanders in this film must have felt (shock/shame/confusion/concern).Did this film teach you anything? Did it make you think about your prejudices against the mentally handicapped? Did it make you think about how society just wants to hide people like this? Did it make you judge those who were doing this? Did you get angry that society judges those who are deemed different and unacceptable? Were you angry with the group for harassing good people? Who did you vilify in this film? Did this film cause you to not only question your beliefs but question your reactions to those being portrayed? Think about this film--it's a film that was made to make you think about what everyone considers normal and what society will accept and on what terms it will accept people who are different from everyone else.An interesting thing can happen when watching this film you can begin to really invest in the story line of who the group participants are. You try to understand more deeply their reasons for doing this--you begin to try to empathize and analyze what would make them do this? What are their motives? What are they getting out of it? What is the point of the film? The point of this film is to make you think about your own prejudices being presented in the story line and hopefully face them. "},{"Title":"with Russians it's the same","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Moment I stood up just after film had ended I thought that the Danes are similar to the Russians, at least in this narrow scheme. I saw the film as if it was my friends' jests and mockery alive. Melodramatic `Breaking the waves' won my heart year ago. But I have seen nothing of the Idioterne's kind. It has no sentiments but love is in it, as well. I think it reveals life as it is and people as they are. What you hate in them and love the same time. How they might be loved in spite of all shortcomings. At first glance, the same as critique I have seen, it is a cynic film. I think it is not. You must love `real' people, as I saw through this film, I can do it. It brings hope. Hope I will never been forsaken. Never been alone.Best wishes, Alesha. "},{"Title":"If it wasn't for Bodil Jørgensen, this would definitely be idiotic!","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is awful. Yuk. Maybe there is suppose to be some fantastic idea beyond the idiots being idiots. But the movie never reveals itself.All you get is talented Danish actors playing mentally disturbed for an hour and a half, pretending that they serve a greater purpose. Maybe the just serve the puzzled imaginations of Lars von Trier..But there is absolutely no use of the madness whatsoever. I really dislike those, who feel that this movie have touched them in a special way. How can this movie touch anyone?? I hardly can't see why it shouldn't be annoying.At the time of the release here in Denmark, a special von Trier diary was published. From reading this you get the idea that he probably did this movie for his own reasons. I really do not hope so. But I can't see another reason for making something so shallow and stupid as this.Something good though came out of it We got to see Bodil Jørgensen as a new star. She is fantastic in this one - and the only reason a grade this 3/10.So please - don't try (or rent!) this at home. "},{"Title":"Concise review.","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In the style of my much earlier review for Fight Club, this one is going to be short and to the point, since I wrote a much longer version right before my computer crashed.All I can say is, if you care about seeing films that have the power to make you sit up and start thinking, then you must see The Idiots.  There are scenes contained within that will stay with most people a long, long time after watching.  If you value cinema on a deeper level than simply travelling to the Multiplex to catch the latest blockbuster, then you have to watch this.  It's one of the most jarring and riveting pieces of film I've ever seen.  Sorry about the brevity.  Thank you. "},{"Title":"emptyness","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I found this movie absolutely brilliant. I found the woman who played Karen to be absolutely superb!! What annoyed us a bit was the microphone which was displayed a bit too often, but that's the risk with dogma95 films, I presume?As for the story The story was one of spiritual emptyness, and creativity as a last resort to bind the group. As with most community-kind-of-movies, when sex is introduced, you're certain the group will fall apart. However this one didn't really show the personalities of the members involved, it just showed their unpersonal (or dark) sides, at least the sides where you would positively know the big angry world can't get to you.Of course this simple idea of people breezing of negative energy by acting like a group of mentally disabled people, it did bring some of the characters together, however in a very sad and absolutely destructive manner. There's hardly any ground on which you could say that any of those relationships can ever grow to be a long-term relationship in any way explainable.Of course this film had it's funny sides, as it should, e.g. with the tattooted guys and the peeing scene for example, the rockwool scene in the beginning and the groupsexscene at almost the end of the group before falling apart.I should say that I believe al lot of the credit should go to the person who played the Karen character. At it's end the story reveils the nature of her behaviour and how she tried to find support in the group. What really played through my mind is why Karen didn't mention Stoffer's name in the end when saying goodbye to the group.I think this one is highly recommendable. For example if you would like to spend some quality time with your girlfriend or something. I rated this one a 9/10  "},{"Title":"So unbelievably stupid!","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film revolves around a group of people who are trying to act out their inner idiot. So they are running around acting like their are mentally retarded. Sounds annoying? Well, believe me it is. This is without a doubt the worst dogma-movie made. I am unable to concentrate on watching this movie for more than 3 minutes at a time because it is so incredibly stupid. I will admit that I have never been a big fan of Von Trier, but I really think he should do time for committing the crime that is this movie. A lot of Danish film critics gave the film good reviews, but in my opinion this is only because the entire dogma-concept at the time was hip, trendy, and the latest and greatest in the Danish motion-picture industry, and the critics certainly did not want to appear as if they were conservative or not down with the beat. To all non-Danish readers Neither the film, the actors, or the director are in any representative of the rest of the Danish motion picture industry or Denmark as a country. If you want to quality Danish films then check out the films made by director Nicolas Winding Refn. "},{"Title":"Do you want be happy? Just pretend to be an idiot)","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In my opinion this film has a very strong idea about our nowadays society. That´s why it´s not a film for everyone. You must be a character to see it to the end. It´s for people who like thinking about human psyche. Trier´s movies has very deep analyses about human psyche. The figures do something unnatural and they have some special reasons for it. And we can only say that their dealing is of necessity.MOSTLY this film is not for you who are looking for the art. It´s made by a digital camera so everything is very realistic and there´s really nothing from the art. There´s the most important an idea and not making in this movie. And the idea is something like that It would be so wonderful if when we have some problems just transform to an idiot and be absolutely happy. Actually it´s another way how to escape from ours problems. It´s genius idea I would not flash on it. (But the worst is that the problems will stay there.) The movie is more about normal people who have their own problems than about idiots. Only some parts are about manner of society to them. But it´s not so important because everybody knows that. We try to be benevolent and tolerant but on the other hand we are happy to do not see them.Don´t confront this movie with Breaking the waves. It´s absolutely different kind of film. But the truth is that both of them are excellent, both of them has its own magic and idea. Both of them are unique.10 out of 10  "},{"Title":"one of the worst movies... ever!!","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  this movie is garbage, is just crap! i mean, i don't understand why so many people liked it, and why its rating is so good. i think people like this movie because they must like it, i mean, when someone says that is art-cinema and a cult movie, and a non-commercial movie, everyone thinks it must be really good, a piece of art, because it is deep, etc,etc... but.. noo.. it isn't a piece of art, it is a only a piece of crap. is one of the worst movies i've ever seen, is, like the title says idiot, is too stupid, is more stupid than tom green and jackass, where is the art in people running naked all the time? and explicit sex scenes? and shooting men's d**ks, i mean, it is closer to be a porn movie than a drama or art movie. is ok to don't have money to make a movie, but you don't need money to make good shoots with the camera, a blind person could have made better shoots than they did, and why did they write the credits down in the floor with chalk? is ok to make a low budget film, but that was pathetic, of course they could have make the edition a lot better, it was just marketing to sell the movie to a lot of people who don't know anything about cinema and think that bad and pathetic quality means good movie, because is just art. come on! that's just crap! all this dogma stuff is just a lot of crap, all are just commercial movies that try to look deep, talented and artistic, but they aren't, the only thing they have of art-cinema is the bad quality and the unprofessional filmmakers. Lars Von Trier has a much better movie Dancer in the Dark, go see it, it's too slow, but it's worth. but The Idiots NO! i give it a 1 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Deeply disrespectful","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As I left the theatre at the end of Idioterne, a strong rage feeling came to me! Lars von Trier (who had directed the extremely great Breaking The Waves) made an awful job by directing this film. Ok, the acting is good. But the scenes are too much strong and disrespectul. I can imagine a person who has this kind of problem in home... The explicit sex scene is nasty, dirty and boring. The other nude scenes, and also the entire film, are boring AND tedious. The film smells like crap! Apologise my English, everyone. But that´s what this terrible film deserves! "},{"Title":"If you can watch without vomiting...","Date":"10 July 2008","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This has got to be the worst filmed movie I have ever seen. Because the camera had pretty much shook nonstop and drastically , after about 10 minutes of the movie I was unable to actually continue watching it, as by then I was just feeling sick. Even if you can handle it (which I know plenty of people out there can), the camera's constant shaking is a glaring distraction, and detracts hugely from the movie's quality. I've never taken cameraman training or anything like that, but seriously, I could have probably done a better job by just trying. I don't know what they were doing, but they were horrible. While other aspects may have been good (the beginning seemed completely ridiculous, but I think that's how it was supposed to be), but the camera was just so poorly handled, that I can't even bare to watch the rest of the film. Just completely horrible. "},{"Title":"What, exactly, are they mocking?","Date":"16 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It is not entirely clear to me exactly who is being mocked in this film. Superficially, they are mocking the mentally disordered, but doing so in order to, more largely, mock what? Capitalism? Society? I can't be sure. I will say that it did hold my interest, and was original. There was some powerful character exposition at the end. Reminded me a little bit of The Brown Bunny.The version I saw here in the U. S. was censored. They placed solid black patches on the film to cover certain nudity situations. (We are such delicate children here in America!) But if censorship is deemed necessary, (I don't think that it ever is) it was at least done right. Although some of the images were hidden from me, the usual ham-handed way to censor something here is simply to cut out whole scenes. At least I could follow the film's logic, even if not all of the imagery.I have to say that I enjoyed the film, even if I did not fully understand it. "},{"Title":"The Idiots","Date":"27 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" REVIEW The IdiotsThe Idiots (1198, Lars von Trier) is the second Dogma film and one of the most representative of the whole movement. Actually it can be said that the film works as a metaphor of Dogma 95. Where in the film the characters form a group that breaks with their society's norms, the Dogma 95 was a group of people that went against the film making-norms. All the features that characterize both the dogma films and the idiots are designed to go against the mainstream, the middle class, to avoid being common and perhaps achieving a new and more true way of storytelling/living. The Dogma manifesto is aimed towards a purer film, just like the idiots in the movie aiming for a purer lifestyle. The prominent technique used in the film is largely following the rules of the Dogma manifesto. In this way there is almost no technique, the restrictions created by the manifesto make the style more pure, creating a sense of things being natural which directly ties into one of the main themes of the movie- which is the characters obsession with getting away from society and normal life hence acting like idiots- which is also a direct reflection on why the manifesto was made in the first place. By allowing the actors to improvise von Trier further pushes this pure style, there was a script but it was very loosely followed. The actors were allowed to break from the norms of acting, letting themselves be idiots in a sense, while still maintaining their role as an actor- as they are only acting like idiots. We have noticed that almost all of them have interpretated during the film two characters &#x96;the disabled one, and the normal one-. The voyer does not know when the actors are playing their real they and when are not. Consequently, the film seems to be liberated from the frontier between fiction and reality at the same that that becames genre classified mokumentary? Docu-drama? Did they find their idiot? In several times during the film the members of the group are asking themselves about the sense of their exercise. One of the most tensional moments of the film is when Stoffer, the leader of the group, slips out of his role as retarded and declares that the group should give up the exercise and go home. The barrier between their idiots lifes and their daily lifes is clearly distinguished. They are not free to be idiots all the time, they can not escape the unhappy society, their middle class life. Karen is the only one that really needed to find her inner idiot because no one of the others dares to show their idiot at home. That shows that Karen is the only one who can escape social norms, if even momentarily. "},{"Title":"Get Stupid","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In The Idiots, director Lars von Trier joins in the same idiocy as his characters by presenting a decidedly messy aesthetic that may upset some who are familiar with his accomplished directing career.  In following the Vow of Chastity laid out by the Dogme Manifesto, von Trier forgoes high-tech cameras, effects, artificial lighting, along with many other trappings of modern filmmaking in a Puritan approach to his craft.  Thus, the power of the film lies solely in its creation of situations that make the audience squirm in their seats--and it does--rather than relying on illusionary tactics of spectacle films.  By engaging the audience with the hilarious absurdity of certain scences, von Trier makes the audience an accomplice to the disturbing behavior of the characters.  This becomes extremely powerful once the audience sees the consequences of the behavior they were laughing at shortly before. Definitely worth a look.  "},{"Title":"Is he taking us for idiots?","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Maybe The Idiots was meant to be a two way satire. On one hand, it makes fun of how the mentally disabled are treated, as uncovered by the Idiots on their day-trips. On the other hand, with its view of an experimental commune, it's an attack on the aimlessness of a middle class privileged enough to pander to silly whims. They've won the right to think freely and all they can do is pretend that they can't think at all. But if satire is the intent, it's ironic that a film attacking aimlessness should be so aimless itself. Lars von Trier has made a vivid film that wants nothing more to do with the specifics of the world (like real disability) than does his imaginary commune. He seems fascinated with the play between rules and naivety in a way that which makes me sceptical about his film-making Dogma. Is he taking us for idiots? "},{"Title":"dogma 95 is dada","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  For those who do not know what the film is about i think reading my comments will be a bit confusing...am sorry for this guys... for me dogma 95 plays the same part in our daily life as dada did it in the life of the Idiots. we all are observing denmarks film industry because of dogma 95. and - we all observed the dadas in lars von triers film...maybe dogma 95 is dada...just think about it "},{"Title":"An easy way to get people to watch sub-titled films.","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The second UK release from the Dogma manifesto sees von Trier resting on his laurels as one of the most respected contemporary European film-makers. Pre-publicity focus has dwelled on the taboo-breaking set pieces rather than the theme of the film itself, so traditional audiences will no doubt be drawn by the prospect of their first glimpses of erect penises and penetration shots on British cinema screens - a watermark in British censorship, but can the film really justify it? The initial half of the film is merely an accumulation of such scenes, clearly aimed to shock bourgeois sensibilities, but British arthouse crowds are more liberal than von Trier gives credit for. (It is interesting to note however, that the BBFC passed this one completely uncut, yet saw fit to digitally obscure the hardcore penetration scene in 'Seul Contre Tous'). By the time of the hardcore 'gang bang', the film has travelled about as far as it can down this path, and after this a more conventional narrative is introduced as the dynamics within the group of 'spassers' begins to be explored. This feels almost like a cop-out to lend the film a purpose other than that of trying to be as 'groundbreakingly' offensive as possible, and it is around this point that the film really begins to drag. Here von Trier fails on both counts, as the Dogma manifesto forbids the use of 'genre-based narrative contrivance', yet the denouement is also perfunctory and ineffective. The change in tone as the film directs itself towards an artificial degree of closure is probably easiest to put down to the hurried nature in which the film was conceived and shot (it was apparently written in four days). He also fails on the 'absence of post-production effects', as a non-diegetic harmonica soundtrack intrudes at several points. Elsewhere his adherence to the Vow of Chastity seems forced and self-conscious beyond the call of amateurism or ease of production, such as in his insistence on unnecessary jump cuts. Given the seemingly restrictive nature of the movement, Thomas Vinterberg's film 'Festen', was far more entertaining than that of his mentor. That film remained watchable, albeit conventional, and the restrictions resulted in a unique visual style of its own. 'The Idiots' is a mish-mash of half-baked ideas and talking-point gratuity, with little interest other than to see how far the cast will go in front of the cameras. "},{"Title":"As realistic as real life","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the most realistic movies, I have ever watched. Let's start with the plot. It's too obscure to be fantasy, isn't it. The characters are just like real life characters. When, in real life do you know why something happens or why somebody is acting the way he does? Never. And it's just like this with this movie. You only know what you are told and this information is very subjective. The optic of Dogme95 gives this movie what it needs to be authentic. I definitely liked The Idiots, even (better because) it was very upsetting.  "},{"Title":"OK von Trier.","Date":"8 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After seeing my first von Trier film, Riget 2 (ok, it's a tv-series but it was shown at the cinema), I had a smile on my mouth. After seeing Idioterne I wasn't sure what to think. The filming was rather confusing, as expected when you follow the Dogme 95 rules. And the characters seemed irrational, why they behaved like this was not explained. It was sometimes funny, but the moving scenes didn't move me at all. I hope Riget 3 will be better.  "}{"Title":"Seeing handicapped people misbehaving is not funny","Date":"11 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" At first sight the film is plain idiotic. But there must be a second sight. The second sight is the manifesto behind the film I say the manifesto but certainly not the project because it has no objective OR destination whatsoever.The manifesto firstI swear to submit to the following set of rules drawn up and confirmed by DOGMA 95 1- Shooting must be done on location. Props and sets must not be brought in (if a particular prop is necessary for the story, a location must be chosen where this prop is to be found). 2- The sound must never be produced apart from the images or vice versa. (Music must not be used unless it occurs where the scene is being shot.) 3- The camera must be hand-held. Any movement or immobility attainable in the hand is permitted. 4- The film must be in color. Special lighting is not acceptable. (If there is too little light for exposure the scene must be cut or a single lamp be attached to the camera.) 5- Optical work and filters are forbidden. 6- The film must not contain superficial action. (Murders, weapons, etc. must not occur.) 7- Temporal and geographical alienation are forbidden. (That is to say that the film takes place here and now.) 8- Genre movies are not acceptable. 9- The film format must be Academy 35 mm. 10- The director must not be credited. 11- Furthermore I swear as a director to refrain from personal taste! I am no longer an artist. I swear to refrain from creating a work, as I regard the instant as more important than the whole. 12- My supreme goal is to force the truth out of my characters and settings. I swear to do so by all the means available and at the cost of any good taste and any aesthetic considerations. Thus I make my VOW OF CHASTITY. Copenhagen, Monday 13 March 1995 On behalf of DOGMA 95 Lars von Trier Thomas VinterbergThe concept of Chastity seems to imply all they refuse is for them nothing but a rape. They are raped by the camera, the director-dom, the actor-dom, etc. In other words they dream about making films without any cinema technology. They thus reduce their films to a mirage inside a delusion. And yet here is one film they made.The film is an absolute illustration of these principles. It describes a voluntary community, if not a commune of some sort, of people systematically called, in the English subtitles since the film is in Danish, idiots, retards and other nice terms of this type. All the actors are acting their own parts, their own reality, their own truth. The retards in the film are retards in society. Does this bring any truth?These people who are going to a restaurant and acting their mental and behavioral handicap against the personnel and the customers in order to be kicked out, after eating of course, without paying does not reveal anything true or truthful since these people are playing what they are to gain an advantage. This is thus a big lie and nothing but racket. In fact it reveals that the only decent people are more or less the innocent witnesses who actually accept the disturbance with patience or even accept to help the differently-abled persons with some empathy and care, like two tattooed bikers who actually take one of them who had been entrusted to them by his educator to the toilet and help him urinate without any fishiness. Of course the fact that it is filmed is the proof it is all a lie. Too bad for Lars von Trier we know there is a camera filming the scene that has probably been rehearsed several times.The only moment when we may think something slightly enlightening is provided is at the end when an officially normal woman who is under a strong post-traumatic stress syndrome due to the death of her infant tries to go back to her husband and family. She is accepted, including the real handicapped woman who accompanies her, and yet she is unable to cope and she plays retard with catastrophic consequences. When we know she had escaped into that commune on the day before the funeral of her own child, we can measure how deep her Trauma was but that has little to do with mental handicap.This Dogma thing seems to me to be extremely over-rated.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU "},{"Title":"Challenging","Date":"5 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I think I would have had a much different view on this film if I hadn't seen Borat. Borat uses the same type of humour, but in his case the people aren't in on the joke. That's a kind of humour that I laugh at, but it makes me very uncomfortable.It was the juxtaposition between knowing that this is a movie, and that Borat used real people that didn't make this as uncomfortable about it. What really makes it uncomfortable is the fact that I have spassed myself.I don't have much of a defense of my behaviour other than I didn't plan to do it. I was bored, sitting with a hospital administrator and so I started rocking in my chair. This was misinterpreted, and I went along with it. It was a bit of a thrill ride, because I didn't know where it was going.I was scared witless and laughing at the scene at the bar with the bikers. I saw him getting beat up or worse, and I felt bad for what I had done. Not bad enough to say that I would never do it again. Because I approached is as an experiment, and it was very interesting to see how people treat you.I think that if you make the decision to go down that road you have to accept the consequences. Getting beat up. Having people slap you. I think what Borat pointed out is that we have some fairly condescending notion about people from other countries.Some of the reviewers were happy when Karen returned to her home, spassed and then got slapped in the face. I thought it was the perfect conclusion to the film. It's easy to spass when there isn't much to risk.I think it was important to know the various reasons that the people had for what they were doing. So when Karen thanks everyone, she doesn't thank Stoffer, because she knew that his motives were suspect. He has a bit of the Borat cruelty in him.So she picks the kindest of the group to go with her. So she can see what a miserable place she left. And she can watch the self-destruction. Because Karen wants to make a statement about the group and what they did, and that it meant something to her.As far as the nudity is concerned, I saw the uncut version, and of course it's much ado about nothing. The nudity is not sexy. These people are taking their ideas to their logical conclusion. The whole idea behind being a spass is that you don't understand convention.Convention tells Karen she has to stay in that creepy house with all those people and their expectations. I think we'd all like to be free from that type of oppression. People grieve in different ways, and it didn't look like there was much understanding.Ultimately, I didn't like Borat, but I really did like this film. I think the filmmaker took on some challenging themes, and did an excellent job with them. Much credit has to go to the excellent acting job of all involved. "},{"Title":"Von Trier is definitely an interesting filmmaker, and he has something to say here, but i don't think he said it well!","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" (MAJOR SPOILERS) Lars Von Trier is a hit and miss filmmaker in my book! I've seen four of his films now, and liked two of them ('Breaking the Waves' and 'Dogville'), really disliked one ('Dancer in the Dark') and of course, wasn't too chuffed with this film in 'The Idiots' either! Shot in a documentary jumpy style, the film starts off with Karen sitting alone at a restaurant where she encounters what she thinks is mental-challenged people being looked after by a carer. She ends up being dragged along with them, and soon realises that it is all an act! Intrigued, she meets the rest of the group led by Stoffer, who all embrace their inner idiot! A group that challenges social norms, and manage to convene in Stoffer's fanciful but barren mansion, which is owned by his Uncle. Stoffer is on a quest to make the group really prove themselves in their own environment in an anarchistic fashion through challenging society's view of them by acting as an idiot, and I guess, somehow finding true freedom! However, that didn't really work for me! The problem with this film- is while it does draw you in- you are not sure of what it is trying to say about social attitudes of the mentally challenged. And it is not a particularly funny film, nor does it really question attitudes towards the handicapped, other than displaying that people perceptions of the handicapped can be easily misled by a bunch of so-called social misfits. If anything, the idiot act feels a little indulgent of this group to go around being radical without any fear of repercussion. It could almost be construed as mocking, but I don't think that is Von Trier's intention. Regardless, I didn't like the group and in one scene, I'm rooting for the father to take his daughter away from these people. In another scene, Karen's reason for being at the restaurant is revealed when she finally confronts her family- but it is us; the audience, who are left wondering as to why Karen decided to play such a cruel game on her immediate family in that particular situation. What was Von Trier trying to say about grief? If he is saying that people need to let themselves go, and find bliss by doing this idiot act, then I seriously don't think it works! Part of life, is confronting your emotions, and sure, while it's okay to expose yourself as an emotionally fragile incoherent babbling mess when it comes to grief, there is a point where you have to confront that issue. Karen doesn't confront anything in the end; instead she deliberately displays raw idiocy to prove that she doesn't want to deal with reality! To give Stoffer some sort of satisfaction of proving worth in rebelling some social expectation doesn't ring true with me at all.'The Idiots', in my opinion, is one of Von Trier's lesser efforts, and while it's not truly horrible, I knew it didn't work when I just didn't like the majority of the characters or what they were trying to prove in a social context. And while areas of the film are made to look like a documentary, the actual content of the story was not one, so when a camera is blatantly in shot in one scene, it just proves to be sloppy film-making especially when it was never established that there was a film crew watching these social misfits! The orgy scene got over the sexual aspect of the group well, and sure, while the imagines were confronting, it didn't bother me as much as the overall story and characters- with the exception of Karen, and the guy who has the office job! Like I said, one of Von Trier's lesser efforts that I didn't hate completely. I guess you could credit it for trying to be confronting, but acting the fool here doesn't really prove to say anything much about society or dealing with grief! *** out of *****! "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Filmed by the conventions of Dogme 95, this film has a blatantly non-professional feel to it, with shaky camera-work, sound recording and makeup. Although the style is off-putting, the film has enough that is of interest in it to still be worth checking out. The philosophies and ideals of each of the individual members of the cult are intriguing, and as a satire, the film brings up some interesting ideas about the way in which different people function and live. The acting is quite good too, and a few of the characters are drawn out quite well, despite the lack of a solid storyline to help develop them. The Dogme 95 style however does not help the film at all. The poor-looking production values bring to attention that it is a film we are watching and therefore any degree of realism that it might have hoped to invoke does not occur. The film also has some arguable excesses of nudity and sex, and coupled with the style, these factors have given it a poor reputation. While the film is not a masterpiece of cinema, it does deserve a better reputation than it has. While not exactly the most rewarding or engaging cinematic experience, the film's premise and ideas are so different and original that it is rather fascinating to watch. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly enjoyable film","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This was a surprisingly enjoyable film. I had herd a lot of negative comments about this so was a little wary - the comments centring on the pornographic elements of the film and the offence that may incur with the portrayal of the mentally ill.True, the sex aspect was purely titillation (the hardcore, however, was blink and you'll miss it), but the other aspect was very well handled.The 'idiot' aspect was not offencive since the actors did a subtle and convincing (some anyway) portrayal of mentally disturbed people - and this was in context to show how others in society react to peoples said difficulties. The best were the reaction of the 'posh' women who went to buy the house and the tattooed thugs were sexual advantage taking was hinted at.The film itself is one of those slowly unfolding films where not a lot seems to happen but which becomes quite hypnotic (such as death in Venice). Lkie death in Venice this film builds to quite an emotional ending.All in all, igore the sexual aspect of the film it probably last about three minutes, ignore the criticisms of bad taste - watch this film, and like me, you will be pleasantly surprised - if thats the right phrase to use. "},{"Title":"Very weired and confusing movie","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was one very weired movie that has no boundaries, there are no social rules, and everyone behaves like, well, idiots. Its even more confusing than Japanese anime, i can't really figure out the aim of it because it changes so much during the film. It's shot documentary style and is rather thought provoking. This would be an excellent film to analyse as part of a Media or Psych degree, although there are no right or wrong answers. At times you feel rather guilty and sorry for particular characters, and anger at upper-class society with its pompous attitudes. You will be surprised at how different people react to the pretend retards - some are two-faced and pretend to be nice while obviously thinking other things, while some well-tattooed men act really nice towards one of them. There are some very funny scenarios as these students do practically anything. This film is Jackass on steroids! They have thrown all of their standards out the window. The main character and leader in the film basically encourages everyone to act like a mentally retarded person in daily life (or spazzing out) and to embrace the inner idiot in all of us - or else leave the club because they cannot demonstrate their commitment. This is an unreasonable request - telling people to act retarded in front of colleagues, managers, family and friends and many fail the task. The main character obviously has some rather twisted views on society and people with mental disabilities. I rate this movie 6/10 overall, it's generally interesting to watch the response of people. "},{"Title":"I laughed a lot except when I was choking with emotion","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  According to this film we all have an idiot within us. To seek out the idiot part of their nature a group of young men and women come together as a group and devise all kinds of adventurous outings in which they act out the roles of handicapped people. While this does provide some laughable situations, the film probes deeper as it records the average person's attitude when facing up to the handicapped and their problems e.g.the comment is made Is he allowed to drink beer?Happiness is found in the strangest places and amongst unlikely people.  In this story Karen a bereaved mother ( Wonderfully played by Bodil Jorgensen) finds happiness among the members of the idiot group. When she opens her heart to the idiots, hers is a rivetting performance. She says little but all the emotion is there.So many crazy things happen in this film, I suppose I can accept the out-of-focus scenes and the very shaky hand-held camera. May be this was intentional.  I had the feeling too that Lars Von Trier wanted to show us life as it really is and he took liberties with the rules relating to censorship. In the version I saw a sex scene was cut.Some of the outstanding scenes which seemed to have a message for all of us were A conversation with some tough-looking tattooed guys; confrontation with a man from the local council; argument with a girl's father who has come to take her away from the idiots; and perhaps most of all the cold reception at Karen's home-coming.Some people may be offended by this film. I was not.  But it did set me on an exploratory course, not to find the idiot within me but to analyse my own feelings towards handicapped people.Since seeing the film I mused over the old Scottish sayingAll the world's queer except thee and me And even thee's a little queer. "},{"Title":"Differences in life","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a very good film, maybe not as good as Lars Von Trier's other movies Breaking the waves and Dancer in the dark, but these are all very different movies and all of equal exellence.  Many people see this movie as making fun of disabled people, I do not agree with this, it's not about that, its how so called normal people can otfen mock or make fun of disabled people.A group of people living in this villa, decide to act like idiots, mentaly retarded and see how people react to it.  The one thing I don't really understand about this movie is why a group of people, who are not disabled who seem to have everything going for them in life, would act like this, just to get a reaction or to see how it feels, in a way to mock the people, who would mock them if they really were disabled.  What do they gain from this?It was very sad that this didn't work out for the group of people, but had they tried again it could very well work.Rembembering, the script for the movie, was wrote in about 4 days.Maybe people don't like this movie as it makes them realise they are not as prefect as they would like to be, that they have made fun of someone who is mentally retarded or disabled and that this still happens, now even though it is covered up, and that we should not treat them differently. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece. Both humorous and deeply touching.","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Idiots is by far the best of Lars Von Triers movies. In a time, where Hollywood spurts out movies like The Phantom Menace or Titanic, we desperately need film makers that remove the distance between the actor and the audience. The Idiots does that. The actors are very close to the camera, and as an audience, you really get to see some authenticity in the actor's emotion.The movie tells you about people, who are under a considerable emotional stress. Love, fear, anger, neurosis, lust and more is displayed for all of us.I laughed my head off, when I first saw the movie, only to minutes later be forced to question why I was laughing.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A long exhausting movie","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It is my second Dogma movie and I did not like it like the first one (Festen). After having watched both movies I can say some words first on the principle of Dogma. I did not find genius at all that the camera was shaking more or less along the two movies not mentioning losing the focus sometimes. Shooting a movie with a low budget and not using costumes is not a bad idea at all but I don't find it really necessary to be able to see the sound technicians sometimes! A friend got so sick after the movie (because of the shaking camera) that she needed 3 hours to get rid of her dizziness. Concerning the movie The idiots' itself I found it too hard and not attaching (I looked two or three times to the watch during the movie). The idea itself of playing the idiots in order to get freed from the strict social rules was also bothering. Although the most of the people in the group suited each other one of them did not. This one should had a key connection between the real life and the idiotic role they were playing during their long 'holiday'. Although social criticism was presumably the objective of the movie I find that it was failed since the most of the movie was discovering the inner but synthetic idiots of the protagonists. I would prefer therefore another kind of social criticism or let us say with other means. As a summary I can say that this movie did not move anything inside me quite on the contrary of 'Breaking the waves' the first movie I watched of  Lars von Trier.  "}{"Title":"Thought Provoking.","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Lars von is an interesting film maker because his stories are always so unique with a little sly humor thrown in. His latest,  The Idiots is a show case for acting. It is also shocking and very thought provoking. Some might say it is social criticism?  Others might say it's purely black humor with characters  reaching for their inner idiot by pretending to have down  syndrome. It is disappointing for us Americans to receive such a limited released on this film because we are truly presented  with idiotic movies instead!  "},{"Title":"letting one spass!","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  	I really had no idea what this movie was about other than that it was something about people letting out or getting into their inner selves.  Given my lack of foreign language skills and the difficulty of reading the subtitles, I still got the gist of the film ok.  I thought it was quite good and different, which I really appreciated.	As far as the story goes, as I understand it, these people are acting like retards, but what their real motivation is remains unknown to me.  In the least, they must have a terrible dislike for society, doing some intellectual trip, or just nasty people.  Interestingly, most of the idiot situations show them to be quite nicely treated by the society they are pulling the wool over.  Society comes across ok, although society's motivations are self centered also; the people buy the decorations to get rid of the retards, the council man wants to assist the group's movement to another community, etc.... it seems that the bikers come across the best and I am glad there was no sexual molestation scene in the bathroom scene.  (The best line of the movie is at the end of the bathroom scene.)   Also, I think the gang bang, scene, tho done as tastefully as possible, was gratuitous sex.  The  nude scenes were more believable.	It is interesting that the group members could not be idiots when the personal cost was too high;  and I think that drives to the point of the movie.  In the final scene the cost of being an idiot to Karen was emotionally less than the pain she would have felt dealing with her family in the conventional manner after her child's death, husband's response, etc.  ie, it was easier for her to be the idiot than cope with the strain of the situation...which makes one wonder how/why people go crazy to begin with?	What the others (who were so skilled in acting the idiots) could not do, Karen chose as the easier way.   	 	Brings to mind the expression...letting one save face... could perhaps be... letting one spass! "},{"Title":"Applause","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is not a commentary on the film, only a tidbit about the reception in the movie theater of the little town I'm living in. The audience consisted of fifty or a hundred people, most of them students of engineering, as annexed to the town is a small university, a Technische Universität, which means no human sciences. This defines the atmosphere of the town, lots of bright and slightly playful people without much need for intellectual depth. It defines also the selection of movies we get to see in our one and only cosy theater. But once a week a slot in the rooster is reserved for an &#130;arty' picture. So the ones feeling a little bit dumbed by the town's lopsidedness shamble now and then to the cinema to see &#130;something other' hardly knowing anything about the film apart from that it's this week's special one. After &#130;Idioten' was shown I met with the cinema's projectionist who's a friend of mine and he confirmed my impression that the audience's reaction was unique. Never in all the years he's doing this by-job, he told me, has he seen that not one of the spectators did stand up preparing to leave after the movie had finished, instead we all sat there watching benumbed the credits. And in silence, too. Only some unsure exclamations of surprise could be heard, muffled. It was a kind of deeply felt silent applause for this unusually made film and it's even more unusual content. "},{"Title":"Maybe the bravest movie ever made...","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In Holland a critic stated that after seeing 'Idioterne' he was left with the feeling he was slapped in the face, without  knowing what it was he'd done wrong... Not surprisingly... And, although I can't say why, he well might deserve it... Like, in fact, we all do. It's not a matter if von Trier thinks himself mighty enough to be in a position to deal the punches, as it is a matter of the power of sincere art... A power which all great art has, and is not -in the first place- a well thought out process, but a space wherein the artist combines insight, observation and craftsmanship. And in that space, filled with those ingredients, something happens that no man can control... One can only provide the circumstances. In 'Idioterne' von Trier is willingly looking for borders within himself and his actors. And he takes great risks in doing this. We, as the spectators, get the opportunity to embark on our own search, but in a constant awareness that we can leave the cinema, or stop the video. And even if we don't, we get slapped in the face, because we can't allow ourselves to go as far as the actors go. Some will call it therapy (intrinsical) others voyeurism... But for me 'Idioterne' is one of the bravest movies ever made, and stands tall next to other great, always confronting, art.  "},{"Title":"Disturbing yet engaging","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I found Trier's style in handheld camera work to be a little tiresome and annoying yet it gave a new dimension to the film. Idioterne almost makes the audience a participant in the madness which could make some people feel uncomfortable. It is a documentary style film that combines comedy and drama (and a plethora of explicit nudity)that ultimately stirs the senses as well as place the BBFC upon new ground. I recommend this film to any Trier fan as well as those who want something totally different to conventional cinema. Beware this film may offend! "},{"Title":"Not exactly eye-candy but great movie because of it.","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I hesitated a long time before renting Lars Von Trier's 'The idiots', knowing it was a movie shot by the rules set in the 'Dogma 95' manifesto, I thought I'd hate it, as I tend to appreciate creative  cinematography and editing and I knew the whole movie was shot 'from the hip' with a digital camera, natural lighting and no soundtrack . To put it mildly I was pleasantly surprised by the impact this style of moviemaking has, you hardly have the impression you're watching a movie, or a documentary, it just feels real. That, combined with the amazing acting and the subtle portrayals of everyone's mental state make this very unlikely story very believable. Set in Copenhagen it's about a group of yuppies who spend two weeks in a house in some fancy suburb to pretend to be mental retards or go out into the real world pretending to be a group of mental retards led by a supervisor. Their 'guru' is Stoffer, the charismatic tough somewhat naive pseudo-philosopher, who has this half-baked theory  about mental retards, society and bourgoisie of which the essence escapes me, and at times it seemed to escape him too. Tough at first it seems everyone blindly follows Stoffer, throughout the movie you learn everyone has their own motives to spend two weeks in the idiot spa and apart from the ones with not much of a personality not many really buy his 'theories'. I guess this is what makes this movie too subtle for most critics (those I read anyway), there is no clear 'ending' where they all in unison renounce Stoffer and his viewpoints so a lot of people seem to interpret the movie as a hymn about changing the world by pretending to be retarded. While it's the lack of  unison is what makes this movie great, it's not about the 'guru' and his flock, every character has it's own complex personality and they're all differently affected by the events. All this may sound like pretty heavy stuff, and at times it is, but the scenes of them on excursions are among the funniest you'll ever see, even if the rest is wasted on you they make the viewing worthwhile. "},{"Title":"Clever, funny, moving, affecting","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Idiots has just opened on general release in London, and it looks like it hasn't yet made it to the US. I hope it does because, like a number of other European films, it will show Hollywood the extra perspective which American cinema (even independent cinema) lacks.Trier's film (I understand he's really 'Trier', not 'von Trier' - can anyone confirm this?) works on several levels. We might initially feel amused at the character's antics. Certainly, I came out wondering whether I would have the courage to behave like that in public, and also wondering how liberating it might feel. But when the genuine Down's Syndrome sufferers appear, the idiots' hypocrisy is exposed - and they feel it, keenly. From that point on, it's downhill all the way for them - either they have to push themselves to further extremes, as Stoffer insists they do, or they have to admit the artificiality of the exercise.Essentially, this is a film about community about the life-affirming qualities it can have (eg teaching Karen how to live again, how to find hope again or just the easy joy which comes from sharing activities with other people), and equally about the dangers which lie inside it - about petty power games, about dynamic tensions, about the purposes of any group. Trier clearly knows a lot about this kind of paradigm, and shows - in extreme circumstances - the kind of thing we have all experienced ourselves, even if only at college or in the workplace.There were things about it I didn't like the Dogme95 style is always hard to watch, as the eye is constantly adjusting to fast pans or sudden changes in focus, and the editing is frankly messy. It also went on about ten minutes too long (he could have trimmed the Xmas decoration sequence, for example), but then he's well-known for taking his time. I found the occasional glimpses of the sound boom and camera crew rather irritating.Incidentally, re the hardcore shot this was passed uncut, the first time (I think) this has happened in the UK. The shot itself I thought was rather superficial - perhaps it was there deliberately to provoke the UK censors, who are notoriously the sternest in Europe. Trier has worked in the UK, so he must be aware of the situation here. Anyway, despite the gratuitousness, let's cheer the BBFC for passing it. Let's hope this marks a new maturity among the members of the Board, especially as they have now also passed The Exorcist for video release.You can count on the fingers of one hand the American directors who could have made a film this good, in this way. We need people like Trier and his colleague Vinterberg (whose Festen is even better). More, please. "},{"Title":"great movie!!!","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Brilliant movie in which fiction and non-fiction become one.Looking for the idiot inside is obviously not as simple as it looks.The camera of Von Trier is excellent, even the fact that you can see the cameraman from time to time makes the movie more realistic than opposite.The actors are not noticeably acting, it is very realistic!GREAT MOVIE!!!! Can't say anything else!  "},{"Title":"Ambitious, but it doesn't work","Date":"18 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Lars Von Trier's The Idiots paints an ambitious and grotesque idea and goes all the way with it. It is a film that is as much about the audience as it is about itself, which is a rare thing in motion pictures today. The only question left is whether or not it is worth your time to watch it or not. In my opinion if you want to see a film all about horrible people doing repulsive things in order to express themselves in a distanced and disabled state then you might get something out of this film. I felt that Lars Von Trier's attempts to tackle this type of subject matter are no doubt valiant and I definitely feel that it is something that few filmmakers seem to go out of their way to avoid doing. My problem is in his choice of presenting this idea. The film follows a group of middle aged folks who decide to lose their sense of dignity and become uninhibited in virtually all of their activities.I already have a problem with the film simply starting with the premise. The premise is based on the ideas surrounding self-expression of choice versus the exaggerated statement of attempted self-fulfillment. What bothers me is that these people don't do this simply out of convenience, rage, or insanity. Each and every one of these people do this by choice. Perhaps this was done on purpose in order to be offensive, which would be okay if the film justified itself through it's imagery and it's characters. Unfortunately, the film avoids doing that by not allowing the audience to accept the fact that these characters do not understand moral fiber and thus he betrays the own idea by not displaying his stance. In a different film I can see Lars Von Trier doing this, but what gets in the way here is the unreasonably strict Danish film law called Dogme #95 that forces the director to purposefully betray even the most subtle form of conventional film making in order to purify the idea behind the film and the film's ability or inability to be absorbent based on it's view-ability. A good film can be made from this technique, but not a film like this with this sense of ambition and possible transgression. I think in order for a film of this caliber to work you need a sense of vision, which is what The Idiots lacks the most. It has no feeling of personality, entertainment value, scope, or creativity. The characters in it are creative in their interests behind what they are doing, but there isn't any sort of hope for any of them. They are all disgusting horrible people and you feel far too distanced from them to be able to get involved in their activities. Again, perhaps this was done intentionally, and again, it is not justified.I think what bothers me the most about The Idiots is belittling it is to it's audience. For how weak the film is, there is some genuine emotion on display here that is undeniable. The film does try to confront a lot of these emotions in a very original way, and I really like that. However, the film also demoralizes the potential rawness of these scenes by avoiding letting in any fluidity. The film suffers from too much plot, ironically, in it's pacing and it becomes uneven and not really fulfilling as a whole when it does in small fragments. The film does not feel disjointed and it has a head on it's shoulders, and ironically that's what gets in the way the most. The film gave me a headache. It could have easily been about a bunch of people running around acting and and engaging in freakish behavior and it could have had a lot more life to it had it been that way, but instead it strives for too much and as a result delivers little. For a film that contains extended sequences of unsimulated sex, that is saying A LOT. I can easily see many viewers getting more than I did out of the film, and I can understand that. I think my issues have a lot to do with director Lars Von Trier's presentation. Lars Von Trier is among one of the most challenging and twisted filmmakers today. His films require ambition and emotion behind the camera as well as in front of it. A lot of great films require this. However, because of the limiting factors behind the film's technique, Lars Von Trier's attempt is cut short by the film's monumental inward destruction toward convention rather than invention. The Idiots is perhaps one of the worst examples of limitation behind the camera interfering with the potential life in front of the camera. The film has the making of an independent masterpiece. The film's dialogue is improvised, the film evokes a lot of anger in it's imagery, and the final five minutes are quietly affecting. Despite what I have been saying, I do not fault Lars Von Trier for the result. Ultimately, I fault the idea of the film itself. Imagine, for a second, if this film wasn't filmed in Dogme #95. I don't think that anybody would have liked it. I think that Lars Von Trier's public film-making career would have been over. The end result, ironically, could have been far more offensive and troubling than it already is. At least with this style the film gives fans of low-budget cinema something to digest. It may not work, but at least it's very existence shows that Lars Von Trier is the real deal. I'm thankful for that.(For an extended version of this comment, as well as other comments like this, visit www.cuddercityfilmchronicles.blogspot.com). "},{"Title":"Group dynamics","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Idioterne / The idiots has great similarity to Breaking the waves and Dancer in the dark A naïve girl falls victim to the circumstances and pays too high a price. Nearly all von Trier's movies are about idealism, and so is this one. Stoffer as the group leader at first seems the binding factor, but as all others have different reasons than idealism to enter the group he establishes his leadership with increasing emphasis on psychological force and less on convincing arguments. As all members have a desire to stay in the group (again for different reasons) he then demands that they go to extreme lengths to show their commitment to the cause and indirectly to him. Hence the orgy scene (as viewers we end up with more seating comfort in the cinema after that). Then all thresholds are passed; the outsider (father) steps in to bring them back to reality and diminish their renewed established group bond. Stoffer then demands the ultimate sacrifice. Only the naïve Karen is able to be an idiot in real life in one of the most painful and harrowing scenes ever put on screen.It feels somewhat rushed in writing and making which is odd because von Trier is known as a perfectionist. All his directing efforts seem to be put here in the actors so there is good acting across the board. The Dogme-rules only contribute to greater intensity. Von Trier interviews the actors in the movie so there is a parallel between the movie's group dynamics and the actor's group dynamics.Breaking the waves was in my opinion overlong. Dancer in the dark was placed too much in the fantasy screen world and had therefore less dramatic impact. From the Golden Hearts-trilogy I personally like this the most. "}{"Title":"Huh?","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm not so sure what makes this film as controversial as people think it is... People acting like retards is a potentially hilarious (or thought-provoking) idea for a film, but this movie totally failed to take advantage of that! There were some really funny bits where people were spassing in inappropriate situations, but then the scene would switch to some sort of pointless dialogue between flat characters whose motivations are unclear. The same goes for the apparent social commentary element - if you want to comment on society, then have more scenes where the characters pretending to be retarded INTERACT with society! As opposed to gaze out a window or sit around a table being sullen and Danish. Oh well, I guess I just didn't get it. A movie has to have some sort of context to make a point and the Idiots just seemed to wander aimlessly. What could have been amusing or sad or insightful was just frustrating and boring! "},{"Title":"I'm not feeling too well","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This really is a sick piece of film! And maybe I mean this in a positive way, because I do not know what to think of it. There are two things I do know It made me feel very sick and I really felt like throwing up a few times while watching. Not because of all the dicks and raw sex, they are in all independant dutch movies too, but because of the constant negative vibes I got from this movie. The second thing was that I still couldn't turn it off. It was like I was trapped in the middle of this and had no choice but to wait for it to end. The acting really grabs you, although I'm not sure if you can call it 'acting'. After all they are still normal people acting like idiots, like you and I would do in thier place. 'Acting', there it is. So it is acting after all.. There I am, confused. Probably exactly what Von Trier was aiming at. He thought 'Let's make a film that doesn't have a point, makes everyone feel uncomfortable and have semi-intellectuals talk about for years. And while I'm at it, I might as well get it banned in Ireland. Just for fun.' If I could turn back time a few hours, I might do it. I'm going to smoke something and watch a cheesy Friends-episode. That might get me some sleep tonight...  "},{"Title":"Not a film for the left wing PC brigade","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Of all the films i have reviewed on imdb this film has to be hardest to do. I'm not even going to try to explain what the Idiots is about because i'm not to sure myself. Is it a drama , is it a comedy or is this just pure irony? Whatever the director set out to do he made a piece of work which is both compelling as it is disturbing. I saw the uncut version which was shown on the UK's Film Four extreme and before the film came on they in a roundabout sort of way warned the audiance about some of the explicit sex scenes, i dont know why they bothered because they are very incidental. The Idiots is very sad in many aspects and a little to long but without doubt it is like no other film seen before. 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"a hardly recognized master piece","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It is all in this film each and every human asking about leading ones life, about being, about the possibility of living alone, inside an enclave, or within society. It is about freedom, happiness, and (maybe) impossibility of living freedom and happiness inside a society which gives people prosperity but cannot make them happy. It is a masterpiece of film because each and every question deals with our real lifes in late capitalism. And it makes me really sad meeting people who are not deeply touched by this film. How far away must they be from their inner idiots i. e. their own real needs? I think this is the best film of the 1990's, and I am amused about, but do not give a damn about its envelope called dogma 95. Lars von Trier is the best living film director, I swear, and I am not a greenhorn with the film scene. Please forgive my bad english, I am just a german, and please please please watch this film. "},{"Title":"Not as explicit as you might think, just stupid","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Idiots is the second Dogma film by Lars Von Trier - the loose definition is that they abandon typical special effects, costumes and directorial styles, in order to achieve a realistic degree of accuracy.The problem is not that Idiots is too realistic, shoddy or unprofessional - it's just dull. It's supposed to be a social satire but it is simply a gratuitous and tedious film.I wasn't offended. I was just bored.It's about a group of Danish folk who pose as mental retards - due to this reason alone it caused furore at Cannes in 1998, but on top of the plot line it also featured scenes of explicit sex (including a hardcore shot). Ironically the porn scene was the only one in which Von Trier went against his own established rules of Dogma film-making and hired porn actors for the shot.Overall this isn't terribly offending or horrifying. It's just boring. It lacks a point, and a punch. "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"6 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Firstly, I cannot stand films that openly use hand-held documentary style cameras, they look terrible, shake and lose focus all the time. I generally want my films to look like films NOT like documentaries, and the supposed theory that hand held camera work makes things look more real is just not true, in fact it works towards the opposite. Shaky camera work and poor focus exemplify the fact that it is a film.The film itself is fairly poor, and tries to demonstrate ideas of non-conformity by promoting the inner-idiot, and it simply doesn't work. I find it ironic that this film preaches that social constructs are wrong when the character Stoffer creates one himself by enforcing the world of the idiot. It seems to me that this film has set out to be controversial for the sake of being controversial, and really just ends up looking tasteless and grotesque.Also, Lars Von Trier, who helped come up with the Dogma 95 movement breaks his own vow of chastity in a number of ways, proving that he is the idiot. Don't waste your time on this trash "},{"Title":"Much talked about - why ?","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is a part of a film-experiment with handhold camera, poor sound and low budget. This experiment has failed ! No plot, uninteresting dialog and 120 min waste of time. The film is about a group of young people pretending - for no reason - to be mentally deficient. We follow the group through different stages of insanity, one after one. Guidelines does not exist. Not recommendable ! "},{"Title":"Not as easily digestible as Waves or Dancer...","Date":"14 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The humor in the film is wonderful, I love how truly naive some of the performances are. I feel for the characters. The camera work is very interesting... Although I am strongly attached to each piece of the director's work that I have seen, this one does not impress me as much as his others for some reason (although this trilogy is my favorite). Compared to the rest of what was going on in the film world at the time (Dogme and otherwise) it is a shoe in for one of the best of that era, yet compared to his other films, the universality of the story and themes just aren't there. For example I watched Dancer in the Dark at the Lagoon Theatre several times on opening week and I saw people from ages 12-late 60's having the same emotional reaction without hesitation to a certain scene in the movie (no spoilers!, you can figure it out). I was so amazed that this was not just some hipster/intellectually masturbatory experiment. Experimental it is. Wasteful, it is not. It's a (diverse) crowd pleaser. The humor in the film is wonderful and you will likely fall in love with one of the characters. "},{"Title":"von Trier IS a genius!","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I was 21, I decided that I would send 4 fan letters in my lifetime. When I was 25 I sent my first one - a letter to Lars von Trier.In my opinion 'The Idiots' is one of his best films.He has also made some more standard ones like 'Breaking the Waves' and 'Dancer in the Dark'.However, you will not really know his potential, until you have seen 'The Element of Crime'(!) or even 'Europa'!He has an odd-sight at a level, which I must really concentrate to be able to achieve myself. And I am an odd man!Gilbert Ipp, Denmarque "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Another impressive outing for Von Trier, and again one surrounded by controversy. The plot about a group of people acting like they are mentally retarded for various reasons is enough to stir up anger, but it more importantly stirs up thoughts, and we get a real sense of society's lack of understanding, fear, and judgement of the mentally retarded. The films most thought provoking parts are when we see the public's reactions to their behaviour, some smile and try not to show any nervousness, others simply avoid them, and it is a very effective look at our ideals. However, even this is turned on its head as the group are infiltrated by a genuine group of mentally retarded people, and some of them cannot cope. As we see the group falling apart, we learn their different reasons for pursuing such an idea, some for fun, some to expose 'middle-class fascism', others because it makes them ecstatically happy. The group leader of sorts, Stoffer takes it all seriously, often going too far in the eyes of the others, but explains that everyone has an inner idiot that we should all learn to embrace. The film follows the group's exploits, taking in a new member Karen who seems sympathetic, at first not understanding why they do it, but intrigued by it. She too eventually joins in. However, several outside intrusions from the real world and from family members mean that the group begins to fall apart. Stoffer claims that the only way to prove if you are worthy of the group and dedicated to your inner idiot is to stop 'spazzing', as they call it, in front of strangers, but in front of their closest friends and family. Karen agrees to try this, and her past is revealed.The film, according to the Dogma rules, was filmed by hand-held, and is all the more powerful for it. Each performance is powerful and very convincing, and we are left questions our own attitudes. The most shocking scenes were believed to be the gang-bang scenes featuring full frontal nudity. Although short, and an important part of the plot, they were cut to an extent, with black boxes covering certain areas. The film has since been shown uncut, and has gained critical success. However, it will never reach a mainstream audience, and therefore very few people will be affected by it. As Von trier's reputation grows though, more people will return to this, which can only be good.7.5 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Thought-provoking, interesting, non-excellent, but it'll do.","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Idioterne, by the much celebrated Lars von Trier, was a pretty goodmovie. Unlike Dancer in the Dark, where issues such as the deathpenalty were raised and the audience was really transported intothe mind of a blinded lovable immigrant, Idioterne only really treatsthe issue of human base-desire and transports the audience intoa sea of middle-class angst amongst more real characters.Some have accused von Trier of abusing his actors In this movie,as in all Dogme 95 films, actors neither appear beautiful nor slick.They are very real-seeming, and while I do not know thepersonalities of the actual actors, the characters seem verysincere and played from the heart. There isn't so much a plot asthere is suggestion of a plot. In reality, this movie is shot like adocumentary without much of a conclusion. However, it doesn'tseem to purport to be more, and given that, I don't think it shouldbe faulted for not successfully doing more than it does. What itdoes, it does well, and believably. If there was some sort ofconclusion, or explanation for the more documentarian style, Iwould have rated the movie higher, but there were some looseends in terms of screenwriting. The film suffers for it, but notgreatly.All in all, this movie has supported my appreciation of von Trier byshowing that he can direct a huge variety. Between Idioterne,Dancer in the Dark, and the two Kingdom miniserieses, he's a guywho knows what he's doing in the director's chair, and doesn'tthink too highly of himself. This is a movie it'd be nice if everyonesaw, but not quite a movie everyone should see. "},{"Title":"brilliantly funny","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Don't over analyse this movie too much, you'll miss out on the fun. This movie moved me in all directions which is good because these days I go to the cinema and I fall into a deep apathy. I really dont care for the weak stories, the bad scripts and the predictability of it all. Predictability (dramaturgy) has become the golden calf around which we dance and so we need more Dogme movies like this to emphazise on the STORY, not the audience. Idiotene is a great movie, special and REAL. It's sad that it was banned in the US, their stright censorship laws only hurt the film lovers.The acting is great, the story is funny and brilliant, it's different, it's DOGME 95! Check out all the other movies within this mini-genre. The celebration is probably my favourite movie ever, idiotene follows closely behind.Go see it!9/10 "},{"Title":"beauty!","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  oh how good we are at putting lots of words together and saying wonderful meaningful things. the beauty in a film gets lost when you slice it and dice it and put it in a platter of words. since when was beauty found in perfection? in the technicalities of a thing? or through an expectation? Lars Von Trier is my favourite film-maker. I watched the film. I saw the people, they affected me like no other film has. it is highly recomended! Social commentary? Something more profound than social commentary? Blah! I am sick and tired of all this critique and sifting for pieces of interpretation-gold. Ok, so maybe it was social commentary and all that. But now you've ruined it! Made it into a recipe! The cookie tasted better before i knew it's secret ingredient was peanut butter. Well i'm just weary of words. Words descibing something that word cannot discribe. It makes me feel ill. Sorry if I've offended anyone. Powerful film that will do real things to you. At least as good as 'Dancer' and 'Breaking the Waves'. "},{"Title":"If you don´t get it, you´re probably quite normal...","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Von Trier´s Dogma movie is one of those that you either love or hate. Just check the comments index, and you´ll see what I mean. Still, I´m not quite sure what to make of it. It´s entertaining enough, and occasionally very funny, even unsettling, but the whole idea of people spazzing for no apparent reason other than to find their inner idiot still puzzles me, and is probably also what turned off many viewers. Grungy and clumsy with brief, explicit (although unerotic) sex. Having seen the uncensored Danish version without the black boxes, I can assure you, you´re not missing out on anything.  Maybe Von Trier is taking the p*** with this movie, but who´s to know... Incidentally, the Dogma 95 certificate was questioned, when the producer altered the lighting in post-production without Von Trier´s knowledge, thus ignoring one of the Dogma 95 rules. This caused many publicized rows between Von Trier and producer Aalbæk Jensen, perhaps all part of the act to promote The Idiots.  5/10  "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece of cinema.","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of the best independent films I have seen in years(and probably the best idea in film history) is The Idiots.Everything about this film shined - from the brilliant(and underrated) acting done by all who took part, right down to it's use of minimalistic sound.Sure, the film does have some shocking scenes(if you're shocked by actors pretending to be retarded), but all of this is nessecary in order to process the film through your mind at the end.All in all - A Masterpeice, something which should NOT be missed.  "},{"Title":"One of his best","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Made according to the Dogme-95-guidelines, Idioterne (the Idiots) is one of Triers most personal movies. In all, it is a small piece of art, which one should see, if given the opportunity. "},{"Title":"The most moving of Lars von Trier's films","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In my opinion, Lars von Trier is a genius and the best living director today. And this is his most moving film (at least for me), because it's real and provides a shockingly correct statement about the people who realize they don't live in full but don't have the clue (courage, power, whatever...) to make something of their lives. By joining a group, they live in a comfortable lie thinking (or just pretending among themselves) they are above the crowd of the middle class. The story rolls slowly forward to reveal how weak and shallow they really are compared to real pain and suffering. But there is more to it than that and you have to see for yourself. A masterpiece. Go and see now ! "},{"Title":"Actors act retarded and get naked!","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Kind of a cross between THE TOM GREEN SHOW (let's shock the public!), KIDS IN THE HALL (we're a wacky group!), and maybe even MTV'S THE REAL WORLD (real life!).  The film strives to be disturbing (bad sign), but is mostly stupid.  The actors train themselves to act like mentally retarded people and then go out in public (ala Tom Green).  They seem to have the most fun however when running around naked (who doesn't?)  Though more attractive actors would have made this more enjoyable it is fun to watch this throwback to such 60's nudie stage fare as Oh Calcutta! and Hair! and such nudie films as The Harrad Experiment and The Groove Tube.  During a birthday orgy scene it is apparent that this performance troupe has grown so close as to have sex with each other.  I would like to see a sequel, but leave the retarded act behind (Tom Hanks they are not).  They should just run around in public nude (isn't that shocking enough) and have sex.  Only the PAL versions show weenies and such, but since most of us here in the U.S. only have VHS we will have to use our imagination.            "},{"Title":"Interesting Potential","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  During the time Warhol and Cassavettes were making their independent films, the promise for more adventuresome fare was evident.  Something happened to this trend, and a couple decades of more standard techniques prevailed.  Slowly in the 90s more daring approaches were seen again.The digital video camera offered such improvement in the quality of photography, that new doors were opened to inventive indies.  The Blair Witch Project proved a commercial sleeper, and Chuck and Buck offered a quite satisfying-looking work, on nice color stock. Now Dogma-95 comes along, with Festen and Idioterne, freeing filmmakers even more from the limitations of traditional studio setups.  The use of only available lights, props, sets and costumes is an intriguing concept, and offers great promise for further experimental efforts. It reminds one that stories can be found in an infinite variety of areas, and it is exciting to contemplate all of these new and readily available techniques to help bring these projects to life.   Viva artistic experimentation and progress.  ###   "},{"Title":"A Dogma95 Masterpiece","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film will not be for everyone, but for those who like something other than the usual Hollywood stuff this is a treat.  Although too long, this film is almost perfect and adheres to all of the 'rules' established by Dogma95.  The Idiots starts as a comedy, but by the film's heartbreaking end it has turns into a powerful examination of the human condition. ...and society.Sad that it has taken close to two years to reach the US.  As a matter of annoyance the US distributer has inserted censor tags over shots of male nudity.  "}{"Title":"Not too clear","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Idioterne surely resides in the field of unconventional films, but, while this makes for a refreshing change, it's not an excuse for blurring the meaning and the object of the film. I did not find it an insightful look neither at our esoteric world nor at society. Of course it has its moments and in general it's worth seeing, but I wouldn't compare it with masterpieces of social and character study. I guess, just like it was an experiment for the protagonists, it was an experiment for van Trier. Both did not have clear results. "},{"Title":"Raw and talented film-making","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a challenging picture from Danish director Lars von Trier, made under the rules of the Dogma 95 manifesto. Shot in an homemade, amateurish, but very effective style, the story follows a group of people who get a thrill out of behaving like a mentally retarded person in public places, or 'spassing', has they call it. They explain that they want to release their 'inner idiot'. They seem to get a bigger thrill the more dangerous the situation is, an example being when they leave one of the spassers alone with a group of tattooed punk-types. It is also graphic in parts, the orgy scene is revealing, and it is also sad and affecting, but sometimes funny. They meet and introduce a shy lady named Karen to the group, who at first disapproves but eventually succumbs and becomes a member. This is a compelling film that should be seen; von Trier is no stranger to this sort of work, his previous film, Breaking the Waves, was also compelling and affecting. This is a great example of raw and talented film-making. Brilliant. "},{"Title":"Bizarre...in a good way!","Date":"15 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Idiots is not just an ordinairy film, in fact in many sense it is not even a film in the conventional sense of the word. It is more an appropritately disjointed, multilayered insight into the lives of different personalities connected through this original, often dark and sinister cult. In fact so extraordiniary it is, it may prove to be distracting, complex and even disturbing at parts. I saw this movie with a friend, and i was expecting a complicated, emotionally dynamic and bizarre art-house film, and that's what it was... However i kept on thinking about it after viewing. In a way we all kind of relate to one person in the film, mostly in a less extreme way, and mostly when we are young, innocent and free of any kind of responsbility. Von Trier grabs this certain theme we can all relate to a different levels, and makes it into an unsubtle, often disturbing display through the network of rather different characters and their interplay. You can't take your eyes off the screen because it is so incredibly strange and thought provoking. It offers hardly any clues, and goes straight into the colourful lives of these individuals, and their sub culture. I final mention the last scene. This is a powerful scene in many respects. It is hard to watch, and a great ending to what is an utterly bizarre, but i feel educational film. 8/10 "},{"Title":"beautiful performance of the swan song","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  a metaphore for being free, in relation with others, & with 1 own's brain.. nowhere have i seen such freedom on screen, pierro is slightly behind. also, as lars likes surprises, this is all too thaught over, we are shown a sad condition of mental state, in the beautiful karen, whose plot explanation is thrown on us at the ending, just as vongut sometimes do. lars really proved himself to be an artist here. but the main issue is the possibility of freedom, which doesn't just bring happiness, but provides us with the ultimate weapon against *absurd/ugly reality*. "},{"Title":"NOT A SPASSY FILM","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Although not on a par with 'Breaking The Waves' this is a thoughtful, intelligent film. You suffer shock, indignation, unease, humour and interest when watching this film.  In many ways the middle-class/political correctness is an easy target for the idiots, and pretension is in the air.  Dogma 95 continues to produce distinguished efforts, and I urge you to catch 'Festen'. "},{"Title":"what if, a step to become as children?","Date":"15 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What if we start to act as idiots, trying to be an idiot means to find, to let something deep in us to express, harmless, may be something like child. Become hard to accept for 'normal' people out there. And this remember Jesus words about to be like a child. I have see Dogville (last Lars movie) and that movie involve some thought about justice, 'god' coming to judge, so in some not explicit way Lars try to provoke using gospel teaching, putting them inside his movies, it is an hypothesis.A movie that worth all the time, to be show to school audience.  "},{"Title":"Some Of Von Trier's Best","Date":"12 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I assumed a movie about a group of people pretending to be retarded for kicks would be anarchic mess that would run it's course after about a half hour. Lars Von Trier's The Idiots however is an absorbing drama about a group of people who collectively begin rejecting sense, but all for their own reasons. Some are just there to have a good time, other's are there for philosophical and political reasons, to some it's a grand experiment, an excuse to be naughty, to go off your meds for awhile, or to avoid their own fractured personal lives. The group becomes a commune, of sorts, that exists happily until they are challenged to spazz not just with strangers and in the confines of the group, but in their personal lives. The real world begins trickling back in and the Idiots are faced with their final spazz and separation.A film that can cut from a gang bang to a girl loosing her virginity to the boy of her dreams, perfectly capturing the sweet and tenderness of one scene as well as the sweating, grunting, absurdity of another.Anne Louise Hassing plays a woman who gets abducted into the group at random and decides to go with it, until her own real life reappears. There's a remarkable honesty and potencty in this Dogma 95 film, shot without makeup, artificial light, or music, this is about as real as fiction cinema gets. And though it sounds like a movie designed as wierd for wierds sake, it's deftly subtle making all the characters motivations understandable conflicting forces in the film. One man's dirty joke is another man's epiphany, and this film in the end is a good bit of both. "},{"Title":"Lars mate, why ?!","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Of the numerous IMDb comments on this film, there is not a single one that talks positively of the explicit pornographic scene. There is a lot that is hard-hitting and powerful about Idioterne, particularly the portrayal of characters such as Stoffer, Jeppe and the powerful final scene with pathetic KarenBut it seems that Von Trier has really done his credibility no good at all by choosing to include such graphic pornographic shots. Whether or not the viewer finds it shocking, can anybody seriously claim that the graphic scenes add anything to the film? The most likely explanation could be that Von Trier wanted to cause a stir and gain recognition, and showing such scenes was a surefire way of doing so. I am reminded of Larry King, writer-director of Bully, Kids, and Ken Park, whose fame is almost entirely indebted to the gratuitously sexual and violent content of his films.Few genres of cinema around the world would show such explicit scenes as we see in Idioterne; it could make some Europeans ashamed. There are of course more subtle ways of being hard-hitting. Von Trier displays some of them here, that is what is so ironic, and what makes the pornography so unnecessary ! Lars, why did you do it? You've risked tarring a film so powerful in other respects ! "},{"Title":"overlong, no-holds-barred satire fails as social criticism","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This unconventional satire by Danish mastermind Lars von Trier is the second film that conforms entirely to a 1995 pamphlet issued by von Trier and several other filmmakers that declares special effects, costumes and elaborate camera perspectives obsolete, in order to achieve the highest possible degree of immediacy in the filmmaking process. Story concerns a group of people, who live in a villa in a small Danish town pretending to be mentally retarded. They mock at society, try to make money out of everything and generally enjoy themselves when they can do what they like. The point of the film may be social criticism, but it takes far too long to get there, and without an apparent structure in the script, this soon becomes tedious. Film has its moments, is well-acted and sometimes even hilarious, but also unpleasasant and disturbing at some points. No touch of genius here, a major disappointment from the director of such masterpieces as THE ELEMENT OF CRIME, MEDEA, EUROPA, RIGET and BREAKING THE WAVES. "},{"Title":"GET A STEADYCAM YOU IDIOT!!!","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"7 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There's a difference between being innovative, daring and unique on a low-budget production and just downright annoying the hell out of your audience, and von Trier doesn't seem to realize this in the film.  While the theme was an interesting concept, the execution was just infuriating, not to mention nauseating, to watch.  I think one of the fundamental tenets of filmmaking is to produce something that's watchable and hopefully entertaining.  The incessant and unnecessary cuts to different angles and chopping up of dialogue in each individual scene provided none of that. This is my first von Trier film and probably the last. "}{"Title":"Neither Shocking Or Entertaining","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"6 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Channel 4 in Britain is currently having a  banned  so the station is showing a series of documentaries and movies that have fallen foul of watch dogs , governments and censors . Before the screening of these controversial movies we see a short segment introduced by Tim Roth giving a very uncanny impersonation of master film critic Mark Kermode . Even so Roth himself seemed perplexed as to what THE IDIOTS ( as it's known in Britain ) was trying to say and if Roth was confused how do you think a mainstream audience felt after watching it ? The basic premise of this movie is not bad - A group of people try to find the  inner idiot  in themselves , so right away you've got a set up that's ripe for some bad taste black comedy . Unfortunately there's two flies in the ointment 1 ) It's a Danish movie 2 ) It's directed by Lars Von Triers So you've got something that won't be appealing to anyone other than fans of foreign art-house / dogme movies . The acting is amateurish , the camera work is overly naturalistic and there's little in the way of entertainment . It should also be pointed out that in trying to shock the audience the movie just comes across as being puerile and boring . Talk about shooting yourself in the foot "}]