[{"Title":"A sweet and colorful dark comedy that's still a little hard to swallow","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"39 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Much like the candy that bears it's name, Jawbreaker is a sweet, infectious dark comedy that wants you to enjoy it for a good, long time.  Unfortunately, also like the candy, the film is a little hard to swallow, and it doesn't last as long or come on as strong as it's name would lead you to believe.  But even though you know that much candy is bad for you, you still want to have it.On her 17th birthday, popular girl Liz (Charlotte Ayanna, here as Charlotte Roldan), a member of the Flawless Four, is kidnapped by her best friends Courtney (Rose McGowan), Marcie (Julie Benz), and Julie (Rebecca Gayheart) as a prank, her screams muffled by a huge jawbreaker.  The prank goes horribly wrong, however, when Liz chokes to death on the candy.  Instead of going to the authorities, as Julie insists, Courtney devises a massive plan to cover up the death, a plan discovered by the unpopular and awkward Fern (Judy Greer).  To win her silence, Courtney makes Fern in her own image, renaming her Vylette and allowing her to hang and commiserate with the most popular people in school.  As Fern becomes intoxicated with her new-found power, Julie becomes more concerned with her friend's death, and Courtney spins a devious web of lies and trickery.  Enter Detective Vera Cruz (Pam Grier), the only person who may be able to get to the bottom of the crime.  But what does all this mean for the Prom?Writer and director Darren Stein as obviously seen Heathers a good number of times.  Like that classic film of teen angst, Jawbreaker is a dark comedy set in a high school, featuring an accidental murder of a popular student.  While Jawbreaker is certainly more colorful than Heathers, both in terms of set design and characters, it also comes off as a pale imitation.  The students live their lives in near-vacuums, with parents showing up only occasionally, and then only as ineffective or ignorant.  The impact of their actions on the community at large is only hinted at, and as a result, you never feel as if anything important in the reality of this film has ever happened.That being said, the movie is still pretty sweet.  Rose McGowan is cruel and calculating villain, terrifying in her powers of manipulation and contingency.  Julie Benz is the perfect toadie, existing only to buoy Courtney's already swollen ego.  Rebecca Gayheart's warm-natured Julie is a stark contrast to Courtney's Satan-in-heels persona, and Judy Greer is wonderful to watch as she goes from under-appreciated geek to power-mad diva.  Pam Grier is, as always, a pleasure to watch, even if her role seems too small.  The interactions between her and Rose McGowan are some of the highlights of the film.  A good supporting cast also deserves mention, most notably Carol Kane as the slightly daffy school principal, Marilyn Manson as a seedy barfly, and Ethan Erickson as the dumb jock being relentlessly manipulated by Courtney's sex games.While the script is full of caustic one-liners, it never succumbs to its own hipness.  The characters are witty, but not nearly as unrealistically urbane as the characters in movies like Scream.  Some scenes and interactions come off as gratuitous, and to be sure there are a number of times when Stein really wants you to notice to how well he paid attention at film school.  But there are a number of scenes that gain new meaning when analyzed in the larger scheme of the movie, and a repeat viewing may be in order to catch the full signifcance.  You may sometimes get so distracted by the candy-colored schemes (McGowan's lips alone may send you into insulin shock) that you'll forget about the plot.Some may see the movie as derivative, and there are certainly a large number of detractors.  But taken on its own merits, Jawbreaker is a fun, giddily dark comedy that requires more than few licks to get to the bottom of.  Just keep your consumption to a moderate amount, and you'll do fine.  7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A great movie with a great cast!","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"28 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  What happens when you take the movie Heathers, sprinkle on some Clueless, and add a pinch of Carrie?  Well, you get the phat movie Jawbreaker, a good movie which really lets Rebecca Gayheart and Rose McGowen shine like the stars they are!The movie itself is somewhat true to the lives of teenagers---there was always that incredibly exclusive group of kids that NOBODY but NOBODY could be good friends with.  Well, this movie lets us see into one of these groups...and what lies underneath is totally rotton.Rose McGowen is a total witch, much to the dismay of Rebecca Gayheart...who has to solve the puzzle of Courtney's scheme after her character Julie is tossed from the clique.  The ending is pretty memorable...reaching back to it's roots of Carrie.Speaking of Carrie...P.J. Soles is in the movie, as well as the cool Carol Kane (When a Stranger Calls).  I really enjoyed the movie as did my friends. A laugh-a-thon that doesn't try to take itself TOO seriously, and remembering that is a good thing.Oh, and Rebecca Gayheart is grrrreat!  "},{"Title":"A Delicious Dark Teen Comedy","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"26 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Courtney(Rose Mcgowan),Julie(Rebecca Gayheart),Marcie(Julie Benz) and Liz(Charlotte Ayanna) were the most popular girls at school. But on Liz's 17th birthday, her friends want to surprise her and kidnap her. But that plan goes wrong, when accidently, Liz chokes on the jawbreaker, her friends stuffed in her mouth to keep her from screaming. Everyone is totally shocked, except the cold hearted Courtney, who just doesn't give a crap about anybody but herself. Julie wants to go to the police right away and tell them what happened but Courtney calms her down and tries to cover the crime and make it look like somebody raped Liz. Suddenly, a geeky outcast named Fern Mayo(Judy Greer) who has always admired Liz, finds out what happened to her and is totally devasted. Courtney tells her if she keeps her mouth shut, she will make Fern something she always wanted to be. POPULAR. This was a very entertaining and fun dark comedy. I enjoyed it a lot. Rose Mcgowan is gorgeous and does a great job along with the rest of the cast. I would give Jawbreaker 10/10 "},{"Title":"A guilty pleasure","Date":"5 November 2004","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Jawbreaker has all the predictable, clichéd elements of past teen comedies, but I can't deny the fact that I enjoyed it. I think part of its appeal is that it's a darker comedy, like Heathers--though this movie certainly isn't in the same league. Everybody in the cast gives fine performances. Rose McGowan's is a little over-the-top, but I think it fit the tone of the movie. The running time is about 85 minutes, so it doesn't go on long. There are plenty of funny moments that keep it entertaining. You can argue that the Karen Carpenter joke was too cruel, but that joke alone didn't ruin the film for me. The ending is certainly a cop-out. There could've been a MUCH better pay-off! But despite the fact that Jawbreaker is undoubtedly a flawed film, it's energetic and fun. There are much worse teen movies out there. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest teen-movies ever made....","Date":"28 November 2007","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The first time I saw this movie was in TV and I liked it so much i recorded it on tape. And watched it again and again and again and again...till the tape was done.....so i bought it on DVD one year later.... At the beginning i thought it's gonna be just another teen movie... BUT IT'S NOT!Jawbreaker is just the most funny,exciting,evil,mean teen-movie ever made. I just love it. Rose McGowan is just awesome as THE MOST EVIL BITCH EVER Courtney Shane.This movie has everything you need -) A REALLY FREAKY STORY -) MUCH OF BLACK HUMOR -) A GREAT CAST -) AWESOME SOUNDTRACK -) REALLY GOOD JOKESAnd what is also very cool are the Guest-Stars Marilyn Manson, Pam Grier, The Donnas,.....SO WATCH IT!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"A sweet kind of teen comedy","Date":"12 January 2011","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Jawbreaker is a copy of a copy. It takes plot points from Heathers, Carrie, and uses some originals of it's own to create itself. It's not a bad film. Actually one of the better teen films I have seen recently. It reminds me of a much more recent film I saw a few months back called Mean Girls. Of course that came five years later. This one has all very beautiful, and perky actresses that flood the screen at one time, much like Mean Girls. But Mean Girls was a film that was much more tame and lit the screen up. This one falls under a dark comedy.Let me just say I love Rebecca Gayheart. I had a childhood crush on her, and she's probably the reason for my love behind Santa's Slay. She's gorgeous, one of the most beautiful and underrated actresses in the business today. She gets a promising, and an effective role in this film. From her constant beauty on screen, to her sassy ways in the later parts of the film, she finds ways to surprise me. Very worthy, respectable part for her.The plot is about three teen girls named Courtney (McGowan), Marcie (Benz), and Julie (Gayheart) who, as a birthday prank, gag their friend Liz with a jawbreaker, and throw her in the trunk of their car. They drive for a brief time, before stopping at a diner, and opening the trunk to realize she is dead. She had swallowed the giant jawbreaker, and now the girls realize their stunt has gone wrong.To avoid trouble, Courtney calls Liz in sick, and they go to school like normal. Courtney (pretending to be Liz's mother) on the phone to give one of the girls Liz's homework for the day. The principal gives Courtney the homework, which she forgets, and another student named Fern Mayo (Judy Greer), a nerdy bookworm, is sent with Liz's homework. Fern absolutely adores Liz and her beauty, so upon arriving to Fern's house and entering, she finds the girls trying to cover up Liz's corpse with a faulty rape story.Fern now knows a secret that shouldn't have been told. She has the power of blackmail. Courtney assures the crew that Fern will become the missing link in the Flawless Four. They give Fern an amazing makeover, which she quickly takes to her head. Who could blame her? This is her first time she's been noticed. She's bound to let the newly given makeover get blown out of proportion. In the meantime, Courtney rejects Julie because of her wanting to do the right thing, and not take Fern for granted. Courtney basically says you're out bitch! and shuns her out of the picture. Courtney, Marcie, and Fern (now Vylette) are on their own. Hiding from a dark secret.Upon it's release, Jawbreaker was met with negative reception because of it's dim-witted cast and copycat like plot. While it does sample from other movies, like stated above, it finds ways to be unique and clever. It throws in some original material of it's own. I love movies about teenage girls. Not just coming-of-age films, but films where high school girls are their own worst enemy. Where they are both the protagonist and the antagonist. What fun these movies bring! Starring Rose McGowan, Rebecca Gayheart, Julie Benz, Judy Greer, Ethan Erickson, Carol Kane, Pam Grier. Directed by Darren Stein. "},{"Title":"Not a masterpiece, but fine entertainment","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  When you watch Jawbreaker, you can't help but sense echoes of Heathers, Clueless and The Craft.  So it is a bit of a derivative teen bopper flick.  But it's not a total rip-off and does stand on its own two feet.However, it's a fun movie.  And it has a great soundtrack, which I have. I love the use of the song Rock Me Like a Hurricane in the Marilyn Manson cameo.  Pam Grier also had an interesting bit role, as a tough-as-nails private investigator.  Jawbreaker  has its flaws, but it's fast-paced, energetic and sometimes pretty funny.The only big letdown was the ending.  Couldn't they come up with something more torcherous to do to Courtney?  Evidently, the writer Darren Stein was too anxious to complete the script and pasted on this snappy, thoughtless ending. "},{"Title":"Kidnap-comedy with a dark streak; from the Heathers school of screen writing...","Date":"11 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" A group of ultra-hip teenage schoolgirls (from Reagan High!) accidentally kill one of their own in a birthday prank gone awry; they struggle to keep their deed a secret even after a nerdy student discovers the truth. Darkly comic tale, brightly-produced yet full of cynicism, has brief moments that go out on a limb, but is ultimately a rather formulaic Heathers knock-off. Holds interest nearly half the way, however the wrap-up is right off the assembly-line. It certainly benefits from a good cast, with the central performances by Rose McGowan and Rebecca Gayheart spot-on, however prominently-billed P.J. Soles, William Katt and Marilyn Manson hardly appear at all. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":" A wicked, funny, twisted flick... I think not","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  As Heathers did, this film tries to do. It is supposed to be a clever black comedy that is twisted, sick, and you have a hell of a fun time viewing it. Jawbreaker succeeds in nothing. Absolutely nothing. I like Rose McGowan but as you're supposed to, you don't love her. Rebecca Gayheart is the one you're supposed to root for, I couldn't stand her in this role. And the rest of the cast besides the school's principal, fell flat. That's not their fault, it is the faulty script. Unwitty dialogue and unclever antics make this film a downer. After accidently killing a friend they hatch a cover up scheme yet obviously someone is uncovering it. Now one friend must find a way to prove that her friend killed this girl. I didn't get that factor. It was an accident, yes it turned sick, but Courtney didn't actually, purposefully kill the girl. The ending is predictable, and there is crappy casting. I say this because Marilyn Manson is cast as a man that well... does... his real-life love interest Rose McGowan. It's odd, unfunny, and with a black comedy, it should be witty. This isn't. D- "},{"Title":"'Jawbreaker' is not a complete success, but on a dark comedy level the film works","Date":"22 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Jawbreaker;; There's always that group at rule the school. At Reagan High, it's the foursome, Courtney, Liz, Marcie and Julie. The plot is set in motion on the morning of Liz's birthday, when Courtney, Marcie and Julie break into her house, shove a jawbreaker in her mouth and lock her in the trunk. But their harmless prank goes horribly wrong when they discover Liz has choked on the jawbreaker. The rest of the running time involves the girls trying to cover up the murder and bribing a nerd to keep her mouth shut.I am a fan of teen movies and black comedies. Assuming Jawbreaker falls into both of those genre's I was expecting to adore the film. The problem with 'Jawbreaker' lies in the fact that the conflict is set into motion within the first 5 minutes, leaving the rest of the film running of low gas. But it offers enough one-liners, laughs and style to make up for the flaws.Performances are good around, and a keen sense of the bitchy high school girl stereotype is cleverly constructed here. After all, everybody has a Courtney in their life. She's the girl who loves to be feared, and MCGowen does a great job pulling her persona off.3 from 4. "}{"Title":"Good Movie- Sweet as Candy","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie totally rocked!! I thought this movie had great punch-lines, great style, great music, and above all an AWESOME cast. Rose McGowan is great in this movie, along with newcomer Judy Greer. Julie Benz and Rebecca Gayheart also are good in this movie. This movie sort of put a twist on the teen sensation, along with an R rating and TONS of sex appeal. Overall, I give this movie ****1/2 of ***** "},{"Title":"Almost Heathers","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie wanted to be Heathers so badly it could taste it. Unfortunately, without Christian Slater, it fell a bit short of that level. Still, good black comedies are hard to find, and Rose McGowan is nearly strong enough to carry the entire movie. Certainly this is worth a rental. "},{"Title":"Competently made for what it is.","Date":"15 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" A pack of 'mean girls' play a prank on the school's prom queen. They kidnap her and put a jawbreaker gumball in her mouth to keep her quiet, hence the title. One problem she chokes on the gumball. Now the girls have a dead body on their hands. The movie slides into familiar territory (The Trouble with Harry, Weekend at Bernie's) as the girls try to figure out how to get rid of the body while avoiding suspicion. Cops and other complicating factors begin showing up at the worst possible moment, etc. etc. The comedic complications are mostly well executed, and the usual pangs of conscience and arguments among the conspirators keep things lively. The three lead actresses give assured performances, but it is a bit distracting that they are 26, 27 and 28 years old, playing high school seniors. Yikes.There is nothing obviously wrong with this movie, but its virtues are few and small and there just isn't a whole lot here that is truly new and fresh. "},{"Title":"Not as dark as Heathers but still great","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Another dark high school dramedy, this follows three teen vixens who accidentally kill their fourth best friend. When the class geek walks in on them they bribe her into complacent silence by making her into one of them. But they create a monster and she becomes the new reigning teen bitch.One of the three (Rebecca Gayheart) develops a conscience and falls out with them. Eventually the geek falls back to her original status and forms a friendship with Gayheart.Plagued by Pam Grier, a hard ass detective, the two girls form a plan to frame the old lead bitch as a killer, covering that the death was accidental.Bonus appearance by the Donnas at the end, this is dark and funny more in a social commentary way than a ha ha joke kind of way. If you liked Heathers you'll enjoy this one. "},{"Title":"Rebecca Gayheart and Rose McGowan","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*There are two reasons to see this movie. One is Rebecca Gayheart. The other is Rose McGowan. Both are lovely in their own way. Gayheart is the nice supermodel of the school. McGowan is the high school sex bomb.  My favorite scene was at the beginning where the girls strut down the hall to Yoo Hoo by Imperial Teen. I've been mulling it over and I can't choose between them. They're both gorgeous. So as an excuse to watch hot women in high school, Jawbreaker is a success. As far as it being a black comedy, the results are decidedly mixed. I suppose it was trying to make the point that high school is war and its kill or be killed for popularity. It wasn't really a humorous point though.The movie starts off with a kidnapping of the most popular girl. They stick a gigantic Jawbreaker in her mouth to shut her up and toss her in the trunk of their car. When they open the trunk to get the girl out, you get to see the girl's corpse with the Jawbreaker lodged in her throat. This may not have been the best jumping off point for a comedy. You can call it a black comedy but it was still pretty grisly. More to the point, I didn't laugh once during Jawbreaker.Beautiful women. So-so movie.  "},{"Title":"Bad....really bad","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Ew.  This movie is horrible.  It's either a bad homage or straight out rip-off of the film Heathers, which is worlds better than this, plus it features Rose McGowen reprising that same role she does in just about every film she's in heartless bitch that never shows any emotions (the only other character she ever portrays is ditzy girl that never shows any emotions.  She has range...).  Plus, as if the lame script, thin satire and horrible acting wasn't enough - you get to see Rose and her real life boyfriend, Marilyn Manson, have sex.  It's charming.Yes, High School sucks, but so does this movie.  Two wrongs don't make a right. "},{"Title":"A little hard to swallow","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Well, it's a teenage flick with the blond from Scream and the girl in the face wash commercials. It was a new release so it seemed worth a try. Too bad it wasn't. To start off with the obnoxious, undeveloped characters that grow tiring after the opening scene are, like the candy, a little hard to swallow. First of all, the incredibly unrealistic situation is by no means justified, and the police and whoever else is involved must have had to been completely idiotic to be swayed by these whiney suburbanite mall queens. This movie offers little else than a fairly decent sound track. "},{"Title":"Humorless comedy and pointless satire","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Jawbreaker is *no* Heathers.If you watch Heathers, even for the dozenth time, it's amazing how easy the movie looks. Daniel Waters's dialogue was a wonderful rhythm that he could never repeat. Michael Lehmann's direction captured a mixture of black comedy and drama that he's never been able to repeat. It could be argued that nobody in the cast (with the possible exception of Winona Ryder) has ever been better. Watching Darren Stein's Jawbreaker makes you realize just how difficult it was for Waters and Lehmann to make their film, because in every way Heathers succeeds, Jawbreaker fails.Jawbreaker has nothing new to say about high school, nor about popularity, nor about violence in society. So if you eliminate any hope of subtext, you can also wonder why exactly it doesn't seem funny. Or why the finale seems random an unsatisfying. Or why there's no character development at all. The dialogue isn't neither as smart or as barbed as writer/director Darren Stein seems to think it is, nor is the colorful and sometimes appealingly campy direction really a redeeming feature.The characters are all one dimensional. Rose McGowan, as Courney Alice Shayne, was given more to do in the crappy B movie Devil in the Flesh. She's always watchable, but she's usually more interesting. Rebecca Gayheart is supposed to be the character the audience can identify with, but her I remember when the dorky kids were my friends, back in fourth grade story arc is just ripped off poorly from Heathers. Everybody's easy to look at, but none of the young actors is going to put this one prominantly on their resumes.A string of amusing faces from the past pop up to remind you of a litany of movies that this is not. William Katt makes you yearn for Carrie. Pam Grier makes you year for a campier film like Sheba, Baby or a better film like Jackie Brown. Hell, Carol Kane even makes you yearn for the relative pleasures of a mediocre movie like The Pallbearer.Jawbreaker isn't funny. It isn't original. And it isn't very good. But darned if it doesn't invite another viewing of Heathers. And that's never bad. "},{"Title":"I want more!","Date":"21 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Jawbreaker gave me the feeling of high school comedy meeting a exploitation b-movie, kinda like Mean Girls meets Death proof, or Heathers meets Faster Pussycat! Kill! Kill! I wasn't entirely wrong, even though I don't think I can compare Jawbreaker with either Death Proof of Faster Pussycat! Kill! Kill! Heathers is such a cult movie on its own, it's easy to compare Jawbreaker with it. Both involve bitchy high school girls, murder and dark humour.I find myself loving these kind of movies with black humour. They are stupid, absolutely, but for some reason they are absolutely hilarious. You just know people are going to hate the movie, and it's just part of the fun. The story is horrible yet so absurd it's almost funny. Of course the kidnapping gone wrong seems highly unlikely, yet it also feels plausible. I feel like I should be telling my friends not to try to kidnap me for my birthday. The characters aren't written so well, but they are fun. They are the typical archetypes of high school movies. Rose McGowan plays the most devious high school bitch I've ever seen in a film, and Rebecca Gayheart, Julie Benz and Judy Greer all pose as different kind of characters of the same type. I would've loved to see more of some characters, especially Vera Cruz portrayed by Pam Grier. When I saw her, I thought her part was going to be bigger. I was disappointed.The dialogue in Jawbreaker was just as good as in Heathers. It isn't actually realistic, because the language is extremely colourful, and no one would say several lines from this movie out loud because it wouldn't sound good in any context. But it works in a movie. There are so many details in this movie I love, but one thing I have to mention is the effects when the scene changes. Like the whole movie, they are stupid, but that's part of Jawbreaker's charm.If I had to recommend few songs from the soundtrack of Jawbreaker, I'd say Bad Word For A Good Thing by The Friggs and (Let the) Good Times Roll by The Cars. All the songs were well chosen and they worked. And some of the songs (especially the two mentioned) are like they could be straight from my music library. I love it when this happens while watching a movie.Jawbreaker is stupid but in a funny way. It's obviously dark, so if you have the tendency to get angry at the jokes being too dark for you to enjoy them, then don't bother. I love this film and I want more!Am I horrible if I wanted this to be more violent? "},{"Title":"A bit too morbid for a high school film","Date":"15 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This film tells the story of a group of high school girls who are the spotlights of the school. Their birthday prank of kidnapping their friend goes wrong, and accidentally kills one of them. They go at length to cover their murder up.Right from the very beginning, we see the killing of Liz. The scene looking into the car trunk is very grotesque, and I'm still disturbed by the unsettling image. After that, the film tries to maintain a light hearted tone. The characters are interesting, especially Fern who makes such a great transformation from a shy and unnoticeable girl to a fully fledged attention lover. I like Julie as well because she's the voice of sanity and integrity. The terrifying teen when is a bit too much because she is so self centred that she could not see her grave mistake, and then does spine chilling things subsequently, which is quite sickening. Overall, I think Jawbreaker is a bit too morbid for a high school film. "}{"Title":"Jawbreaker is one of my favourite Teen movies!","Date":"17 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" If I could make a list of he top 10 Teen movies ever made this would be on it! This is a perfect example of black comedy which is dark, Twisted and very FUNNY! The characters in this film are amazing and Rose McGowan is Fantastic as one of the meanest bitches ever Courtney Shane. Julie Benz was also great as the sly and deadly airhead Marcie Fox and Rebecca Gayheart is amazing at good girl Julie who struggles to deal with what happened to her best friend but Can't spill the truth for fear of what courtney will do to do her. The film basically centres around Courtney(Rose McGowan) Marcie(Julie Benz) Julie(Rebecca Gayheart) & Liz(Charlotte Ayanna) who are the most popular girls at Reagan High School who on Liz's 17th birthday pull a prank on her and they tie her up and put her in the trunk of the car but once they open it up to surprise her Liz is dead. Desperately frantic on what they should Cold hearted Bitch Courtney wants to cover it up and make it look like rape whereas Julie being a good girl wants to tell the police about it. However when nerdy outcast Fern Mayo(Judy Greer) uncovers them Courtney makes a deal with her that she will make her popular like them in exchange for her silence about what she saw. This film is a fantastic, funny, cool and enjoyable dark teen comedy that is worth you watching because it is fantastic. 10/10 "},{"Title":"You know what?","Date":"2 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This movie's get go leads spectator to think it'll be ANOTHER teen movie, given that atmosphere is much like every other teen movie. Some scenes after, I could see it was something else. Possibly inspired in 1996's I Know What You Did Last Summer, this film tells a story about some crazy girls that accidentally killed their friend, so they try everything to cover that up. In fact, writers and cast made this movie not a teen one, but an adult version of the thriller I mentioned, so it's not a surprise for me to see how much teenagers disliked this picture when it was released. Also, it's strange/cool to see Rebecca Gayheart playing a normal girl, since it is hard to imagine her in a normal character, after what she portrayed in Urban Legend. One of my few complaints is the lack of interesting plot to run 87 minutes-- this story could've been told in less than an hour. Besides, its final scene is almost identical to Cruel Intentions's. Average movie, just to spend some time. "},{"Title":"less than Heathers and too old for school","Date":"25 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Liz is a nice girl and the most popular in her school. Her three friends accidentally kills her playing a birthday prank when she chokes on a jawbreaker. Mean girl Courtney (Rose McGowan) takes over the leadership. Marcie (Julie Benz) is willing to follow, but Julie (Rebecca Gayheart) is troubled with the death. When geeky Fern (Judy Greer) finds out by chance, she's remade into a popular girl to keep her in line.This has several problems. The most obvious are the girls in their mid 20's, and the Heathers comparison. The girls are all gorgeous. Rose McGowan has a great mean girl persona. But the girls are so visibly too old for high school. It is extremely distracting. And the Heathers comparison doesn't help. The writing and the dialog can't stand up to the comparison. It doesn't have the snappy dialog or the memorable lines. It isn't as funny, and drifts into boring.This movie excels in one thing, and that is the music. It's fun and candy coated which fits the story perfectly. Sure the supermodel walk down the hall is great, but that's a pittance. There's not enough here to recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Entertainment in a murderous teen world","Date":"17 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Jawbreaker is a teen movie about image, deceit, manipulation, and murder.The good. Very interesting story and characters. Nice intrigue. Well done evil plan. A teen flick with it's own dark-glamour style.The actors. Rose McGowan, Rebecca Gayheart, Julie Benz, and Judy Greer are great. I have to mention though, that Ethan Erickson is hilarious in a straight face kind of way as the dumb jock.The bad. A bit over-glamorous, but it fits the flick. Serves us some clichés.The ugly. Zack is too simple a character.The result. A nice teen movie that can be watched by anybody considering the seriousness of the subject. "},{"Title":"Unexpected Course of Events","Date":"31 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" There are 4 popular girls in Reagan High School Courtney (Rose McGowan), Marcie (Julie Benz), Julie (Rebecca Gayheart) and Liz (Charlotte Ayanna). The first three decide to play a joke on Liz by kidnapping her and in doing so they put a jawbreaker in her mouth to keep her from screaming. Unfortunately, she suffocates on it and dies. So the ringleader (Courtney) decides that they need to cover it up. While in the process of doing this the school loser, Fern Mayo (Judy Greer) happens to walk in at the wrong moment and so they decide to make her one of them in order to keep her quiet. Now, rather than detailing what happens next I will just say that things seem to take a life of their own after this. And while I thought it was entertaining at times, I wasn't impressed by the humor as much as I liked the unexpected course of events. As far as the acting was concerned, other than possibly Rebecca Gayheart nobody really stood out in my mind. In short, this was an average movie which some might like and some may not. "},{"Title":"My guilty pleasure","Date":"28 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" In the interests of full disclosure, I should confess I have a weakness for any film in which actresses in their mid 20s play teenagers, but when two of those actresses are Rose McGowan AND Rebecca Gayheart, how can a film not be watchable? Many commenters have complained that Jawbreaker was very similar to Heathers (1988) but not as good. So what? If you want to see a film just like Heathers then go watch Heathers. Although generally panned by critics, Jawbreaker is nonetheless a cut above most 'high school' movies. The sound track fits the film better than is the case with most others of this genre. I particularly liked the use of Imperial Teen's Yoo Hoo, and the playing of Young at Heart during Courtney's (McGowan) meltdown. The use of such irony and cross reference is enough to show the makers are not taking it all too seriously, but not so much that the film becomes camp. I'm curious as to the geographic distribution of the negative vis-a- vis positive comments. My bet is that those who are more familiar with L.A. high school life had a better appreciation for Jawbreaker than might those living elsewhere. "},{"Title":"Girls will be girls.","Date":"14 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" JAWBREAKER at different points will remind you a little of HEATHERS(1988), just not as bleak and devious. The most powerful clique at Reagan High is four best friends(Rose McGowen, Rebecca Gayheart, Julie Benz and Charlotte Ayanna) drawn together by their appreciation and devotion to each other. No doubt the most beautiful girls in the school and at the height of their popularity must deal with an unexpected situation ...an innocent birthday prank ends in the accidental death(choking on a jawbreaker) of one of them. Unfortunately their attempts at a cover up is overheard by the school nerd(Judy Greer)and her price for silence is to be made over with the chance to run with the hot chicks. Death totally bites and the devilish divas in heels will find it harder to keep their secret.Also in the castTatyana Ali, Jane Leigh Connelly, Carol Kane, Pam Grier, Jeff Conaway and William Katt. The JAWBREAKER soundtrack pleasant, but not overly memorable features the likes of Grand Mal, Scorpions, Shampoo, Imperial Teen and The Donnas. "},{"Title":"A lot better than you would think","Date":"19 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This film is sort of similar to mean girls (well, mean girls would be similar to this), but a lot more daring and darker. The characters make the movie what it is. Rose McGowan does a great job as a evil, manipulating bitch who stops at nothing to live her perfect life. The rest of the cast also did really good. The storyline is over the top, but it makes a great riot. Plus, the film actually has some morale to it, showing the good and bad side to human nature. If you like cult films, watch it. And definitely watch it if you are a fan of anyone in the cast. I rate this 7/10. Rated R for sexuality,language and violence-all involving teens. "},{"Title":"a stupid idea somehow turned into a full-length movie","Date":"12 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Annoying, unfunny, ill-conceived Heathers wannabe about three autocratic high school vixens who rule their school, that is until an accidental murder threatens to tarnish their reputation. In order to conceal the crime, they're forced to adopt the school's biggest nerd as a member of their crew, but the plan backfires in more ways than one. Considering the film's ridiculous setup you have to wonder if anyone actually read the script before they broke ground on this dreary nonsense. Another case of a pointless, unnecessary, and desperately padded film trying to squeeze as much as it can out of the appeal and antics of a talented cast, but here it ceases to matter. A waste of time and not even worth the effort. * "},{"Title":"A Good Watch","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is one of my favourite films. It's not the greatest film ever or anything like that but it is one of those film I could watch a million times and never get tired of. People compare this film to Heathers a lot with Jawbreaker always coming up short. There are some similarities but I don't consider this film an attempt at a 90s version of the aforementioned Heathers. I think the four lead characters namely Courtney (Rose McGowan), Julie (Rebecca Gayheart), Marcie(Julie Benz) and Fern/Vylett(Judy Greer) do quite well and are entertaining to watch and they all seem to work well together. I like Rose McGowan and think she plays the role of the mean popular girl very convincingly. All in all this film is a good watch. It's not Oscar material or filled with compelling dialogue throughout but it is worth a watch on a rainy evening or on a night in. "}{"Title":"awesome teen flick","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Jawbreaker is one those dark teen comedies that are full of twists and turns, and have a major edge. the acting is good and for a low-budget independent film, it's really IMPRESSIVE. I first saw jawbreaker on HBO after catching the middle scene with Rose McGowan a few days before. I really liked it, so i got the VHS. After i showed it to all my fiends i became mildly obsessed. The story line and plot are smart. This movie is an anthem and really enjoyable. Lots of people don't see it, but i think Jawbreaker has a message behind it.I recommend it to everybody!I give JAWBREAKER (7/10) This is high school, what is a friend anyway? - Judy Greer (Fern Vylette Mayo) "},{"Title":"A firecracker of a movie","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Jawbreaker is a colorful firecracker of a movie that's a definite part of that dark teen movie genre. It's sort of Heathers meets Cruel intentions meets Wild things meets the more recent Mean girls-punk style. This is one of those movies that I only rated a 6, because it isn't terribly original or well done, but will say I've seen several times and moderately enjoyed it , though I'm the first to admit this isn't exactly A great movie.For fans of these types of movies though, which I sometimes am, it isn't the worst choice one could make. The movie is dark, creepy, a bit campy and at times very interesting and it's got a great cast who, as a whole give the movie an energy it probably wouldn't have had with a less talented group.WARNING-SPOILERS THROUGHOUT POST Once you start watching Jawbreaker, your not likely to turn it off because you want to see how it ends. And what an ending! Though it rips off Cruel Intentions a bit, I loved the ending, I mean who wouldn't want to see Courtney get her due? I gotta give Rose Magowen credit, she plays the heck out of this part and succeeds in making Courtney an absolutely despicable, unlikeable villainess. All the characters were vivid and interesting, the subplot of Fern's transformation was both entertaining and a bit disturbing.Jawbreaker's ending has been criticized but I think it is pretty obvious that Courtney will go to jail. I liked the way the truth comes out, it was pretty creative and I loved watching Courtney's fall from grace at the prom.Jawbreaker isn't for everyone, it's dark, it's nasty, and a bit violent, but it doesn't take itself to seriously and it can be watched more then once, best to watch in a group. I happen to like movies about the dark side of trying to fit in and while Jawbreakers doesn't exactly break any new ground, if one is in the right mood, it's a fun hour and something minutes watching. "},{"Title":"This isn't that bad really.","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I've seen this movie so many times and i really really like it. It's not one of my favorites or anything but it's really good. The girls are really beautiful too. The plot is kinda far-fetched, but all in all its a good movie. well to me. this movie is so good because it has such a good score, though not fabulous. It's definitely a movie that gets better on the second viewing, not Lost in Translation quality but is improving. People judge it as a teen movie. I judge it as a crime-drama, i don't mean a good one though. not for that genre. As a teen movie though, it kinda is good.Jawbreaker 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"i found it surprisingly good!!","Date":"18 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" when i first saw this movie i was surprised it was very good i think rose mcgowan played the role of courtney really well, the only thing i was a little disappointed in was the ending it seemed to be over quickly and nothing really happened to her although they show a detective trying to find lizzie's murderer they don't really seem to capture the whole she done it thing - i don't know maybe it was me but the ending could have been slightly better as there were 3 people involved with the fake kidnapping although julie felt really guilty foxy seemed to get a way with the whole embarrassing ending.. maybe they just think imaginations will pick up the rest.. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  No one can say that this isn't a genius comedy that keeps you laughing and wondering what will happen. The girls play a little prank on their best friend's 17th birthday. They plan to kidnap her and put her in the trunk and have a few laughs, but Courtney has a little idea she doesn't share with her friends. She puts a Jawbreaker in Liz's mouth to keep her quiet. They stop at a store to pop the trunk and reveal what just happened to Liz but she's dead and somethings stuck in her throat. A Jawbreaker. Rose McGowan plays the role Courtney Shayne so perfect that it's creepy. Julie Freedman (Rebecca Gayheart) is the sweet girl that doesn't want to just over-look her best friend's death so she strays her friends and tries to fit into other crowds. Marcie Fox (Julie Benz) is a follower who lives in her own little world in her head. Fern Mayo (Judy Greer) brings Liz's (Charlotte Ayanna) homework to her house and witnesses the girls putting her dead body in her bed. To make sure she won't tell, They make her over and let her be in their crowd. Fern gets a new name (Violet) and becomes popular for the first time in her life, but is she getting too popular? Courtney certainly thinks so, so she reveals the the secret that Violet is really Fern Mayo. Fern and Julie gang up and plan to tell Courtney's little secret in front of the whole prom. This is a great movie to watch with your friends.  "},{"Title":"bad movie, good soundtrack","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is certainly bad. But watching it on a Sunday afternoon, with nothing much else to do, it was passible entertainment. The dialog was not great, but the idea of the makeover perhaps preceded the current rash of reality shows (e.g. The Swan) by many years. And it's thoughtful too isn't fern a reference to a plant, and then it grows into a violet?The highschool theme was mush better in Heathers, and it's really a very similar plot. But without the dark edge.However, the soundtrack is great. I loved the girl band at the prom and many other songs are rocking. So listen to the music and don't worry too much about the cliché-ridden script.  "},{"Title":"Rose shines as the sun!","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Rose became in one of my favorites actress ever, this blondie bring me good hours, first of all, i watched on Scream playing Tatum Riley, she died in the movie, but in Phantoms she came back to me. Jawbreaker is the best suspense movie with a little mix of dark comedy. Rose (Charmed), Rebecca Gayheart (Urban Legend) and Julie Benz (Buffy).The perfect combination of good jokes and some murders, specially the liz one, she died so young and all was the fault from Courteney (Rose). Meanwhile someone discovers their secret and Fern took her place. Enjoy it! "},{"Title":"Creative teen comedy but not much","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  What I like about the movie is the fact that inspite of being the typical Hollywood take on High schools in the US, the movie has more to offer. The plot is different than the usual. Although the movie majorly lacks a good ending, it is watchable. "},{"Title":"i thought this movie had some funny parts","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I thought the movie was a bit entertaining, for example, Fern's obsession with the prom queen was a bit hilarious, but the acting in this movie was horrible in my opinion, especially Rose McGowan's. the movie just didn't make sense sometime to me wether it was a comedy or drama, or love story. this movie seemed to shift around the entire time and lost its point. overall, I would recommend this movie for someone just in the mood for a stupid movie. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Good story well done, soundtrack works. What sucks is the clothes OMG they are god awful. no im not so shallow as to judge the whole thing by the clothes. This movie could be timeless but the clothes ruin it, that mid 90s looking crap BLECH. ALso, the guy who helps screw over Courtney in the end, he sucks. HEs ugly and he doesnt go right, should have been cast as someone else. Stil a very good movie reminiscent of heathers, though heathers is better. "}{"Title":"Good","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Good story well done, soundtrack works. What sucks is the clothes OMG they are god awful. no im not so shallow as to judge the whole thing by the clothes. This movie could be timeless but the clothes ruin it, that mid 90s looking crap BLECH. ALso, the guy who helps screw over Courtney in the end, he sucks. HEs ugly and he doesnt go right, should have been cast as someone else. Stil a very good movie reminiscent of heathers, though heathers is better. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Good story well done, soundtrack works. What sucks is the clothes OMG they are god awful. no im not so shallow as to judge the whole thing by the clothes. This movie could be timeless but the clothes ruin it, that mid 90s looking crap BLECH. ALso, the guy who helps screw over Courtney in the end, he sucks. HEs ugly and he doesnt go right, should have been cast as someone else. Stil a very good movie reminiscent of heathers, though heathers is better. "},{"Title":"Jawbreaker A guilty pleasure.","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I like to think that I'm open-minded when it comes to movies, and I thought Jawbreaker was a good movie.  I know the difference between a good movie and a bad movie, and I don't see anything wrong with Jawbreaker.  It's not the greatest, but it's still one of my favorites.  It's entertaining and refreshing, even if a bit unrealistic.  The music is good and the plot was not stale.  Yes, I'm sometimes a little ashamed to love it as much as I do, but what can ya do?  See it.  It's not boring, and that's pretty much all I can say. "},{"Title":"Jawbreaker (1999)","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Every once in a while, amongst the annual myriad of Oscar-bound critics' picks and big-budgeted flops, there comes a film that is so awful, so degrading, and so insulting that you wouldn't wish it's viewing on your worst enemy. Jawbreaker is such a film. Part teen comedy, part murder story, and part cautionary tale, Jawbreaker is mostly garbage. It's another cheap attempt to recapture the rare chemistry between dark comedy and social satire that provided a perfect blend in 1989's cult classic Heathers, and it fails miserably. The plot of Jawbreaker revolves around three high school tarts who try to pull a cruel prank on their friend and end up murdering her instead. Everything beyond that is a clipshow of overdone teen scenarios assembled from hundreds of preceding self-labeled comedies that fail to deliver a single chuckle. But not only does Jawbreaker fail to provide any form of humor, it reaches that rare low-point that makes it truly painful to watch. This innocent girl's death is treated with such levity that the film tries to pass off shots of her cold, limp, and pale body as comic relief. After enduring the first twenty minutes of this train wreck I wanted to stop the film, burn the reels, decontaminate the ashes, and bury them at the bottom of a New Jersey sewer. There is not a single positive remark that can be made about it. The pacing -- or lack thereof -- is highly unbalanced, the performances are strenuous, the screenplay doesn't display any creative thought, and the editing made me feel as if the director had taken a pair of scissors and made random cuts in the work print (something I wouldn't mind doing to the final product). While viewing it I was reminded of something Mike Nelson said in an episode of Mystery Science Theater 3000 Just because you CAN edit, doesn't mean you SHOULD. No one -- not even a convicted serial killer -- deserves to undergo the grueling experience of watching this movie. I would almost be willing to travel back in time and prevent the invention of film in order that the reels of this stinkbomb never saw the light of day. Almost.Star rating waived due to level of senseless perversion and unnecessary degradation presented by the film. "},{"Title":"Clever and cynical","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, okay, I understand that the plot of this movie is somewhat stupid, but as a teen girl, I loved it. The dialogue is clever, although unrealistic. My favorite character is Courtney Satan-in-heels Shane. Marcie Fox is your stereotypical dumb blonde, Julie is the angelic one and Liz Purr is the perfect teen. I watch this movie so much my parents are sick of it!!!! 8/10 "},{"Title":"Brian Warner actually had a part in the movie!! Not just a song.","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  If there's anyone who has ever seen Marylin Manson without his makeup (see the video for NIN's Gave Up please.. He's playing the red guitar.) You would've noticed that in the scene where they're devising the unfortunate rape that the guy wearing the mustache and junk at the counter is actually Brian Hugh Warner (Marylin Manson)Also RoseMcGowan plays in this movie. Wasn't that his girlfriend?? I loved this movie and I love Marylin Manson (but I love Trent Reznor moreso) and I don't give a damn what anyone thinks of that. Great movie.I got an idea.. I want to see Manson do an anime, or maybe a videogame rpg. Trent did work on Quake 2. I wonder what Brian could create.-BlazeFoxKitsune =^.^ My name is Kagome! Kah-Go-May!!!- Inuyasha "},{"Title":"Not Academy-Award material, but still a good flick","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this movie about a year ago with some of my girlfriends on a Saturday afternoon. I don't know what it was, but something just happened. I LOVED this movie! I identified with Judy Greer's character, because I'm often not being myself in order to be popular. I laughed at this movie, which is why I now have a thing for dark comedies. Rose McGowan and Rebecca Gayheart are on my list for favorite actresses, and I've watched this movie 35 times. I can't get enough of it!  "},{"Title":"Ick.","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't actually see the whole movie, only the opening scene. I think I must say that I felt more disgusted, physically, at the end of that then during the entirety of A Clockwork Orange. I couldn't even continue watching this movie, which looked like it was going to be tremendously stupid, anyway. Stay away, or risk nearly throwing up, like me. Shudder. "},{"Title":"did any of you actually see either heathers or jawbreaker?","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Jawbreaker, just so all you retards out there understand, is NOT about suicide.  Heathers, is all about suicide.  Granted the suicides in Heathers are really murders in disguise but that brings up another point.  The murder in Jawbreaker is an accident.  In Heathers the murders are most definately intentional.  In Heathers the cast memebers are asked to do the following.  Do we believe that our seemingly happy, well adjusted popular teens are committing suicide or do we believe that one of our seemingly sad outcast unpopular teens is murdering the popular kids.  Because suicide in the 80's was seemingly trendy, the cast chooses to believe that perfectly normal kids are caught up in death because its trendy, instead of the more reasonable obvious approach.  So what does Jawbreaker ask?  Simple, how evil can popular kids be?  Whereas the conclusions reached in heathers is pretty off the wall.  Yet it explains quite simply the way the rest of the world (adults) view high school.  In Jawbreaker the conclusion is pretty evil.  We believe that they can be so bad that even the sweetest girl has a dark underbelly.  And truthfully that is how high school kids actually see themselves.  So where Heathers is about people on the inside looking out, Jawbreaker is people on the inside looking even deeper in. So next time you compare the two movies, sit down and watch them first.  You'll be suprised because strangely enough...they aren't even remotely similar.  In fact if I had to compare Jawbreaker to another film, it would have to be Carrie.  Which is why I'll have to agree with another imdb user and say that Jawbreaker verges on horror.   "},{"Title":"Rose McGowan is simply beautiful, but the rest...","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Kinky in all of her attitudes, Rose rescues this movie from mediocrity. Yes, there are some good video-clip scenes, and when the director decides to turn the movie a little more dark (see Marilyn Manson) is quite enjoyable, but the story is very poor and some dialogues are a little bit disregarded. I have to repeat you have to see this movie for Rose McGowan, you will love this nasty nasty teen... Unforgettable the ice-cream-with-jock scene!!! "}{"Title":"Sweet, sexy, clever, and extremely sugary*","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  If there were another star I'd give it to this movie, because the lines are so unpredictable... the outfits totally match the scenary and props... The characters were nicely casted... Rose McGowan was borned to play Courtney Shane and Julie Benz was the perfect ditz for Marcie Fox (Foxy).  On the other hand, Rebecca Gayheart was the perfect ingredient for this movie as Julie Freemont... Judy Greer as Fern Mayo does a FANTASTIC job going from a geeky role to a fake beauty.  The evilness of this movie grabs you, and so does the aspect of daily highschool life.  This is not a movie to watch with your kids but it's a nice film to watch when friends are over just to get a kick out of* "},{"Title":"Killer movie!","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  At first glance, Jawbreaker looked like a typical teen movie. Several pretty actresses, most of which I had seen elsewhere.Settling down to watch it with my sister, I found it wasn't just another teen movie. It was so much more than that. It was sharp and sassy with a well-chosen script and cast. The girls showed such powerful chemistry between them, I was in awe. Rose McGowan was priceless as the heartless, ring leader and Julie Benz (One of my favourite actresses) was loveable as the yappy side-kick. Rebecca Gayheart shone as the moralist Julie - I connected with her and grew to care what happened to her and how the story would unravel.I didn't care for 'Fern Mayo', not offense to the actress who played her, but I found the 'improved' Fern was nothing compared to the previous one. One scene, involving loud music and a bonnet of a shiny, red sports car, left me speechless. I had no idea what was going on!The cast suited their roles perfectly and I doubt other actresses could have played the popular crowd better. The script was cool, calm and witty and most pleasing to listen to. The clothes, brightly coloured and very tight, were both revolting and irresistable at the same time.To conclude, I thought Jawbreaker was a refreshing change from the norm and a film every teenager/young adult should see. It offered entertainment and enjoyment - so much that I'm soon to buy it. 10/10! "},{"Title":"horrible, pathetic, and utterly fun to watch","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Jawbreaker is awful.  I mean, it is bad.  It has no redeeming qualities what-so-ever.  There isn't a single performance that's even close to passably good (with the possible exception of Marylin Manson).  For all these reasons, I adore this movie.  It's like watching a guy try to sing a touching love song at a karaoke bar to impress his girlfriend.  You laugh at it, but you pity the people involved tremendously.  I'm not sure if that makes sense, but that's how I feel about this movie.  They try hard, but they fail, and in that failure they provide tremendous amusement. "},{"Title":"An excellent teen flick devised for us young ones!","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  OH MY GOD!! I absolutely loved this teen movie. Director Darren Stein shows us his talent as he directs one of the most fabulous entertaining funny black comedy movies of all time. Rose McGowan, Rebecca Gayheart and Julie Benz deserve oscars for the work they portrayed in this movie, they make us believe that the situation is really happening. I loved the cast, soundtrack and especially the movie! 10/10!  "},{"Title":"Interesting and fun movie for a rainy day!","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I think that Jawbreaker is quite an enjoyable movie for anyone who doesn't want a deep, meaningful movie and is just looking for a good time. The characters are interesting because they're not your typical popular girls in the movies who are just dumb and beautiful. these girls are pretty, wear cute outfits and are generally intelligent, sometimes saying things that i don't even understand the first time. "},{"Title":"Bittersweet (There Might Be a Spoiler Here)","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I'm not afraid to say at all that I liked this movie a great deal. And it's not just the soundtrack. Great songs by The Friggs, Imperial Teen, and Grand Mal.I like the fact that it was more intelligent than the average teen movie. A perfect mix of CLUELESS and HEATHERS, all viewers who liked and disliked have noticed that the two were paths simply not meant to be crossed together. When you do, you get a rash of apathetic and devious characters which is a little hard like they would be in real life.One of the reasons I have always thought this should be considered a horror film is because of it's purpose. This film is meant to take a certain amount of delight in the cruelty humans in different positions impose on one another simply to get ahead of where they are. The setting is High School. Statistically, it's impossible to complete 4 years of High School without being acquainted with someone who would go on to commit suicide. It's that sort of quality that makes High School the perfect place to document cruelty. Now, this movie may attempt to be cruel and fail in the eyes of critics (those who would say the film is just skilled in keeping the agenda mean and the vision particularly grotesque in it's obsession with beauty which makes it ugly). I think the film not only delivers plenty of great one liners, but also makes acceptable an equal quantity of cruelty and ugliness. But best of all, it does so in such a stylish way.  "},{"Title":"Nothing is as simple as it looks","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Why I even bother to comment on this film?First, as tacky as it is, there is a point in the film. And it's this some kids would die for popularity. Not all of us are blessed with good looks, money to burn or hotty of a boyfriend. This film isn't meant to be realistic or to be taken seriously. But it has its moments. I think that the sarcasm bites if one doesn't watch this film as a teen flick. Jawbreaker doesn't have a message or political meaning, it's purely entertainment. But it makes people think about popularity. It makes teens think about popularity. It shows how obsessed the girls are with their attempts to be noticed, envied and admired. Now mistakes -or else you fall on the bottom, and fast.So don't expect it to be an artistic masterpiece or the film of the life-time. Expect it to be sarcastic and so annoyingly teen that it's actually funny. "},{"Title":"I Love Jawbreakers!","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"    Jawbreaker is a great and hilarious black comedy with a great and revengeful ending. Rose McGowan, Rebecca Gayheart, and Julie Benz are great!!!                         ****EXTREME SPOILER ALERT****                       I also love the ending when Julie (Rebecca Gayheart) and her boyfriend Zack and Fern as known as Vylett hook up onto the speakers of Courtney's voice saying I killed the teen dream. Get over it. I absoluteley loved the ending!!!                       **** END OF EXTREME SPOILER**** All in all, Jawbreaker is a great film with a terrific cast that deserves a 10 out of 10!!!!   ) "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I gave this movie a nine because only a couple of things bothered me. First, how can anyone choke on a jawbreaker so big, and Rose say it with me SUNLIGHT! I know alot of people who hate getting a tan, but honey, you need one. Sure it's no Heathers, but the plot is good. The acting was great. Rose McGowan did a good job as queen bitch, Rebecca Gayheart does a good job as Ms. Sweet and inicant, and Julie Benz, who I never heard of by the way, did a good job on her part. Judy Greer was okay, but she's not great, and Pam Grier was also one of the excellant ones.9/10 "},{"Title":"Sweeeeet........","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I dunno what dis movie is about, but lots of pretty ladies are in it, with an ending just like the one from my other fave movie, Cruel intentions, which also has pretty ladies..... If you like bimbo's with no plot, dis movie's for u......I like 'em a lot..... "}{"Title":"Jawbreaker Is Brilliant!","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"                              *****SPOILERS*****Jawbreaker is a great movie which is really exciting. I have no idea why the film didn't do too well, when it was released but all I can say is that it's brilliant and I'd recommend it to anyone. The cast in the film is perfect too. Rose McGowan is great Courtney Alice Shayne, who's a right b*tch but still popular and who even kills a member of her group, Liz Purr by gagging her with a Jawbreaker. Instead of owning up, she makes out that Liz was raped and tells her 'friends' Julie and Marcie, who were with her when this happened, that if they tell anyone, they will be finished. Rebecca Gayheart is also really great as Julie Freeman, a girl who soon realises that being popular is not so good and doesn't want anything do with Courtney, after she gagged Liz with a Jawbreaker so she leaves the group and becomes quite unpopular with everyone. Julie Benz is also really good as Marcie Fox, a popular girl who's a bit of a follower towards Courtney. Then, of course there's Judy Greer who's really good as Fern Mayo, a nerd who finds out what Courtney has done. Courtney tells Fern that if she doesn't tell anyone, she will make her popular. Fern doesn't know what to do at first, but then she agrees and she's turned in to a new popular girl with new make-over and a new name-Vylette.When Vylette soon realises her new popularity, she ends up turning into a b*tch just like Courtney. Courtney is not too happy about this and ends up exposing Vylette for the nerd she really is-Fern. Fern then realises how cruel Courtney is, so she and Julie make a plan to get Courtney back and make sure that everyone knows what really happened to Liz Purr, with a little help from Julie's new boyfriend Zak. When everyone finds out at the prom what really happened, Courtney is branded a killer and gets what is coming to her.  Anyway, Jawbreaker is absolutely brilliant and I give the film a 10/10  "},{"Title":"JAWBREAKER ROCKS HOW MUCH CLOSER CAN WE GET TO THE REAL THING","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is truly awesome i mean why wouldn't it be it has one of the hottest chicks around Rose McGowan (from scream & Monkey Bone) plus Rebecca Gayheart (from Urban Legend & Scream 2) not to mention Julie Benz from the hot series Roswell these three girls are sexy popular and they know how to have a fun time ........Courtney Alice Shane decides to have a little fun and kidnaps her best friend and accidently kills her jamming a JAWBREAKER  in her throat so she doesn't scream .....when they open up the car boot where they had shoved her in they found her dead with a JAWBREAKER in her throat they decided not to tell anyone and put her back in the bed and make it look like she's been raped 100% fun kick ass non stop action a+ i highly recommend it i enjoyed it so much me and my best friend have brought it thanks please watch it I'm sure you will enjoy it thank you imbd you ROCK JAWBREAKER JAWBREAKER JAWBREAKER JAWBREAKER JAWBREAKER JAWBREAKER  "},{"Title":"Awkward and Creative","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I never had any intentions or desires to see this when it was playing at the theaters a while back. To be honest, I can't even remember seeing the movie advertised. One night I recorded it by mistake, but I am really glad that I caught it at all. I was so impressed with the cast and the plot.We can all call this a pretty weird tale. The thing that captured my attention was that the most important part happened within the first three minutes. It didn't waste any time getting to the point and that is what I like in a movie. The plot is definitely out there, but that is what makes the movie so good. I enjoyed watching Rose McGowan play the evil Courtney because I don't hear too much about her. And boy can she play evil. Her role and character isn't too complicated, but enough so that we understand her thoroughly. I also liked how Rebecca Gayheart was included in the cast. Julie Benz, who I had never heard of, gives a good performance as well. All of the girls play the different parts with a lot of different directions that they are all good in their own ways. An excellent cast!While I very much liked the plot and cast, I disliked the stereotypical picture that was drawn for the characters and NOT the actors. I know that I am getting nitpicky here, but when I watch a movie, I like to see a real high school with real students in real wardrobes. This movie didn't have any of that. Also, a lot of characters were introduced to the audience that really didn't have an effect on the film. The script was also a little boring with very few comical or interesting situations. The writing was a no-brainer. Jawbreaker did have a lot of down falls, but it was good to see a movie with such a weird outline drawn. I'm a little disappointed that the film didn't do too well at the theaters. Maybe because it is different is what pushed most teenagers away. "},{"Title":"Pretty girls!","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't like the movie as much as I expected. The script could be better, but the girls are really beautiful and it worth to see it only because them. Don't rent it, don't go to the theater, but if you can see it at HBO you will not lose anymore than 1.5 hours ;) "},{"Title":"Very GOOD!","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Great acting,Great chemistry,Great Movie! I hated the character Fern/Vylette and my fave character was Courtney and Julie. I also hated Marcie Fox and how everytime she was introduced she HAD to say Foxy that was too annoying for words. My fave scene is the beggining one and the one where the guy who played Kenickie from Grease is Marice's father and is lecturing her! That is so funny. Tatayana Ali shouldnt have been an actress and the revenge scenes r funny also. Very good. 7/10 PEACE! "},{"Title":"A really weird movie, but it's great.","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING One could figure out the ending from my comments, even though I have not given it away. If you haven't seen the film, stop reading now.What a weird film!. It belongs to no specific genre, but is a mixture of drama, teen comedy, police-thriller, and horror genres. The film is a tongue-in-cheek, (almost) black comedy about three girls who try to conceal a murder, and the results of their deception.At first the film seemed like a typical movie for teens, about three girls who were the modern version of the Pink Ladies in Grease. (You know, the girls who rule the school.). But within the first few moments, you are in for a big surprise.One bit that bothered me was that the girls did not take enough care with the dead body.  When they took the body from the car and went up the stairs in Liz's house, Courtney and Julie were touching the dead girl's flesh with their bare hands. They only put gloves on when they handled the body in the bed. Then, after handling the body, Marcie and Courtney removed the gloves and proceeded to leave fingerprints all over the place. In reality, the police would have been able to catch them quite easily.One point in the film is open to interpretation. That is, did Courtney arrange for the man to have sex with the dead body? The obvious answer is no, and that Courtney had sex with the guy in the bed so that the man's semen would be left on the bed. However, the presence of the man's semen on the bed would only prove that he was there, and would be, at best, only very strong circumstantial for murder.I believe that Courtney wanted the police to believe Liz was raped. I base that on the following bit of dialogue that occurs when the three girls are in Liz's bedroom just after they prepare the bodyCourtney They'll see that she was raped. Julie         You can't just say she was raped because she's laying on the bed with her legs spread.I believe that Julie's comments made Courtney realize she had to make it look like Liz was really raped. And the only way to do this would be to have the man have sex with the dead body. If Courtney didn't do this, the police, because they use proper forensic procedures, would know the body wasn't raped. If there was no evidence of penetration or semen in the vagina, no one would think it was rape.In another scene, Courtney saysThey'll believe it because it's their worst nightmare. Elizabeth Purr, the very picture of teenage perfection, obliterated by perversion.Murder alone would be not be perverted enough for the appearance that Courtney was trying to achieve, but Liz being raped and murdered would be.In the scene where the man is shown humping, he is superimposed over an image of the dead body. This same technique of superimposition is used when Julie walks down the hall and passes a kneeling student. The director is playing with the nature of reality with this technique. Therefore, the fact that we do not directly see the man having sex with the body, does not mean he didn't. I believe the superimposition technique suggests a link between the humping man and the body, which could be interpreted that he is penetrating her.  Also, I think the director only suggested the rape because showing it in a more obvious manner would probably have been too much for the audience. (N.B. The fact that we see Courtney on top of the man proves that she had sex with him at some stage in the proceedings. It doesn't mean he didn't have sex with the dead body as well.)There was also a problem with the character Fern. When she found the girls out, they bribed her to keep quiet by letting her join their cool group. Fern was an A student and a person with character. She would not be the type of person to become an accomplice after the fact. A make-over would not be sufficient motivation for her to keep quiet.I loved the surrealistic scene where Julie was walking down the hall with the principal's voice in the background announcing the death of Marcia's friend. The others students are as still as statues, and one looks to be praying. There was no music. All you hear is the principal's voice and the clack-clack of Marcia's footsteps. The scene made me feel uneasy.Three brief scenes showing the girl's classes were brilliant. First, In Julie's English class, the topic was Shakespeare's play, Macbeth. (The play is about a man who suffered extreme guilt because he committed a murder.)We see Julie's reaction to the teacher discussing this guilt and we really understand how guilt is eating at Julie. The second scene was a very macabre one about human anatomy. The third scene, a home economics lesson, was also macabre.  The teacher had the students practice cracking open eggs. The students open their eggs and, when a Gothic student observes one of the eggs being opened, she points to it and says, Cool, you got a still born.All the male characters play a secondary role to the female characters. In one scene, the father can not stand up to his daughter. Also, the tough detective is female.The DVD is great. In the director's commentary, Darren Stein tells us why he made the film, he shares with us how the film Carrie influenced him, and he explains what he was thinking about when he directed particular scenes, His comments are especially enlightening considering he was not only the director, but also the writer.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable and highly underrated.","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I was hoping that this wouldn't turn out like The Mod Squad, a teen flick which wasted 90+ minutes of my life.  Jawbreaker, which comes in under 90 minutes was a surprisingly good, if predictable film, with a sweet & sour ending.I look forward to seeing Rebecca Gayheart, a teen screen beauty and her partners in crime (Julie Benz and Rose McGowan), as well as the victim (Charlotte Ayanna) of a harmless gag gone horrifically wrong in future films.  They are truly eye candy (for guys anyway).You can't go wrong with a school girl, whose life changes when she is transformed from geek to goddess and changes her name from Fern to Vylette.  Ahh...Vylette!  What a name and what a shame how her 15 minutes of fame go down the drain!Rating 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Best teen comedy of the 90s","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I was blown away when I first saw jawbreaker in February of 1999.  I just couldn't get over how amazingly good this film was.  A refreshing break from all those PG-13 rated romantic teen comedies.  We need more teen comedies like this and other dark comedies like teaching mrs. tingle and drop dead gorgeous.  Congratulations to a job well down by Darren stein and the cast especially Rose Mcgowan.  I almost punched my t.v. when she lost best villain at the mtv movie awards.  This movie is a cult hit and needs the wide audience it deserves.  Tristar pictures didn't know what audience to direct this at.  It should play at midnight shows around the world like the rocky horror picture show.  Everyone who hated this movie can kiss my ass. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good.","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Everybody told me that this was a terrible movie, so I didn't expect much. But in actual fact, this is a really good movie. Of course, it could have been better.One of the things I noticed that stopped it from being a five star movie is that the kidnapping and death happen way too early.. before the opening credits in fact. Movies should spread out things like that. We should have gotten to know the characters a little.This isn't much of a comedy.. more of a black comedy, but there are still a few laughs. "},{"Title":"Great fun, great writing, great costumes!","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I'm quite surprised at the majority of the reviews that have been written of this movie.  I believe this is truly a love or hate movie.  Personally, I LOVED IT.  I thoroughly agree with the assessment that it is a cross between Heathers, Carrie, and Clueless.  The writing is sharp as a razor.  If you don't pay attention, you'll miss a lot.  This is one of those movies to watch again and again.Rose McGowan plays her character as evil incarnate and does it FLAWLESSLY.  Kudos to Rebecca Gayheart and Judy Greer as well as the rest of the supporting cast.I'll admit the plot is a bit implausible (there's NO way that jawbreaker got past her throat), but let's remember, shall we, that IT'S A MOVIE.  If I wanted reality, I wouldn't need movies to escape!So keep an open mind, watch Jawbreakers, and have FUN.  Darren Stein did a fantastic job with this one.  I'm looking forward to his next foray into the film world.This one gets a 10 from me.  It's one of those movies where the humor is so black you can't help but laugh. "}{"Title":"Gag me!","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The first five seconds hooked me.  It was great up until seeing a graying corpse with a humongous lump in its throat (courtesy of the queen bitch, Courtney, who decides it'd be funny to stuff a hunking Jawbreaker down her friend's throat).  That was an incredible turn-off right there.The movie was all down-hill from there.  There's no real ending, and though I won't reveal it, it was incredibly disappointing.  After everything that happens and everything Courtney does, you expect a bigger bang of an ending.  Plus, the acting is really, really bad.  Sorry, Ms. McGowen, but you weren't frightening at all.  And these people were supposed to be high schoolers?  'Julie' looked like late twenties at the least!   One comes away from this movie feeling very depressed.  After nearly 2 hours of awful acting, people lugging dead bodies around, and kinky sex (which isn't bad, as long as it's done right, which it certainly wasn't in this movie! 'Help me, I've forgotton how'?  Please!), the ending was disappointing.    Clueless was way better.  I'd give this stinker a 0 but the scale doesn't dip down that far. "},{"Title":"An entertaining and funny film","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I bought the film on a whim and I'm glad I did, it was entertaining and funny and didn't take itself too seriously.Not a film for a thinker but that's not why I watch films like this.  Loose yourself for a while it won't kill you.  Watch for a good laugh.  "},{"Title":"Witty dialogue and good performances can't save this","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  You have to love black comedies and be able to stomach 5-7 closeups of a dead body to enjoy Jawbreaker. The performers aren't given much, but they do a lot with what they have to work with. Rose McGowan (The Doom Generation, Scream) is wicked fun as the queen bitch, the leader of the clique. Also giving good performances are Rebecca Gayheart (Urban Legend, TV's Wasteland), Julie Benz (As Good As It Gets, TV's Roswell) and Judy Greer (Three Kings, TV's Love and Money). But nearly all of the performers who have cameos, including Pam Grier (Jackie Brown), Carol Kane (The Addams Family movies, Office Killer), P.J. Soles (Carrie, Halloween), William Katt (Carrie), Jeff Conaway (TV's Taxi) and Marilyn Manson are given awful lines (most of them don't have lines, and appear on screen for less than 5 seconds). The movie has terrible plot holes, and a ridiculous ending. Once again, witty dialogue and good performances can't save it. C- "},{"Title":"makes you feel dirty","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  kinda unbelievable and kinda annoying and every one is over 20 trying to look like they are in high school. and I'm sick of seeing geeks turned into beauty queens. there are plenty of geeks who are true to their charachter and don't conform at the slightest hint of popularity. there were some pretty colors thoughand some neat stuff that I can't deny was a bit satisfying to the eye- but don't rent it/watch it/buy it unless it's ultra cheap and you can think of nothing else to do with your day "},{"Title":"BETTER than Heathers...","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film is incredibly creative and accurate in the most subtle and fun ways!!! There are actually some really beautifully filmed scenes in the film. But the real key to what makes this film so great is how tacky and corny and AUTHENTICALLY teenage the characters are. The ways that the characters interact with each other and torture each other and love each other is AB-SO-LUTE-LY high school!!! Now, I was a little bit too young for the Heathers revolution, but this film hit me in a way that Heathers never did. AND,...the key for me                  ****spoiler******   was that although most high school memories can be trashed and gotten over once you get out into the real world,...Courtney would be IMMORTALIZED as a raging ugly beast in the ETERNAL high school yearbook...  YAY! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie VERY late one night on HBO. I knew it would be good, but it turned out to be much better than I expected. I especially enjoyed the ending.Rose McGowan stole the show as Courtney and played the part well. Rebecca Gayheart was also great. But Marcy Foxy Fox got on my nerves a little to much. This was the only low point of the movie. I give it an 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Hilariously Wicked","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Jawbreaker is by far one of the best dark comedies out there! With a superb cast and a great storyline. Many thought it was just like Heathers, but that is not true. Heathers was fun, but Jawbreaker is more up to date, more realistic, and very funny! Rose McGowan, is a star on her way, as is Julie Benz and Rebecca Gayheart. All of them play rich high school snobs, except for Gayheart, who has a soft side. When they accidently kill one of their best friends, by stuffing a Jawbreaker into her mouth, for a surprise birthday bash, they all decide not to tell the police. But there's one thing, the school dork, Fern, catches them in the act. To keep Fern quiet, they re-make her, into one of them, and also re-name her, Vylette. I, on the other hand, was not impressed by Fern/Vylette. After they adopt her, Vylette seems to be taking on their snotty characteristics, and soon Rebecca is knocked out of the picture. Too make a long story short, if you like to see snobby high school girls, like Rose McGowan in this movie, and you like to see them get what they deserve, Jawbreaker is the film for you. And remember, if you've seen Heathers, there might be a couple similarities, but don't let that stop you from watching this great film! "},{"Title":"picture perfect?","Date":"29 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of those movies that is so trashy and stupid that it's actually entertaining. Every performance is over the top especially Rose McGowans' as she slinks around in tights and chews up the scenery with terrific one liners. Is this a good movie? No, not really, but it's sure to have it's own little cult fan club just as the superior Heathers did. What it lacks in creativity and story it makes up for with a good sound track and a lot of attitude. Like Valley of the Dolls before it and other bitch fests, it's a testament to the movie statement it's so bad it's good. "},{"Title":"Clueless+ Heathers= JawBreaker","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  When I first saw the preview for this movie I thought that it looked really bad. Than about 6 months later I rented it and ended up loving it! This movie is one of the funniest movies I've ever seen! It's entertaining and the cast in this movie is excellent, Rose McGowan, Rebecca Gayheart, Julie Benz, and Judy Greer are perfect. Also this movie features cameos from 70's greats P.J. Soles and Pam Grier. If you have not already seen  JawBreaker I encourage you to go out and rent it right now, I guarentee that you will not be disappointed... "},{"Title":"Rose McGowan Kicks Ass","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Of course this movie wasn't written to win Oscars!!!  Indeed, it was successful in being one of the best dark teen comedies since Heathers! Rose McGowan kicks some serious ass in this movie, and its no wonder now what Marilyn Manson saw in this sassy, sexy chick, now I only wonder what she saw in him.  I love your music Marilyn, however, you are uglier than my criminal cousin Larry, in this film. This movie definitely will become a classic teen cult film.  Please note Personally I have serious reservations  the whole jawbreaker death was an accident. And I would like add this movie inspired me to rent Doom Generation and Devil in the Flesh after discovering McGowans dark gothic sex appeal. "}{"Title":"All right if you have nothing better to do","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie never set out to be an Oscar winner.  This is obvious from the total teenspeak and the faulty story line.But ya know what?  I liked it.  Centered around the totally absurd idea of accidently(?) choking your perfect and pristine friend with a jawbreaker already grabs attention.  And with Rose McGowan leading the way as the ideal Queen Bitch, sucking on popsicles and tearing down anyone who gets in her way, it is entertainment at least.  I wouldn't have gone to see it in the theaters, but for 2.50 down at the video store I came back satisfied. "},{"Title":"Weird","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Jawbreaker obviously set out to copy Heathers, but without understanding it. This movie is just another thing that would have been mocked in Heathers. It copies some of the excessive cursing and the look of  the set from Heathers, but it lacks Heathers soul, purpose, meaning and message. It has the same old 'American ideals' and stupid cliches that Heathers ripped to pieces. Further it's full of slow-mo scenes and flashback that's just there in order to make it longer and you could drive a horse and carriage through the gaps in the script.As for redeeming qualities Rebecca Gayheart is always beautiful and charming and Foxy Brown is a pleasure to watch, but they don't get a lot of time to let that shine thorough. Rose M. is awful. But some of the clothes were kind of nice. "},{"Title":"Unfunny Dark Comedy","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The people who mad this mess have the nerve to compare it to Heathers, a smart, witty, satire. This movie has none of those elements. I did not crack one smile during the whole movie.  Its sad when the best thing that can be said about a movie is its soundtrack.2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good parts, went nowhere","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Was this supposed to be funny? There were some good parts, but nothing came of them. The cameos were good, and as a parent it's always good to feel the pulse of youth culture. It's the kind of movie that makes for good previews, but the concepts, scenes, characters, and plot points were never properly woven together. "},{"Title":"not a bad movie","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I am suprised that so many people thought this movie was so bad.  The movie was not made to be taken seriously.  It is just a hypothetical situation to show us how far popularity has gone these days and warning us not to take it too seriously.  The movie does have slightly off parts, but on the whole is well done.  If you go to it with an open mind, you should enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Candy can kill","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  While Jawbreaker has its moments, it's no Heathers.  Some funny lines and good moments are found in an ok film.  I especially liked the candy metaphors in the film.  Don't expect realism here, it's all in fun and and for the most part it works. "},{"Title":"Mildly Fun Trash","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Editor's note this comment contains a SPOILERAfter hearing a lot of negative stuff about this movie, I knew that it wasn't going to be good. But it looked ferociously funny, so I decided to see it. A lot of people have called Jawbreaker vapid and trashy, and after seeing it, I have to agree. There are a few fun moments overall, but this movie doesn't really have a plot, and it just drags on for about an hour and a half, trying to make itself just remotely worthwhile by filling the story was acrid dialogue, trashy and shallow characters, and a lot of loud music. The first 20 minutes start off pretty unpleasantly, we get to see a kidnapping, a pale-white corpse with the shape of a jawbreaker bulging out of her throat, and 3 friends (Rose McGowan, Julie Benz and Rebecca Gayheart) ripping off the body's panties so it looks like she was raped. Rose McGowan gives a pretty good performance as the evil satan in heels, but her character soon grows tiresome, and practically forces the viewer to hate her. The entire movie has surprisingly few laughs, it's like a Heathers without the satiric humour and cleverness. Strangely, this movie does borrow a lot from the cult classic, especially with the Winona Ryder character, who is clearly transfered into a blander, witless Rebecca Gayheart. One of the worst parts of Jawbreaker was it's wasting of Pam Greir, who's character was practically a background ornament with no effect on plot. The movie starts to get pretty dull till the end, and doesn't offer much until the climax arrives, which was a pretty lame attempt at re-creating the Carrie prom humiliation. The conclusion is very abrupt and unsatisfying, and by the time you finish watching it, you'll know just how empty and forgettable this movie really is. Disappointing! "},{"Title":"Great movie!!!","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  No matter what any critics say, no matter how low the users vote is, this movie is great!!  I laughed throughout the whole movie and watched it a couple more times and didn't find it getting trite at all.  It is a bit cheesy but I loved it.  Its a good movie to rent if nothing better is in! "},{"Title":"Not that good","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie wasn't as good as I thought it was going to be.  It has a good story to it, but it could've been better.  The ending wasn't good, it had a couple of good parts, but not really.  It was pretty slow, the acting wasn't that good, but then again what was I expecting?All in all, don't rent this film, wait until it comes on HBO or something. It's like Heathers, but FAR from being as good.  Heathers isn't annoying, it's entertaining.  Jawbreaker was annoying, and not entertaining.  "},{"Title":"Death Totally Bites..and this film bit me.","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Well,  when my brother rented this I wasn't exspecting much.    I actually liked this film more than She's All That and I was upset that a better film was not as successful.  The film is completely entertaining, it's never boring,  and the acting from queen bitch Rose McGowen and Fern Mayo was funny and convincing.  Pam Grier's talents were wasted as a cop but it's not like a fun story like this needed her anyway.  The sex scenes were steamy and I wish rebbeca Gayheart had some action with her drama stud. The film is better than Heathers and the colors,  costumes ,  a 90's style make the film really easy to watch.   It's not something that you should take too seriously and it provides for hour and half of entertainment. The film even has an ending that spoofs Carrie and it references that classic film with a joke.  I don't know why the critics hated this film so much, but all I know is that it's cute ,   entertaining,  and sexy.  I'd recommend.  "}{"Title":"This movie was awesome","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I was surprised to see this movie was very good. Alot of reviewers said it was bad and since it was a fall at the box office i figured it was bad, but i saw it and it was very very funny. All of the girls were great playing ditzy parts, and rose mcgowan did a great job playing the villain. I like how they spoofed carrie in it. I recommend this movie to eveyone who likes comedies and who likes heathers- 4 stars "},{"Title":"A 90's version of Heather, minus the wit and daring.","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Hollywood has a common practice of trying to duplicate its successes. While practically every post-80's teen film is a descendant of the John Hughes sap-fest The Breakfast Club, there was never a big rush to come out with Heathers clones.  Though it gave us one of the first in-depth inside looks at the popular crowd, it also tackled the taboo of suicide.  Perhaps this is why its influence has been more subtle than mere cloning.While Heathers, one of the best teen films ever made, never gets beneath the surface and really examines the dark side of high school, at least it tried, which is more than I can say for Jawbreakers.This is a film that is a direct descendant from the aforementioned dark comedy, even borrowing exact shots from Heathers.  It's a 90's version, which here, essentially equates to being darker.Indeed, Jawbreaker is so politically incorrect (like the quip about the Karen Carpenter table) and so outrageous, it is in some ways darker than its predecessor.  However, there's no depth or purpose behind all the cruelty, other than mining laughs and upping the shock factor.  Most of all, there is hardly any wit, and even less actual humor, which was what helped made Heathers such a comic delight.If there's any redemption here, it's found in the form of Rose McGowan whose cruelty is often jaw-dropping.  She seems to be having a lot of fun here, despite the fact that she and everyone else in the cast, really aren't given much to do. "},{"Title":"One of those movies that will be forgotten.","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of those movies that will be forgotten. I am not trying to be mean here, but this movie was going on the power of the recent teen/death involved buzz.Jawbreaker is a good movie and all. Using the push of other teen hits with murder in them. But it was a little over the top. This seems to be more of a female movie. It had a lot of female roles.If you get the chance to see it, go see it. But you really wouldn't be missing much except for a cameo by Marylin Manson. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as the critics say...","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Jawbreaker is one of those movies that the critics will immediately hate, no matter what. When it was released, many critics said it was one of the worst films of 1999, but in reality it's not THAT bad. It's not a great film, by all means, but I found it to be fresh, original, and fiercely funny.Rose McGowan is great at playing a mean-spirited bitch, and she camps it up here. The whole film is campy - intentionally cheesy acting, colourful set designs, hilariously bad dialogue - it all depends on how you take it.Jawbreaker has what it takes to be a cult film - it reminded me a lot of Nowhere (the Gregg Araki film), except not as acid-trippy. See it if you dare you'll love it or hate it. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Interesting characters + lackluster police work = good movie","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Rose McGowan heads a cast of convincing and memorable queens of the Reagan High School student body.  A playful (but scary) birthday kidnapping of one of the in-crowd by her girlfriends goes terribly wrong.  They are discovered by a homely female classmate while creating a crime scene to throw off the police.  In return for her silence, they set to work to change the discoverer from a wallflower into the hottest girl on campus. The girls are fascinating, the scenario is believable enough to watch, and the police (Pam Grier) are not much of a factor.  Police buffs will object, but ignoring this element will allow enjoyment of the movie. "},{"Title":"Naahhhh","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this movie better the first time I saw it, when it was called HEATHERS. Seriously, Rose McGowan tried, but couldn't carry the movie. Her voice is so bitchy and bratty it got annoying. One good thing about her is she is built like a real woman with hips instead of the usual anorexic standard for actresses these days. Kind of like the feminine ideal from the 50's, except all the raunchy tattoos kind of ruin that effect. The cameo by her boyfriend, Mr. Manson, was kind of amusing. But the movie seemed like they were making it up as they went along, and very predictable. Terrible script, and your believability is stretched way too far. After Courtney (McGowan) and her clique kidnap one of their pals, things go awry and she (the pal) ends up dead. They drive around, freaking out, all except for Courtney, who has the brilliant plan to call the high school, pretend to be the dead pal's mom, and call in sick for her. OK, what is one of the first things the police would ask the kid's mom after she turned up dead? Sheeeesh. Rebecca Gayheart's acting is slowly improving. I give this movie two stars, one for Pam Grier, one for the sheer mean-spiritedness and bad taste of it. But that's not enough to save this dog of a movie, and the jailbait band The Donnas weren't enough to save it either. Oh, and I liked the Donnas better the first time I heard them, when they were called The Ramonas and The Runaways. I wouldn't bother, unless you are a big Rose McGowan fan.  "},{"Title":"Eh, okay","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was not as cool as it seemed in the commercial ( movies do that all the time), but it was worth the 91 minutes. The plot was good & the characters were good (Rose McGowan does a great bitch-on-wheels performance) but the storyline was too shaky. It was funny then sexy then funny, etc. Plus after a while, you can guess the ending. This isn't a movie you'll be talking about a long time after, but it's enough to make you say WOW.  "},{"Title":"As Sweet As Candy","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  First of all, I want to express, ok... on the previews of this movie, they made this like, movie like, look like a total, like, ditzy movie, but like, it isn't k? Really, this movie has a good plot to it. People of all ages can enjoy this movie. I am proof, I am 14, and love it... and since it was R, and I saw it in theaters, believe it or not, my grandmother saw it with me, and she loved it as much as me... this is not another air head movie. The comedy in this is funny, and makes you laugh. This movie expresses just how hard it is to survive at school. How sometimes, the most perfect people have some flaws.This movie can, yes, even teach you that popularity isn't everything, and that, yes, it is better to tell the truth. This has a good story to it, and you feel for the individual characters, and even though, this movie is close to perfection as it seems, i did notice there were scenes where dumb sound effects and pointless jokes and images were added to get a few laughs... this is the only thing though... may i add, the soundtrack rocks too! In my opinion, this is a good movie for all ages, and is appropriate for ages 12-80! =) rent this movie tonight, trust me, one viewing is not enough! my grade for it? 10.0\10.0! "},{"Title":"Suck it and See...","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Even though the reviews of Jawbreaker made it seem dreadful, I  wasn't surprised that I liked it. A great cast including Rose McGowan (Courtney), Rebecca Gayheart (Julie Freeman), Julie Benz (Marcie Fox), Chad Christ (Zack),Judy Greer (Fern/Vylette) and a hilarious cameo by Pam Greer as Detective Vera Cruz and a skanky barfly played by Marilyn Manson (without any makeup on!!!) made this movie even better than it would have been. The plot is simple enough and, even though it rips off Heathers, very fun and easy to watch. Courtney, Julie, Marcie aka Foxy and Liz are the most beautiful and popular girls at Reagen High. One day they decide to play a birthday prank on Liz; they kidnap her (planning to take her out to breakfast) and gag her with a jawbreaker so she doesn't scream. One thing leads to another, and Liz ends up dead. Reigning rhymes-with-witch Courtney decides to cover it up, and it gets better from here. Be warned... this is a DARK comedy. I liked it, but not everyone will. There is plenty of profanity and sexual references to make you blush... but if you are in the mood for something dark, rent Jawbreaker. As quoted by Courtney, Suck it and See. "},{"Title":"I broke my jaw laughing!!","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Death is the ultimate make-over! As outrageous as that line sounds, it could almost have been nagged from this outrageous movie. This is the best teen comedy/thriller of 1999 and far out-shines the more recent teen movies She's all that or 10 things I hate. It has been compared to Heathers in a number of reviews but I'm sorry folks, as much as I love that movie there is NO comparison, in this case Heathers is the shadow and Jawbreaker is the sun!! Not only does it deliver some fine acting, especially from Rose McGowan as the ultimate bitch Courtney and Rebecca Gayheart as the angelic, sweet, easily lead Julie but the script is so hysterical and original it felt like I'd broken my jaw from laughing so much. If you have a sick sense of humour you'll devour this film. It's all that and then a bag of doritos! See it and laugh out loud! It's a hoot and a half!! "}{"Title":"I'm down with O.P.P.","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  When I rented this, one of the clerks at the video store had just finished making fun of it and the other told me it wasn't very good.  I kept it anyway.  And I enjoyed it.  I found it sort of interesting.  I wasn't impressed with the humor, or the acting, or the story really, so I'm not real sure why I liked it.  The only actress I did get a good impression from was Rebecca Gayheart.  She played frightened quite well (as she played psycho pretty well in Urban Legend).  I questioned Maxim magazine naming her #1 in their 100-hottest babes countdown, but now I don't think it's such a bad choice.  P  Also I think everyone should see it just for the Marilyn Manson cameo!  Ha!   "},{"Title":"If you liked Heathers, you'll love this.","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Great little dark comedy with a Heathers-esque feel.  The soundtrack is also totally cool.  The movie feels very 80's despite the fact it is set in 1998.  I found that to be a benefit as so few dark comedies are made as well these days, with the exception of gems such as Election.  I don't know why the user rating is only a 5.2--this was a great little flick with some interesting cameos.  I am still trying to figure out which character was played by Marilyn Manson!  "},{"Title":"Amusing but lightweight","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Jawbreaker is a larger-than-life satire where all the characters are either charmingly sweet or sickeningly unlikable.  It's like the dark side to She's All That, and a lot more worthwhile to watch.  However, it is, in the end, just a teen movie for teen mentalities, with the conclusion you just knew was coming.  It's worth a rent, but it is no cinematic jewel. "},{"Title":"Says a lot about highschool kids","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I went into this movie having no idea what to expect except that Rose McGowan was in it.  The movie is a decent teen flick.  The representation of the high school hierarchy is well displayed.  I think i didn't like the movie as much as i should have because i came to like the stuck up and popular girls more than i liked the good girls.  It's all a matter of opinion anyway, but the major conflict in the film is basically a civil war in a demented group of girls. "},{"Title":"SURPRISE!! THIS MOVIE IS QUITE GOOD","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  After reading the poor reviews this film got, I expected to see a really bad movie, but it wasn't. Jawbreaker is a really entertaining movie, sure, it rips off Heathers, a film I love, but my experience with that movie helped me like this even more. Warning this movie is an extremely BLACK comedy.It's not incredibly unpleasant, but it helps to have a tolerance for visions of dead bodies with great big jawbreaker lumps in their throats, if you have ever seen such a thing. This film is really weird, it makes a lot of genre transitions. It starts off as a thriller, then to comedy, then to drama in times of grief, once again back to comedy, and at the end it changes over to a full blown revenge flick. Honestly, many people aren't going to like it, but at least it's not half as bad as the dismal and not funny Very Bad Things. Jawbreaker is not for everyone.What I liked The end scene at the prom, set to the lovely tune of Young at Heart.What I didn't like The horrible scene where the guy gives a popsicle oral sex. It's in very bad taste. The constant visions of the dead body, eyes wide open. I could hear the groans of disgust from the audience and saw people squirming at the sight. I mean, how many times do we have to look at it? The constant flashbacks, we do not have a short memory span.My rating ***out of **** "},{"Title":"it was sort of the dark Clueless, written in the same witty way","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The reason I watched this film was mainly because of Rose McGowan. But as I watched it, I grew quite fond of it. It was witty, funny, and it makes me say aight! is this real or what? There were really funny moments especially the ones with Julie Benz.The plot was original but it was hard too think that a jawbreaker could kill...I mean of course it can, but it gives a sense of paranoia.The script was really weird and witty. But the characters didn't seem realistic to me. A policewoman would look like that? She looks like a rocker.I really liked the movie anyways. It has drama, comedy, dark realities, great sounds, action, suspense, and all that. Great Entertainment value. If you like Rose, you definitely should watch this film. "},{"Title":"Fun black humor in the vein of Heathers","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I had heard bad things about the film, but I really liked it when I watched it. The acting is all top notch, and the story is full of dark comedy.You can't compare the movie to Heathers, though, because the only thing that they have in common (contrary to the critics) is that a group of teenagers kill someone and try to make it look like they had nothing to do it.  "},{"Title":"How awful can this movie get","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie only owns two good qualities the performances of the three lead actresses and the storyline albeit doesn't lead the viewer in any direction but out of the theatre. The director of this movie must have been thinking of something else because he doesn't develop nor present this new and great plot into anything but mush. Rebecca Gayheart and Rose McGowan are both terrific in their roles. Gayheart as the good girl and McGowan as the villanous girl. Rose McGowan was superb because she was in a role that was familiar to her. McGowan is so good in fact that she made me angry and felt like going through the screen and strangling her to death. If only the writer's added a bit of mystery to this film like covering up the identity of the killers. It would become more enjoyable and interesting if it ened up this way. I cannot in good faith recommend this movie.   "},{"Title":"Candy that leaves a bad taste","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  JawbreakerSomewhere, in this upcoming new century, I'm praying that Hollywood will realize that Rose McGowan - as beautiful as she is - cannot act worth a lick. She seems to only have two acting faces, I'm a bitch and I'm a mean bitch. Even if this woman was given a role as a Russian immigrant with AIDS and her dying wish was to ride a buffalo across Utah, she would still have a Gucci purse containing cherry red lipstick, and say lines like Nobody fu*** with Brittany! Sadly, McGowan is the least of this movie's problems. A confused, uninspired high school black comedy that plays by a million rules we have seen before in better pictures. Filmed with shocking ineptitude, the film careers along up to its - I guess - resolution. Non-talents like Rebecca Gayheart, Julie Benz, and newcomer Judy Greer fill the cast, giving performances that will prevent them from ever attaining anything more than what Aaron Spelling doles out to them. The soundtrack - probably the only thing in this film that was arranged with care - is wonderful. There are some great songs here. But the music is handled like 70% of other movies, in a way that blatantly suggests Hey kids, this is $14.99 at Sam Goody!, instead of righteous cues and appropriate placement. And 20 licks from the bullwhip for whomever decided to mangle Volcano Girls by Veruca Salt for the opening credit sequence. Since the director is clueless, Pam Grier and Marilyn Manson are wasted in two small roles. Those are definitely two people who would be intriguing to watch more on the big screen. A last minute performance by The Donnas cannot save things, although it comes close. Mercifully, people stayed away from this mess over the weekend.------ 1 "},{"Title":"The most satisfying movie in a long time!","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  After having the honour of viewing 'Jawbreaker' the very second it was released, I must say that this is the most satifying movie I have seen in a very long time! It borrows a lot from other teen movies such as 'Heathers', 'Clueless' and 'Carrie' - but it swirls them all into the most unusually pleasant mixture! The plot is a great, overlapping and fast moving piece of work that comes to a very worth-while climax! This is the best movie I have seen in a long time, due to the plot, the characters, the cinematography and two very charming performences by Rose McGowan and Julie Benz! Definitely worth seeing!  "}{"Title":"Who green-lighted this movie?","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Lotsa laughs and loadsa cleavage. Should be the perfect recipe for a great film, except with Jawbreaker, something gets lost in the translation. The ending is far too abrupt, kind of like a junior high essay completed at 830 am the morning it was due. There's good stuff there, but it's obvious not a lot of thought went into finishing the thing properly. What happens to dork-babe-dork Vylette? Does Rose McGowan's character get community service, or is she forced to spend life in a cell with a delighted Melissa Etheridge fan? And who was the incompetent who thought The Donnas should appear in a feature film? Look at it this way. If you are a young, single male, run--do not walk--to your local megaplex and see this movie. The gratuitous cleavage alone is worth the $8.50. But if you belong to any other gender or age group, you'll have more fun investing the admission price in a mutual fund.   "},{"Title":"Not to be taken seriously - but a lot of fun!","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is a morbid comedy with a fabulous performance by Rose McGawon.  No, it's not as good as Clueless or Heathers, but the film abounds with wickedly funny one liners.  At times over the top, you will like this film if you remember not to take it too seriously.  "},{"Title":"Heathers+ Scream + Clueless = Jawbreaker","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Jawbreaker starts off fast and doesn't slow down til the credits. Shows just how far people will go for popularity & is quite funny. I don't know but there's something about Beautiful Teenage Girls destroying each other that might appeal to the guy viewers. Girls will probably enjoy taking notes. Marilyn Manson is all over the movie as well. He plays several parts with only a line or two in the movie. Extremely entertaining and worth the $8. "},{"Title":"5 out of 5 stars","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Jawbreaker is the best teen movie since 1982's Fast Times At Ridgemont High.  Rose McGowan's performance shows that she is maturing as an actress and is more than just a cult-favorite.  The movie is very entertaining and worth a watch.  If you miss it in its theatrical release, be sure to rent the future DVD release. "},{"Title":"John Waters meets Saved by the Bell","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Anguishing. The 26-year-old writer-director Darren Stein seems to have modeled this would-be-bitchy teen comedy less on Clueless, Fast Times and Heathers than a night-long repeat viewing of The Women and Mildred Pierce. The Heather-y viragos who rule the mythical Reagan High are uncomfortably drag-queenish--they all but snap their fingers at each other. The strained aura of camp-gone-to-botulism suggests a film-school student's weak feint at aping John Waters--and one can only imagine the Baltimore maestro rolling his eyes in dismay at the CARRIE-ish finale, a holocaust of cruelty that cries out for the sumptuous emoting of Divine. And poor Rose MacGowan, when not surrounded by the excesses of Gregg Araki or Wes Craven, seems to have been plucked from a corn-dog stand at a food court.  "},{"Title":"Nice try, but didn't quite 'gel' for me","Date":"21 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" (Note spoiler is a mild one. I draw attention to it here lest I be accused of spoiling).I enjoyed a lot of Jawbreaker. For about the first 2/3, it looked like they were going to pull off something narratively special, perhaps even spectacular.But they weren't able to develop the plot properly and keep the momentum; at least, it didn't work for me.A lot of folks are calling it a 'Heathers' wannabe; and maybe it is arguably trying to tap that vein. But I approached it on its own terms, and proceeded to try to fit the characters into various contexts, e.g., on a linear scale of vaunted coolness. I sort of expected them to pull off at least some kind of trenchant plot fillip. But, in the end, the film falls prey to the simple fact that the parties involved didn't really have a strong enough narrative drive. Like I said, it provided fodder for some kind of real resolution, but (as they say) the hardest part of a chess game is the end-game. The same is true for a flick that establishes tension based on genuinely high-stakes circumstances (mild spoiler murder). The flick frays rapidly in the last 1/3.I'm sorry about this, 'cause it had so much going for it. If you like good story, skip it. If you're just looking for a colorful cinematic snack... it's OK. "},{"Title":"Rose McGowan is so nice playing the evil one!","Date":"10 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This film can't be taken too seriously; otherwise it won't be a nice movie. But if we see it like it really is, a teen black comedy, we can find it reasonably entertaining&#133; Furthermore, a movie which has a quote like she's so evil&#133; and she's only in high school can only be a spoofing one! Well, about the movie itself I think there isn't much to say, because it's a typical High School teen movie, about the also typical awesome gorgeous girls which dress like models and control it all around, guys included type. And for the evil one, who would they choose? Rose McGowan, of course! She has such nice profile for that! She really has the face and the attitude to do the evil b*tch role. This movie is not the only one&#133; But I like her as an actress. I think people who can represent such characters must be good actors! Anyway, this movie is nice if you don't expect too much&#133; "},{"Title":"Funny, but a little far fetched","Date":"5 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" One of the later teen movies of the 90's who had little buzz due to the tragic Columbine incident that occurred around the same time of this movies release. This is not a terrible movie but it is a mediocre film.Not to give too much of the plot away, but the four beautiful, self obsessed girls who rule the school accidentally kill one of their own when a birthday prank goes horribly wrong. The weapon? A jawbreaker. Apparently it was a tradition to kidnap the birthday girl from her bed and give her some sort of degrading gift...I don't know but the idea of the birthday disaster was queen bee Courtney (Rose Mcgowan) her victim is Liz ( A character who is either shown in corpse form or flashback...never speaks) her other two popular partners in crime are dimwitted Marcy (Juli Benz) and conscious conflicted Juli (Rebecca Gayheart). The girls scared of being caught come up with a way to cover up the crime to make it look like full blown rape/murder. The girls seem to have all their tails covered until outcast Fern Mayo discovers the truth.Like any insecure, ugly, nerdy girl rather than go to the police Fern takes COurtney up on her offer. As long as Fern doesn't tell their dirty secret she will have a makeover and be one of them.I'll stop there no need to give too much away since this is basically a black comedy that pokes fun of high school politics, murder, stupid parents/adults, and the crazy things people will do for such idiotic reasons.I can compare this movie to 80's cult favorite Heather as both have similar undertones. What I find funny about all these high school movies is the actors themselves. All the girls look like their more in the age range of college graduates, not one looked 17 or 18 or even 20! They looked too old. Even the male high schoolers looked like they had been held back 5 or 6 years. This may have been intentional seeming as it was trying to be a dark and witty movie but I seriously doubt it. Not too bad of a movie, but if your looking for a teen movie filled with dark humor try Heathers. "},{"Title":"This jawbreaker is rather sour.","Date":"7 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Three bitchy-teen queens who are the most popular students at school, lives change when they play a prank on a friend. It's a tradition to kidnap them each other on their birthday, but something goes horribly wrong when one of them puts a jawbreaker in her mouth and taped it and stuck her in the trunk. After getting to their destination they open the truck to discover she had chocked on a jawbreaker. Now they make this secret and try to forget, by planning out something to get them off the trail, so the police can't suspect them. But one of them falls out of the group's favour because she felt they should've went to the cops.Err; High School was such a joy, wasn't it? Actually, what I am saying, I didn't go through this, or even come across any type of people like this during high school. But then again this is set in an American high compared to something in Australia. A different type of social politics, I guess. Anyhow, I read that the flick took four weeks to shoot and originally the director intended the film to be a horror film, but it went into black comedy territory instead. To say it was a good one would be a bit of a stretch. Because it wasn't that funny, nor particularly compelling. I love my black comedies, but this failed miserably after the somewhat promising opening. For me, it was just another superficial teen flick that's masquerading as an edgy black comedy. It was more glossy, and sweet on the outside, but the context of this one-idea film was plain sour. Trashy indeed, but the whole irony just didn't come off. Yeah, its hardly awful to say the least, but the intended parody gimmick just didn't succeed, by working it into the usual formula, misplaced sentiment and high school clichés. Overall, the plot is just unconvincing and tame in the way it plays out. And for the climax, well actually it was better than expected. What went by the wayside were the smug characters, sure they're mockery performances&#133; I hope so, but they were hard to connect with, even the ones with good intentions. Nothing interesting really about these characters that's for sure. Although, the performances run cold and hot. A bubbling Rose McGowan stood out as the ice queen of the group, plus there are some small roles from the likes of Carol Kane, PJ Soles, William Katt and Pam Grier as a tough police detective. Onto the cold, well Rebecca Gayheart as one of the leads and was rather uneventful. The dialogue rather snappy material, but other times it bordered on glamorous drivel. Indeed, it was mocking the way those stuck up snobs acted, but at times I was hoping for some more wit, or inventive humour instead. It's been done to death before. Since I'm on the negatives, uh how uncool was that editing? What was the deal with those ridiculous cartoon sound effects, especially during the editing sequences? Now what was good was that of the rocking soundtrack that pumped out some great tunes. Somehow I found it more spiritless even with it sugar, glossy approach. Now if only we could've seen the horror take that it was first going to be, gee I wonder what we would have got? From what I read it sounds like a wannabe Heathers, a film that I haven't watched, but should do so from what I read and heard of it. The film runs for just under 80 minutes, which gladly it did because my interested was dipping in and out within that time. Nice idea to begin with, but not to long it falls into the tiring same-old-same-old category. "},{"Title":"Campy...but stupid nonetheless!","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I'll be perfectly blunt, here. The only reasonable excuse to even consider watching this Heathers/Carrie rip-off is Rose McGowan's aka Courtney Shane's tits! THAT'S IT!! That and staring at a cute Rebecca Gayheart aka The Noxema Girl aka the The Worst Driver on Earth. Ahem, anyway, he acting is absolutely hideous and as deeply intellectual as a listening to a gossipy bimbo cheerleader gabbing on her cellphone in the BMW convertible daddy bought her. As far as the dialog goes, Are you kidding me? Who wrote this movie? Seriously. Who? A group of drunk perverted frat boys on spring break. If the directors, producers, and writers were more serious in their work and had more in the way of detectable I.Q. level, Jawbreaker would've been a little more funny and witty...like Heathers! It would've been a little more satirical...like Heathers! And It would've been a little more of cult classic...like Heathers! But, Alas this movie isn't Heathers it's another poorly planned teen movie with a big budget with an ego to match that does little but annoy the crap out of everyone. It's only good to watch if nothing else is on and seeing Courtney receiving her faux-Carrie comeuppance in the end. The only other redeeming qualities Jawbreaker has besides the obvious symbolism of sex appeal is the scenery with it's avant-garde neo-60's style.I don't like this movie since it marked the beginning of the millennium in which all women on a screen look, dress, and act like the skanks in this pathetic teen crap fest! You can say this started a trend. Now if this had quality instead of an excuse to rush sex appeal to the market, Jawbreaker would've been a better movie than it was. Don't get me wrong. I don't hate this movie...it could've been a little funnier and satirical instead of just a bunch of beautiful people backstabbing each other sans modus operandi. "}{"Title":"An awful film any way you watch it","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Jawbreaker only has two good qualities the performances of the three lead actresses and the storyline albeit doesn't lead the viewer in any direction but out of the theatre. The director of this movie must have been thinking of something else because he doesn't develop nor present this new and great plot into anything but mush. Rebecca Gayheart and Rose McGowan are both terrific in their roles. Gayheart as the good girl and McGowan as the villainous girl. Rose McGowan was superb because she was in a role that was familiar to her. McGowan is so good in fact that she made me angry and felt like going through the screen and strangling her to death. If the writer's added a bit of mystery to this film like covering up the identity of the killers; it would become more enjoyable and interesting if it end up this way. I cannot in good faith recommend this movie.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I was told to see this on the basis of Rose McGowan's performance. She is easily the best thing in Jawbreaker, a ruthless teen queen bee who manipulates everyone around her. The problem is the movie around her. The setup is promising three teen princesses joke-kidnap their friend on her birthday, but accidentally kill her. The girls plan to cover it up, but a wallflower who admires the dead girl discovers what happened. Courtney (McGowan) bribes the wallflower into silence by promising to make her popular. So far, so good. However, what comes after suffers from a lack of focus. The protagonist could have been the wallflower, the shunned former princess, or Courtney as an anti-hero. If the writers had made Courtney the protagonist, letting the audience vicariously delight in her bitchiness, that would have made a sharp little character study. As it is, we don't know who to follow.Spoilers ahead The other big problem is that the ending goes limp. The logical question raised by Courtney's character is how far will she go? Would she kill to get what she wants? A second killing (even if only threatened) would have made the stakes matter. Instead, the film tries to equate literal death with high school social death, and being pelted with corsages is just not enough after accidentally killing somebody. This movie (under eighty minutes) actually could have been longer going into the other characters more, giving Pam Grier more to do as a detective, and cranking up the tension at the ending.  "},{"Title":"An OK black comedy","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This was a little too far out and boring, it has it's moments, but mostly it's just one long lesson in how to be one of the cool girls in high school. The plot is pretty far-fetched, but does allow a few very funny, very black moments. The acting is pretty good, mostly. The plot seemed to try to get going right from the start, and then the scriptwriter ran out of ideas, so he just stalled the movie, until the ending. The humor is pretty black, and definitely too much for many peoples taste; however, if you're into black humor, you'll most likely enjoy it. Most of the film is a bit slow and boring, it pretty much goes downhill fifteen minutes into the movie; it doesn't really pick up until the very end, and by then it's too late to save it. It has it's moments of great black humor, but at the end, it just seems empty, without a real purpose other than an instantaneous laugh, only to quickly forget it again. This is a movie you can see once, if you're into black humor and teen comedy, and then never watch it again. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Not very great...","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is just another one in a long line of teenage/ high school films we saw last few years. It tries to be funny and cool, but it fails everywhere.First of all I didn't care Liz died in the beginning. Why? I didn't know her. Wouldn't it be better if the writer/ director put a few scenes with her in it in the beginning of the film. (Not just that walking through the hallway stuff?).Second Didn't anybody on that school notice Fern was gone? Wasn't there a teacher who would check this?Third Pam Grier deserved a bigger part in this one.Fourth Rose McGowan's character is so unbelievable it's almost laughable!Fifth Advice look another film! "},{"Title":"BREATHTAKING SCENERY, AMAZINGLY INTROSPECTIVE CODA AND LESBIAN OVER AND UNDERTONES PREDOMINATE","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film was really good.   I remember most of the details even though it's been 2 years since I saw it.   The performances (especially of Judy Greer as Fern) are excellent.The casting of Charlotte Ayanna with her ethnic features was a bit distracting since her parents are shown as ultra-white (and amazingly young), but that's quibbling.I wonder where this was filmed (I thought Canada) because the location ans scenery are breathtakingly beautiful.The lesbian over and undertones are like an unusually explicit Production Code-era film (with much stronger hints, of course) and for once it's nice to have a little subtlety instead of using sex as a blunt instrument, not that I am in favor of censorship.Finally, the moment towards the end of the film when it became apparent (to me, anyway) that Courtney's killing of Liz Purr may not have been entirely accidental is the moment when the film reaches its nirvana. "},{"Title":"The kind of movie that makes you want to gag on a Jawbreaker","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Well, it starts off fast, with death and lots of color, but then it goes blah.  The ending can be predicting within a couple scenes.  The dialog goes from crispy to that stale I'm a bitch with attitude *snap snap* we've all grown sick of.  It just gets boring.  Because, really, we've all seen this type of movie before, except this time someone dies.  Fortunately, to save it from getting a 2/10 as opposed to the 3 I gave it, it remains colorful and purdy throughout, and Marilyn Manson's cameo boosted it as well.  Oh and Pam Grier is cool.  Speaking of Pam Grier, Jackie Brown is a good movie.  If you're going to see Jawbreaker, I recommend seeing Jackie Brown instead.-Al "},{"Title":"*sigh*","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  An unfortunate movie for all concerned. Only the eye candy is good. The plot, ambience, etc. seem to be an 'hommage' to _Heathers_ in what must be the worst possible way. One must give kudos to Vickie Brinkford (Costume Designer) in this movie, as indeed, the wardrobe was the true star. "},{"Title":"Well, frankly, it's wretched. . .","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Now this was a bad, bad, bad movie. The script was bad. The direction was bad. The plot was bad. The beginning was bad. The ending was bad. In fact, all of that was so bad it doesn't even matter that much of the acting was good. The insanely gorgeous and curvaceous Rose McGowan is great in one of her by-the-numbers bitch roles, and nearly every decent line of dialogue is hers. I was also moderately impressed by Judy Greer as Fern/Vylette. Rebecca Gayheart is very pretty, and decent as the good girl. Marcie is totally one-note, but she was fairly amusing. Carol Kane was her usual neurotic self, but that's what she does well. I think my favorite part was Marilyn Manson's cameo, and it's just because of the back story. They needed to find an extra to play a skangy barfly, and well, since he was hanging around the set and making out with Rose anyway. . . It's pretty funny, and he doesn't even have a single line. Most of the other cameos seemed kind of pointless. What was up with Pam Grier's cop? At any rate, there are a *few* laughs to be had, and if you have an embarrassing fondness for bad movies or just want to oggle Rose, you might want to rent it on a down night. . .but at least wait 'til it hits the dollar rack, 'kay?   "},{"Title":"Dear God, Why?","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  For a while, I had (blessedly) forgotten this movie, and then for some reason, I was reminded of it.  And then I remembered that I couldn't stand this movie.  When I went to see this movie, it was a nothing good is playing right now, so let's just watch this kind of decision.  Well, the point still stood at the conclusion of the film.I think it could have been funny in a twisted, morbid, sort of way, but a bunch of prissy, evil, dingy Valley Girl stereotypes, plus the one girl who is really a good girl and has a conscience didn't add to a creative or interesting story.  It was campy in a way that just made me groan over the fact that I was wasting time in seeing this, and I just kept staring at my watch, hoping to this film would mercifully end.Honestly, it felt like a bad Saved By the Bell episode, and I would have probably welcomed some commercial breaks to give me a breather from the monotony.  I couldn't even enjoy the cliched silliness of this, and I love(d) Mystery Science Theater 3000.Here's the best way to sum this film experience up for me Marilyn Manson with a moustache.  I think that says more than enough. "},{"Title":"a complete waste of time.","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The ONLY reason i could think of to watch this terrible mess is the presence of beautiful Rebecca Gayheart. what a gorgeous woman. why does she keep winding up in horrible films like this and Urban Legend (she was also in Scream 2 but that film was decent.)this is one of those movies that thinks being really meanspirited translates into being hip and funny. another film Very Bad Things had this same problem.it's not that i have a problem with material such as this (i've got a REALLY SICK SENSE OF HUMOR!) but it just doesn't work. this film tries to be Heathers meets Clueless but completely lacks the charm and quality (not to mention acting) that made these films work.also, Rose McGowan believe it or not, doesn't get naked in this movie. not that i care (she has great breasts and nothing else) but a lot of her fans will probably rent this thinking that she does.STAY AWAY!!!!!!!!!!!!!rating2 (barely avoids a 1 just due to Rebecca Gayheart) "}{"Title":"Very boring.","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Jawbreaker is a very boring film. Don't be fooled by the premise, a cheerleader chokes on a jawbreaker or something. Instead, the first 10 minutes are pretty much the only thing the movie has to do with the girl. The rest is our lovely Hollywood stereotype teenage movie. You know, nerdy girl gets makeover and becomes homecoming queen, everyone listens to most popular tunes, etc. It is all like that. Don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Rose McGowan is great in this terrible movie","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I hated this movie.  It was reminiscent of films such as CLueless and Heathers.  The cast was foolishly pointless, as was the script and the cameo by rocker Marilyn Manson.  But what makes this film is Ms. McGowan as the evil diabolical protagonist.  Other than that, don't waste your time on this film. "},{"Title":"Should have been better....","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film had the potential to be the Heathers of the 1990s, but it failed so incredibly miserably.  It started out with a nice feel to it, but it soon turned into a shallow bitch fest.  Some parts were well done, but the modern editing and tone didnt work as well as it might.  In fact, in some parts it actually dragged somewhat, and where were the amusing one liners that made Heathers so popular?  they were noticeably absent.  This film isnt really bad, but i could think of a lot of things I'd rather do with my time.   "},{"Title":"Rent Heathers instead","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The similarities between this and Heathers seem more than coincidental. Heathers was a great movie and I'd be up for a remake or whatever ,but not this. A black comedy that isnt very funny. On the positive side , there is the impossibly voluptuous Rose McGowan. "},{"Title":"Wait for it to hit HBO","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Jawbreaker sets three of the Regan High's most popular girls, kidnapping and accidentally killing the fourth member of their circle of friends on her 17th birthday. The three then try vailiantly to cover it up. It doesn't even sound intriguing, which makes me wonder why I felt I should rent it. Rose Mcgowan plays the leading lady, who turns out to be nothing more than an evil royal witch. She is convincing in this role, but deserves much better. Rebecca Gayheart, and Julie Benz both in bigger roles than they are accustomed to, play their parts as well as they could with the material they had to work with. I think all involved in this project took their parts because they thought it'd be another cult teen flick, much like Scream, and not because they liked the script. Most times movies like that are painful to watch, and most of the time Jawbreaker is no different. From the ridiculousness of turning the nerd into the most popular girl in the school nearly overnight, to the pitiful way the girls went about covering up the murder, the movie just constantly makes you wonder how stupid the writer takes the audience to be. If you really wanna see this film, wait for it to come on cable tv. It's not even worth the $4 it takes to rent it. 2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Weird and very bad. *1/2 out of ****","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  JAWBREAKER is an incredibly slow moving, unfunny and very bad movie. It is boring, not even the least bit interesting. And the actors don't even fit their roles, nor do they act well. This movie is a real flop. 4/10. "},{"Title":"30 year old actresses playing teenagers!","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The youngest actor in this movie was 25yrs and they were playing teenagers! Plus the actresses kept referencing their childhood and they talked about things that happened to children of the early 80's. Please! "},{"Title":"Like the Jawbreaker, this is hard to swallow.","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Well, on my first day of summer vacation, I took a trip to blockbuster to rent some movies I missed in the theater. I picked up A Simple Plan, HurlyBurly, and Jawbreaker. I sat down ready to be entertained, and for the most part I was. Jawbreaker is one of those movies. It barely fills its running time, and although it is skillfully made, the script, in a word, sucks. You all know the plot, so i am not going to explain it. First, what did I like. Well, I liked Pam Grier in her FIRST scene, that's it. Rose McGowan was ok, but I think the heart of this movie is Rebecca Gayheart. Let's face it, she is no great actress, but she gives a sweet, emotional performance. I also liked the look of the film, which was its high point. Everything else, I did not like. Maryiln Manson only made it into this because he is the b/f of Rose in real life. He is wasted. Other then Rose and Rebecca, the other girls are horrible. The movie, although a decent time waster, is just that. Like Norman Bates said in Psycho said  A hobby should pass the time, not fill it. So should a movie like this, but unfortunately you are very aware that you will never get that 130 min back, and in the long run you are better off skipping this.*** stars out of ***** "},{"Title":"Brainless, dull teensploitation","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Halfway through Jawbreaker, there is a scene where Julie (Rebecca Gayheart) recounts to her new love interest the horrible chain of events that led to the accidental death of her best friend.  As Julie haltingly and painfully confesses her sins, we see a series of shots virtually identical to the expositional set-up that opened the film.  This made me angry because filmmakers should know better than to repeat information already known by the audience -- but this is the least of my complaints surrounding Jawbreaker.  The one-dimensional characters, the simpleminded connect-the-dots script, the annoying wall-to-wall music, and the unintentionally hilarious comeuppance of evil Courtney (Rose McGowan) at the prom all succeeded in producing a splitting headache.  What little joy I took away from my experience was provided by Marilyn Manson in an effective and all-too-short cameo, and The Donnas, who gamely rocked through a few numbers as the band playing the Reagan High School prom.  "},{"Title":"Obnoxious teens take high school too seriously.","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This flick was a big disappointment.  Judy Greer was the high spot for me. Best performance in this most unnecessary film.  And, where on earth did the R-rating come from? "}{"Title":"The film to beat for Worst Film of 1999.","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Every now and then a film comes along that is so bad that the studio is unable to release it (It's Pat!) or it ends up gathering dust at the local video store (Burn, Hollywood, Burn!)   The only chance a studio has is to compare it to other bad films that somehow became popular with a less discriminating audience, namely the teen audience.  Jawbreakers is a film (and I use that term loosely) that appears to have been made by a group of kids attempting to make their own version of teen hits.  Not a better version mind you, or a different version; it seems their attempt was to just make the same version (or combination therof) that they have already seen on the video shelves.  Even such a low goal was not met.  The film is bad. This film is not in the so bad it's funny range (if only it were), it's in the so bad it's embarrassing range.  The acting is bad.  The script is bad.  Or is the film completely improvised?  It's tough to tell.  The direction is non-existent.  The production design, though very unoriginal would be the highlight just because it's not as bad.  The concept is copied from Heathers, endless Friday the 13th parodies of the 1980's and an old Saturday Night Live sketch (one of those that end up AFTER the news update and are cut from the syndicated re-runs and featuring someone who is currently dead) all performed by your local high-school theatrical class--you know one of those performances only a parent would buy a ticket to but worth getting out of Algebra class for.)  Walking out of the theater after watching this film makes you feel like a dope for being there and embarrassed if anyone sees you.  Imagine getting caught going into a Barney, the Purple Dinosaur flick WITHOUT escorting a young child and you begin to get the idea.  If you do go, wear dark sunglasses, a raincoat, and a big hat.  You don't want your reputation ruined.  Better yet, just put a sign on your back that reads I'm an Idiot!, it's less embarrassing.  Of course, you could stay home and watch that Barney film on video, at least no one will see you.  "},{"Title":"Pretty but vacuous comedy that tries to pass itself off as a latter-day HEATHERS, but is really a half-assed retread of PRETTY IN PINK.","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Despite reviews and expectations to the contrary, this film is not a successor to HEATHERS.  It lacks any of the earlier film's scathing commentary or shockingly morbid humor.  What emerges is a CARRIE-esque revenge tale unbridled with any imagination, wit or remotely interesting characters.  Still, the production design and energetic performances by Rose McGowan and Rebecca Gayheart (as the repentant good girl) almost make JAWBREAKER worth seeing...   "},{"Title":"This film is just perfect","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  for frustrated seventeen-year-olds. If a rose by any other name is just a thorn in your side, then this film is definitely it. Accompanied by a noise-track which is ably detailed on IMDb as the original music, but which most of the time is a tasteless debauch into unmusical masochism, a supposedly 16 year-old Rose and her feline companions embark on a laughable foray into something which is no kind of comedy at all. If any US High School has any female adolescents even remotely resembling these young ladies, evidently something is going wrong with the great empire.This film is not a comedy, nor even a rather sexually exotic portrayal of young feminity displaying its virtues - or lack of them - on the screen. It is, rather, merely a debrained fantasy parading wide hips, big bosoms, overly-lipsticked mouths and about as much intelligence as my nine-month-old Husky.  However, if you just happen to be a brainless seventeen-year-old failing everything at school but enjoying this irrelevancy, you could well phone up the current president whoever he may be in any given or ungiven moment, and ask him what went wrong with the Great American Dream. To save you time and trouble, I will tell you it floated off down the Mississippi and has not been heard of for a good many years. "},{"Title":"This Is High School, What is A Friend Anyway?","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Jawbreaker. Most people would rather break their jaw than watch this film. I first watched this film on video and I was unpleased to say the least. Obviously Rose Mcgowen is good at playing the bad gal because she is a bad gal but even her performance is lackluster. You hate her but not because she killed someone but because you can relate to seeing someone like her in your high school. Thats the only good thing about this film. The fact that you can relate to the girls because they're in every high school. The stuck up snobs who think that the world bows down to them. The plot is as thick as a piece of paper. The most popular and kind girl in school is accidently killed when her friends kidnap her on her birthday as a joke. Now the new leader of the bunch decides to cover it up and make it look like someone else did it. Is It Original? Nope. Is it a good watch? No except for Rebecca Gayheart's performance, she gave a good showing portraying the hero. In The end this movie fails to live up to its potential. "},{"Title":"I laughed. It had more character than Scream.","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw Jawbreaker I thought it was a fresh approach to revisiting the high school genre. It doesn't have to live up to the classics. It admittedly admires them. Jawbreaker shows some killer breakout performances from Rebecca, Julie, and Judy. And Rose will be immortalized for this role whether she likes it or not. (Tip See it, because this might be the last time Rose performs one like this. She's soaring to stardom.) The young girls and guys, the fresh faces, not too much violence (I'm sick of teen movies that are overly gory), and hilariously creative dialogue make it well worth seeing. Be in the mood for high school-comedy-fun and escape to it. It's a movie, like a jawbreaker is a candy. I think that last scene at the prom will live in our memories as long as an everlasting gobstopper. GREAT stretched-out Rose faces. Classic! The screening I attended got a huge laugh, and people enjoyed it.  "},{"Title":"Nice enough","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is a pretty nice morality tale, in the tradition of Cary, as much as Clueless and Heathers. It's not without problems (the leads are about  a decade too old to be in High School), but it does have a lot of pretty good one-liners (She's Evil! And she's hasn't even graduated  high school yet!). Pretty fun, especially if you like Rose McGowan and Rebecca Gayheart.  "},{"Title":"When I left the theater after seeing Jawbreaker the first word that came to my mind was ohmygodicantbelieveijustwatchedthat.","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Now, the second word to come to mind was insipid.  I wasn't sure exactly that word meant, but for some reason I thought it fit. So, I came home and looked it up. And now, here is the Webster's New World College Dictionary definition of insipid Insipid - adj. - 1. Without flavor, tasteless. 2. Not exciting or interesting; dull; lifeless. Insipid implies a lack of taste or flavor and is, hence, figuratively applied to anything that is lifeless, dull, etc. I think I may have found a new favorite word. Insipid describes exactly how I felt about this good for nothing movie. Rose McGowan, Julie Benz, and Rebecca Gayheart play three popular girls in high school. As a birthday prank, they kidnap their other best friend so they can humiliate her in front of the whole school. In doing so, they stuff a very large jawbreaker in her mouth to keep her quiet. She accidently swallows it and dies. When a quiet non-popular girl (Judy Evans Greer) finds out, the popular girls tell her that to buy her silence, they will make her popular. Well one thing leads to another, blah blah blah good triumphs over evil and everyone has a la-di-dah time. Now let me ask you something. I may have gone to a normal high school, but I certainly don't remember hearing about friends kidnapping other friends, gagging them, stuffing them into trunks of cars, and then wanting to humiliate them in front of the school. It just doesn't seem like something friends do to each other for a birthday. Maybe get them drunk. Maybe take them out to dinner. Maybe rent a stripper. But kidnapping isn't something I normally think of. So the premise of the movie was stupid. And then the rest of the movie fell into place. Honestly the only good thing about this movie was seeing what next tight, revealing clothing the girls were going to wear next. The script was horrible, which meant that the actors sounded extremely stupid when having to speak those words. The direction was bad, the music was ok, but only when Rock You Like a Hurricane came on. Oh yeah, and I did like seeing Marilyn Manson dressed up as a regular guy (albeit a strange looking one). So pass on this piece of crap. I'd rather spend an hour and a half sucking on a real jawbreaker and staring at the wall than sit through this again. "},{"Title":"Darren & Rose = Film to remember","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Contrary to the reviews I've read on this film, I found this film to be of an excellent nature. Rose McGowan is simply irresistable as the evil Courtney Shayne. Courtney is the girl you love to hate, and Rose McGowan is about to take off into the world of superstardom. As for Darren Stein, he has created a film to remember. Unlike any other movie (I see no resemblance between Heathers and Jawbreaker), Jawbreaker consists of both witty dialogue and excellent imagery. Marilyn Manson's lineless role, is captivating in a sense that the irony of the scene and the laughter one will not be able to stop are worth witnessing. "},{"Title":"One of the mis-rated film.","Date":"28 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I'm a huge fan of teenage flicks from CAN'T HRADLY WAIT-like to BUFFY-like. it had occurred to me when i was eagerly finding such teen movies which can make me enjoying. i was not that sure by the time i got it first. but i was completely wrong when i turned on.first of all, the colors which the film shows are a real attraction whole time. jawbreakers, girls' clothes, retro sequences.... i just like it and was lured by it.acting is also fresh and Rebecca is so good...some scenes are really funny as hell...if u choose this as your teen movie, u won't regret, i bet.my overall  8/10 "},{"Title":"Character and actress name the same?","Date":"4 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I have seen lots of movies in my 42 years, but this movie Jawbreaker has something I find to be very odd.Isn't it odd that there there is a character named Vylette and also an actress in this film named Vylette? Of course, a movie could have a character named Bob and an actor named Bob, but with such an unusual name, Vylette, how can it be? I did a search, and unless I did it wrong, which is very possible, because I don't even get Jawbreaker as a hit when I search for a character named Vylette, there has never been a movie with a character named Vylette.Am I getting the name wrong? If anyone knows how this came to be, please let us all know! Also, if anyone knows why jawbreaker doesn't show up in the search results when searching for movies with a character named Vylette, that would be appreciated as well.Thanks, Gary "}{"Title":"I'd rather swallow a jawbreaker whole","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I know a lot of people are saying Then why did you watch the movie? I was watching my cousins and they wanted to rent this movie very badly. I figured, it's a typical teen flick, so why not? This movie is meant for no one. I mean, it's OK to watch, but it's definitely not worthy of any sort of awards or praise. It's a dark teen comedy, that's for sure. The thing about the movie that got me ticked off was how unrealistic it was. I mean, there was no justice, period! The acting was terrible and the plot was very unoriginal. I wouldn't really recommend this movie, unless you're into that Dawson's Creek B.S.3/10 "},{"Title":"Makes you sick to your stomach","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Jawbreaker is about three girlfriends who plan a kidnapping on they're best friend for her seventeenth birthday. They tied her up, smack a jawbreaker into her mouth, tape her lips shut, and close the lid of they're trunk with her in it. Later when they pop open the trunk to find the jawbreaker is stuck in her throat from swallowing it and she's dead. The ring leader Courtney makes her two best friends not to tell but when a mousy little geek finds the dead body, Courtney transforms her into a teenage beauty so she won't talk about the murder while one of the murderers leaves the group to tell the police about the murder but if she does Courney vows to pin the murder on her. Now Jawbreaker is a simple idea that anyone could think of. The characters are all the same and yet differently. Courtney is a teen witch who cares about herself and so do her friends but they all care differently about themselves and other people like parents or guys. But Jawbreaker is really weak. The opening scene where they find they're friend Liz with the candy in her throat will make you feel like you want to throw up, from ripping the tape off of her mouth to see her mouth empty is just gross. The plot is lame, simple as that. The characters as I have said are all the same, girls are like the other girls and that goes for the same as the guys only with they're personalities tweaked a bit to be a new character. Also Marolyn Manson is in this, weird. I didn't see him, I must of blinked. While Jawbreak tries to be a smart little dark comedy it fails in everything it brings. Jawbreaker dishes out a low 2. It's a simple idea greased with a bad plot, the same mediocre characters, and the ending is really stupid! Spoilers Cournety's voice is amplified over the intercom during the school's prom revealing she killed Liz and to deal with it. So what does the crowd of angry prom goers do? They pelt her with flowers and boo at her. No jail or police men waiting for her, yawn. Not recommended for anything except for some flashy backgrounds, that's all. "},{"Title":"Watchable,but VERY sloppily put together","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  When I first watched this film,I was turned off by what I saw girls trying to cover up the accidental death of their friend by trying to cook up some elaborate rape story(and seeming to enjoy that process a little TOO much,it seemed). But I made myself watch it again mostly because I've become infatuated with Judy Greer(who does not disappoint),who plays the dweeby,awkward girl that becomes first an unwitting witness to the three girls' cover-up,and then an even more unwitting pawn of said cover-up when she agrees to have her silence bought by being made over into this glamorous new girl in school.The acting here is pretty good for the most part. All four girls hit their emotional cues very effectively. But this film is so sloppily plotted and holes are left in the story that are merely tidily summed up at the end. Don't trust the blurb on the front that says The Best Teen comedy since'Heathers',because it ain't. Still,it's worth a look if you like dark comedies.4 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"This movie chokes likes it actors","Date":"9 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It's clear from the snappy editing and quickened pace that this was supposed to be a 'new age' teen comedy with an edge.In reality it is a jumbled mess, filled with overacting, ridiculous plot developments and nothing midly funny. The beginning is good enough, with the girl in the back trunk of the car actually looking quite disturbingly real and the pace mentioned before does make most of the cringing moments pass quickly, it's just that they come back again and again and again?Why do companys spend so much money on such dribble?People who love this movie should go and choke on their own jawbreaker. "},{"Title":" FANTASTIC JAWBREAKER OF A FILM !!!","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"                Once I started viewing this film, I could hardly keep my eyes off the TV screen, from the beginning of the picture to the very end.   I never thought that a Jawbreaker could cause so very much trouble in one picture.  The actors were great, every one of them Rose McGowan(Courtney Alice Shayne) of Vacuums '02; Rebecca Gayheart(Julie Freeman)gave an excellent performance, in real life she had a horrible car accident which caused her great mental suffering. Julie Benz(MarcieFoxy Fox) of Taken '02, a mini TV series; and Judy Greer(Fern/Mayo/Vylette) excelled in her great acting abilities from being a geek of a girl to a red hot swinger!  Judy Greer has many films in 2004 and is climbing up the Hollywood ladder with a fast pace.  There was lots of comedy, romance, sexy talk and drama. There even was a moral lesson to be learned, don't try to hid the truth, face it, and last but not least, don't give a person a JAWBREAKER laying down in a bed!! "},{"Title":"Anyone who doesn't like this movie is a jerk.","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Anyone who doesn't like this movie is a jerk.  So what if it's not as good as  Heathers or as original.  Not much else is.  Heathers is a classic, and it  seems like every subsequent film dealing with bitchy high school girls is unjustly  compared to it.  I really like Jawbreaker and I have good taste in movies.  I  know what I'm talking about.  I'm no fool.  If I say I like Jawbreaker, it means  something.  Jawbreaker is a strange, dark, arty teen thriller/comedy thatobviously isn't as mainstream as other teen fare of the late 1990's, and never  intended to be.  Perhaps mismarketing is to blame for it's critical and financial  underperformance.  I really don't think it's bad at all.  It's funny and smart in a lot  of ways that really surprise me.  I know that sounds terribly vague, but whatever.   I know what I like, and I like this movie.  If anyone disagrees with me, we can  take it outside. "},{"Title":" That was no way to wake up on your seventeenth birthday","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Rebecca Gayheart is independent as Julia in this loud teen angst flick. The following cast is obnoxious. The costumes are sexy. One of the fair farces in the genre, Jawbreaker delivers empty teen angsts. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"What IS that smell? oh, yeah, something rotten","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Rose McGowan is gorgeous, in a pale, lush pouty way. It's not clear from this film if she can act, because frankly, the plot stinks, the dialogue is lame, and the entire premise of the film is just, well, it is a massive cliche of a teen movie.Heathers was clever; this derivative claptrap isn't. "},{"Title":"Sexy,Hip,Horrendous,Watch it at your own risk!","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This movie if you can call it a movie stays far behind from what it´s expected to be,It has a great opening act in whick a girl is abductedby some group in black sweaters and masks, then we learn that they´re some hot chicks leadered by Rose Mcgowan and they´re playing a prank birthdaything to a friend of them,but their fun ends when they realize this girljust choked on a hard candy JawBreaker when gagged and she´s cold dead. Now here´s the hard to get part, one girl realizes what they´ve dome andyou can say Clueless she gets offered a make-over and voila..the plotgoes flying out the backdoor, we get to see Carl Kane which i love all her films and Pam Grier and a Foxy cop in search for the truth, it has some good scenes and a Kinky one as well with a hunk and a lollypop, Imean, it´s not Oscar material but it´s worth a watch, for superhot RoseMcGowan i´ll give it an 8 out of 10 in another teen movie. "},{"Title":"You'll be ashamed you like it...","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Jawbreaker is not an award winning flick but it is a lot of fun! When gorgeous and slighlty evil Courtney (Rose McGowan), annoying and ditzy Marcy Fox (Julie Benz), and pretty, sweet Julie (Rebecca Gayheart) accidentally murder their best friend Liz they don't know where to turn. Julie, the motherly voice of reason, wants to call the police but Courtney has other plans. You'll love to hate Rose McGowan in this quirky, fun role as Super Biatch Courtney Shane ) This movie is a must see for anyone who tires of the typical teen movie. Lots of fun and even better the second time around. 10/10 "}{"Title":"* * out of 4.","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A group of teenagers kidnapp their best friend for a birthday party and put her in the trunk as a prank, but the jawbreaker they put in her mouth causes her to choke to death. Now they have to scheme about trying to cover up her death. To make things worse, the school nerd knows there little secret.What would have been an interesting short film is bloated and padded out into a future length film. Interesting preformances and some amusing moments barely keep it afloat. Pam Grier stands out. Rated R; Sexual Situations and Profanity. "},{"Title":"GREAT!!!! 10/10","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Jawbreaker is practically the best film ever. Well... it's the best teen movie. Lots of people say it's a mix between Heathers and Clueless but i don't see that. ive seen them both and Jawbreaker is nothing like them. Rebecca Gayheart is very sexy in this film and i love Rebecca to bits. Rose McGowan was good also. But do you ever notice that Julie Benz never gets any credit for this film (Its a shame really). I've seen a couple of interviews with Rebecca and Rose on the net about this film and Julie Benz wasn't there and wasn't even mentioned. Well anyway i love this film and i definately Reccommend it to anyone who likes teen movies and sexy women. (HeHe) "},{"Title":"Insufficient.","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I've not seen so many high school films, though I'm obviously familiar with the genre; sadly perhaps, who couldn't be? I have seen Carrie and found that film reasonable, if overrated. This film alludes to the said Carrie at one point, and there are similarities; namely with the clique of girls at odds with another girl, though that changes round due to early events.Jawbreaker isn't quite run-of-the-mill, though its character development definitely is. The idea isn't novel, but that isn't to say it can't succeed if the film differs in other ways.  The characters, I hear you ask? Obviously they're all rather well-worn stereotypes. That wouldn't be so much a problem if the film was consistently witty and enjoyable. But, this film undeniably has its longueurs, even with it clocking it at barely eighty minutes. Most glaring is the time wasted with the relationship between Julie and some non-entity who's supposed to be a player.Of the main characters, Rose McGowan's minx, Courtney Alice Shayne, makes the most impression. She proves adept at chewing the scenery, over-playing the prima-bitch role to a degree that amuses. She's quite the card. Plus, of course, she's got the sulky, petulant good looks and pouts on tap. It is clearly a problem that no-one else really makes much of an impression in the film. Rebecca Gayheart is certainly very striking in her looks, and acts passably. Shame it's a boring role. Shame that given Julie's falling out with Courtney, there is only one scene amounting to a bitchy confrontation between them, and it is indeed funny - Courtney - Life'a bitch, then you die; Julie - No, honey. *you're the bitch.*; Courtney - Ooh, so aggressive! It's turning me on...! et al.  Julie Benz really has remarkably little to do or say for a lead, ending up as a mere minion of McGowan. I can't say there was anything much in Judy Greer's character or peformance as either the scant, laughable stereotype Fern or the vapid pretender, Vylette. Pam Grier is in for little reason, other than as a star name, it seems. Manson? Didn't see the feller. A minor point, but certainly noticeable, would be the fact that these supposed high-school dames are played by actresses pushing mid-late twenties in age.The script contains some good dialogue, and also lines that are rather good in an absurd, silly way - It's just weird how time erases things./Time doesn't erase things, people erase things/Yeah, people erase people...; this last line is delivered amusingly by Gayheart, I must admit. The soundtrack? A compendium of soft-metal, neo-rock tracks, largely indistinguishable from each other. The use of Young at Heart, sung by Bing Crosby, at the end, is odd and all the better for it. This final scene is okay, if more than predictable. It's a shame no real spin is put on it, barring a sheen of irony and semi-grand guignol. The film's central problem seems to be one of tone. Playing flippant with such potentially dark subject matter is quite a risk and if not done well enough, the film will falter. But then, the best things about this are the few choice lines and the exaggerated over-playing. Maybe a more fully light-hearted tale would have been a better bet.  Anyway, the film truly is small-fry, and while it could have been much worse, it is largely a failed exercise in trying to do a cool black comedy. Insufficient in many areas, bitchiness quota perhaps included, on reflection.Rating- ** 1/2/***** "},{"Title":"thank you jawbreaker!","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I was just looking through my voting record and realized that I have an inordinant amount of high scores. The problem is that I usually only remember to review the movies that I like. Five is the lowest score I had given a movie. So, I said to myself, You must know atleast a few horrendous movies that could break the score-of-five barrier. Just think of the last movie you almost walked out on (because being the film buff you are you never actually walk out). And it popped into my mind, 'Jawbreaker'! 3 out of 10, thanks! Though I don't know how I will ever beat 3 now... "},{"Title":"Gag me gently with a...jawbreaker?","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Um, in all fairness, I suppose that if one hadn't seen Heathers, this movie MIGHT be okay...  But it really is just an unimaginitive and incharismatic rip-off.  Why bother rehashing a great movie if you strip away everything that was good about the original? "},{"Title":"Bitches on Parade","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is a movie strictly for the beautiful people. From it's false portrayal of high school to the students that attend it, not one inch of this film is truly believeable. First of all, no high school I ever saw had viscious kids like these students. Hell, even the teachers and nice kids are nasty. Second, do they truly expect us to believe that everyone in that high school was a size 2! Come one, give us a little credit. There was not one heavy student in the entire school. My high school alone was made up of many heavy kids, and they were more popular than skinny, anorexic ones. Thrid, and most importantly, who the hell casted this thing? Rose McGowen is too over the top as the head bitch. And I'm sorry to say this, but Rebecca Gayheart should stick with cheesey night time soaps and Noxema commercials. Neither one of this girls can act their was out of a paper bag. And last, the plot. Talk about a rip off. I'm sorry, but Stephen King, Daniel Waters and Amy Heckerling should sue for plagarism. This nothing more than Carrie, Heathers and Clueless smushed together, and quite sloppy I might add.I give this movie NOTHING BUT BOOS!!! "},{"Title":"One-Note, Not-Funny Teen Comedy","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Three high-school girl-tyrants inadvertently kill one of their own during a prank.  A mousy wallflower witnesses their cover-up, and to buy her silence they give her a makeover and adopt her as one of their own.Successful teen comedies usually incorporate many intertwining stories, as was done so successfully in American Graffiti, Dazed and Confused and others.  Jawbreaker relies totally on its thin, sad premise. There's nothing else. And it's stretched way past its breaking point before it mercifully flops across the finish line.  Take a pass on Jawbreaker. "},{"Title":"Lousy at first sight but gets better in hindsight","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It starts interesting with a fake kidnap gone bad and then the story loses strength and direction. You get the feeling that the writing team just couldn't decide what kind of story to write. The cast DOES try and there are some nice winks at other movies from the past William Katt and P.J. Soles as a the parents of the murdered highschool prom-queen, while they were highschool kids themselves in Brian DePalma's Carrie in 1976. There's the always classy Pam Grier. Carol Kane who used to play Latka's girlfriend in 70's sitcom Taxi. And speaking of Taxi, Jeff Conaway's there also as someone's parent. (One could not help wondering if all those famous gueststars are actually noticed by todays moviecrowds?) And lo and behold the mighty mighty anti-christ is also there reverend Marilyn Manson A.K.A. Brian Warner as a sleazeball. (Well, he did get to do an onscreen lovemaking scene with his girlfriend who plays Satan on heels herself, when in real live, THAT'S what her boyfriend usually does on stage...) Have fun with this future cult classic! "},{"Title":"Very average","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Well, Jawbreaker certainly isn't boring, that's for sure. But that also seems to be the only good thing about this film (apart from the very colourful clothes). While it tries to be shocking and funny it's like too many films I've seen before. As for high school films, though, it's much better than the revolting She's All That, but when you rent Jawbreaker you should also know that it isn't your average high school comedy, even though the all important prom scene is in this film as well. Ultimately, Jawbreaker is a very average film, although it tries hard not to be. (4/10) "},{"Title":"Too Stupid for a normal person.","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie shows me where is the US cinematography going, down ! An example of how money can be wasted in poor films. It features some of the dumbest scenes I´ve ever saw and all those stupid scenes make this movie that didn´t make me laugh not 1 time (and it´s supposed to be a comedy!).A little question for everyone, In USA, are all the teenagers like are in the film? I really don´t want to think so because I rather smash my head to a wall than staying near those 2 girls that are supposed to be popular. And those teenagers are repeated from other movies such as clueless & can´t hardly wait. I really nostalgic about a college movie such as the great Porky´s saga. What can I say about the movie? It´s bad acted, it´s lack of a solid conflict (my 6 year old cousin can write a better plot than it), it´s not funny, has no realistic scenes, I really hated it. Nor one in my family could finished watching the movie, and I can say that they insulted me for the bad taste I had renting it (I really didn´t know what the film was about). I would not recommend it for anyone, even for all those who don´t want to think when watching a film.I rate this movie with a 2.5 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Hot chicks but we've seen this before","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  There are a few morbidly humorous moments in Jawbreaker. There are quite a few hot chicks as well, led by Rose McGowan. She does a good job at being bad.But there are too many elements of other high school movies here. Heathers, Can't Buy Me Love, Clueless, Carrie, Some Kind of Wonderful, etc. We all remember the Beautiful People in high school. Then there were the geeks. But can a geek cross over because of a birthday prank gone horribly wrong?Pam Grier is cool as the tough detective. Rose's beau Marilyn Manson makes a cameo and I think I even saw the Greatest American Hero briefly. "},{"Title":"Not as good as Heathers but a nice try","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Actually this is not that bad a movie. The ending could have been a little better, but it's still not bad.  Rebecca gayhart does a good job as does Rose McGowan from Scream who shows she can play a mean witch.  Carol Kane and Pam Grier are good in their short parts. And PJ Soles and William KAtt are in it for less then a minute! What happened with that?  Anyways it's no Heathers, but not a bad try. "},{"Title":"Gun Women?","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  OK! OK! Women can be just as nasty as men. Or at least teenage women, (or at least twenty somethings trying to be teenagers) can be vicious.It's possible that it won't be long before a real female Riggs appears routinely in films, blasting her lethal weapon into our faces, smashing skulls like Edward Norton in American History X, raping and pillaging like the best of the worst males.And in real life the gun woman will appear in schools somewhere, just like a gun man, and then we'll know that real women have emerged and the world will then I suppose be twice as nasty because of it.Jawbreaker is a film about a teen bitch who decides to play a trick on her pretty and much nicer class mate.The bitch and her mates grab the girl from her bed, stuff a big lolly called a jawbreaker in her mouth and throw her in the boot of their car. The girl to their surprise chokes to death.They cover the crime and stage a rape and murder. There is even a serious whiff of necrophilia.Now all of this, for good or evil, is fairly standard fare these days, devised for the entertainment of our young adults.Set the shenanigans in a school yard, put the kids in flash cars (no good for these heroes to be poor!), and then throw in the snazzy youngish sound track and then you might make some money in pictures.The film maker, first timer Darren Stein, has tried to kid us that this is an exuberant mix of Heathers and Carrie but his expectations fall way, way, short of reality.Jawbreaker every now and then makes an attempt to become a black comedy like the excellent Heathers but doesn't come even close. Misplaced mayhem is necessary for black comedy but these women are just plain nasty.Heathers threw in a good dose of good old fashioned nihilism and anarchy. No such luck with Jawbreaker.As for the spoon bending horror that ran rampant in Carrie, well one satisfying lolly bulge in a neck does not a horror film make. And we certainly aren't likely to feel sorry for any of these young ladies as we did for poor Carrie!Pam Grier of Jackie Brown makes a stilted appearance as a detective and Rose McGowan the chief nasty in Jawbreaker is in real life Marilyn Manson's girlfriend. And Marilyn Manson is apparently briefly in the film in a bar scene. But I didn't notice.  "},{"Title":"a silly but pretty good movie","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Jawbreaker is kind of a dark version of Clueless,but it's a little better than Clueless. It's entertaining at times,and funny here and there. The prom scene was alot better than the very bad prom scene in She's All That. All in all Jawbreaker could've been better,but it still pretty good. I give this movie **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Avoid this film at all costs","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is the worst movie I have seen that hasn't been blocked from my memory. Jawbreaker was attempting to use the kind of dark comedy that worked in Heathers, but failed horribly. It simply wasn't funny or even slightly amusing.I feel I am less of a person for viewing this film. Avoid it at all costs. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies of 1999. * out of ****","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The only thing worse than recycling material out of previous movies resulting in a pile of junk is  inventing original ideas that are junk all by themselves. Jawbreaker contains one of the most original idea's I have ever seen; using a piece of candy as a murder weapon-too bad it's a very, very bad idea. So bad that this is, without a doubt, one of the worst movies of the year.The Jawbreaker opening sequence has a trio of teens kidnapping their best friend, the prom queen Julie, on her seventeenth birthday for a surprise. They tie her up, snatch her from her own bed, force a massive jawbreaker into her startled mouth to keep her quiet, and shove her in their car trunk.When the three, Courtney the leader, Julie and Marcie, open the truck to surprise Julie, but  they are the ones who receive the surprise. For our prom queen has suffocated on that jawbreaker shoved in her mouth and died while on her way to her own surprise party. What to do now?Of course, the trio follows the brilliant idea coming from their leader. Courtney decides that instead of reporting the accidental death of their best friend to the police, that they should cover it up. They take Julie back to her house and make it look like she was raped and killed the night before hand. But wait. There is a witness. What next? Make her an offer Fern Mayo, the witness, will keep her mouth shut in return to have the honor to take the place of Julie and become a member of their clique, complete with an identity change and full body makeover. How could she resist.While the film stars out with what seems as a standard three act structure, after the initial problem is solved, it loses track of what the subject was, and thus opens a brand new series of evens, unrelated to anything proceeding it. Thus it wastes time during most of the second  act The four girls, whom we never did care about, must deal with their changing feelings, boyfriend relationships, and their fading friendship, which doesn't even come close to working. What does that have to do with an accidental murder cover-up? This is why there's zero tension in the plotline.And how about those characters, who look well into their mid 20's, but yet play high schoolers. They are developed with snapshots while the opening credits role by and are way too obvious, especially the shy Fern Mayo. There is no chemistry between the friends, nor is there a convincing reason why they do what they do. The romance is flat and put-on. The comedic dialogue is dark and disturbing, not funny.Along with the structure, dialogue, and characters, the acting is also quite bad. Rose McGowan from Phantoms is great; she is devilishly evil and sinister, just what her character needs. Too bad Rebecca Gayheart, Julie Benz and Judy Greer can't do the same. They come off as partially stupid, slow, or both. There is nothing for Pam Grier or Carol Kane to do here. And that brief appearance by Marilyn Manson-boy, what a surprise it is to see him as a bar hoping rapist.The movie is filled with all sorts of glamour, style, and audacity, all which are noteworthy. The film had a certain boldness to it. It tried for a sex scene between a muscular jock and Courtney, which is so desperate it consists of  some bizarre and head turning dialogue, a popsicle that they both enjoy, and an interruption by the cops. What arousal there. It clearly tired to be as sexy and last years Wild Things but was so desperate I couldn't stop laughing during the sequence.The ridiculous ending to Jawbreaker of course, as many other teen flicks, consisted of a built up prom in which all the good are rewarded, the bad are humiliated but not necessarily punished, and a series of flat smiles and soundtracks that will make you want to puke. I said it before and I'll say it again Jawbreaker is one of the years worst films. "},{"Title":"I saw it for free, but still felt cheated","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  My friend wanted to watch this film. I still haven't forgiven him for that.First of all, the dialogue was awful. I was ready to walk out in the first ten minutes of the film.Secondly, the actresses were ugly. After a certain point, I realized this was just another soft-porn teen flick, and tried to enjoy it on that level. It didn't deliver. The cutest actress was the one killed. Subsequent close-ups of the rest of the cast revealed numerous pimples, blotches, bad skin, and ugly tattoos.Thirdly, the plot was so flimsy it essentially had no plot. Basically, the idea is that A kills B and tries to cover it up, only to be denounced by C later. However, policewoman D apparently is able to ignore a truckload of clues and leads that easily identified the true killer within a few minutes.Overall, this movie was so bad I wanted my money back even though I watched it for free. At my theatre, it ran for seven days.  "},{"Title":"in my humble opinion, it sucked (no pun intended)","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This has to be one of the worst acted movies that I've ever seen in my entire life.  The plot is weaker than a wet noodle and the shear ridiculousness of it makes one want to burn the video just on principle of preventing future viewers from suffering.  Other than having some attractive actors struting about this has  absolutely no redeeming value.  It is not even entertaining.  After the first 5 minutes I was constantly saying to myselfwhy are you watching this @#$%.  To which my only logical reply was that It has to get better.  It can't be worse.  It's sort of a Beverly Hills meets Weekend at Berny's without the comedy.  I didn't laugh at anything that the makers had intended to be funny.  The only thing about the whole film that I found even remotely amusing in an ironic sense is how Hollywood keeps spewing up stuff like this movie while artists with a half way original idea are shunned.  Do not see this movie!!   If you do, make sure it is with a friend that is good at ripping on terrible movies. "},{"Title":"Heathers? Nope ... just a weed.","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"11 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  `Jawbreaker' is an obvious aspirant to the mantle of the legendary `Heathers' - one of the smartest, sassiest, and sharpest teen movies ever made. An ostensibly similar plot sees the most popular - and most spiteful - clique at school accidentally murder their classmate. The school nerd is their only witness. In return for her silence, they agree to make her over in their image, tempting her with the promise of popularity. Unfortunately, `Jawbreaker' lacks everything that made `Heathers' great. As a `Clueless on Crack' it fares a little better - but, given the intriguing possibilities of its concept, is still a disappointment.Where the earlier movie was intelligently malevolent, `Jawbreaker' is a surprisingly mean-spirited film. Its characters never rise above caricatures, making them difficult to empathise with. The journey of Fern `Mayonnaise' Mayo from school nerd the babelicious Vylette is hollow and unconvincing. Unlike Veronica Sawyer of `Heathers' who undergoes a similar transformation, Vylette seems to gain precious little wisdom from her experiences. Perhaps this has to do with the nails-on-a-blackboard performance of Judy Greer, who seems to believe she is in a John Waters film. This would be fine, if `Jawbreaker' could decide whether it is one or not.A lazy and sometimes implausible script hanging uneasily between reality, satire, and surrealism offers some clever one liners and sequences, but does little to showcase the talents occasionally on offer. Rose McGowan is the most enjoyable thing about the film for the simple reason that it's clear she isn't taking proceedings too seriously. Rebecca Gayheart's performance is also refreshing; a puddle of reality within the screeching teen-stereotype world around her which throws Judy Greer's Fern/Vylette into even higher relief. Both act as if they are in a better film.Perhaps the real difference between the two is that `Heathers' had heart and actual insight. `Jawbreaker's heart is as hollow as the view it espouses it's bad to murder your friend, but it's worse to be a b*tch.  "},{"Title":"She's so evil... and she's only in high school!","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I only watched this because of Rose McGowan (Grindhouse). I guess if i watched Charmed, I would know her, but Death Proof was my introduction. I thought she was so cool, and she was in this film also. It may have been a campy film about high school, but she was just so interesting.I remember Carole Kane from Taxi - boy, does that date me! I always like to see her pop up and she did a great job in this film also.Pam Grier played a police detective and I always like seeing her. I'll be checking her out next in Bones.It's a forgettable film, but it was funny and worth watching just to see some of the cast. "}{"Title":"Unrealistic, stupid, frustratingly.","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The movie was a little less than so-so in general. However, if anyone wants to watch a movie that at least pretends to make sense, then this is not the one. Stupidity from the beginning to end, and not that that's a bad thing. But it somehow offends that the producers or directors or screenwriters tried to pass off several parts of the movie when anyone with half a brain could have realized that - not going to spoil. But, after watching, you are plagued with, 'but that wasn't at all realistic, they made those people stupid, that couldn't have happened, duh' and eventually the conclusion is, watching that movie was an unbelievable waste of time. "},{"Title":"Heathers Wannabe","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It's a movie with contrived darkness, a Heathers clone but not as well made. The dark comedy is at times hampered by a script and plot line that cripples any kind of suspension of disbelief, and McGowen's stilted performance is annoying. Its not a REAL bad movie, but worse than Heathers which had dark HUMOR as well as better acting. Lines like I love mah dead gay son make it heads and shoulders above Jawbreaker. It IS a good movie for the slacker set, one that is exagerrated angst with an MTV vulgarity. "},{"Title":"Bad....really bad","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Ew.  This movie is horrible.  It's either a bad homage or straight out rip-off of the film Heathers, which is worlds better than this, plus it features Rose McGowen reprising that same role she does in just about every film she's in heartless bitch that never shows any emotions (the only other character she ever portrays is ditzy girl that never shows any emotions.  She has range...).  Plus, as if the lame script, thin satire and horrible acting wasn't enough - you get to see Rose and her real life boyfriend, Marilyn Manson, have sex.  It's charming.Yes, High School sucks, but so does this movie.  Two wrongs don't make a right. "}]