[{"Title":"Ferguson surprises in this well-written and edited funfest","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If one were to judge the comedic or acting abilities of Craig Ferguson by his work on The Drew Carey Show, he could easily be overlooked, passed over, or lumped in with the stereotypically smarmy and scenery-chewing English supporting character types like Christopher Hewitt (tv's Mr. Belvedere), and Daniel Davis (Butler Niles on The Nanny).Don't be misled.  Ferguson, who is HORRIBLE on Drew Carey, is every bit as wonderful in this smart, well acted, clever and sweet mockumentary which is surprisingly not a Christpher Guest production, and luckily with no Eugene Levy in sight!This film is a surprise, it's a sleeper, and probably did  0 box office in the US, but, give yourself a treat.  Rent it, preferably with a roomful of good humored friends.  An instant party! "},{"Title":"The Big Tease parallels Craig's experience Spoiler Alert","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I loved The Big Tease. I have watched it several times, and find it more entertaining each time. I recently read a quote of Craig Ferguson's in a Reel.com interview, saying that the movie somewhat parallels his experience in Hollywood. He said, it is an exact mirror image of the show business that I know. I believe that the story in the movie is my story in America, and when asked how Crawford's experience in America paralleled with his own, Craig replied, It's exactly the same...it is very similar to my own experience. That is where the story comes from. I watched the movie today for the first time since reading these comments, which Craig made about 7 years ago, and find that there are more similarities than he could have foreseen at the time. Part of the sharp satire on insider Hollywood revolves around getting a break because of whom you know. In the movie, Crawford comes to L.A. as a well-established hairstylist in Scotland (the Red Adair of hair), and manages to connect with the right people, beginning with Eamon the limo driver and Candy the publicist, which in turn leads to a series of connections with other key people and opportunities an amusement park animal costume fur-dressing gig, the continuing antagonistic yet crucial interactions with Monique and Stig, a lunch date with Drew Carey that takes Crawford's credibility to the next level, and a meeting with the Senator who finally allows him to compete in the W.H.I.F Hair-Off. Throughout these events and introductions, Crawford must pay his dues, often feeling humiliated in the process, yet always managing to make the best of the situation. I don't pretend to know all the details of Craig's rise to fame, but he was already an established comedian well-known in the U.K., then came to the U.S. and obscurity. After paying his dues here and there, he got a break as Mr. Wick on The Drew Carey Show. Drew Carey is the equivalent of Candy in this movie, giving stability to Craig's career, and enough required time on the set but not in front of the camera to begin writing, thus marking his breakthrough into the roles of writer, producer, and finally director with the critically acclaimed I'll Be There. Craig Ferguson's big break as host of CBS's The Late Late Show is similar to Crawford's walk-on success in the competition for the Platinum Scissors award. Craig has not yet been crowned the king of late-night, but I have a feeling that some of the other late-night hosts are feeling very much the same as the other three Hair-Off competitors, wondering, Who is this Scottish guy, and who could have guessed he had so much talent? One interesting scene in particular shows the obvious pride Crawford feels when he finally obtains his H.A.G. card, a pride which Craig will soon share when he obtains a U.S. passport upon becoming a citizen of his adopted country. The parallels to Craig's current situation are easy to see, and I think that The Big Tease may portend the huge success that Craig has yet to attain in Hollywood and with the ranks of late-night fans. Like Crawford, Craig is determined to reach the pinnacle of his profession, and he has forced industry insiders to sit up and take notice of him. Just like Crawford, Craig was born to this. "},{"Title":"Great movie!!!","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love this movie so much.  It has such a funny plot line and the writing is so good (Craig Ferguson, the star, wrote it).  This is one of the best faux documentary movies I've ever seen.  I think it also has a sweet little story about fulfilling your dreams and I love the ending.  I'm also a big fan of Craig Ferguson's other work, like Saving Grace.  If you liked this, I would reccomend that as well. "},{"Title":"worthwhile, funny little film","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you stick with it this is a very funny film.  Don't be put off by the plot - a misguided Scotsman attempts to crash a mythical hairdressing Olympics.  It's a very human comedy about identity and self-worth.  Filmed in a documentary style, which takes a few scenes to get used to, it really only hits its stride when the hero Crawford lands in the US.  From there it works very well, tilting at various American showbiz windmills.  I saw one of the co-stars, Mary McCormack, recently in High Heels and Lowlifes, and surfing her name in the database reminded me of this little gem.  If it's in your local video store, and you enjoyed Spinal Tap or Local Hero, you should try it. "},{"Title":"Best in Blow or Best in Shear?","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Unjustly obscure, this mock-umentary is certainly not revolutionary film making or Oscar material, but it does offer gentle laughs and some amusing performances and visuals.  Ferguson stars (and appears in virtually every scene) as a Scottish hairdresser who gets a letter inviting him to an international hair styling competition in Los Angeles.  This is cause for Langham to film a BBC documentary on him and much of the film is from that perspective (although Ferguson also narrates in blurbs filmed after the event.)  Falling somewhere in between the lame Drop Dead Gorgeous and the sublime Best in Show, the film is full of odd situations and the infectious charm of Ferguson as he sets out to win top honors.  Needless to say, if Ferguson weren't entertaining the film would be sunk.  Thankfully, he is delightful throughout.  Fisher, though less endearing, also provides nice support for him.  Several excellent comedic performers pop up along the way, notably the bizarre and side-splitting Miller as a harried hotel manager.  Rasche sinks humorously into his role as Ferguson's chief competitor.  McCormack, a very attractive young lady, perfectly captures the phony, insincere aspects of the contest organizer.  And any film that even briefly utilizes the untapped charms of McGinley can't be all bad.  Home video viewers may need to use subtitles to catch all of the remarks as the authentic Scottish accents are sometimes hard to completely understand.  Some real life hair professionals appear, but star cameos are minimal.  Carey inexplicably shows up as himself, but with a full head of hair.  Hasselhoff comes off amusingly as himself.  Crosby, an actress who always could have used a good stylist, appears briefly as a demonstration assistant.  One quibble  If the film was going to be rated R anyway, why not show more of the lead's physical assets.  What's shown is great, but all too brief.  On it's own little terms, this is a charming and fun movie.   "},{"Title":"A warm comedy romp. Bravehair.","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Big Tease is an under-rated, genuinely funny, and intelligently made film about a dauntless Scottish hair stylist, Crawford Mackenzie, and his quest for the globally coveted Platinum Scissors Award. A tour de force by Furgeson, the film delivers plenty of wry British humor and less subtle American hilarity with warmth and coherence, develops it's unlikely centerpiece (Mackenzie), sticks faithfully to it's plot, and builds to satisfying and very funny climax.  "},{"Title":"Amusing mockumentary with absurd humour","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The documentary filmmaker Martin Samuels joins Scottish hairdresser Crawford Mackenzie as he sets out for LA to take part in the Platinum Scissors Hairdressing competition.  On arrival he runs up a large hotel bill before discovering that his `invitation' is not to compete but to attend in the audience.  Out of his hotel and out of money, Crawford tries to get into the competition and wins over the trend setters of Beverly Hills and, with a little bit of luck and deceit tries to work his way into the contestI had never heard of this film prior to it's TV premier in the UK, I imagine it's the same with a lot of people &#150; it's a British comedy but it never managed to get the same high profile as more notable successes.  However this is not to take from this film as it is pretty funny and gently amusing.  The plot is nonsense but I think that is the point &#150; it's is increasingly absurd &#150; just like the actual competition and Hollywood lifestyle that Crawford finds himself thrust into.  The comedy is rarely hilarious but it is consistently funny nonetheless &#150; being more amusing than rip-roaring.  The sheer wit and energy of the film manages to carry it over the odd dry spell.Ferguson is suitably flaming as Crawford and is sweetly naïve for the most part.  Langham is very dry as Samuels and I wanted him to have more screen time than he did &#150; many other mock-documentaries have successfully made much better use of the dry humour of the interviewer.  The support cast are good on the whole and don't mind making fun of themselves.  Rasche is good as the two-faced Stig.  While comedy cameos from Drew Carey and David Hasselhoff work well.  Miller is always value for money and is good in his brief scene.Overall this is a nice short little comedy that is lively and absurd.  It is rarely hilarious but you'll watch it with a consistent smile on your face.  Perfect if you're in a silly mood and looking for something with a bit of fizz. "},{"Title":"Different . . . but there's nothing wrong with that!","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I found this film to be rather unique. It wasn't too 'mockumentary' but it wasn't exactly a beautifully edited screen play either. It took a while to get used to the pace, but then its merits shined through. I love subtle humour, and the thought that went into those adhoc comments and little facial expressions made it extremely funny. (Check out Martin's face when Crawford refuses to talk about his childhood) The storyline and ending maybe predictable, but aren't they all? Definitely worth a giggle. Oh . . .and any movie with a kilt scene can't be wrong now, can it? "},{"Title":"Runs with scissors","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  No one will mistake this as art, or even a mainstream film.  But what it is is fun, campy and entertaining.  The stereotypes are plentiful, and so are a few belly laughs.  Not the best movie I've seen this month, but far from the worst.  See it for what it is, light and fun with a few jabs at the hairdressing work. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, smart, sweet and surprisingly underrated","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Sweet film about a Scottish hair dresser (Craig Ferguson) who makes the big move to California in order to compete for the coveted king barber title (the film has an actual name for it but I don't remember). Ferguson is quite funny and Drew Carey turns up as himself in a rather likable cameo.Overall this is nothing particularly special, stuff like this has been done before, but anyone who likes sweet-natured comedies should definitely see this. There isn't a cruel piece of celluloid around this movie!I'd give it about 3.5/5 stars. "}{"Title":"A Movie more about heart than hair","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I felt surprise as I lingered on this movie while channel-surfing, it seemed to be far from any interests of mine, but, as I watched I realized that far from it, this movie says as much about the human condition, the indomitability of the spirit, as many other pieces of cinema. Charmingly acted, humorous, and in the end as satisfying as The Natural, The Big Tease is a funny and smart little film, well worth watching, with a winning hero and hateful villains. Bravo! "},{"Title":"The little movie that does","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I had not heard about THE BIG TEASE before I saw it.  I was not familiar with its star, Craig Ferguson.  My expectations, therefore, were fairly low. What a nice surprise this movie turned out to be.  It feels like a small movie, but delivers big laughs.  The cast features a perfect mixture of unknowns, believable character actors, and unexpected cameos.  The story is well-paced for a running time no longer than it needs to be (now THAT's refreshing).  The Scottish dialect can be hard to decipher for the untrained ear, so a few punch lines fall flat.  And while the documentary style helps moves the story along (why waste time on character background when you can have a documentary filmmaker simply ask our hero a pointed question?), it also slows the story down at times.  (We're watching documentary footage, remember?  So every few scenes need to end with the film being cut, or the camera guy running into a wall.)  But apart from those minor annoyances, THE BIG TEASE is one of the funnier movies in recent memory.  Partly because I had no expectations, but mainly because it's original, well-acted, and well-written. "},{"Title":"Beautifully written, acted, edited Funny! Underrated","Date":"19 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A lovely, lovely, funny film! I've been turning on to Craig on his late nite show, and one gets the impression he can do just about anything. And this flick shows that he can. I'd love to see him do something, anything, that breaks out in any direction whatsoever.This flick is way, way underrated. It beats the pants off the half-improvised preenings of Best in Show and that ilk.The most amazing thing is that, as the spectacle proceeds, you come to really care about the outcome for the protagonist.Finish your Cocoa Puffs(tm)! Find it. Curl up on the couch with something and/or someone. Light some scented candles. Dim the lights. Watch it attentively. "},{"Title":"A funny, smart little Rocky take-off","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I ran into this film on one of the comedy stations on cable and I found it to be very funny and fun. What caught my attention was alot of actors faces I've seem before -- but didn't know the names and the parts they were playing were just priceless -- so far away from what they USUALLY play which is what made this film so much fun for me. Even as I checked the listing of credits here at IMDb, there are a few folks I saw in the film that are not listed. I don't know why, maybe because they have only a short time on screen, but their appearances were humorous. This is a funny Rocky for the hair styling world. A talented hair stylist from Scotland gets what he thinks is an invitation to the crown prince competition of World Hairdressers that is held in Los Angeles. He decides to film his stay and competition in Los Angeles, documentary style. He flies to Los Angeles and finds out, painfully, is what he actually got was just an invitation just to sit in the audience! Try as he might, he is told he cannot compete...and just to get rid of him, he's told that he has to be a member of the Hair Stylist Union to even be considered, and so his LA adventure begins.The film is fun as via documentary style we watch him run into everything LA has to give, including HIS hair styling idol who is a real snot!! The sheer will of this character trying to beat the system is fun to watch and at the end, you're happy for him.I recommend this fun little film highly. It's an undiscovered gem. "},{"Title":"Kind of like Spinal Tap, but more hair","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is similar in style to This is Spinal Tap, they've even paid tribute to some of the classic scenes from the Spinal Tap movie.Following a Scottish hairdresser trying to get into a competition, the film is a huge laugh, but not as big as I would have hoped. Unfortunately it just gets a bit too thin on the ground on occasions, and you're just hoping that there will be some joke soon.That aside you cant complain. Even Sara Gilbert is in it! "},{"Title":"Bouffantastic","Date":"24 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Beginning with Waiting for Guffman in 1996 (actually beginning as co-writer for the riotously funny Spinal Tap in 1984), filmmaker Christopher Guest has pretty much perfected the art with screamers like Best in Show (about a dog show) and A Mighty Wind (about a folk music spectacle), and strangely very few other filmmakers have followed suit. Well here, I'm happy to say, is a worthy addition to the shortlist of great mockumentaries.Craig Fergusen, best known for The Drew Carey Show and hosting The Late Show, co-wrote and starred in this fun romp intended to celebrate Scottish pride in the very in- Scottish world of Hollywood glitz. He plays Crawford Mackenzie, a flamboyant hair artiste who travels to L.A. for a celebrity hairstylist competition, but he soon ends up in a very bad hair day involving, but not limited to, dirty rival hairdressers, limo drivers of questionable character, drive-by shootings, snobby Hollywood promoters, snobby Hollywood hotel managers, snobby traffic cops, David Hasselhoff, hairdresser bureaucracies and basically every obstacle Hollywood can throw in the face of an aspiring artist.I have to say I'm not the biggest fan of Craig Fergusen, but I found this story to be so fun that I was able to put aside my Ferguphobia. It's a creative & funny premise, but what makes it brilliant is the way it mercilessly skewers the Hollywood machine for being the frustrating members-only-club that it is. And while such an undertaking could've easily turned cynical, The Big Tease manages to keep everything light-heartedly satirical and fun the whole way through. The comedy is pretty fast paced, and you might miss a few subtle gags upon first viewing; some quiet lines are so priceless you'll find yourself wanting to write them down. That's the mark of a well- written script.There's just one area where it fell short in my mind. This film has more than enough strength to stand as a straight mockumentary or reality show. But they decided to add occasional scenes of the character Crawford narrating the story. Seemingly done in post production, he sits on a staged set talking to the camera. To me, this was the one flaw of the movie because it upstages the documentarian by adding 2nd character who is now communicating directly with the audience, further breaking down that 4th wall. Although some of these scenes feature hilarious material, I felt like they interrupted the rhythm of this brisk comedy.That's really a very minor criticism, and it probably won't even bother you. Like I said, The Big Tease deserves its place of honor along the other rare but hilarious mockumentaries Spinal Tap, Waiting for Guffman, Best in Show, A Mighty Wind (all by Christopher Guest), the obscure but riotously funny Sons of Provo (about a Mormon boy band composed of aging men) and the totally obscure but absolutely brilliant Aussie flick Razzle Dazzle (about a misfit team of young girls in a national dance competition). See them all, and write to your Senators the world needs more mockumentaries! "},{"Title":"The best movie about a Scottish hairdresser ever made!","Date":"23 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie was recommended by a friend and was a real surprise treat! It is fast-paced, hilarious, clever, and enjoyable to watch on so many levels. It has characters you can really care about, too, and you can't help but root for the hero and cheer him on. The acting and comedic timing and dialog are superb, and Ferguson's portrayal of innocent single-minded determination and heart is simply charming and extremely well done. It's so unique, how would one describe it -- Zoolander meets Best in Show? Braveheart meets Spinal Tap? No -- no comparisons can do it justice. Just rent it and be dazzled! You'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"Promises much, delivers little...a real tease.","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  SPOILERTrying to do for hairdressing what 'Strictly Ballroom' did for ballroom dancing, 'The Big Tease' follows Glaswegian hairdresser Crawford MacKenzie as he tries to get himself into the cut throat competition for the coveted 'Platinum Scissors' - a contest he's been invited to watch, but not to take part in. But it is so obvious that he'll walk away with the prize that there isn't any kind of feelgood factor about it.Taking the well worn fish-out-of-water scenario, 'The Big Tease' is far too slight to really make much of an impression. The whole Hollywood wannabe lifestyle is too easy a target for this type of comedy, and although some there is some mileage to be had from the situations, it all feels very stale. Actually, the film itself shows signs of suffering from that same wannabe mentality that it tries to lampoon. There are various 'celebrity' cameos, but they only serve as a reminder of how small scale the movie is. And when the expected Sean Connery cameo doesn't materialise it is an indication of the film's underachievement. An overlong sitcom pilot episode.&#0; "},{"Title":"Good film","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Very funny film, well written and acted by Craig Ferguson. Chris Langham shows that he is a very underrated and under-used comedy actor, the character he portrays being like a template for Roy Mallard his unseen interviewer in the BBC series 'People Like Us'.  Made better in my opinion by the fact that the Indian restaurant that they go to in Glasgow is just around the corner from my flat.  "},{"Title":"Nothing better than a scotsman with style","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The character Crawford MacKenzie leaves his home of Glasgow, Scotland to participate in the most prestigious hairdressing competition in the world, The Platinum Scissors. When he arrives, he discovers that he has not in fact, been selected to do anything more than sit in the audience. Being a passionate man desiring victory, he goes out on a quest to become eligible to participate and finally succeeds, thanks to a woman and Candy Harper and a limo-driving companion. Won't spoil the ending, but you had better see it yourself! B+ "}{"Title":"Very funny and well worth watching!","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was a great movie - we picked it off the shelf, never having heard of it before, and loved it! Reminiscent of This Is Spinal Tap and Waiting for Guffman. Complete with cameos from Drew Carey and David Hasselhoff, this film is great fun!  You won't be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Grrrreat fun!","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a funny, funny movie and the ending is hilarious! The ever-moving, documentary style of the film is reminiscent of This is Spinal Tap. Craig Ferguson is outstanding as the irrepressible Scottish hair stylist. "},{"Title":"FUN FUN FUN","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I LOVE mockumentaries. Waiting For Guffman, is one of my all-time favorite movies. Drop Dead Gorgeous, is another. The Big Tease, may not be as funny as those two, but it's still a great movie. How can one NOT be entertained by a Scottish hairdresser in California for the first time, trying desperately to compete in a hair-cutting contest? Craig Ferguson is magnificent, campy, and deliciously over-the-top (watch him singing California Dreamin' on his hotel room balcony and you'll see what I mean). Frances Fisher, as his cohort, is equally wonderful (and her exercise machine!!!). And of course Mary McCormack who caught my attention during her brief run as Sally Bowles in Broadway's Cabaret last year - she was wonderful (and I've seen the show 16 times to date). But this movie - just such a great concept. The actual competition had some of the best sight gags I've ever seen. You need to see it to believe it. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A wickedly funny comedy in the spirit of Spinal Tap","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I know you've heard the Spinal Tap comparison many times before -- most recently for that abortion of a comedy Drop Dead Gorgeous -- from less-knowledgeable and less-scrupulous critics. But The Big Tease is one of the only mockumentaries since Rob Reiner's genius comedy to earn the comparison.The film revolves around a gay Scottish hairdresser, Crawford Mackenzie, played by Drew Carey co-star Craig Ferguson. Mackenzie's the best in Scotland -- he even saved Sean Connery after a toupee went awry, we learn -- so it's no surprise that Mackenzie gets chosen to compete in the Olympics of haircutting, the World Freestyle Hairdressers Championship. With the Platinum Scissors at stake, Mackenzie flies to Los Angeles to compete, but (forgive the hair pun) is snagged by setbacks of every type.Spinal Tap is, simply, one of the best comedies to ever be immortalized on celluloid. That having been said, Is Big Tease funnier, or as funny? That's unfair to ask. However, Big Tease is truly hysterical, and it possesses one of the most important elements to making a classic film -- it stays true to itself. In other words, it's unapologetically bizarre from beginning to end, and certainly worth your $9.50. "},{"Title":"positive affirmation of an excellent film","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is both funny and moving. Craig Ferguson is great as Crawford McKenzie and all the other characters are excellent too! Well worth watching for a great laugh! "},{"Title":"Amusing mockumentary","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" THE BIG TEASE (2000) ** Craig Ferguson, Frances Fisher, Mary McCormack, David Rasche, Chris Langham, Donal Logue, Larry Miller, Jay Thomas. (Cameos Veronica Webb, Drew Carey, David Hasselhoff, Cathy Lee Crosby, Bruce Jenner)Blame it on `This Is Spinal Tap' for the unindation of the `mockumentary', the hybrid of comedy and documentary unto its own genre, for the latest attempt of poking fun with deadpan serious masking with the occasionally humorous `The Big Tease'.Crawford Mackenzie (Craig Ferguson, best known as the unctuous British boss on tv's `The Drew Carey Show', who also co-wrote the screenplay with Sacha Gervasi) has more moxie than anyone would expect from a somewhat flamboyant Scottish hairdresser who finds himself the subject of a BBC documentary filmmaker (Langham who gives the air of deadpan a new definition) and is invited by the industry's high echelon the World International Hairdressing Federation (aka WHIF)  to Los Angeles for the annual World Freestyle Hairdressing Championship.  In his own charming way Crawford embarks to Lotus Land thinking he's to represent Glasgow as a competitor but is soon informed by WHIF's oraganizer Monique Geingold (McCormack, who has the uncanny knack in being a real phony with comic aplomb) he was invited to be in the audience.  Not taking no for an answer the indefatigable Scotsman attempts to get his HAG card (that's Hairdressers of America Guild) by any means necessary even resorting to his competition, the pompous ass Nordic god of the salon set, Stig Ludwiggssen (Rasche, a good sport hooligan in a ridiculous hair extensioned wig), who dismisses him like a knot in one's hair.Adding some gumption and support to Mackenzie's starry-eyed quest is high powered Hollywood publicist Candy Harper (the wonderfully tart and no bull Fisher) who takes him under her wing after his attempt to get Sean Connery's phone number from her (he once helped the fellow Scot during a windy mishap with his toupee during a Benny Hill Pro/Am Golf outing) and instead gives her a sparkling makeover.. Ferguson - who is so good as the devilishly naughty Mr. Wick on the `Carrey' program  - at least gives the impression of having a good time onscreen (and it shows) which seems to bounce off nicely from his assembled cast including veteran stand up comic Miller as a recovering alcoholic manager of a posh Beverly Hills hotel (`I've been clean and sober for five.days'), McCormack - best known as Howard Stern's long-suffering wife in `Private Parts' - is a charming bitch with not one honest bone in her well manicured body, and Logue as a player wanna be limo driver is memorable.Funny in its execution but gradually losing its bearing in the climactic `hair off' - for a lack of a better term - the film's concept seems one note and often has the unkindly air of flop sweat with its too lingering shots on the desperate hair stylist in his dream becoming a nightmare.  "},{"Title":"Charming, hilarious, brilliant!","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There's something indefinable about this movie that I adore... I don't know whether it's the superb performances by Ferguson and Langham, or the great script, or the wonderful camoes (Larry Miller is a genius)...Whatever it is, this is a great movie - one of those movies that you want to watch over and over. Why isn't Craig Ferguson a bigger star? Just comparing his role in this movie with his Mr Wick character on the Drew Carey show proves that he's one of the most versatile and engaging actors around. "},{"Title":"If You Liked Drop Dead Gorgeous, You Should Like The Big Tease, Too.","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Big Tease is a surprisingly fun little movie about hairdressing as a competitive art form. This is done in the fake documentary form as Drop Dead Gorgeous was. The plots between the two movies were pretty similar, showing the competitive nature between the hair stylists or the beauty pageant contestants.Crawford Mackenzie (Craig Ferguson) is the up and coming gay hair stylist from Glasgow, Scotland who has received an invitation to compete in Los Angeles for the coveted Platinum Scissors award. Mackenzie is delighted and gets a documentary crew together to document the events, which, as you might assume, will get a little embarrassing to be documented. The first mishap to take place is the fact that his credit card has been maxed out, unexpected to Mackenzie because he believed the participants expenses were taken care of. Second, he finds out that he was not invited to compete, but to watch. That would be pretty embarrassing in itself, but Mackenzie takes it upon himself to earn his HAG card (Hairdressers of America Guild) so he can become eligible to compete.Stig Ludwiggssen (David Rasche, and the reason I rented the movie) is the main competition for Mackenzie and comes off as a pompous jerk, like Ted McGinley's character in Revenge Of The Nerds (who, coincidentally, is Stig's agent in The Big Tease).Also, Drew Carrey makes a cameo as himself, but with a full head of hair and raves about Mackenzie's work, which for some reason I found pretty funny. Between Drew's and Rasche's hair, I do not know which was more out of place. I am still used to remembering Rasche as the straight laced Sledge Hammer.Overall, a fun little movie if you do not go into it expecting much. If you are satisfied with Drop Dead Gorgeous, I do not see any reason you will not like The Big Tease. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Clever script, and Craig Ferguson is great.","Date":"10 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The screenplay is very witty, and everyone in the cinema was laughing out loud.  Acting is good in all parts, but Craig Ferguson has real screen presence.  'Stig' is a particularly malevolent champion, and even the gormless looking bellboy seemed right for the part - who was he? "},{"Title":"Better Than I Expected ....","Date":"29 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" .... But I have to warn you that since I find Craig Ferguson a simply awful comedian I wasn`t expecting anything less than an awful movie . THE BIG TEASE is far from an awful movie but is unfortunately far from being a great one too . The premise isn`t bad and involves a Scottish hairdresser going to LA to take part in a hairdressing contest - or so he thinks . The problem with THE BIG TEASE is that the jokes are fairly weak and mainly revolve the old - And we`re talking so old they died of old age some time ago and the stench is overpowering - pratfall gags of people walking into sliding doors etcThere`s also directorial blunders too . Remember that THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT was a spoof documentary shot on a single video camera ? Then you`ll remember that every single scene was shot on a single video camera . With THE BIG TEASE it`s obvious the documentary crew only have one camera but in nearly every single scene there`s cross cuts long shots etc which prove there`s several different cameras used to shoot the movie . Yeah I`m nit-picking for sure but I`ve never been a fan of mockumentaries , hell I didn`t even like THIS IS SPINAL TAP that much For neutrals who have never heard of Craig Ferguson you might find THE BIG TEASE amusing if you see it on TV ( It was ten times more entertaining than the alleged comedy film the BBC showed last night entitled THE WEDDING TACKLE ) but I doubt you`d want to spend money hiring it at the video shop   "}{"Title":"Not particularly funny, not particularly entertaining, not particularly anything","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When I sat down to see this film, I expected a mix of Drop Dead Gorgeous and The Drew Carey Show(because of it being a mockumentary and it starring Craig Ferguson whom I know mainly from that show). I don't know exactly to describe what I got instead. The humor seems fairly thin, and based on clichés and stereotypes I never even knew existed. The gags and jokes don't seem as silly-funny or stupid-funny as... not funny at all. I understand Ferguson wrote the script, at least in part. I don't know if he's to blame for the shoddy writing and poor humor, but I would guess so. The film has a few celebrity cameos, but they're really there to bring even more bad jokes and make fun of themselves. The plot is fairly good, and somewhat original, but quickly descends into yet another fish-out-of-water run-of-the-mill happy-ending fairy tale about some guy triumphing over adversity. The pacing is awful... the film barely seems to move at all during the less than 90 minute running time. The acting is fair. The characters are all paper-thin, with everyone whose side we're supposed to be on being goody-goody and their enemies being caricatures of bad people. Weirdest thing about this film is... for the first half or so, it seemed pretty funny. Larry Miller was great fun to watch, as was Donal Logue. From there on end, it just went downhill. I don't know, other people might enjoy it. Maybe I'm just not into Ferguson's humor. I recommend this to fans of Craig Ferguson and possibly one or more of the other comedians/comic actors in it. If you happen to catch it and you enjoy Miller's typical act in films, you should at least watch until the end of his scenes. He is one of the few redeeming features of the film. 5/10 "}]