[{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Just like Norm McDonald's last comedy, don't expect anything complex or high-brow.  But expect tons of laughs!  I was laughing from beginning to end!  And Norm is assisted by Dave Chapelle, another one who's talented at his craft.  There's no artistic merit to thoroughly discuss.  All I have to say is it was funny, and I don't want to give away why it was funny. Just go see it!  You won't get screwed like some smart-alecky people claim. "},{"Title":"hardly as rotten as I expected--in fact, not bad at all","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Norm MacDonald works for a very rich and nasty lady (Elaine Stritch). After putting up with tons of abuse from her, he decided to get revenge by kidnapping her horrid dog and holding it hostage. His friend (Dave Chappelle) lends him a hand and soon are the subject of a nationwide manhunt! Will the guys get away with it or will they go to prison and become somebody's boy toys?The reviews for this movie were SAVAGE. I've seen wars get better reviews! The attacks were strong and brutal. That's probably why I am so charitable in my review. It just didn't seem like a bad film to me. Great?! No way, but there were enough moments to keep my interest and merit a score of 6. Sometimes I wonder if I am crazy (a possibility) or the movie reviewers are just lemmings who follow each other's leads.Elaine Stritch was incredibly mean and hateful, as her role demanded and there were some other supporting actors who I really liked as well, but the one who really stood out to me was Danny DeVito's incredibly weird and funny bit part as the president of the Jack Lord fan club (and a total psycho to boot).By the way, if you liked this film, try watching another MacDonald film DIRTY WORK. It might be a tad funnier but both very rough comedies make you laugh--and isn't that enough sometimes? "},{"Title":"Amazingly funny!","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I just finished watching this movie and felt I should write a comment about it, which I've never done before.  For much of this movie I was literally rolling on the floor laughing.  Once or twice I noticed something that didn't makes sense, like in one scene the main characters steal a police car and start it without having keys.  But a few seconds later they would do something so funny I just forgot all about it.  I would recommend this farce to any of my friends, in fact I'm going to go do that right now. "},{"Title":"Amusing, Light Comedy.","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Screwed does not take itself seriously, and as a result is able to work around a script that, while witty and clever, is not exceedingly original. Norm MacDonald, plays the standard role, Dave Chappelle compliments him well, and Danny Devito plays  his character as if he is the star of the show, and in many ways he is. "},{"Title":"worst movie i've seen all year.","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  holy cow, what an awful movie!  i'm a dave chapelle fan, and i like danny devito too, in most of the comedies he's played in.  norm macdonald is a gifted stand-up comedian.  but in this movie, chapelle's reduced to playing the silly black sidekick, danny devito is given NOTHING to work with, and macdonald is so unfunny i found myself thinking about cleaning house while the video was on.  yikes.  i wouldn't even recommend renting this movie with a free rental coupon. "},{"Title":"How disapointing.","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I honestly don't understand what was going through Scott Alexander and Larry Kawazinky's heads when they wrote and directed this piece of drivel.  The plot is convoluted as are the characters.  Very little is funny other than scene stealing Danny DeVito.  What is funny is brilliant, but there is very little if anything to recomend this film.I expect more from these guys.  The two of them brought us the screenplays for such thought provoking and emotional films as Ed Wood, The People Vs Larry Flynt and Man on the Moon.  This is one disapointing directorial debut. "},{"Title":"Bad, just plain old BAD","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Dont bother, dont even rent it.  Terrible.  Every bit of humor could have been condensed into a 10 minutes skit, and even that might not have gotten a laugh. If you really want to see this one, please wait for it to be on video, and even then have a back up plan, as I doubt you will want to sit thru the whole thing. "},{"Title":"Good for a laugh.","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  While 'Screwed' is far from the essential comedy, it's definitely worth a rental! Norm Macdonald (The Norm Show) plays Willard, the under-appreciated butler to rich Bakery franchise owner, Miss Crock (Elaine Strich), who finds himself about to lose his job. Willard and his best pal, Rusty (Dave Chappelle) decide to kidnap Miss Crock's dog, but they soon find themselves hilariously over their heads as things go astray.Danny DeVito also makes a welcome appearance in this film as the weird mortician, Grover- who likes his job a little too much! 'Screwed' is a predictable but fun to watch film with decent performances from the cast. Not a classic as others have suggested, but good for a laugh if you feel like watching something light-hearted! ***1/2 out of *****! "},{"Title":"Save your money, rent Dirty Work","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The funniest parts of this movie involve a turd in a box, and Danny DeVito with brush in his a**. The writing, acting, and directing are all awful. My friend commented, that the movie must be bad, because it looked like I was having more fun playing with my Milk Duds box than watching it. Save your money, and go rent Dirty Work. (Bear in mind that Norm MacDonald is one of my favorite comedic actors.) "},{"Title":"calling it misguided is kind - calling it lame is accurate","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What a disappointment.  See, I found Dirty Work to be mildly amusing, and I like Norm Macdonald's work in general.  Furthermore, I saw Dave Chappelle's stand-up act live a few months ago, and it was pretty funny.  Thus, I really did expect to like Screwed, even though the critics didn't.But, alas, those critics were right on target with this one.  Almost every joke in the movie fails (the only particularly successful ones are near the end, too).  Furthermore, one scene is unnecessarily violent for a movie of this type, making it all but impossible to laugh.  The best moments usually belong to DeVito, by the way, but his part is pretty small (he's in like 5 or 6 scenes).Incidentally, I'm really beginning to feel sorry for Chappelle, who just can't seem to do a good movie (I hated Half-Baked and Blue Streak, too).  He's too funny to have this bad of a movie career.  3/10 "}{"Title":"Nothing intellectual or deeply engaging, but works because of clever casting and funny material. *** out of ****.","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  SCREWED / (2000) *** 	Everyone gets it in the end is the subtitle to Screwed, the new comedy from the screenwriting team Scott Alexander and Larry Karaszewski (Man on the Moon, The People vs. Larry Flint). Gets what in the end? Screwed, of course. That is one of the most factual taglines I have seen in a long time. Within the short running time of this comedy every last character becomes screwed in one way or another. No other commentary better fits the promotions of this production. Former Saturday Night Live star Norm Macdonald is an unhappy chauffeur named Willard Fillmore. He is employed by his dead father's mistress, the wealthy but cruel-spirited Virginia Crock (Elaine Stritch), who owns a enormous bakery corporation and a cute little dog. Ms. Crock never grants Willard gifts, raises, nor does she compliment him for his hard and loyal services. 	Rusty P. Hayes (David Chappelle) is Willard's best friend, a pot smoking young man destined to earn minimum wage for the rest of his seemingly pitiful life. The two buddies decide they have had enough of Crock's inhumanity and are ready to get even with the witch. They plan to abduct her precious canine to hold for a million dollar ransom. With the help of a deranged morgue attendant named Grover Cleaver (Danny DeVito), the unlikely pair set out for revenge and criminal riches.  	 As their after dark heist for Crock's pet takes place, Willard and Rusty's dim minds cannot handle the pressure. The unsuccessful seizure results in severe bleeding, a misinterpreted reimbursement note, and a crime site appearing as though a brutal murder has taken place. All of this and yet the mission's target ends up escaping the captors and finding its way back in bed next to Crock.	 Virginia Crock discovers a room in her mansion ransacked and destroyed, therefore, when she reads the ransom note regarding the assumed capture of her dog, she thinks the reading indicates Willard himself is the hostage. When Detective Tom Dewey (Daniel Benzali) becomes involved with the missing persons' case, Rusty gets an idea instead of abducting the dog, they should agree with what the presses are addressing. Complicated chaos ensues leaving nearly every character screwed by the time the film's finally roles around.  	Screwed works mostly in part of the flawless casting choices. Danny DeVito makes the film alike in his character to his diabolic portrayal of the Penguin in Batman Returns with exaggerated gestures and irresistible make-up and costume. No other actress could have captured the spiteful, annoying character of aging Ms. Crock like Elaine Stritch, who gives a specific style to Crock that we love to hate. Norm Macdonald once again proves he cannot act worth a hill of beans, but he sure provokes amusing material through his character.This production is of nothing intellectual or deeply engaging, nor is it anything thought-provoking in the least. The deadpan dialogue is bland, lacking creatively and liveliness. There are also undeveloped characters, scenes and subplots irrelevant to the story, and even some humor unworthy of a smirk. However, Screwed has one major element that makes it effective the movie induces some big laughs. Many of today's comedies fail to bring about a single chuckle in an audience, and this movie frequently made me guffaw, giggle, grimace, and at certain points, laugh until it hurt. Judging Screwed in this method, the film is worth the watch.  "},{"Title":"So much wasted talent...","Date":"12 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Screwed desperately tries to be a classic Shakespearean comedy, a style that really doesn't translate very well to modern cinema. It's full of comical misunderstandings, mistaken identities, suitcases ending up in the wrong hands, and somewhere in between the idea is that you laugh at something. I was hoping I had found a lost Norm MacDonald gem, but this movie doesn't play into any of his strenghts. He gets to do a lot of physical stuff, and absolutely no great deadpan one- liners anyone who's familiar with his comedy knows that moving isn't his strong point. Danny De Vito and Dave Chappelle meet the same fate, they're stuck with a screenplay that gives them very little interesting to do. For what it's worth the movie is never flat-out boring, the story isn't bad but it just falls flat whenever they try to do a big comedy set piece. The movie is a lot more tolerable when it's not trying, but I'm not sure that's a great recommendation.There's one great scene in this though, the one where Norm gets interrogated by the hard-ass police detective. This is the kind of movie where whenever someone does a good line (i.e. not often), you think it's improvised. I guess that scene was entirely improvised. "},{"Title":"Viewers Are Screwed.","Date":"15 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Screwed (2000) Dir Scott Alexander, Larry Karaszewski / Cast Norm Macdonald, Dave Chappelle, Elaine Stritch, Danny De Vito, Sherman Hemsley Absolute crap with a title that indicates how viewers should feel upon spending valuable income to see it. Norm MacDonald slaves for a crabby old Mrs. Crock who owns a chain of pie stores. Upon learning that he will be fired he and pal Dave Chappelle kidnap her dog in hopes of extorting ransom money. We are given a disgusting scene where the dog bites MacDonald's hand and he thrashes about, yet the lady remains asleep. The dog escapes and MacDonald is believed to be kidnapped. Dumb concept with an insincere ending. Directed by Scott Alexander and Larry Karaszewski with no appeal. Why this junk needed two directors is beyond me. MacDonald fails in portraying someone viewers might relate too in terms of his job position. His scheme is amusing but his sincerity is lacking in the end. Chappelle plays his idiotic best friend who has the tendency to assault people with lamps. Elaine Stritch plays Mrs. Crock who is one note the whole way. Danny De Vito is interesting as a mortician caught up in the scheme and retaliates when odds are against him, then he scores the unlikely. Sherman Hemsley appears to remind us that he was great in The Jeffersons and not so great in this junk. Pointless bag of trash should be beat with a hammer. Score 0 / 10 "},{"Title":"Bleah","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I went to see this movie on Friday night.  I would have gone to see Battlefield Earth, but I heard that it was terrible.  Seeing that I quite enjoyed Norm's last movie, Dirty Work, I figured this couldn't be so bad. I was wrong.This is one of the worst movies I have ever seen.  The acting (or lack there of) was lousy.  Even Norm wasn't as Norm as he usually is.There were a couple of comical scenes that did make me laugh but not nearly enough to make me recommend this movie to anyone.It isn't that they writers tried too hard for comedy, they didn't really try at all. "},{"Title":"Unappealing comedy","Date":"27 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I am sure other people who have posted their comments on this movie here have referenced the title in their comments, so I won't even try to make the same kind of joke. As you may have guessed by that last sentence, I didn't find this movie very appealing. For one thing, this is an extremely scummy-looking movie. Almost every shot look dark, dirty, and slimy - surprising, because it was filmed in clean British Columbia. But what was worse about the movie was how abrasive it was, harsh-feeling and tough to sit through. It is EXTREMELY loud, and almost every actor gives a strident and unappealing performance (the only actor who survives is Sherman Hemsley.) The movie is also badly written - MacDonald's girlfriend character is awkwardly introduced and stays missing for most of the movie, and characters keep failing to check things before making major actions and decisions. And it was strange that though this movie is taking place in the winter, in one scene in a car you can see bright sunshine and leaves on trees.Oh, and the movie isn't funny at all. "},{"Title":"Terrible movie, Norm MacDonald really let me down","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When Norm MacDonald was on SNL, some of the funniest stuff I ever saw on the show was his Weekend Updates.  However, he also had some really bad times where he just wasn't funny, like the whole show at that time.  This movie is more like the Norm from the bad SNL's.  His type of humor really doesn't change, but there must be something in the delivery or maybe the predictablity of it, because in this movie, it really isn't funny.Obviously, the plot isn't very strong since it's meant to be just a ridiculous comedy, but this is just terrible.  The story is kind of dumb, the acting isn't very good, and it's just plain not funny. "},{"Title":"dumb and unfunny","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What a dumb, unfunny movie. I got this film for a gift , I watched it and thought it was terrible.  My question is, why would Danny DeVito ever agree to appear in such aterrible movie? I would not recommend this movie to anybody. 2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Too ignorant to be funny","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a downright horrible movie, and I don't think I laughed one time. I love Chapelle and McDonald, and even Devito, but they were all horribly awful in this movie.  The fact is- the characters are too stupid to laugh at, and the story is just ridiculous.  True, a ridiculous plot is fine for a comedy like this, but this script was just downright bad.  Stay away from this film, and rent half baked (which isn't all that great either, but it's a lot better than this garbage.) "},{"Title":"don't watch!","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I went to see this movie without any reference. Just a movie poster, no story outline, no pictures, no screen names, nothing, just the title and a perfect time slot in the Paramount cinema in Toronto where I viewed this monsterous movie!No fun, no enjoyment. Still, three points for its attempt to make a nice movie. No pretences, just a (bad, lame) story to tell. Oh, and acting????? Damn, even the Dutch can do better than this...  "},{"Title":"A Triumph!","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Norm MacDonald triumphs again.  Following a series of arguably the worst comedies ever to be unleashed into theatres, Norm MacDonald has actually succeeded in making a film even less funny than his awful TV sitcom, the cleverly named Norm. Also of note, in this edited version of the film, there are characters who inexplicably appear in the middle of the film, and are spoken about as if they have appeared already (e.g. Norm's girlfriend and Sherman Hemsley's gay lover).  Amazingly breaking precedent from his previous films, Norm only says the word whore once in Screwed.  Poor Danny Devito.  Poor Elaine Stritch.If you see this movie on the street, beat it to death with a tire iron. "}{"Title":"A very funny film, but too long for its own good","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" If you're like me and don't want to waste your time on brainless comedies, you might have very well missed this nice little film. Why? Because it sure looks brainless at first. If I had had anything better to do during the first five or ten minutes of Screwed, I'd have turned off the TV.But I watched it long enough to realize it was actually very funny. However, it is so unashamedly and deliberately superficial that you can very easily miss its charm if you see only a couple of scenes. Each element (actors, script, direction) is weak by itself. But when they are combined, they somehow manage to conjure that rare magic which we call a good comedy.Unfortunately, at the two-thirds mark, the film develops an additional plot which is just boring. Your cue stop watching when DeVito starts ripping off posters from lampposts. From that moment on, the frequency of good jokes decreases dramatically.Still, the first part of the film is a laugh fest. I recommend it to anyone looking for a good light-hearted (and slightly vulgar) comedy. "},{"Title":"Pretty stupid, but not necessarily a bad thing","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Screwed really didn't start off all that promising. The two lead characters kidnap a dog in a scene that played out kind of like a 'Something About Mary' ripoff screne (where dog attacks character) and things didn't really get much better from there at first. However, about 30 minutes into the movie as I was about to give up on it, things really started to pick up and it had me entertained, only to be let down somewhat by the ending. This definitely is along the lines of a 'stupid' comedy and nothing intellectual about it, but I still found it very funny in parts (especially Dave Chappelle and the second desk lamp scene). The two lead characters are so stupid and the plot itself has so many holes in it, but I think in the end, these two factors work in favor of the movie. I would recommend this as a rental, but only if you enjoy these types of comedies .. and stay with it until at least 30 minutes into the movie!  "},{"Title":"Its worse than you think","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is not Norm Macdonald funny, this is not even Carrotop funny. Every gag fails, the movie is shot in dark, depressing colors which only drive the sad, very sad message straight to the subconscious.  This movie is a shining of example on how not to make a slapstick meets a crazy twisting plot movie.   "},{"Title":"silly but funny humored movie","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  MY kids (ages 8,12) and I came across this movie while channel surfing and found ourselves cracking up at the silly humor in this movie. Norm Mcdonald played his usual dead pan dumb as a rock character but it was the supporting cast that carried the movie. David Chappelle was great as his just as stupid best friend. Danny DeVitto, as the dumb co-conspirator, made you see how greed can make the stupidest people even stupider (I know it's not a word) Their stupidity gets them in more trouble than any one idiot can bare but yet you can't help but root for for them but in the end as the title suggests everyone gets Screwed.Remember to have a good day when you see this movie otherwise you may come away thinking it was as dumb as the characters in it.  "},{"Title":"it'll bomb, but not cause it's a bad movie","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I walked into the theater with my friends just wanting to see a movie that'll give us a coupla few laughs after the hell of classes finally ended for the year and met ten other people in the theater. On opening night. Halfway through the film four of those people got up and left, never to return.But me and my two friends had a wonderful time.  Some of the scenes in this movie made me laugh enough to get a cramp, a first for me.  Not only that, but the story was quite interesting as well.This movie will bomb, but not because it's a bad movie.  It's kinda like Officespace and Dirty Work in that sense.  Norm macdonald's voice was annoying as usual, but the acting in general was pretty well done.  And the situations they get in are suprisingly clever.Do not let the previews fool you.  They proclaim 'have you ever had a bad day?'.  At the beginning of it (SPOILER), Norm tries to steal his slave driver's cherished dog, and inadvertently ends up 'kidnapping' himself. Plot twists are all over this movie, and are executed well enough to be believable.  The only movie I've seen with more plot twists in fact, would have to be 'Wild Things'So see this movie if you want to have some fun and go for some comedy that may star SNL'ers but isn't SNL crap.  8/10 "},{"Title":"It's Better Than You'd Think!","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Screwed is a much better movie than I was expecting when I walked into the theater. Turns out that this movie is laugh out loud funny! I had a great time watching it in the theater and I plan to see it again in the future. If you were weary about seeing this movie, I recommend it. It's not as gross and disturbing as it looks. The grossest scene is where Norm's character is attacked by a small dog (named Muffin) and his blood sprays all over the room. Some gross stuff happens in the morgue, but it's not as graphic as the Muffin scene. The entire cast is on top of their game in this movie and it doesn't disappoint. If you like Norm Macdonald, Dave Chappelle, Danny DeVito, or anybody else in the cast, then you'll definitely enjoy Screwed!  "},{"Title":"I guffawed out loud three times!","Date":"20 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" My Boss brought this DVD to me to watch, as she said that it was so funny it helped her a great deal go through some rough times. I dutifully watched it and I have to say that at least three times I laughed so uproariously that I nearly fell off my air mattress! Once when the dog was clamped onto the kidnapper's hand and he was trying to smash it off on the furniture and another time when whack job DeVito lost a cadaver down the stairs. I honestly thought Danny DeVito was acting the part of the Penguin from the Batman flick in his portrayal of the embalmer. In any case, although the movie played like a skit from Saturday Night Live...it did entertain me and I did, as I said, laugh so hard at least three unexpected times that it was worth the viewing. "},{"Title":"Expected more","Date":"12 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I'm a little disappointed with this movie because I thought that it would be better. I expected more from this one. Plot is fine and best performance is delivered by Danny DeVito in a small role. He should be more in this movie. Norm MacDonald and Dave Chappelle can make that stupid face and they are OK each in their roles. But only DeVito and Elaine Stritch managed to do something with their characters.This movie is not bad but it isn't good too. It's somewhere in the middle. It starts good but in the middle of the movie gets boring. I don't know on what scenes other people laughed at. It's not that funny and most of scenes I've seen before in other movies. Small, little comedy but just don't expect too much. And take a look on Danny DeVito's performance. "},{"Title":"A mediocre comedy with one major asset","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As a fan of the Broadway musical, I was curious to see this movie which featured in a major role the great Elaine Stritch.  For people who do not know who she is, there is only one way to describe her as one of the legends of the American musical theater.  For 50 years or more, Stritch has provided theater audiences with some of the most amazing show-stopping moments in history.  Her classic performances of Zip in the 1952 revival of Pal Joey, You Took Advantage of Me in the 1954 revival of On Your Toes, and her legendary performance of The Ladies Who Lunch in Stephen Sondheim's Company are among the most memorable performances in theater history.  Although her movie career has been slim (most notably as Mia Farrow's retired movie star mom in Woody Allen's September), she has more recently been active in that field.  In 2000 alone, she was in three movies, including Screwed, which is basically rather forgettable save her appearance as the crabby Miss Crock.  The wealthy owner of a cookie company, Miss Crock is also one of the nastiest employers in screen history, more scroogish than Ebeneezer himself.  Her idea of a Christmas gift for her faithful man servant (the unfunny Norman MacDonald) is one of her fruitcakes, when what he really wants is a new uniform.  Stritch took a basically stereotypical character and made her hysterically funny in spite of her meanness.  As the Leona Helmsley of the cookie trade, Miss Crock seemingly enjoys her role as the Queen of Mean until it brings her some bad publicity, dropping sales.  And when she confronts her manservant wearing only a bra and panties, you know there is more to this character than just the crabby old hag she seems to be.  Stritch is a delightful comedian who always enfuses more into her roles than what is in the script.  She makes Miss Crock believable and somewhat lovable in spite of how much we want to love to hate her.  The movie's plot is overly farfetched (a kidnapping scheme gone bad), and the male leads are simply unfunny.  When Stritch is on screen, she makes a commanding presence and her scenes with Danny DeVito are hysterical.  This film made me want to see more of her than the cameos she makes in other films.  It is about time that the film industry sees what they have been missing out on, a great character comedian who enfuses class into even a rather poor film like this.   "},{"Title":"A Few laughs, But Overall Disappointing","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I really wanted to like this movie...it looked as if all the makings for an excellent screwball black comedy were in place.  The writer/directors (Scott Alexander and Larry Karazewski) have done some fine work in the past (they penned the scripts for the true-life dramas The People Vs. Larry Flynt and the Andy Kaufman bio Man On The Moon) but they were also responsible for the truly awful Problem Child films;  rank this one among ththe latter category.  This is their first directorial effort and they show a few inventive touches visually.  But despite a convoluted plot and frantic pacing, too many of the jokes just fell flat.  There were probably about 6-8 solid laughs during the (seemingly longer) 81 minutes, and those were pretty much due to the mighty efforts of Norm and Dave trying their best to breathe life into some very lame material.  When is Norm going to finally get a script worthy of his unique talents?I guess it shouldn't be any surprise, since Universal let this one sit on the shelf for over a year before finally throwing it out against some of the first bona-fide Summer blockbusters to get clobbered.Rent Dirty Work instead....it's just about as juvenile, but more consistent and funnier than this one. "}{"Title":"It's no Dirty Work","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I guess that Alexander and Karaszewski's classy biopic movies were just a way to get on the A-list of Hollywood screenwriters so they could get back to their first love, comedies like Problem Child. In this odd, uneven comedy, Norm MacDonald and Dave Chappel try to kidnap Norm's boss' dog but everything goes haywire, but none of it is very clever. Several times the characters have to make up outrageous lies on the spot, but none of them are very funny.The movie kicks into high whenever Danny DeVito shows up as a creepy mortician who, for some reason, has a Jack Lord obsession (this is never explained). All of the disgusting things DeVito's character does made me laugh, as did the scene where the dog bites Norm Macdonald's hand and blood flies everywhere. So the movie wasn't entirely horrible, just not as good as it should've been. They just didn't put enough thought into it and things just never quite come together. Why were all the characters named after political figures? Why was Sherman Helmsly in this movie? Why did we have to see him in a speedo?The most insulting part of the movie was the fact that Sarah Silverman, who is extremely beautiful and very funny (if you've ever seen her on Mr. Show with Bob & David), is given the crappy, thankless part of Norm's girlfriend. This character only shows up when the guys need a ride, and then disappears completely. I found that remarkably annoying and offensive. "},{"Title":"Funny in a sophomoric kinda way","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As far as Norm McDonald vehicles go, Screwed is better than Dirty Work. Depending on your tastes, that might not be saying much.  However, I'm proud to announce that Screwed can stand on its own legs, away from the shadow of Mr. McDonald, as a genuinely funny movie.Having read the reviews for Screwed, I was amazed; nearly every critic was thoroughly reaming this film.  They blasted the plot; in response, I ask you, readers, who watches a Norm McDonald movie for its plot?  They blasted the acting; in response, I ask you...well, you get the picture.What I'm trying to say is, this movie is hilarious.  McDonald, Chapelle, Devito, Sherman Hemsley, et. al. are there to make you laugh, not to court the Academy for their respective Oscars, and they succeed marvellously. Screwed's pace is just perfect; the laughs are fast and frequent, although you are given a slight breather just before the next joke hits.  Some of the jokes don't work, as in any comedy, but more often than not, they hit the mark flawlessly.  Yes, gore, innuendo, vulgarity, all of it appealed to the 18 year old author of this review and got him laughing.In conclusion, this movie rules, and I'm ashamed that the critics millions of Americans put their trust in have condemned Screwed.  Apparently they were just to highbrow for it, and forgot how much fun a good, vulgar comedy can be if one leaves his inhibitions at the door and stops trying to be the art-aristocrat he *thinks* he is. "},{"Title":"..you will be if you pay a penny to see this movie","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What can I say? At least we caught a cheap show.I went to this flick because I THOUGHT that Norm MacDonald was a fairly funny guy,it had Danny DeVito,the trailers looked decent and I was in the mood for a brainless slapstick type comedy.Well, it was brainless.Sadly, comedy was not what was going on in this movie.Not even a chuckle.Not even worth going into the specifics as to why this movie is so bad, JUST TRUST ME, IT'S GOD AWFUL.If you like Norm MacDonald stick to the norm show or catch Dirty Work on rental.(dirty work wasn't so great either but it was 10 times better than this movie).It's been quite a while since I've walked out of a movie but screwed was just too painful to sit through.Walked after about 45 minutes.(and that was 1/2 an hour too long,but we thought we'd give it a shot.)In fact I've wasted too much time writing this post for this movie.I wouldn't be surprised if it's pulled from theaters by the time this posts.I hate to be too negative in posting but in this case we're talking about the front runner for worst movie of the year.    "},{"Title":"That is how I felt after paying to see this one.","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Not that it didn't have its moments, but this is definitely one that should have gone directly to video.  It just seems very poorly made.  This movie also has Sherman Hemslely in a rather large role so once I saw that flash on the screen, I knew the film would be kind of generic.  Still I like Norm MacDonald and he does his best, though he doesn't have much to work with.  This movie has a butler who kidnaps his boss's dog, but the dog goes away.  The police find a ransom note and Norm's blood everywhere and think he is the one who was kidnapped.  There is a twist at the end anyone will see a mile away and there are some humorous scenes with Danny DeVito, but for the most part I wouldn't look too hard to find this movie. "},{"Title":"Why Norm, Why?","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I swear I love Norm Macdonald I think he is a great comedic talent.  Right up there with Denis Leary,but this movie (I will not call it a Film) was horrible.  This was one of those movies like Joe Dirt where they had maybe one or two funny ideas and they built a whole movie around it.  I really hope his next effort will be more thought out. "},{"Title":"norm where are you?","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I watched this for the comic genius of Norm MacDonald, Norm let me down again! Norm where are you?? it wasn't what I expected, but add Dave Chappelle, Danny DeVito, Sherman Helmsley and you got a somewhat decent comedy. Screwed isn't anything special, but isn't a stinkbomb either if that helps you any, worth a rent. "},{"Title":"Critics hated it. I didn't.","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When i noticed this movie had not yet even been reviewed by its release date, I knew it was going to flop. I decided to see it anyways on its first showing at the local theatre with my friend. There was a total of 4 people (including us) in the theatre. Oh geez, I thought. A fan of SNL and Norm MacDonald, I figured it can't be THAT bad. Well, I'll just say as soon as the movie started, I was laughing. I never stopped laughing, honestly. It was one of the funniest movies I had seen in the theatres since The Whole Nine Yards. I could definately see that some of the immature humor would turn off some people, but if you like goofy, slapstick comedy, or are a fan of Saturday Night Live, you will probably find this movie entertaining. If not, so sue me. "},{"Title":"It's more silly than funny","Date":"14 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" It's a little film that really tries to be funny but ends being more like silly or stupid than funny. The plot isn't really a novelty but that's even not the big deal, the real problems are at the acting and the jokes. Some of the jokes are funny, OK, but the major part is so ridiculous that the fun is completely lost! I was induced to watch this movie by some comments I saw here on IMDb, saying it's hilarious and a good movie, but I must disagree. I laughed at many parts of the movie and I was entertained for 1h18 (even here the film is short&#133;), I cannot deny it, but at the end I found this film more silly/pathetic than funny. I score it 4/10. "},{"Title":"What Are The Problems of This Nice Movie Anyway ?!","Date":"29 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" (Norm Macdonald), I watched him in his masterpiece (Dirty work - 1998) and in a few other roles, he is so good and for sure you'll wonder where is such a comedian ?!. There are no big nor many movies for him but is that the reason of his performance which's still pretty much the same ? or the result of it ?!.(Danny DeVito). Despite being one of the super gifted ones, and despite that I can't forget his one great moment when he was explaining how the showering brush got lost ! But what a gross comedy he makes sometimes, including some of what he did here.(Sarah Silverman), her face was more dead than all the corpses in the movie ! And there wasn't much of a role for her basically ! (Daniel Benzali) as the sly police officer. He is too silly to stand (I hated him in that TV series  Murder One), and the writers didn't make him a parody for any famous cinema or TV's inspector, or even a very stupid man who acts like he is so intelligent !.. Or anything could use the role to create some fun or to utilize the personality of (Benzali) himself !Although I loved some clever parts  The double interrogation scene, the statue's tooth brushing, the failing abduction of the dog. But there are some things which made the taste of this sweet comedy a little bitter ! Such as  too many corpses, a half naked old woman !!, and a lot of toilet humor (OH GOD this is horrible and not droll at all !!). This movie looks like another (Ruthless People - 1986) for Danny DeVito also !, with a lot of talented twists done by a very fast cartoon speed yet in a low budget and by a mediocre direction, so it's funny indeed but not THAT hilarious funny.I think (Scott Alexander) and (Larry Karaszewski) did much more better job in (Ed Wood - 1994) and it wasn't just a comedy, it was a smart black comedy and a biography too ! So I didn't understand Danny DeVito's obsessive love for Jack Lord ?! How he got away from all the accusations (to frame Sherman Hemsley instead ?!), and what was the necessity of the affair between Elaine Stritch and Norm's father ? Especially when he wouldn't turn out to be her son in the end ??.. And stuff like that.All in all it's a good comedy which had a lot of unused potentials, like it was an abduction mission to kidnap your admiration but as the movie's too many abductions.. It wasn't that compact ! "},{"Title":"This is a great film!","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Screwed is a hilarious comedy about a chauffeur named Willard who has been working for the same rich woman, Miss. Virgina Crock, for over 15 years. When he over hears a conversation about her firing him, he and his best Rusty friend decide to kidnap Crocks lovable dog for ransom. Things go awry and Crock thinks that Willard is the one who is kidnapped. As Rusty and Willard find out, they decide to up the ransom and try to make Crock pay for her bad deeds while the two friends are being pursued by the police, having to pay a crazy mortician Grover to help them in the plan, and make fake notes and videos with the kidnapper saying he'll kill Willard if he doesn't get his five million! Now this film is great! Norm is perfect as Willard and Chapelle always cracks me up with Rusty's one liners. Great jokes from the whole cast Examples Well he seemed a lot more ferocious when he was alive. Feroucious, he's an old midget!, Sweet Jesus, we kidnapped a turd., Rusty always hits a man with a desk lamp when he is scared, Aunt Mable, Grover the mortician, A pair of cracker jack cuff links and one crappy pie!, etc. Examples over. Now do yourself a favor and go out to get a copy of Screwed. Screwed gets the big 8, not perfect but it is a hilarious romp. You'll love it, I did. Enjoy! "}{"Title":"Not a masterpiece, but not bad either.","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I managed to rent this movie from a local Blockbuster and watch it at home a few days ago, and, while this movie wasn't a comedic masterpiece, it wasn't a bad movie either, in fact, it was actually a quite funny movie at some points. The main cast here (Dave, Norm, and Danny), do very good with the script they are given, and there were quite a few funny lines throughout the movie (Especially when Dave and Norm's characters meet Danny DeVito's character for the first time, as well as a majority of Mrs. Crock's lines.) Overall, if you happen to watch this movie, while you won't get a laugh a minute experience, you won't be disappointed with the movie either, as it's one of those good, funny movies that you could watch to waste away a boring day. "},{"Title":"Funniest Movie since Blazing Saddles. I laughed my ass off.","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Totally underrated and this movie will someday be considered a CLASSIC. I loved it. And I am a harsh critic. IT WAS WET your pants funny! DeVito as the coroner was hysterical and I want to have Norm MacDonalds baby. What a sex God and Dave Chappele is the most talented man alive. It tops Search for One Eyed Jimmy and the play Who Whacked Uncle Vito. Hysterically funny "},{"Title":"Good, Immature Fun","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I don't know, maybe the rest of the people voting on this movie were looking for an Academy award-winning movie, but my family was just looking for what we saw in the trailer - a good, fun movie.  It's easy to beat up on a movie because some things happen in it that don't seem logical, but come on, this is a movie!  A story!  Let them tell it, sit back and honestly react to it.  All I know is my wife, my kids, and I all laughed our butts off watching this movie.  We watched it a couple of times and have purchased the DVD.The bottom line is this movie HAS a story and if you actually WATCH all of it the majority of you will laugh at it.  Norm Macdonald's other movie `Dirty Work' is good, but NOT worth buying for about $20 - this movie IS worth buying, and therefore is better (in my opinion, better movies are worth buying).  In the very least it is worth renting for $2 to see if you want to buy it - if you like Norm Macdonald's style of humor, I think you will like this movie a lot!If, however, you are a stuck-up movie critic wannabe, stay away from this movie - you'll hate it!  "},{"Title":"Screwed Is Screwy - Even Fun Now And Then","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This has got to be one of the screwiest movies to appear in a long time. A chauffeur fed up with working for a mean and nasty old and rich businesswoman decides to kidnap her dog and hold him ransom for $1,000,000. From there the story moves - not always logically or comprehensibly, but - hey - this is a crazy comedy after all!It has a lot of flaws, though. First off is that the acting is not very good. The actors seem to put enough effort and energy into their parts, but it just doesn't come across in the end. I suppose this is to be expected in this type of movie, but they seemed more interested in wild exaggeration than in good acting. Second is that the humour just isn't that funny. There are a few good laughs, but it's very inconsistent. There's no attempt at all at realism. The scene in which the dog, trying to fight off the kidnappers, gets hold of Willard's hand and shreds it, spraying blood all over the room is just plain stupid. It looks like a long wig attached to Norm MacDonald's (Willard's) arm. And, given the amount of blood that appeared in the scene, it's hard to explain why there isn't even a mark on Willard's hand the next time we see him! A miracle cure for dog bites? I mean, I don't expect perfection from this kind of movie, but it would be nice if there were at least some effort put into continuity. How much would it have cost to put a bandage on Willard's hand?Most of the performances are sub-par. MacDonald seemed quite artificial most of the way through. Sherman Hemsley as Chip was a disaster. Elaine Stritch was certainly crotchety, but also not especially funny as Miss Crock. There was a decent performance from Daniel Benzali as Detective Dewey, who did exactly what this kind of movie demanded he played it absolutely straight, and was quite funny as a result. The best performance was undoubtedly David Chappelle as Rusty Hayes, Willard's partner in crime. The biggest disappointment in my opinion was Danny DeVito. I usually enjoy him, and think he is a fine comedic actor, but his performance in Screwed was not good. He seemed too forced and didn't look as though he were enjoying himself playing Grover Cleaver.Hey, take it for what it's worth. It's not great, but it has a few laughs in it, and a totally crazy storyline. And, at 121, it doesn't take much commitment to see it through.I gave it 4/10. "},{"Title":"good for a couple of watchins.","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Though Norm Mcdonald and Dave Chapelle are very funny stand ups there acting ability leaves something to be desired. the film screwed is a testament to this. If you can get past that aspect of it screwed is a cute movie with frequent chuckles and a couple belly laughs. It is  good to whach one or two times so I recommend you rent it rather than purchase it. "},{"Title":"So funny","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It starts out as a simple kidnap that Norm MacDonald kidnaps his bosses dog, but then the dog escapes and the police think that Norm got kidnapped. Then one thing leads to another, and the whole story flips around. I would recommend this to anyone who likes comedies. "},{"Title":"Screwed a decent follow-up","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When I went to the theater to see screwed I knew it would be a good film, with Dave Chappelle and Danny Devito, I also knew that since Norms previous feature film (Dirty Work) was hilarious and very well-written that this movie could not live up to it, and it doesn't but it is still a wonderful piece of work. Casting Sherman Hemsley gave this movie a little more life than it would have without him, going back to the whole Dirty Work thing, this movie recycles ideas from Dirty Work, the whole Revenge thing, but a whole new plot, which could've been funnier if only Danny Devito would've worked to his potential, which we have seen recently in such critically acclaimed but movies that bombed such as Man on the Moon. "},{"Title":"I happen to like it","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  i may not be a big movie buff like some of you guys, im just the average joe movie watcher, and i loved this movie.  it had a really complicated plot, which could be good or bad, in my case it was good.  it was funny as hell, especially towards the end, and i think its really worth it.  thats just my 2 cents "},{"Title":"Uneven, but stick it out.","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I am a HUGE Norm Macdonald fan, and I expected more out of this film, but it was still good.  After the first 30 minutes or so, I had hardly laughed at anything.  It wasn't terrible, just not very funny.  After that, it really picked up.  There were times when I just didn't find anything to laugh at, but they alternated with times when I just couldn't stop laughing.  It's not Norm's best, but even when he's off his mark, he's still funnier than most other comedians.Major word of advice  Don't leave early!!!  If you're planning on missing something, arrive late. "},{"Title":"Norm does it again!","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I just got back from seeing this a half hour ago and it was excellent. Not brilliant, but the plot is so perfectly clever, you'd think this was a 4 star nominee. It won't be, the critics are lame. The real critics (human beings who know funny) think that this movie is number 1.By the way, Danny Devito plays the greatest weirdo in movie history. Check it out! "}{"Title":"WARNING WARNING WARNING  If you see this movie you might be..","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  pleasantly surprised.  Okay, it wasn't the greatest movie.  In fact, it was a movie that I settled on (after I saw the line for Gladiator).  I went in expecting the worst, but the more I expected to cringe, I couldn't help but to chuckle.  The only scene I could really complain about was the kidnapping of the dog where it got painful.  (That poor dog). You have to admit, it is fun seeing Norm weasel out of tough situations.  Danny DeVito is excellent...the master genius of funny.  Well, the type of humor might not be for everyone.So, my suggestion is to wait for the video if you are not sure.  But try to make it a point to see this movie...on some rainy day when you have nothing better to do. "},{"Title":"It's Norm, It's Ed Wood, It's a Voyage into Screwed","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  So far, with Norm McDonald movies you really cannot go wrong.  There is of course the suspension of disbelief, but the laughs carry the movie beyond this.  Screwed also has work by other good actors/actresses (like Danny Devito), who plays an auspiciously named mortician whom never ceases to find (and use) discusting things out of the bowls of his corpses.  While the performance is a little discusting, the overall character is really funny.  Through Grover Clever, the filmmakers manage to work in clipping of Voyage into Space, Glen or Glenda, and the very important Hawaii Five-O.  Now who can really argue with a movie that manages to work in Ed Wood without totally Screwing itself and while still being good?Unfortunately, there was a lack of publicity for this movie and the trailers don't look all that great.  BUT--> I do Hope you take a voyage and enjoy Screwed.  Any Norm or Ed Wood fan would enjoy it. "},{"Title":"A terribly underrated laugh-fest!","Date":"8 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The people who knock this movie have no sense of what makes a movie funny. Screwed was indeed funny, much more so than for example, Anchorman. Actually, everyone I know was laughing constantly throughout this terrific comedy! I'm not going to give anything big away, but after Norm McDonald and Dave Chappelle realize they have failed to kidnap Mrs. Crock's dog, Chappelle let's out one of the funniest one-liners that I have ever heard. We are talking non-stop laughs throughout this move. The plot is absurd, but this seriously added to the film's overall hilarity. If you miss this movie due to negative comments made by various users, you have truly done yourself an injustice. "},{"Title":"Lame comedy with a cast who mostly deserve better (and one or two who can't even cope at this level)","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Willard Fillmore is, like his father before him, a general dogsbody to wealthy old business woman Virginia Crock. Although this would seem like a rewarding job the reality is that Crock is a bitter, stingy and unlikeable spinster who barely pays Fillmore for his work. Determined to stay out of some half-assed reason developed by the writers, Fillmore decides that the only way to get money is to kidnap the old woman's prized possession - her dog. Of course he and friend Rusty mess it up but the police assume the note they leave actually means someone has kidnapped Fillmore. Hilarity, as they say, ensues.It is the score early on that should have warned me what I was getting into. You see, this film regularly uses that sort of quirky background music that wacky films tend to use - presumably to help inject a comic air into proceedings and fill the energy gap left by the material. It is rarely a good sign and the more over used it is, the worse it often is. So anyway I stuck with this terribly contrived affair that has a plot that manages to be all over the place while also remaining totally predictable (you unfortunately have to see it to see what I mean). The fact that the plot is nonsense should surprise nobody, as long as it is funny right? Well, right, but the problem is that this isn't funny. It isn't terrible but laughs are few and far between and perhaps I was only laughing at some things because I had been starved of comedy by much of the film (I mean - should a man hitting people with a desk lamp be the high point of any film?).The cast mostly can do little with the meagre scraps they are served with and I was genuinely surprised how many names had somehow read this script but yet still signed up for it. MacDonald is not someone I'm familiar with but you can see the influence that Schneider and Sandler have had on him as a comedian - and I don't mean that as a compliment. He is annoying and I found myself less and less interested in him as the film went on - even semi-decent lines crumble as they left his whiny mouth. Chappelle deserves better but at least his performance is funny and the only laughs this film gave me were due to him. God only knows what DeVito and Benzai thought they were signing up to; both are poor and their weak material only serves to make them look worse. Stritch is an obvious character with an obvious performance and a character that Futurama has been doing better for years.Overall then, a very lame comedy that produces so few laughs that Trading Standards really should be looking into IMDb's listing of this film as a comedy. Some will love this level of stuff of course but for the majority of viewers this will only do the job on a really, really empty evening where you just want to veg out. If you expect more than that from it then you should bail before you even start. "},{"Title":"What you are if you watch this crap","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  SCREWED (2000) *1/2 Norm MacDonald, Dave Chappelle, Danny De Vito, Elaine Stritch, Daniel Benzali, Sherman Hemsley, Sarah Silverman.Norm MacDonald has had his shares of ups and downs over the past few years from his infamous `Saturday Night Live' stint as the smarmy `Weekend Update' anchor often resorting to the use of `crackwhore' as a punchline which led to his subsequent dismissal from NBC honcho Don Ohlmeyer to his redemption in supporter/comrade in arms David Letterman to his profanity laced college tours of stand-up - many met with violent reactions - to his current popular ABC sitcom `Norm' (which is on hiatus, but has been tailor-made and diluted to his brand of bad boy humor).However the same cannot be said of this second starring vehicle (the first `Dirty Work' sank like a stone a few years back) that offers nothing to laugh at. MacDonald stars as the long-suffering Willard Fillmore,  valet to rich bitch bakery franchise magnate Virginia Crock (erstwhile vet Stritch) who finally cannot take any more of his whipping boy status even after hinting for the very least a new butler suit for Christmas (instead she gives him a mince meat pie and cuff links with her logo embossed).  Fillmore enlists his best buddy  Rusty (stand up Chappelle), a chicken restaurant owner, who suggest his pal to kidnap the old bat's nasty, puntable dog Muffin for ransom for some fast money to high tail it to tropical climes.  Of course the two knuckleheads screw this up and wind up giving the impression Willard has been kidnapped.  Crock decides to eschew the demands until Hillary (fellow `SNL' alum, the sexy Silverman) sees the home-made video Willard and Rusty have downloaded unto MSNBC of him in a cage being tormented.  Hilary makes Willard a cause celebre by protesting Crock's factory with picket walkers and finally Crock relents only for Willard's plan back-firing (he's mugged by two 10 year olds with a hand zapper!)  From there on the plot, such as it is, involves the services of grotesquely unkempt Grover, the local coroner's graveyard shift worker (De Vito in fright wig and looking really smelly) to provide a corpse looking like Willard for the final plan of action. The entire mess and laugh-free story is the collaboration of esteemed screenwriting team of Scott Alexander and Larry Karaszewski (`Ed Wood' and last year's Jim Carrey vehicle Andy Kaufman biopic  `Man On The Moon') making their directing debut to boot.  Obviously this must have been one of their early projects collecting dust in a drawer for years and figured to cash in on their sudden fame to make a quick shot at helmsmen.  They fail miserably wasting such fine comic talent (especially the very underused Silverman, one of the funniest comediennes who's sporadically popped up here and there in films like `There's Something About Mary' as one of Cameron Diaz' clutch of catty friends or a semi-regular panel member on `Late Night with Conan O' Brien' plying her non-politically correct tirades.) `Screwed' is the ultimate bad title because not only are all those involved with this incredibly amateurish alleged comedy exactly that, but the audience as well who sits through this dreck (myself included!)  "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I don't know why other people think this movie isn't great, but I think it's amazing!!! I love Dave Chappelle and Norm Macdonald. I just laughed through this entire movie. I think everyone should give this movie a chance, but I still can't see how people don't love it. I wish I could go back and watch it again for the very first time. "},{"Title":"The Funniest movie of 2000! spoiler","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I saw this movie when it first came out in 2000. At the time, I didn't think that it was such a funny movie, but then I saw a bunch of other comedies that came out in 2000 and out of all of them, this was the funniest one. Dave Chappelle one of the funniest comedic actors of all time gives the funniest performance of his career as Rusty. Throughout the movie, he is hitting various people over the head with things like lamps and lava lamps, which isn't that funny, but the way Dave Chappelle does it makes it funny. The movie is a bit slow at times, yet Dave Chappelle makes it worth seeing. "},{"Title":"one of the best films in a while","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Before i saw screwed i had seen some poor reviews & i noticed it had only 7 million in takings at the box office. Well anyone thinking about seeing this movie should discount anything they've heard about it being bad because it is  a super ,energertic original film. Norm mcdonald is a superb lead & he carries the film throughout. He has good support from his other actors especially miss Crock.The film starts with norm as a unappreciated butler who finds a way out of his predicament by stealing miss crock's dog but the dog escapes & He has to think up more ways of making his plan come to fruition. Endless gags ensue & each one hits the mark especially where he is attacked in the park & when Danny devito finds his face plastered around the city.This was a masterpiece. Don't miss out on it & one more good thing about it was it didn't feature the actor in the last film I saw Mel Gibson who would best be screwed out of his career. "},{"Title":"Good, Immature Fun","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I don't know, maybe the rest of the people voting on this movie were looking for an Academy award-winning movie, but my family was just looking for what we saw in the trailer - a good, fun movie.  It's easy to beat up on a movie because some things happen in it that don't seem logical, but come on, this is a movie!  A story!  Let them tell it, sit back and honestly react to it.  All I know is my wife, my kids, and I all laughed our butts off watching this movie.  We watched it a couple of times and have purchased the DVD.The bottom line is this movie HAS a story and if you actually WATCH all of it the majority of you will laugh at it.  Norm Macdonald's other movie `Dirty Work' is good, but NOT worth buying for about $20 - this movie IS worth buying, and therefore is better (in my opinion, better movies are worth buying).  In the very least it is worth renting for $2 to see if you want to buy it - if you like Norm Macdonald's style of humor, I think you will like this movie a lot!If, however, you are a stuck-up movie critic wannabe, stay away from this movie - you'll hate it!  "},{"Title":"SCREWED A DOMINANT AND CONCEPTUAL FILM","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  first of all i'd like to say disregard all negative comments about this film. i'm not saying go by just what i say, but at least give it a chance and rent it. yeah it's not the greatest film but it is nevertheless dominant in its amusing nature. it features dave chapelle who is just about the funniest dominator in history. he builds on his conceptual nature in other films such as blue streak in which he was the always dominating tulley and in, who could ever forget, half baked. danny devito is great in his supporting role and norm macdonald is funny as always. a great film if you like insane comedy that isn't necessarily complex and extremely thought out. "}{"Title":"Another Norm Masterpiece","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I liked this movie, despite the dis from the review by that other guy. I like all norm films, and i liked this one. i am angered that someone could write so poorly of this. Any way, I thought it was a funny movie(u want a movie to walk out on, guy? try keeping the faith. Any way, i liked this, and found it to be funny like the rest of mr. mcDonald's movies. but then, i liked Mystery Men. Bye now. "},{"Title":"One Solid Comedy.","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie fast became one of my favorite comedies I had ever seen.  I literally fell out of my chair while watching it in the theater.  If you want laughs, Norm and Dave Chapelle deliver them in bucket loads.  Don't look for any great directing or Oscar worthy acting, but this movie without a doubt received ten stars from me.  Devito does a great job in a hilarious supporting role.  The movie takes you through a lot of twists and turns but it delivers. "},{"Title":"You had to be high to get your money's worth","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  At the expense of sounding cliched, I was truly Screwed out of 8 dollars. Now I admit that some scenes made me chuckle and that Devito's idiosyncratic character was briefly entertaining, but overall, this movie didn't belong on the big screen.  Very poor acting and the plot is just too silly to stay engaging.  Norm MacDonald acting style is too nonchalant so he cannot ever be taken seriously (some may label that as his forte).This is the type of movie that you watch on NBC with your parents on Sunday night when there's nothing better to do.But there WAS a plus side.  This movie was the catalyst for my movie critic career.  This is my first user comment on IMDB.  You see, the movie was so disappointing that I just needed to save others from getting Screwed. "},{"Title":"This film puts me to sleep - Which is a nice thing, really.","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I have a very stressed filled job. So to calm down, I want to laugh at the stupidest, silliest film possible. Once I find something like that, it calms me and puts me to sleep. This film fits the bill. It's short, it's silly and it's stupid.This is NOT a drop dead funny film. At points, its downright silly. At points, the acting leaves much to be desired. But some parts make you laugh or shake your head at how silly it is rather than laugh from the jokes.I do not consider Norm McDonald comedic at all. His Saturday Night Live Weekend Updates were as comedic as watching an ant dance on an elephant to me. And his acting here is not all that great..or good. The scene in the park with the two little boys really shows that. But its Elaine Stritch (Miss Crock) who gets my attention.This woman is funny, and in this film, she is ridiculous. The material she is given in this film is horrid, but its her that makes it work -- and everyone around her gets the benefit. Norm and she actually are silly, and in a few cases, it comes out funny. (For example, I laugh everytime I hear her deliver that line And you're going to work to pay me back every cent until the day Jesus calls you home.) If you venture to see this film for anything, it will be her.Comedians Dave and Sarah  are wasted in this film, I am praying that someday the both of them will get films that are worthy of their comedic talents, this isn't one of them.Danny DeVito is silly to watch, his performance reminds me of if anyone ever wondered what happened years later to Louie on Taxi, here it is. Not a masterpiece comedic performance by anyones standards, but it was silly. Sherman and Daniel were also wasted in the rolls they were given and it turned out silly and not funny.This is a silly, stupid film that has it's moments. All of the other main actors have a quarter to a half a moment here and there, you just wish it could have been funnier, better acted. But for silly, stupid, mindless enjoyment to get your mind off of things, this is the film for you. And like me, it may be just the non-prescription drug aid you need, to calm you down and put you to sleep. "},{"Title":"This should be an Oscar contender!","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Man did I have you. Screwed is NOT an Oscar contender, however, it's kinda funny. Of course, it's not the best movie on Earth. There's ripoff jokes, horrible acting, characters that are just decorations. (Lochlyn Munroe for example) But it's pretty funny. This will be a new punchline movie. (Such as in Scream, What's Your Favorite Scary Movie? Screwed) But punchline movie it is. Screwed is not as good as Dirty Work since Norm didn't write it, but if he did, it would've been better. Not the best movie on Earth, but then again, not the worst. **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Screwed","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie was laugh out loud funny. Norman Macdonald was great along with Danny Devito. This is the Best comedy of the year so far. If you like Norman Macdonald or SNL. Check this out it is funny. Don't listen to what the screen says a 6 out of 10. its better than than its an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Garbage. Period.","Date":"12 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is what we can expect of the new crop of young writers I suppose who are birthed on violence and video games which have no respect for life or the property of others. Theirs is a video computer world of techno, not live flesh and blood people. Witness this piece of filth, violence, and garbage which has supposedly funny scenes in it like Norm McDonald...not a favorite actor of the thinking mature world... brutalizing an innocent small breed puppy... I believe a Pomeranian...which is represented as vicious and strong...though a known lap dog. Blood spurts everywhere all over the set of a large posh mansion of an elderly lady as they spin around and scream as they beat and slam the living dog.This is NOT a comedy. This is a horror film and has rubbish writing unworthy of any amount of watching. Garbage like this should never make it past the desk of the production company project readers. Perhaps if Norm McDonald and Shappelle would learn from clean, decent, respectable comedies as the filmdom kingdom turned out until around the era of the 1980's, this film would not be seen as merely worthy of burning and banning... and McDonald and Shappelle should be glad this is not the medieval European days... they would have been executed by society.Don't bother. Don't waste your time. Sit in the room with the TV off and count the ceiling tiles. That would be more entertaining. "},{"Title":"A PERFECT movie...nonstop laughter!  A perfect 10 in my book!","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  First off, it was made in my city (however, you would never be able to tell), but I thought it has to be one of the best movies I've seen for quite a while.  I'm a fan of slapstick comedy (Naked Gun, Airplane, etc.).  If you like these, you will LOVE this.  Hilarious and stupid at the same time (a good thing).  I classic Norm McDonald movie that will live on always.  A cool plot, in that you can almost tell what is going to happen next but it doesn't happen.  GREAT cast.  A definate MUST SEE! "}]