[{"Title":"Solid, well-executed anime","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"62 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  Perfect Blue is a very strange film.  It's anime, but it's set in circa-1995 modern Tokyo, with a story in which everything could be explained in terms of natural phenomena and present-day technology.  Furthermore, it's a psychological thriller, a genre which probably hasn't ever been done with animation before.  But even if Japan's animators dabbled in this genre more often, Perfect Blue would still be a bizarre film.  It starts off as a fairly conventional thriller about a teen pop singer who may be the target of a stalker, but then the movie goes completely insane, assaulting the viewer with rapid changes of scene, perspective, and context until we simply don't know what to believe anymore.  This is done so subtly and gradually that we become completely trapped in the movie's spell, and we end up just staring at the screen in horror, helpless to stop the nightmarish events from unfolding.  Rarely has any movie so effectively conveyed the lunatic terror of a character who has lost touch with reality, and once the movie is over, all you can do is just sit there and try to figure everything out.  Have fun with it.  It's a good head scratch.Unfortunately, the last minute or so of the movie is much too sappy and uplifting (especially the music on the end credits), cheapening the significance of everything that has gone before.  But as a whole, Perfect Blue is an incredibly haunting thriller, a scathing look at the world of showbusiness, and a very worthwhile film.   "},{"Title":"Intense thrill ride","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"48 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  OK, this is definitely one anime movie that really has this creepy feel that clings to you as you watch.  The animation is really good as characters and movements appear so life-like, it seems like reality.  There's definitely the theme of 'identity' and Mima's difficulty distinguishing reality from illusion.  Her paranoia and fear tends to grab your attention and as she asks questions, you ask the same ones.  I thought the film also played well with celebrity infatuation and the price of fame.  It really had a lot going for it and the different camera angles give a very dreamy, mysterious atmosphere.  One great shot is the zoom out from Mima's apartment. I could've sworn that was a real city.  Who are you? sums up this movie.  What a film.  By the way, CHAM's song is really catchy.  "},{"Title":"Very good anime noir","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"37 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" Based on Yoshikazu Tekeuchi's novel of the same name, Perfect Blue is a Japanese anime film that tells the story of Mima Kirigoe, a pop idol who decides to leave her musical group while it is still at the top of the charts and concentrate on acting. Unfortunately, this transition does not sit well with one of her fans because an obsessive person who seems to be pervasive in her life soon stalks her. Even when she comes across the fan's website, she finds that the blog entries are not only written to make it seem like they are her thoughts, but they actually ARE her inner-most thoughts. What starts out as a moderately scary obsession quickly becomes a terrifying struggle to both deal with her inner demons and eventually, save her own life.I once heard Perfect Blue described as Hitchcock does anime, which is a dead-on descriptor for this film. The character designs were slick, the music was good (mostly techno) but the story is fantastic. I honestly was still trying to guess who the stalker was until the end of the film, and the reveal does not disappoint. There are some graphic moments (one is a rape scene on the set of the film she is making) so it does not fall into the stereotypical it's a cartoon so it must be okay for kids label that the non-anime viewing public seems assume.I highly recommend this film, particularly to people who are not very well versed in anime &#150; it would be a really good way to get your feet wet in the genre. There were many times during the film where I actually forgot I was watching animation, the action and story are so all consuming. Perfect Blue gets a strong 7/10 from me.--Shel "},{"Title":"Outstanding animated mindbender. Fans of Hitchcock, Argento and Lynch will be hooked.","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"33 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  'Perfect Blue' is the most interesting animated movie I've ever seen. Lovers of cinematic puzzlers from 'Vertigo' to 'Abre los ojos' or the movies of Dario Argento or David Lynch will probably enjoy this one more than your typical anime fan, who might find this too slow, and not flashy enough for their tastes. I don't think 'Perfect Blue' quite reaches the heights of the aforementioned, but it is still a fascinating, multi-layered thriller that improves with repeated viewings. As a look at the illusions of fame and the dark side of obsession I personally found it to be a much more satisfying movie than the more celebrated and flamboyant 'Mulholland Dr.' I strongly suggest that the original Japanese subtitled version is watched rather than the inferior English dubbed one for maximum effect. This is one movie experience that will stay with you for days. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Succeeds all the way at being horribly scary, in a very good way.","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"28 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  Perfect Blue is a storming success in every department. As a movie in itself, it's a brilliant piece of work, packed with style and -very- powerful scares. We follow teen pop idol Mima, who tries to make the switch from singing to TV acting. Everything seems normal enough at first, with just the somewhat funky directing hinting at things to come. But it wouldn't be a thriller if good ol' normality didn't come crashing to pieces to make way for some terrifying madness and violence. Things start to go pear-shaped when the studio staff working around Mima are threatened, and later horribly killed, apparently by an obsessed Mima-fan who doesn't like the new direction her career is taking. And as if that wasn't bad enough, Mima herself is starting to go bonkers with all the pressure. She begins to have visions of a disturbing alter ego, more or less her old self from her singing days. And this other Mima doesn't want to play second fiddle to the new acting image Mima has taken on; she claims to be the real one, with the flesh-and-blood Mima being the fake. Mima's delirium grows gradually more entangled, until she sinks into a mental state where it's impossible for her, and for the audience to tell what is, and what is not really happening. And there are still those murders going on...Granted, the movie within a movie gimmick has been done before so often that it doesn't even strike me anymore as original. Reality-twisting is also something I've seen before. All the same, Perfect Blue managed to impress me enormously, and scare my socks off like no other film. There's something about not knowing for sure (as a viewer) what is and isn't for real that always keeps one intrigued. Particularly during the more violent moments (and the film does get seriously nasty), one is constantly praying that it's -not- for real. Go on, snap out of it, Mima. This is too scary to be real, you're just having another vision...right? Right? The leitmotiv of a second self also intrigues me, and I found it delightful trying to pick out which Mima was really the real one. Just how strong is false Mima's presence in reality? Is she a complete phantom of the imagination, or does she have a litteral, physical presence of some kind? And most of all; out of these two versions of herself, which one does Mima really want to be? If you can't tell for sure what does and doesn't really happen, you also might not take everything the characters declare for granted. The ending does provide a somewhat logical explanation that ties up all of the insanity again, but that doesn't mean the fun of figuring this out for yourself is completely spoiled; you can very well not take the ending entirely for granted either (while it makes sense, there are some bits about the explanation it provides that don't completely gel with me). Lots of re-watchings and picking apart of hints is in store for me there. Love it when that happens ^^.A few tiny niggles; the animation quality in the first half of the film is not quite breathtaking, and seemed decidedly below-par for movie quality animation. Luckily, it picks up later on, becoming pleasingly smooth. And by the time you reach the terror of the later part of the film, you're already too frightened to really be picky about animation quality. Some of the violent and/or explicit scenes are very nasty indeed (ewww, straight people, sick man), but they serve the purpose of enhancing the fright factor very well, rather than just being needless grotesqueries to please the gore-junkies in the style of that hideous Akira. The film is a complete success as a frightening, surreal and involving thriller (though I do still like Jinn-Roh much better).But another reason to rejoice is that Perfect Blue is a step in the right direction for the general public's image of what anime really is. Sure, the enlightened few among us for whom Evangelion is standard fare, and who can give detailed insights into the latest CLAMP titles already know that anime is not a genre. It's a medium in itself, and the Japanese animation market can, and does treat every imaginable genre and subject, often with skill that leaves feeble Hollywoodian efforts miles behind itself (in the case of Perfect Blue, it speaks volumes that a celluloid character such as Mima manages to become more lifelike and sympathetic than any sillicone tarts Hollywood chucks around the screen). It's hardly uncommon to see a genre such as a psychological stalker-thriller treated in animation to the Japanese. Heck, they've done every other imaginable thing under the sun in animation, and a damn good job they do at it as well. It's just a shame that hardly any of the really good stuff ever makes it over to the West, thus creating a distorted image for casual western viewers. We do seem to have made some progress from the Akira Aftertaste years, where anime was generally put on the same line as sex and violence and very little else (side-step; how come nobody ever raises a finger when live Yank actors engage in orgies of the most brutal porn and bloodshed in just about every Hollywood flick ever made, but the whole world screams bloody murder when an anime character so much as takes his socks off? Live Yanks can get away with everything?). Now it's anime is just pink-haired fairies in giant explosive turbo robots. They're getting just a tiny bit warmer, but maybe Perfect Blue will get the message across to a few others that anime embraces a diversity that ranges from Sailor Moon to Wings of Honneamise (and I'm just globally sketching here), with a reasonably large number of people getting to actually see this. A quite decent English dub that doesn't hamper the film too much is also a plus, though a dub will of course never equal the original. It might help to keep the above paragraph in mind for a Perfect Blue viewer not initiated to the big picture of anime. In any case, it's an impressive movie for anyone, worth seeing for being so unique, gripping and masterfully scary. I'll think twice before I look into a mirror for a long time to come after this...A final note about the notorious comment that this could be a Disney-Hitchcock hybrid. Hitch perhaps, but comparing this kind of quality to Disney's paper-flat commercial slop is simply an insult to Perfect Blue. "},{"Title":"Third greatest anime of all time!","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  On the cover of this film, Roger Corman is quoted as saying If Alfred Hitchcock partnered with Walt Disney they'd make a picture like this. He couldn't be more right.The story is about a pop idol Mima, who is sheding her squeaky-clean image for that of an actress. Along the way, she is raped onscreen for a sleazy television show, and does a nude shoot for a men's magazine. This makes her dirty, as her old self tells her. She finds a web site detailing every intimate little detail in her life, and believes that she is being stalked by a strange man. Her personality splits in two, into herself and her old, clean, self which tries to murder her. While she is battling her old self, all of those who contributed to her downfall are being grusomely murdered.This movie has been critisized by others on this very site, saying that the film was boring in the first 40 minutes. How wrong they are. In Hitchcock's films, (take Psycho for example) he builds up character for the first half-hour until the slashing. This does the same, because if we were not built up to believe that Mima's character is not real-i.e 3-dimensional, then we would feel no sense of loss and disorientation when all hell breaks loose in Mima's life (and the editing room).A first class film with twists all the way. Should be seen by any movie fan with a mature mind. Even though it will probably collect dust in the anime section of the video store.5/5 Only beaten in the anime stakes by Ghost in the Shell (2nd) and Akira (1st). Pure genius. "},{"Title":"Dreaming of real fame comes at a cost.","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" Mima Kirigoes is part of a young idol group Cham, but she decides to move on and kick-start a career as an actress with some help by her pressuring agent. To change her image, she accepts some confronting roles, which eventuates into her downward spiral between realities and virtual. She discovers an Internet site that knows her every move and those responsible for growing success in the acting industry end up brutally killed.Well, what can I say? Simply, I forgot that I originally saw this wonderfully, stunning anime picture before. I don't know how it left my mind, because it's very chilling and effective across the board. Based on Yoshikazu Takeuchi's novel, Perfect Blue is an intoxicatedly, shocking psychological thriller that does resemble some works of Lynch, Polanski, De Palma and rightly so, Hitchcock. Even a giallo imprint shines heavily within the mixture.The mature plot boldly plays it cards at a mild pace and eventually forms a structure like a rubrics cube. I wouldn't go out of my way to call it complicated, but there's stylish imagination and cerebral details that gladly doesn't fall into a convoluted mess. The characters' persona's are well defined and emotionally attachable. It can turn into an uncomfortable ride, where dazzling images of fact and fiction skews into one. You can't help but get those disorientating spells that the distraught Mima succumbs to on her journey to find her feet as an mature entertainer. Where her dreams become her anxiety, as she's too sensitive to how she's being perceived then being her true self. Her clean-cut image becomes tainted and a growing obsession towards her takes its tole on her fractured and vulnerable mind.Paranoia, delusions and a dreamlike air are cooked up with an array of tension and creepy visuals. The animation isn't a visual goldmine, but its showered with powerfully focused and flashed up images that manage to keep the viewer at bay. The pressure building dialogues are quite biting, and the revealing twist catches you off guard because of the superb use of artificial dreams with its fast editing and exhilaratingly moody soundtrack.You don't have to be a fan of animation to enjoy this piece. So, if you come across it, give it a chance. "},{"Title":"A delusion within a nightmare...","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  Perfect Blue takes many levels of reality, fiction, dream, and delusion, and merges them into an occasionally baffling but overall thrilling and satisfying film.Mima is a rising pop star, not yet in the big time, but certainly on the way.  She and her management team decide that it is time for her to try something new, so she leaves her pop group to become an actress, and that is when the problems start.Is there another Mima out there?  She is ghost-like, still a pop star, denying this new acting career, ever-smiling... but if she is real, she may be a brutal killer.  What of the stalker with the creepy face and violent temper?  Is he the one running the website which describes Mima's daily routine in obsessively minute detail?  If so, how does he know all these things?Madness and nightmares blend with the scripts of the increasingly bizarre role Mima plays in her debut acting job.  Days repeat, life imitates script, and script imitates life.  Are the boundaries between reality and dreams breaking down? ...and who is killing those who Mima is closest to?Perfect Blue will probably confuse you, and the ending will leave you thinking, but in these days of neat, clean-edged storytelling, a little confusion is good for the soul.I highly recommend this to fans of thrillers and anime alike, plus it is a great introduction to the world of Japanese animation for those just getting their toes wet.  There are no giant robots or sex-crazed demons here, just a tight, clever psychological thriller with one hell of an ending.Make sure you see it with Japanese dialogue and English subtitles.  That done, turn off the lights and prepare to be entertained. "},{"Title":"One of the best animés of all time!","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"22 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  An interesting look at pop culture...Mima Kirigoe (Voiced by Junko Iwao) on the advice of her producers has quit her pop band named Cham and has taken up a career in acting, the only role she gets is in a violent thriller named Double Bind her character is less than clean cut but if it makes her a success that's all that matters isn't it? In the meantime a website is setup that describes Mima's life in every detail, it is run by an obsessed fan who thinks that the Mima who quit Cham is not the real Mima and that the real Mima wants this fake killed (Confusing huh? The movie can probably make this point better) In any case the people around Mima start to die (Including a sleazy photographer) This movie is full of graphic violence and nudity so it goes without saying this isn't for kids, it is one of the best animé films of all time but I can never get anyone I know to watch it because their brains connect animé to girls in mini skirts being tentacle violated...This isn't La Blue Girl it is an interesting horror/thriller that actually has a very good plotline and a very surprising ending (To me anyway) and I would recommend it to all genre fans including those who stick their noses up at animé in general.A deserved 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"A new take to old school horror movies...","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" Japanese animation has become a very popular style of animation in Western culture due to the wide range of genres it employs and its many different approaches to storytelling; two elements that immediately set it apart from the common Western style of cartoons that almost always are made for children only. Satoshi Kon's Perfect Blue quickly became a favorite among western fans of anime because it explored themes rarely seen in western animation; themes that had more in common with the horror genre such as obsessions, murders and suspense.The story revolves around Mima (Junko Iwao), a young singer who is quickly becoming an idol as part of the musical trio Cham. In order to make her career more marketable her managers make her leave the group and join the cast of a famous TV series. However, her new role is considerable different than the cute image she portrayed in Cham, as it requires her to do nude scenes including a rape scene. At the same time she tries to adjust to her new job, someone begins to stalk her and to brutally kill those near her artistic career and Mima begins to wonder if she is really doing the right thing.Perfect Blue is often labeled as a classic of Japanese animation because it presents a way different kind of story to those used to family-oriented animation. In is closer to an Italian Giallo than to a normal cartoon both in thematics and in style. The use of animation as a medium allows director Satoshi Kon to create stylish images of high surrealism as well as powerful images of violence. It is not something young children should watch.Based on a novel by Yoshikazu Takeuchi, the film offers an interesting and harsh criticism to the idol culture in Japan, and its exaggerated portrait of an obsessed fan is an extreme, yet hauntingly realist image of insane obsessions. The story has been labeled as Hitchcocknian, but its lack of subtlety in terms of graphic violence and nudity, as well as its high level of surrealism puts it closer to the stylish Italian sub-genre of Giallo.By keeping the story around Mima, Satoshi Kon creates haunting atmospheres of paranoia as Mima feels strange in her new career; while it sacrifices character development of the supporting characters, this approach increases the feeling of isolation and adaptation the story has, making a more effective horror/mystery piece. Like any Giallo, the haunting image of the mysterious stalker is always present, and in Perfect Blue the mystery and suspense are very well handled making the movie a great work of suspense.The animation is very good, and not as flashy as casual anime fans would assume. The movie's mixture of realism and surrealism works very well with the style of drawing and the camera-work is brilliant. Still, while the plot at times gets a bit predictable to hardcore horror fans, it still holds up and keeps captivating from start to end. The original Japanese voice work is very good, so I would recommend watching it with subtitles instead of dubbed.Perfect Blue seems flawless as motion pictures can go, and the odd choice of using animation as medium (it was originally meant to be a normal live action movie) makes it different than the rest. This is a blessing as neither anime fans nor horror fans have seen a quality animated horror movie like this before. 8/10 "}{"Title":"Creepy precursor to Mulholland Drive","Date":"25 February 2013","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" Before Mulholland Drive and Black Swan there was Satoshi Kon's Perfect Blue, an anime thriller which ends with your jaw on the ground. After you reassemble your face, you start mumbling to yourself what the hell?, holy crap, this is messed up, oh my god, are you serious? Satoshi Kon's films often have mind bending, ambitious narrative structures, but this trend started with Perfect Blue, his first feature. An examination of identity, celebrity, sexism, alienation and exploitation under patriarchy, the film revolves around Mima, a pop-singer who leaves her pop band, CHAM, to begin a career as an actress. But as Mima is forced into racier material, the film's narrative begins to break down, points-of-view, dreams, nightmares and private delusions overlapping and co-mingling. Are we witnessing a nervous breakdown induced by a deeply disturbing culture, or perhaps something more? In truth, the film's blending at least four points of view. You have Mima, a young woman who so craves fame and celebrity that she's willing to sell her body and submit to all manners of consented debasement. Then you have the fans, particularly one deranged fan, who sees Mima as his product, his fantasy object which he must both control and defend. This fan obsessively tracks the details of Mima's daily life and reacts violently when outside sources try to change her image. Then you have men, always leering with cameras, eyes or controlling via chequebooks and ink pens; the vast moral abyss of a phallocentric entertainment industry. Finally, you have women, in particular one woman, a chubby, motherly woman who seems like a caretaker but reveals herself to be a killer who pines for her lost youth and beauty; she pits herself against Mima in a fit of rage and jealousy. Significantly, Mima attempts to spare the life of this woman, a gesture which positions us to sympathise with the caretaker. She too is a victim, a pawn in a battle which pits sister against sister, the result of a culture which demands conformity, perfection, submission, bows to the tyranny of the image and is obsessed with a form of feminine perfection which, at its worst, leads to mental instability and collapse.The rights to Perfect Blue were bought by Darren Aronofsky, who cribbed some of its shots, scenes, ideas and themes for 2010's Black Swan (he changes Mima's name to Nina, makes her a ballet dancer and even uses some of Mima's scenes in his earlier film, Requiem For a Dream). Lynch's Mulholland Drive is also very similar. Both Lynch and Satoshi posit women as victims of a male dominated culture, though, whilst Aronofsky's film casts women as its chief villains, and largely lets its victimisers (and us) off scott-free.Like Perfect Blue, these are all essentially films about a rape culture. In bygone days, women weren't deemed human beings. For the ruling class, the total ownership and possession of women was something to take pride in, young girls were frequently gifted and virgins offered as trophies to rulers (the sanctity around virginity continues today). The conquest of women used to be the norm, and rape was never treated as an exception or aberration. As capitalism firmly enforces the class divide and plays into the hands of the traditionally oppressive gender, such a rape culture continues to this day, though in new and much less obvious ways. And as men themselves are increasingly neutered, films like Perfect Blue and Mulholland Drive are starting to be made about male figures. Consider Magic Mike, which focuses on the collapse of a male stripper.Aesthetically, Perfect Blue is the darkest of Satoshi's features. His palette is all dark blues and inky blacks, his Japan one of tiny cubicles and deeply alienated urbanites, and most of his characters are vile and perverted. Doubles and doppelgangers also feature throughout. Characters named Rumi and Mima are paired, for example, both names meaning beautiful in Japanese. The film's stiffer and has a lower frame rate than modern anime, which will put some viewers off. It was nevertheless somewhat ahead of its time, and remains one of the better anime's of the mid 90s.8/10 &#x96; Worth two viewings. "},{"Title":"Good, but a bit disappointing for me","Date":"14 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" This is the second film I watch from Satoshi Kon and I can safely say it's another unique experience, being just as inventive as Paprika, but not really as memorable for me. I don't usually have issues with the animation itself, but I thought it was a little odd at times. There were moments where people's faces were just blurred with no traits and no reason for this. Also, I thought the character Me-Mania looked too caricatural sometimes. Aside from that, the animation was very well done. As for the story, it was interesting to see the protagonist suffering many hallucinations and having constant identity crisis. I thought it got a bit repetitive and tiresome on certain occasions, but the film also had great suspenseful scenes. The big reveal at the end was very surprising and the main character even seems to break the fourth wall for a glimpse, communicating with the viewer. Overall, Perfect Blue is a really original film, being a solid effort from Satoshi Kon. "},{"Title":"Best animated thriller I've seen","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  Anyone who can get past the fact that Perfect Blue is animated should see it.  Well, anyone who is over 17, I should say.  Don't let the anime look fool you, this is a great psychological thriller meant for adults.  It's intelligent, confusing, thought-provoking, violent and mesmerizing.  The animation is good and gets better as the movie progresses.  The English dub is actually very good, especially the woman who voiced Mima Kirigoe, the main character; that had to be a tough job.POSSIBLE SPOILERS  The movie begins with a series of flashbacks that show Mima's departure from Cham, a moderately successful pop trio.  She has decided to pursue an acting career instead.  Soon after getting her first acting gig by participating in dirty and disturbing scenes in a drama series, Mima discovers a website which is run by someone claiming to be her, in an effort to keep her pristine pop idol image alive for her fans.  Cham is becoming more successful as a duo and Mima is visited by an illusion of her old self who ridicules her choice of becoming a slutty actress.  As the drama series goes on, it begins to parallel Mima's real-life delusions.  People close to her are being murdered and her grasp on reality begins to slip.  Unable to distinguish between reality and make-believe, Mima slowly deteriorates until she comes face to face with the one who wants to do her in. There are two English versions of this movie an edited rated-R version and an unedited director's cut which is not rated.  If it were, it would be very close to being NC-17.  I found both versions floating around in the same library system, so if you plan to see the movie, make you know what you're getting.  I'd recommend the director's cut, only because you'll miss some important imagery and emotion in the edited version.  There's a lengthy rape scene, albeit staged, that is disturbing after awhile, but it's not as gratuitous as it seems; it does serve a purpose in showing Mima's grasp on reality beginning to fade.  I could do without the rape scene, but another important montage was cut from the edited version, due to nudity.  Either version is great for adults over 17.  I can't imagine anyone younger seeing the director's cut, it's pretty nasty and not something a kid can appreciate for it's symbolism.  I would also recommend this movie to any of the pop divas that grace our T.V.'s and clog the airwaves everyday, especially the ones who want to act-we know who they are.  It might freak them out senseless!  "},{"Title":"Blurred Reality","Date":"11 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" A young pop singer tries to break out into acting, only to find that the psychological thriller that she is starring in has eerie parallels to her own life in this mind-bending animated drama from Japan. The plot here is rather challenging to decipher with reality and fantasy constantly blurring into one. It is also often hard to work out whether other characters are talking to her (or about her) in reality or in the film-within-the-film. While occasionally frustrating, this ambiguity is one of the film's best assets as it provides an insight into the thinking disturbed patterns of the aspiring actress and her deepest fears and insecurities. There is also a deranged stalker in the mix and an internet blog that claims to be written by her (but isn't). Also, in a personal identity crisis, she keeps seeing visions of herself as a pop icon, with the doppelganger claiming that the actress version of herself is not her real self. Director Satoshi Kon apparently only opted to animate the tale when interest for a live action incarnation began to wane, however, he manages to come up with such striking images that is hard to imagine the film having the same effect sans animation. There is an especially memorable bit in which the approaching headlights of a truck blur into stadium lights. The film also makes for a surefire curio nowadays with its insight into the early days of public domain internet where everyone could claim to be anyone. "},{"Title":"Thoughtfull psychological thriller that leaves you disoriented and maybe even disturbed","Date":"7 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" Perfect Blue is a psychological thriller about a singer in a pop trio, Mima, who turns to acting because of the lack of successes that she feels she is achieving in music. Ironically, after she leaves her former singing partners become far more successful as a duo than they have ever been working with her. As Mima turns towards acting, she discovers that a stalker has been making posts about her on his fan-page detailing Mima's day-to day experience as she transitions to acting. These things began to manifest themselves in Mima's mind and embody a separate personality that haunts her throughout this film. I am not usually drawn to anime but this film really poked at my curiosity. Mostly because of the stories I have heard about the esteemed director, Darren Aronofsky, buying the rights to this film for $60k in order to, not only replicate a seen from this film in his critically-acclaimed masterpiece, Requiem for a Dream, but also to allegedly replicate aspects of Perfect Blue in his Oscar-winning movie, Black Swan. At first, I was kind of confused about why he did this. But after watching Perfect Blue, I can kind of see why. This film is one of the most intense and disorienting films that I have seen in a while. So it's understandable that a director trying to achieve the same unique effect would try to mimic this movie. We see Mima's alternative personality, 'pop-star Mima', eat this woman inside-out. Mima moves toward more smutty and gritty content in her new acting career. She is playing a girl that gets raped in the new television series she has been cast in, she is letting a photographer take nude photos of her, and she is slowly retreating into more and more into her own mind while doing so. All while her former co-stars are gaining success without her. This causes this her stalker and her alternative personality that is manifesting her consciousness to become more invasive and violent. This film, at times, allows us to feel the same sort of disorientation and confusion that Mima is feeling, especially with the twist ending that leaves you thinking about this film long after it is finished. There is a portion of the movie where Mima keeps waking up from a sleep after each scene, as to suggest that everything that happened before was just a dream. This sequence left me so confused and the pacing made me so dizzy that I thought I was going to fall out of my seat. There are a lot of scenes in this film where you start to question what is real and what isn't. Perfect Blue is stylistically unsettling and memorizing, but still beautifully animated and edited. The film's score is unnerving. The English-dubbed vocal-performances don't sound out-of-place or corny like they do in most anime. I like how mature this film is. It intensifies until the very end without trying to break the tension with any humor or explain things to the audience. It is a dark look into the psychological darkness of being a pawn in the world of pop- culture. I hope to find some more anime like this in the future. I think that this film is a good stepping stone for anyone who is trying to get into anime. If you are trying to watch something that may keep you up at night, if you are trying to watch something that is thought provoking, if you like films with a complex plot and storyline watch this film. You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"One of the best anime thrillers that I have seen.","Date":"29 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" I usually pride myself on figuring out the twist or ending of a thriller long before it's formally revealed, but I'm proud to say that Perfect Blue kept me in the dark right up until it was ready to divulge its secrets. Anyone who likes anime and is looking for a good mystery will fall right in love with Perfect Blue.It's difficult to give much of a sense of what the film is about with spoiling the plot. But essentially, its about a Japanese pop singer named Mima who leaves her musical group and decides to become an actress. She's not entirely happy about the things that she's forced to deal with in her new career, and she starts experiencing odd hallucinations as people around her start to die in brutal ways. This is definitely an intense movie, and some of the scenes are very violent. It's nothing that a fan of action anime hasn't been exposed to before, but it bares mentioning anyway.I thought the pacing was a little slow at the beginning, but this pays off well once the story gets going, so maybe that's not too big of a deal. The art style leans toward realism in a very pleasing way that aids in telling such a serious story. I'm sure that there are not very many serious anime fans that haven't seen Perfect Blue, and with good reason. It's an excellent thriller that surpasses many of the live-action movies in the genre that I've seen recently. "},{"Title":"Welcome To Mima's Room","Date":"18 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" If Hitchcock had done animation... it might have been something like this. It's unusual to find anime as intelligent and multi-layered as Perfect Blue, even if its ambition sometimes outstrips its execution. It charts the descent of a pop idol-turned-actress into madness. Mima's life spirals out of control, as she is plunged into a nightmare world of murder, exploitation and paranoid delusion.This is the debut picture from writer-director Satoshi Kon, and it's a decent first effort. It has a lot of the motifs you find in his excellent OAV, Paranoia Agent; the effortless intertwining of fantasy and reality, touches of surrealism and a Lynch-like resistance to easy interpretation, crediting the viewer with the intelligence to solve its puzzles for themselves. Kon also got in early with the phenomenon of cyber-stalking although it's less extreme and its themes are manifestly different, Cham brings to mind Dessart, and Mima's Room the spooky fan site in Suicide Club.On the downside, the animation isn't going to blow any minds - it's solid enough, but done without a great deal of panache. The ending (and we're talking literally the last few moments here) is really cheesy and strangely at odds with the dark mood of the film. "},{"Title":"Anime is often seen in a stereotype that I find a bit unpleasant.","Date":"8 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" Anime is often seen in a stereotype that I find a bit unpleasant.Usually, anime is seen as something as not to be taken seriously or at least not too seriously. Most content is full of unnecessary sex and violence. One could argue that sex and violence is not necessary anyways. Well, the whole thing about sex and violence can be used as a benefit to telling a visually compelling story. Now I'm not the type of person to care if nudity is involved or not in a movie. I really could hardly care because if I wanted porn, I have the internet for that. The thing to take away from anime is usually robots fighting or having five large breasted woman going after some poor young man that we as men dream about being in the situation. But it's a problem. It's because of these tropes that now we don't give knowledge to a wider audience that can accept necessary sex and violence to a story that makes sense and is well done. Especially taking that concept, and placing it into the visually exciting realm of animation. That point goes to this film, 'Perfect Blue.' 'Perfect Blue' is about a pop singer named 'Mima Kirigoe,' who decides to leave to world of being a pop singer to become a acclaimed actress. This leads to a series of bizarre and creepy fan notes, a stalker making a website with eerily creepy posts, and murder. All with the addition of psychological thriller of our female lead questioning if the real her was her 'Pop Singer' self.Let this be the first thing I say about it, this film was brilliant for it's amazing atmosphere and directing. Usually with animated films, they were not often directed very cinematically, adult or children films. Usually with older Disney films they would have this constant use of long shots and medium shots. There weren't that many that focused on their lighting and cinematography. I think it really started to change when you saw 'Anastasia' for the first time how much of a movie it felt. It felt compelling with it's characters feeling less like cartoon mascots and more like real actors. It's impressive. One could argue that if you want an animated film to be more like a live action film, why not film it like that then? That was the big complaint from a lot of critics that saw 'Perfect Blue.' The purpose of animation, that people see as, is this stereotype that because it's animated, it has to be crazy, wild, bodies have to stretch, or at the very least, there has to be some form of fantasy or science fiction. But with this film, there's nothing like that in it. Other than Mima's ghostly figure she creates in her mind, there isn't a lot of visual elements that would almost force into the direction of having it be animated. So the question being, why not just film it instead? Why did it have to be animated? My answer, Why not? I mean, there is so much of untapped potential in this world of animation it's baffling. This movie reflects that great atmosphere I've found in most Hitchcock thrillers, but it just happens to be a cartoon. I mean, yes, it's Japanese animation so it looks a bit cheaply done. The big critique I have of this movie is when you finally meet the stalker in the film, the English dub voice actor, I think was a bad choice. His voice almost seemed comical looking back at it. Which sucks because otherwise I was totally compelled into the film, and even after he's gone from the film, you do get immediately sucked back into it. It was just the only thing to put me out of the film, other wise, the writing was interesting and the editing was pitch perfect. But the real show stealer that really makes the film, is that cinematography. The uses of lighting and shading as if you were directing a live action drama, being applied to a animated film. It's astounding to look at visually.Overall, it's amazing to see how much seriousness and suspenseful tones were added to a film of animation. My hope is to see more films like it in the future. Again, the stalker's voice chosen in the English dub kind of put me out of the tone, but otherwise, it's damn near perfect. What's best is, again, after the stalker's gone, it puts you back into it. That's great considering there's so many movies out there who have a third act curse where after the third act hits suddenly it ruins the rest of the film, but in this case, after he's gone, it picks you back up and into the feature, so I got to give it props for that. The ending was complete, and it felt overall a satisfying film. It's an animated treat that is best not to be shown to children. It's an adult feature. A mature one. One that I feel should be the one used as a frontier to having cartoonists see that they don't have to be comical to tell a story in art. That what really matters is a good story with strong visualization that can hold audiences attention, without it be obnoxious. If anything, this film, highly underrated. "},{"Title":"Good animation, interesting story, complex and overambigious narration and inconsistent art.","Date":"25 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" http//www.imdb.com/title/tt0156887/ This was an very deep anime movie, I think I begin to understand why it's called Perfect Blue, Perfect Blue might mean that the sea is deep and it is a parabel, metaphor for the film's message is deep, so assume that the color blue is deep, and when something is completely and deeply so it must be blue and perfect. In short, the movie is about the psycho logical aspects of schizophrenia and post-traumatic stress because she is a burned-out artist but choose to change your occupation to an actress, but then trying to broaden their fanbase by changing their image. She does this by sailing on the sea as a fashion model. This will of course not help, but she thinks she can change, believe that everything will be all right if she changes careers to something that may not be as hard for her. The film's director is not a master, because you did not really understand what was what in the film, they could have improved it so that you understand or that they had any character who could understand what was going on during the movie. Sometimes she dreamed, but then got it all the way out there, sometimes she dreamed or dreamed, she did not and then did not know the time horizon of the film. The ocean is deep ocean is deep .... The movie was boring because it stagnated in some places and it was not a success, the other negative I found with this film was that the film did not have a better description or illustration of the stalker in the film. Then you do not know even if it was a stalker or it was hallucinations from her. I'm not going to seek out theories on what people think, the movie gets 5 out of 10, good try to depict how a famous person affected by stalkers and how one becomes mentally unstable when you think you are exposed to stalkers. The film could have easily been an 8 out of 10 of the movie been easier to understand, and if the movie had a closure instead of an open ending where you need to figure out possible explanations for the ending. possibilities for what it could have been. Then I tried the film illustrate the psychological too complex, so it was not at all successful. The music was barely sufficient to make it scary. The animation looked realistic and well done for its time and budget they spent on the film. It was unique to attempt an advanced and complicated story about a famous pop singer who becomes mentally unstable. I still recommend it because you maybe will like it if you are into open endings and complex narration. The psychology aspect is very interesting though so that was the reason I wanted to watch this "},{"Title":"Amazing.","Date":"10 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" I would first like to start off with the animation of Perfect Blue. I really enjoyed it because it had that 'classic' feel to it. Like most animes made in the late 80's to 90's. The artwork wasn't horrid but is also wasn't over the top. Especially when the term pop-star is mentioned. If it was more modern. Then prepare for the overuse of stars and sparkles and pink. Lots and lots of pink, but it didn't have that. It was down to earth and i liked that about it a lot. Moving on, when the movie began I kind of drifted in and out because progress was moving so slow, but i was anxious to see what the obviously creepy, fish-eyed, gap toothed man in the crowd was going to do. I mean seriously. Who kept allowing that guy to attend all of Mima's shoots? Is there no security? But anyway, the guy was obviously a stalker and like most stalker films, I was expecting this guy to do what any other stalker would do. Run her life into the ground. But no PLOT TWIST. These tend to come out of nowhere in Perfect Blue. First we get the impression that Mima's going insane. Which is understandable considering what she's going through. But then the same hallucination that's tormenting Mima is floating around the obsessed fan and it made me think How is that possible? Soon I could no longer tell the difference between what was real and what was in Mima's head. Despite her obvious personality change no one gives two sh*ts. Mima basically walks around like a soulless doll and all they care about is the dumb movie.But enough of that. The ending is what got to me the most. Never would i have expected for the manager lady to be behind all of it. She was seriously the very last person I suspected. She showed no signs of being a psycho and was the only one who truly cared about Mima. Here I am waiting for the fish eyed dude to show up in Mima's apartment when she wakes up, but instead I get the total opposite. Disregarding the slow progress of the story in the beginning and the slight confusion, it was awesome and i recommend it. ) It keeps you guessing, on your toes and leave you in utter shock. "}{"Title":"Excellent A good a representation about how we deal with the harshness of life and a review to The Industry","Date":"9 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" Many people think that this movie is a masterpiece. I will not say that this movie should be in a TOP of the whole story, but it's really VERY good, is the kind of movie which at the end all makes sense and you'll wish to watch it again to see now all the details and even again. It's the kind of movie which apparently there is confusion, but it's Not a cheap device to awe the public, really only is a apparent chaos and behind really there is a order, of a well-defined plot which clearly happens in front of your eyes and you don't realize it until the end.I'm also surprised because there are many people who think the contrary, that it is an overrated and confusing movie, and that has motivated me to write this review. So I will just describe the synopsis anterior to the psychological thriller. But if you want to read spoilers and understand some things, you can read my comments in its board.I also noticed a bias against the Japanese cartoon. This movie could have been a live-action. In fact, apparently it would be a live-action before the change of plans due the budget. But that didn't change or harm the product.>>>  The movie is starring by Mima that (somehow) really is more of one character.Mima Kirigoe is a girl whose dream is to be a singer with her friends, and she's the lead singer of a inconspicuous group J-pop relatively successful. She impress everyone and everyone knows that she is the most charismatic, the most talented and most promising. So, could she take a step further and transcend?. In that moment of glory, Mima finds she has a website fan about her, called Mima's Room owned by someone called The Real Mima supplanting her identity. That someone seems watch her all the time because knows every move and tastes of her; but even it's fun and flattering to Mima.But her group (seemingly) soon will reach its peak, so one day comes the great deal to Mima. She should choose, and due to the offer of a faster rise to fame she chooses and betrays her dreams, her friends, her audience, even herself and her dignity. She is unhappy doing that turning point in her career; but (because of the offer, due not fail to her Team, and her desire to stay in) she convinces herself that it's what she wants. At that moment The Real Mima no longer speaks just about her routine, but about the Mima's truly feels and thoughts. No one else could know what Mima think and feel, except Mima, and ironically Mima Kirigoe at that time is self lying pretending loves her new way. Who is The Real Mima?.Unfortunately the situations only goes from bad to worse and the result she get is just the opposite of what she expected and she is falling ever more; Mima is dissociated so she self convinces that everything is going well and is happening what she want and she's happier than ever, justifying everything in interviews, disqualifying negative reviews, and happy reaffirming her way with more hardcore turning point. At this time The Real Mima warns that she has been replaced by an impostor who is dirtying her image and making a fool with her name. Everything goes wrong for Mima; far from her family, with the non-acceptance of her fans, having lost what she had before to get less, her (ex)friends are now really successful and most famous -and grow up-, and now having hallucinations of a Ghost Mima from her past who mocks her, while a wave of murders that coincidentally matches those who have ruined Mima. Mima is about to lose her mind, if she has not already lost it and she's the villain now?. The whole world seems to be against Mima and her only remains support is her maternal promoter/manager. Then the psychological thriller begins...  >>>The movie is a representation of our evolution in the life due to changes and new decisions; evolution which never is an easy road and sometimes quite struggled and depressing, what makes our reality exceed us, and our reactions aren't the best due our immaturity and really not understanding our own reality. Even, also a naked review about how The Industry uses, perverts and discards people; how make adult stars following a stereotyped moves and career boost until the toy gone bad (and is replaced). Even it's prophetic compared with the typical story of many Disney girls & like. But it's just a context for the psychological thriller plot.It's a movie in which we can identify with, all those who have had those moments in life, and our reactions are usually the same OR the present overwhelms us and we want to return to the past OR the present overwhelms us and we believe understand it and we're better than ever. However our mind works slow and always we understand our reality up to 5 or 10 years late, and always when we look back we better understand what happened to us, what we did wrong and what we should do, and so we feel that we mature... and so feels that now we're doing all right, again. Possibly, you cannot appreciate this movie if you're too young or if you have not been through this kind of thing.Possibly, there are two versions (R and not R). I recommend the full version (R) because it contains necessary parts for the plot and the explicit scenes aren't free (and I don't say this very often). Also you're not a child, and if you're a child then this movie will bored you, you better watch Transformers (No offense, I love Transformers too). "},{"Title":".","Date":"23 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" Kept me surprised and engaged more than I expected. Could have been much more coherent in its plot, and a bit more polished in its animation  although that's a minor complaint, but there were segments that really shined-- especially in terms of pacing and editing. While I usually love to hate on the kinds of 'twists' you find in cheap thrillers  à la The Prestige-- and the rest of Christopher Nolan's filmography-- as well as the widely praised, amateurish The Usual Suspects, for example, etc.-- which are heavy-handed and essentially unimaginative, under the guise of being 'thought provoking'-- this one, somehow, never seems like a gimmick. "},{"Title":"A landmark of Japanese animation and an unforgettable experience.","Date":"2 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" A visceral and mind-bending experience, Perfect Blue reminded me why I love anime in the first place. It constantly toys with the thin line between fantasy and reality in exciting and clever ways that later surrealist films such as Black Swan and Inland Empire would also attempt to emulate. Of course, nothing beats the original.The protagonist, a singer-turned actress named Mima continually experiences illusions that essentially drive her crazy. Some of these illusions involve death, showcasing her killing people close to her, such as her co-stars and others involved in the film she's making. Mima also seems at first to be stalked by a deformed looking man, who is seen from the very beginning of the film when Mima and her singing group have their last concert performance. After that, he's seen everywhere. Mima can't get him out of her mind even when he's clearly not physically next to her.Other illusions show her being harassed by what at first seems like her alter-ego, a ghostly figure who keeps taunting Mima and basically breaking down her spirit. This figure looks the same as Mima, except without the emotional baggage that Mima herself carries, and she shows up constantly throughout the film in Mima's head. One brilliant scene that really had my brain spinning for a second is when the male stalker is seen typing on a computer, I'm guessing a letter for Mima, and right alongside him is the ghostly Mima figure talking in his ear. The stalker had this voice in his head telling him that Mima wants him, basically, and that's what that scene seems to hint at. This goes hand-in-hand with real life incidents of celebrity stalking, specifically of actresses. A lot of actresses put themselves out there for everyone to see, and as they're objectified by the industry, most guys who otherwise wouldn't give a damn fawn all over them. The media has a powerful effect on the human mind.Now, the scene that really gets me is when Mima supposedly kills the stalker, because throughout the middle portion of the film, she's shown having all these various dreams and illusions, all of which are at first presented as being real. Every time I thought one was real, I was brought back to reality by Mima waking up or something similar. Mima killing the stalker seemed to be just another vision, and the reason she was having all those visions of a deformed male stalking her is because she's always harbored negative feelings about males and is in reality insecure around most of them. This is further exemplified by the scene in which Mima is filming a rape scene for her movie that looks vividly real, and she begins panicking for real (or just acting really, REALLY well), and gets drowsy in the process to the point of nearly fainting. Her illusions and paranoia make her a more believable actress in the long run, to the point where the director and others around her start to get creeped out, or simply suspicious. Males are presented as killers in the media extremely often, and that combined with Mima's insecurities about males (something bad may have happened to her as a child, having to do with a male) is the primary why Mima imagines a creepy looking male going around doing all these various killings. She couldn't be more wrong when it's revealed at the end of the film that her stalker is in fact an obese female, which leads to one hell of an intense finale.The way the entire film played with my head and had me constantly thinking of possible answers is something I haven't experienced viewing an anime since I sat down and watched Paranoia Agent, coincidentally by the same director.The way the story is told is superb, and I'm normally not even the biggest fan of surrealism, but there's something about the way it's used in this film that made me love it.There are also some truly unforgettable images scattered throughout the film, such as the amusing opening shot which spoofs the Power Rangers, the shot of a dead man in an elevator with his eyes gouged out and blood all over him, a grotesque shot of a man getting stabbed literally in the balls with a screwdriver, and several others. It's just one hell of a film. The animation is very much apart of its time, yet has a timeless appeal and a distinct charm that a lot of the animation of today severely lacks. Helps that it was handrawn.Perfect Blue is one of the defining classics of Japanese animation, and if you enjoyed it on even a basic level, I definitely recommend checking out some of the director's other work, as it's also great. "},{"Title":"Neither Perfect, nor Blue...","Date":"20 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" Perfect Blue is a very influential anime from the late Satoshi Kon. It's a psychological thriller with elements of surrealist horror similar to David Lynch's Fire Walk with Me. Satoshi Kon's work always has striking visuals and brilliant atmosphere, but I always find his storytelling to be somewhat inconsistent and the end result mostly felt underwhelming. Perfect Blue just like Paprika offers infinite amounts of potential and ends up disappointing me.The story of Perfect Blue is fairly simple. A former pop-idol tries to become an actress and it seems someone is trying to sabotage her life. And the question is simple Whether it's in her head or it's happening for real. It plays with this idea for a while and builds her emotional breakdown quite nicely until the end. To put it simply, the ending sucks and ruins everything. Perfect Blue just would have worked much better with darker and more ambiguous ending rather than happy, everything is fine ending. And that's really the main fault of the film. The narrative is weak and the characters just were held back by the by the way it was made.I rarely like surrealist horror, body horror or any kind of psychological thrillers done in animation. The key of those films are the direction, performances, cinematography, lighting, score, sound design and editing; none of which can be done as well in animation. Despite it's excellent animation quality and top notch sound, good voice-acting and Satoshi Kon's direction, Perfect Blue just feels average when compared to films that it inspired or took inspirations. I'm not trying to bash it or just be negative for sake of being negative. But I have seen this type of scenario done better by Lynch and Darren Aronofsky.Perfect Blue is a must see for Anime fans but those who like surrealist horror and with elements of Lynch and Tarkovsky, will be severely disappointed. Lower your expectations and enjoy for what it is because it will only bring you frustrations otherwise. I recommend seeing Black Swan in contrast after experiencing Perfect Blue. "},{"Title":"Perfect Blue comes as a truly traumatic anime","Date":"22 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" An eerie and distressing psychological thriller that is as scary as it is actually confusing in the end. It's a Hitchockian showcase, where reality merges with fiction, just to create an astonishingly complex cat-and-mouse game, with proper amounts of blood and gore surrounding it the whole time.When a young, sweet, retired pop-star, beloved by many die-hard fans, tries her luck in the filmmaking industry - sullying her own good name with atrocious TV-show roles and nude photo sessions - the past eventually comes back to haunt her in the most expressive and frightening way possible - through confounding distortions of reality and many deceptive visions. There isn't a sense of tranquility - even though the main character might aspire to achieve it - as the audience isn't sure who is who in this surrealistic expression of a celebrity's worst nightmare.Perfect Blue plays some both astounding and discomforting visual tricks on the viewer's mind, dragging one deeper and deeper into the whole frightful intrigue. Although Perfect Blue goes too far and makes the whole storyline a bit overdone - slightly weakening the final effect - it still is a mesmerizing anime that might haunt with its strong attention to mind-boggling imagery and shocking scenes of animated violence. "},{"Title":"Very good psychological thriller","Date":"29 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" Perfect Blue is a psychological thriller by Satoshi Kon. It's basically from where the film The Black-Swan took all it's main ideas. It's about a young singer who tries to change her career to become a actress instead. But quickly the main character stars to lose her grip on reality and what's imagination and reality begins to blur. It was an innovative anime film for several reasons I think it is the first major animated psychological thriller. It clearly shows that animation is a medium as flexible asOverall, a highly enjoyable film. I found it significantly more interesting than the last three films I reviewed. It was the only one to keep me at the edge of my seat out of the four films. However, the ending wasn't as good as the rest of the film and felt a little forced. "},{"Title":"Identity Crisis","Date":"25 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" I always found the fundamental problem with admiration of celebrities as well as the concept of fame itself is that we tend to fail to see them for who they really are as a person. Which is why I can never really say that I know that person, sure I might see them on the silver screen or an interview or two but I've never shared dinner with them nor hung out, so I honestly don't really know them.Perfect Blue is I feel one of the best if forgotten anime. This film was the late great Satoshi Kon's debut in the anime world and it's a great start for him, this film is a beautifully crafted thriller that plays out almost like a Hichcock thriller, in those thrillers it's always about a innocent person's world turned against him/her and they become isolated with no one they can really trust to help them.The animation in this film is great to me it's one of animes best examples because it was doing something that anime still isn't doing much of or wrongfully steering aways from which is realism and unconventionality. One of the things I love about Satoshi Kons work is he's always doing something different every time and avoids all of those anime cliché's like explosions, mecha and all the other familiar goodies I've seen one time too many, this film has none of those things here he's playing things straight out no gimmicks. Also the style and direction of this anime doesn't even feel like an anime at all but actually felt like I was watching a live action more, and it's all because of the films sense of realism, that's pretty trippy but that's the point. The music is great I like the pop songs but I mainly like the eerie dark tune we hear, which really sends chills down your spine.Satoshi's trademark has been utilizing the technique of blurring reality and fantasy together, much like with Gilliam's Brazil or Jacob's Ladder. We're literally in the main character's perspective, at time it feels like were seeing reality but then it pulls the rug from under us and we then rethink about our earlier perception. Like for example that TV show Mimi is in, the case their working on is very ironic to the situation Mimi is in, in those scenes at time I couldn't help but wonder if the show wasn't actually a show but that was the reality and Mimi's acting career is the illusion. There are many other moments that can really mess with you but I wont' give them away you have to experience it yourself. Thsi makes the film all the more intense especially that revolving subplot which adds to the atmosphere with the crazed fan whom conducts a rather creep website called Mimi's Room which is a site that gives away details of her everyday life, some actually ring true to Mimi's psyche. In a way this really hits home because this is a real issue and fear that most celebrates have where there are those fans who's elevator's really don't go all the way to the top and they take it way too far; these are people that live As if lifestyles where they feel there lives are so empty they have to disconnect with reality and make it based on admiration of something else in order to fill that hole, these kinds of fans creep the hell out of me.The film those is also a character drama where we see Mimi and can't help but feel a sense of pathos for her. The whole film is mainly about identity and the subconscious fear of losing it as one changes. Mimi we see is a young, sweet, naive, vibrant person who as we see like any player in the entertainment game desires to go further and become a big name. But as we see further in the film things aren't going the way she wants them to, like the fact that she has to do things she doesn't want to do or ever is limited to others, this is a common things with all actors and actresses there are highs but there are also lows that can severely hurt, times like that really make me a little concerned for them and wonder if their really alright but also actors and actresses out of the lime light. We even see at times whether she wants to admit it or not that the band she's broken up with she actually does miss it when she sees when she's separated they've became more popular than before as well as her friendship with the two, this makes her wonder if being an actress is what she really wanted at all or was she deluding herself to run away from who she really is. With these factors as well as the subplot involved she begins to feel the pressure and fall into a spiral state of despair and depression where she begins to lose her sense of self and nothing feels real.Illusions can't hurt you but reality can kill you if you can't decipher the difference between the two and yourself.Rating 4 stars "},{"Title":"Perfect Blue (1997)","Date":"6 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" A pop star tries to make the transition to acting, but all these pesky murders keep getting in the way. It's basically anime giallo as Satoshi Kon channels Argento and Bava in this psychological thriller. It gets a bit repetitive at points, but it provides a few surprises and is sufficiently entertaining. The short running time is a big asset, any more of this and it would probably wear out its welcome. I did think most of the animation was rather mechanical and unappealing, though. Also, despite the quasi-feminist viewpoint, there's an awful lot of rape. However, I enjoyed it more than the other two Kon films I've seen. "},{"Title":"Suspenseful, compelling and entertaining animated thriller that succeeds on its own despite similarities with other films","Date":"1 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" Perfect Blue has seen a resurgence of interest after the recent success of Darren Aronofsky's similar Black Swan and many film-goers note that the latter was clearly influenced by the former, and it really does come across when one compares the films they both center around an art (acting vs. dancing) and a paranoid, attractive and driven woman who gradually descends into paranoid delusions because of her obsessive commitment to the art form, in Perfect Blue an aspiring actress, in Black Swan a ballerina. Both films are wonderful and each hold up very well on their own, however I would say that the similarities between the two films are probably mostly superficial and don't really extend beyond the blurring of reality and fantasy theme and the doppelganger who's who? element. I'd also say that Black Swan was more emotionally wrenching than Perfect Blue.I saw Perfect Blue recently and I enjoyed the film. It's very engrossing and the animation is superb. It's the type of film you'd have if you mixed Roman Polanski, Hitchcock and some Lynch and then teamed it up with Disney. The film particularly recalls the paranoid work of Polanski (Rosemary's Baby, Repulsion, The Tenant) and the dream-like, surreal state of many of Lynch's films (Mulholland Drive, Inland Empire). Perfect Blue, despite being influenced by probably superior and more sophisticated works, is a very innovative work that succeeds extremely well as its own piece. I highly recommend it to those whom enjoy a good psychological thriller. "},{"Title":"The Best psychological thriller movie that will live on.","Date":"10 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" Well where to start. This movie is an all time favorite of mine. It has both the feeling of fear and being scared. Most people think that to be scared you have to show gore. Perfect Blue that the real fear is losing the sense of reality and fantasy, losing control is what we all fear and this movie shows it. Granted the gore in this movie is there but its done with style. Perfect Blue is one big emotional Roller Coaster ride of fear. When i first seen this movie I was guessing left and right on who the killer was and in the end of the film i was floored when i seen who was the killer. The visual appealing to the movie is fantastic, In one scene where mima's pop idol starts talking to her you can see the that the Pop idol was clean, pretty, and brighter, where as mima was had a dark color tone which represented what she did, posing nude, doing a rape scene. What i like about it too that this movie is that is shows how fans the react to mima doing something different or extreme. Mima's followers says that she was changing and they weren't fond of it. This shows that real people do that as well. This movie does show Art Imitating Life because we all criticize someone who radically changes there personality or the way they act or dress.Over all if you want to watch a great scary thriller, I recommend this anime movie to anyone, even the ones who don't watch anime. As far as thrillers, on my list, it doesn't beat my all time favorite thriller Silence of the Lambs but it does beat out the first Saw movie. "}{"Title":"One fine anime!","Date":"27 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" I am a fan of anime and of animation, and I was very taken with Perfect Blue. I would have liked it to have lasted longer perhaps, that way more care could have gone into the ending which felt rather weak and rushed. But as a debut of a talented and interesting director, it is a fine anime not just of its genre but overall too.The animation is very good, while the backgrounds flow well and are wonderfully ethereal, the colours are well shaded and the characters look great without being too generic, it is the clever visual flourishes that really elevate. Another strong asset is the story, it is well paced but also in its tone it is wonderfully surrealistic and its ideas are interestingly presented.The music is fine too with some moments of beauty and some of it haunted me as well. The dialogue convinces and the pace is well-judged. All the characters are likable and interesting too, and the voice work is stellar. Overall, a fine film. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"The first masterpiece of Satoshi Kon","Date":"3 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" Satoshi Kon, the genius animator behind incredible anime works as Tokyo Godfathers Paprika Millenium Actress and Paranoia Agent created a very own and unique style with Perfect Blue, his first film, in which he he combines a realistic style of animation (At least compared with other anime movies and shows) with a surreal and dream-like plot, filled with mystery and unpredictable (But quite convincing) twists and revelations. Many people compared Perfect Blue with the works of the director of David Lynch. It is true that this movie shares some of the aspects of Lynch movies (Like the dreams within a dream) but i would say that it also had elements of the first films of Dario Argento and some of the works of Takashi Miike (Specially Audition) Despite being a pretty dark and disturbing film, it also has some bits of humor and sarcasm, something pretty common in the following works of Satoshi Kon. (Specially paranoia Agent, another of his masterpieces)Perfect Blue is an excellent thriller, and it is much better than many live action thriller that I've saw. I would recommend this movie not only to the fans of Japanese animation, but also, for those who love (good) mystery and psychological horror. "},{"Title":"Reality of fantasy?","Date":"17 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" First of all, this movie will confuse you and it will make you think, it might even screw with your mind because the plot isn't exactly simple or easy. Those that say that got it all figured out ever since the beginning are lying. This is a psychological thriller that knows how to make use of suspense and how to mix reality and fantasy to the point of confusing the viewer while developing a complex and concise plot. It's really a murder mystery filled with twists that will throw some fake hints at you, with a great direction and very powerful scenes that contribute to the nature of this movie. This movie is for adults, seriously, we are dealing with nudity, a rape scene, explicit violence, gore and a very complex plot, so please... take that into consideration.Overall I really enjoyed this movie, it's a suspense and mystery ride with a very intelligent plot and an ending that while it will make you initially think that the whole thing didn't make any sense, if you think carefully about all the little details everything ends up making perfect sense. It's one of those movies that might require a second viewing. Doesn't get a perfect 10 from me because in spite of being original and a masterpiece in the anime media, out of it, it's nothing new. "},{"Title":"Sad, dark, violent.","Date":"19 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" I'm not much of a man for Manga or Anime to be honest. I've only seen about half a dozen or so films, and while I have liked what I watched, I generally don't go seeking for titles as I would with other genres. But saying that, if I were the kind of man to make a top 100 list of all time, including all genres, I'm pretty sure Perfect Blue would be on there somewhere, and quite possibly in a decent enough position.Perfect Blue follows the disturbing path that young Mima's life takes after she announces that she is retiring from pop band life to pursue a career in acting. One of her managers feels it's the best idea for her, but the other, Rumi, a former pop idol herself, thinks it is career suicide. Despite all, Mima lands herself a small yet harrowing part on a TV drama. At the same time, a website starts up called Mima's room, purporting to be written by Mima herself. Whoever is writing the online diary sure does know a lot about her life, and it isn't long that this stalker starts threatening those around her. It doesn't take long for threats to materialize into murder, and for Mima's sanity to take a backseat...What unfolds is both genuinely disturbing and sad. Mima is asked to act out a rape scene for the show, and it is a hard scene to watch. The innocence of Mima's past life crumbles away as everyone wants a piece of her, and none seem too concerned about it's affect on her young mind. She begins to confuse dreams with reality, and the past with the present. Is her personality really splitting, and is she somehow involved in the murders? I've said too much already! The first few minutes of Perfect Blue feel pretty much like anything you would expect a teenybopper anime to be. Lots of pop music, screaming teenage girls, and tough looking boys. But this all melts away pretty quickly after the title sequence, luring you in with an easy charm. There are very few punches pulled here. The murder sequences are short, but pretty damned brutal. The killer likes to stab the victims in the face with a screwdriver, and occasionally in the groinal area too. The rape scenes and other exploitative nudity scenes are just what you would expect from the nation of folks who eat rapes for breakfast; they are kinda uncomfortable.What works so well is how the film is realized. I'm not sure if it would be as great as a live action film, but apparently there is one already made in Japan. The fluid camera positions coupled with the colour tones are flawless. For me, the film feels like a messed up blend of Argento's Tenebrae crossed with Aronofsky's Requiem for a Dream. Ya think I'm talking outta my hairy flossy? Just check out the scene Aronofsky borrowed for Requiem. You will know it when ya see it. He even owns the rights to this film, apparently.Perfect Blue is stylish, dark and disturbing, but flows brilliantly and without any hiccups. This is one little flick you will want to watch more than once. Check it out, but don't watch the dubbed version! "},{"Title":"Twisted, messed up and amazing","Date":"8 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" Could this be the best full length anime movie ever? Possibly. This psychological thriller is very deep, very intriguing and most importantly, very entertaining.I'm sure you've already read the plot if you're reading this review. Mima is a pop idol with a clean image who decides to become an actress with a not so clean image. She is being stalked by an obsessed fan and also is seeing her past form. What is real? What isn't? Is Mima sane? Is she psychologically screwed? What the hell is going on? These are just few of the questions that'll pass through your mind while watching the movie. Everything is executed beautifully. There are also quite a few disturbing scenes in the film which just add to the beauty of the film. When you're done watching the movie, you'll be questioning reality and illusion yourself.The only things I found negative were the somewhat overuse of nudity and the ending being a bit confusing. However, this is not a movie to be missed, whether you like psychological thrillers or anime or both. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Marvellous anime entry in the 'woman losing her grip on reality' horror niche","Date":"3 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" In its combination of fractured female psyches, trauma, and perverse show business glamour (in this case pop singing and Japanese TV) reminiscent of David Lynch, although predating Mulholland Dr. by a few years, Perfect Blue is another take in the always compelling 'woman losing her grip on reality' niche. You've seen before in films like The Stunt Man the meta-narrative tricks of using scenes and lines from a movie inside the movie (in this case a Japanese soap crime thriller) as a tool in showing the protagonist's reality being undermined, but they work marvellously here. There's point where I couldn't tell exactly WHO the protagonist was (pop singer turned soap actress, strip dancer living a wish fulfillment fantasy to cope with post traumatic stress disorder caused by rape) any more than she did. A bit haphazard opening and awful closing line but Japanese animeister Satoshi Kon throws a nice Argento homage in the finale complete with blood gushing from glass shard wounds. I have anime associated with nauseating teenyboppery in my mind but this is superb adult stuff, mindbending with a surreal edge and a directorial eye for detail and style. I wouldn't be surprised if it was a major influence for 00's Lynch. "},{"Title":"A Great Story","Date":"1 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" I watched this anime film in its raw Japanese and even though I am not very well versed in Japanese the film shines through. There are evocative images, some violent but germane to the story completely. It is about an actress stalked by an obsessive fan generally, but it has far more interest than that. There are haunted dreams, feelings of real fear and self doubt and it all works. There are a few great confrontation scenes, there are even very suspenseful moments. This film is a watershed moment for anime and it should not be missed. The utmost care went into this. It shows in so many ways. If you're an anime fan you probably know about this or have seen it. If you're not sure, watch it, its terrific. "},{"Title":"A Horror Suspense Thriller in Anime Form!","Date":"16 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" The Plot In the world of make believe - the price of fame may not be worth the cost of identity. Pop singer Mima Kirigoe looks forward to a bright new career when she quits her chart-topping trio to become an actress. When she lands a role in a sexually charged murder mystery. Mima's life begins to fall apart. Reality and hallucinations merge into a terrifying netherworld where innocence is lost and dreams become nightmares. Quickly descending into a dangerous state of paranoid delusions. Mima discovers Internet sites describing every intimate detail of her life. Helpless and afraid, she watches as her associates are threatened and killed by a mysterious stalker.My Spiel Perfect Blue is one of the more obscure animes to ever hit my way. I have to say this is like a live action suspense thriller and identity theft which just happens to be a anime. This has really crazy visuals, and not your average animation piece were everyone lives happy ever after, and everyone gets the girl. This is a truly bold movie from start to finish it's a new look at how fame can cause complete misery for the main pop idol in this movie, as well as the people around her. As Roger Corman put it, A startling and powerful film. If Alfred Hitchcock partnered with Walt Disney they'd make a picture like this. If you are planning to explore more anime movies and are interested on a completely new genre I urge you to check PERFECT BLUE out.Perfect Blue (1998) Review 7/10 "},{"Title":"Japanese or American, all of our cultures seem to meet at this crossroad we are a planet of voyeurs.","Date":"9 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" In a world where we are expected to play a variety of conflicting roles, in which our lives are all interconnected, broadcast and dissected, we invariably develop situational identities. We are not one person, we are many people who go by the same name.Though all of us deal with this in varying ways as we go through life, nowhere is it more of an issue than in pop culture. The long list of psychologically and emotionally fractured ex-teen stars is ample proof. Who are you? Mima, the central character in Perfect Blue, asks of herself. It is her first line in our 'play within a play.' It is a question that really seeks no answer, instead expressing the complete lack of a frame of reference.Just a decade after its release some of the devices of this film may now seem old - websites pretending to portray the 'real life' of pop idols, obsessive paparazzi, frothing J-pop fans - however, many of the questions explored by Perfect Blue remain as vital as ever. In fact, it is possible they have become even more so as the line between reality and fiction continues to blur.... Full review http//www.tlablog.com/2008/12/excuse-me-who- are-you.html TLA attacks the movies. "},{"Title":"This could turn anyone into an anime fanatic","Date":"30 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" This anime film is one of the reasons why I am such an anime fan. Let me start off with the animation. The visuals are amazing and is true to the Japanese anime style. Everything from the blue skies to the faces of the characters is animated exquisitely. The greatest aspect of this film is the story, the story is just one long roller coaster that you never want to end. The story starts off by giving you a false sense of security and as the film continues that security is shattered then unravelled and then slowly sewn back together. The film has a real ending which provides the audience with closure. This animated film truly is a masterpiece and deserves all the praise it is currently receiving. A must see for anyone. "}{"Title":"There are times when you forget you are watching animation","Date":"7 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" Roger Corman is quoted as considering this a cross between Walt Disney and Alfred Hitchcock, whilst others have referenced Argento and Lynch. Whilst I'm not particularly keen on any of these comparisons, it is certainly true to say that this film, even though it is animated, is much closer to live action than what we normally consider animation. There are times when you forget you are watching animation, the urban shots of Tokyo are mesmerising, and I have certainly never seen so much blood in an animated film. I was going to say violence but I guess there is plenty of that in a Tom and Jerry short. This, of course, is much harder edged and although it begins in pink, girlie, teen idol territory it is not there for long and there are delirious sequences towards the end when it will not only be the person on screen who is having an identity crisis! "},{"Title":"What is real?","Date":"17 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" Perfect Blue is the story of Mima Kirigoe's transition from being a singer in a pop group with a squeaky clean image to an actress in racy murder mystery television series called Double Bind.While she is willing to leave her old image behind it is clear that somebody will do anything to protect that image. People around her who are involved in pushing her further from her old self are murdered and she is directed to a web site that was made my somebody who clearly knows far too much about her to be a stranger.As things go wrong for her Mima starts to hallucinate, seeing her old self who keeps telling her that she should have remained a pop singer. Frequently we don't know if what we are watching is reality, an hallucination or a scene from Double Bind. The film deserves a second viewing to help you understand some of the confusion... After seeing it a second time I raised my vote by one.While this isn't a perfect anime it is very good even though the animation is cruder than Satoshi Kon's later works; I suspect the rough look may have been deliberate. If you believe animation is solely a medium for children's films this will change your opinion, it is closer to Basic Instinct than it is to Bambi. "},{"Title":"Dreadfully cheery Japanese pop idol meets psycho-sexual horror...","Date":"11 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" ...so why aren't you getting this movie right now? Perfect Blue is what ninety-nine percent of all twist thrillers the last twenty years have failed to become A scary, fast-paced and ruthless story that actually makes sense at the end without feeling too contrived. Even after what should have been the death blow for twist movies in the final scenes of Scary Movie(the original, which actually had a bit of an edge), we see them again and again, but not here.Using animation as a medium works well here. Of course, it saves a lot of money for a country where the movie budgets are ridiculously small, but it also adds a lot of tension. What will happen next? Which conventions of Western cinema can I forget about? What the hell is happening? Those questions will leave you confused and frightened right up till the superb end, which you will NOT see coming.If you found your way to this movie, you are probably as ready as you can get to watch it. If this is your first anime, choose another. If you are queasy or easily frightened, harden up. Fans of Lynch, Hitchcock should be satisfied. "},{"Title":"This. Is. In. Tense.","Date":"5 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" *exhales* I just finished this film and it blew my mind.I bought this movie on the strength of the directing of Paprika and I had no idea what this movie was about. I can come up with only one word Intense.The basic plot of Perfect Blue is the main character, Mima, is a successful pop singer who chooses to leave her group and become an actress. But soon after discovering a website that tracks her every move in detail followed by landing a role in a violent television drama, strange things begin to happen all around her. She becomes paranoid and hallucinates about an alternate self who is still a pop singer. Soon reality and dreams merge all leading to a very thrilling finale.I cannot describe this movie in my words but it is the best movie I've seen in a good long time. I very much recommend it to all who can handle scenes of explicit violence and disturbing images.10/10. A fantastic psychological drama.As a side note, the upbeat opening song is a real contrast to the movie itself. I catch myself humming it and I can't help but laugh. "},{"Title":"The best anime I've ever seen","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" Perfect. Surreal. Bizarre. Insane. Amazing. All of these words describe Satoshi Kon's sensational anime Perfect Blue. The movie not only takes a new spin on the very definition of anime, but it also weaves a creative web of visuals, a mouth-wateringly good story, an intelligent script full of twists and turns from every angle, and rich and suspicious characters. The voice acting is just as great in English as it is in Japanese, for once.Mima, an ex-pop idol who is trying to become an actress, soon finds herself haunted by the spirit of her former self, the pop idol. She is conflicted as to whether or not she should continue to pursue an acting career or revert back to her days as a pop idol. The new television drama she stars in bears a shocking resemblance to the events that unfold in her life, and as the cast and her friends start getting killed off one by one, Mima is forced to confront the demons of her past and end the terror once and for all.We follow Mima through her terrifying journey where the line between what is real and imaginary begins to blur. Satoshi Kon not only amazes with his spectacular direction, but the surreal animation and feel of the movie elevate it far beyond simple anime goodness. Perfect Blue goes to places often so dark that few anime series or films even dare to touch it. Perfect Blue is a masterpiece of cinema, terrifying, dark, dream-like, and just... perfect. "},{"Title":"Perfect Blue","Date":"25 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" Very adult animated thriller about pop idol Mima trying to make it as an actress with a stalker(running a fictional supposed website faking thoughts she has amongst real actions she makes during each day)making her life practically unbearable. She is also tormented by her past success which seems to stalk her subconscious popping up into reality at times even foiling scenes during filming. The bubble-gum pop image is diminished when the young actress commits to a grueling rape scene in her first film. Soon she does a nude pictorial completely shattering the wholesome image she had been conveying for so long. The film shows the poor girl's decline in sanity as illusion and reality are blurred. Even the film she partakes in seems all too real to her present state in life. Soon those people(the writer of the script calling for the rape scene, the photographer which spoiled her innocence, her agent asking for the young up and comer to commit to a new image)who the stalker holds responsible for the career change in Mima's life are being killed in nasty, vicious ways. The film offers the possibility that Mima herself may be committing the acts of violence with another personality converging to take over her body as revenge for the descent into immorality.Full of bloodshed and nudity, this animated tale is quite heady displaying Mima's struggle to grip onto reality. I'm not sure I buy that ending which seems too much of a cop-out letting their heroine escape from being a murderer(..using another character jealous of her abandoning pop stardom for an acting career requiring nudity in seedy situations), but the film is quite a fascinating and entertaining mind-trip. There are scenes in the film where the tortured actress Mima is chasing her alter ego..and, the climax shows the alter ego supposedly trying to kill her(..this alter ego proves to actually be another completely different person). "},{"Title":"Perfect Blue - Talk about a mind-f**k!","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" (This is my 501st review on IMDb.)In an era where the total mind-f**k is limited to painfully obvious plot twists and so-so/lame narratives that think they're the sh**, Perfect Blue comes at us from one of the last places we ever expected Japanese animation, otherwise known as Anime'.Perfect Blue blends elements of the psychological thriller, the horror film, the adult-entertainment film and other dramatic themes so that in the end, it seems to play out as a head-on collision of each genre. The central character of the film is pop idol Mima Kirigoe, who opts for a career change following her much-maligned departure from her all-girl teeny-bop singing group CHAM!This sudden change upsets her fans to say the least, and pretty soon those around her start receiving threatening letters and such, and some are even later horribly murdered. To top things off, Mimi seems to be losing her grip on reality, a slip into insanity brought on by her newfound actress role on a brutally violent television series. And she seems to have two different stalkers, one real and one phantasmal. The first is the typical obsessed fan. The second has her hounded by a specter of her alter-ego who claims to be the true, squeaky-clean Mima, and it's all really only the beginning of forces that are ultimately out to claim her sanity.Perfect Blue comes to us from a team of filmmakers at Manga Entertainment who really know their stuff about playing tricks on the mind. It's from director Satoshi Kon, based on the novel by Yoshikazu Takeuchi. Perfect Blue does contain some of the obligatory fashion elements of most Anime', not limited to extreme violence and graphic sexuality/nudity. But in actuality, this is the first animated film from Japan to find a useful purpose for things that would otherwise set off red flags. For example, it is after Mima's on-screen rape that things suddenly begin to really take a toll on her mental state.Also like most Anime', Perfect Blue benefits greatly from a rich and lavish visual style that complements the animation greatly. The film's narrative works because of its movie within a movie theme, a setup that's been done to death in most live-action cinema, but seems to take on a whole new dimension in Japanese Anime'.Perfect Blue is, in summation, an Anime' film that quite simply is not like anything else out there. Although it does end on a note of optimism that mostly (and carefully) explains everything, I just dismiss that as hardly anything hurtful from the mind-f**k experience. Lastly, the title is at least partially accurate with regard to its content it's perfect.(On a personal note, I would like to think that some of today's pop princesses could learn a thing or two from Perfect Blue, just so you know.)10/10 "},{"Title":"Perfect Thriller","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" Before Satoshi Kon directed Millinum Actress and Tokyo Godfathers he did this one.Perfect Blue is set in Japan of the late 90's. Where a pop idol name Mima Kirigoe is the leading singer of the Cham trio. She's been a successful hit for 2 years. And has decided that she'll move on to acting. Not many of her fans wanted Mima to leave Cham. But she wanted to pursue her dream as an actress.Things were going smoothly for Mima when she began her acting career in a small part for a drama/mystery story. Soon it all went down hill when the people who work for Mima suddenly got murdered. That and it seems Mima is loosing her privacy as a mysterious crazed fan knows every move and act she does day by day. And personal information about her daily lifestyle is being posted on the internet. Without a clue on how anyone would know without announcing it.These events and incidents, that Mimia is going through is driving her insane. As reality and fiction seem to collide together ever since she quit being an idol. Who is responsible for the murders? Who is the mysterious stalker who's connected with this somehow? And what will become of Mima? This movie proves that Satoshi Kon had what it takes to be a director in Anime. The animation is older looking than the animation in his later works. But the characters, backgrounds, and objects are very believable. From beginning to end, this movie is both thrilling and exciting at the same time. It feels and looks like an Aniem version of a Hitchcock film. Perfect Blue is a great thriller anime that'll keep you guessing.I suggest it for older teens or older. Due to it have some swearing, violence, blood, mild nudity, and one graphic stabbing scene.I highly recommend to those who liked Millinum Actress and Tokyo Godfathers. "},{"Title":"Excuse Me Who Are You?","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" So Mima asks with paranoid illusions and a movie that is just sheer perfection in the movie world. If Satoshi Kon was to never work on anything and deliver this would be it. It's truly superb! Perfect Blue combines an Alfred Hitchcock style horror turn based into this beautiful unravelling thriller. Junko Iwao plays Mima Kirigoe, the ex pop idol leaving the band Cham (english version) who now sets of on a career in the acting. Rumi (Rica Matsumoto), and Tadokoro (Shinpachi Tsuji) are Mima's agents and land her a role in a TV drama being made, where Mima loses the innocence that was provided with her as a pop singer, and once a rape seen his filmed, Mima starts to have paranoid feelings, with hallucination's, and on top of this (Masaaki Ôkura) Uchida the fan becomes more of the obsessing fan. It's my personal favourite anime movie, and i hope that this has helped people and encouraged them to see it. From 10/10 Satoshi Kon combined horror, style, and an innocent look and slightly true of a pop idol searching for fame in another industry. Great film, that's powerful and thought provoking through to the final credit. "},{"Title":"A worthwhile watch.","Date":"25 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" Contains slight SPOILERs but they are minor compared to what is revealed on the discussion boards!Perfect Blue. To many anime fans this title may be immediately recognized as one of the so-called classic anime of all time. I myself knew it held this distinction but never knew why as I had never had the opportunity to watch it. When I finally got hold of it I read a couple of reviews on the net about it. They stated that it was a very confusing film, which had no clear story line and switched between story lines too much. Now one of my friends happened to have a go at watching it before I did. He had his very young son on his lap and randomly flicked through the film to see what the animation was like (I'm guessing that's the reason anyway, since I do that myself). He happened to come upon a scene where a girl is getting raped. Since his son was watching the film with him, he immediately stopped the film and messaged me asking if I had watched it and did I know the content. When he told me what he had seen I was slightly shocked that a film, which contained a scene such as this, could be labeled a classic. (However there are films such as Ninja Scroll and Wicked City which contain scenes such as this and are still viewed as classics, so I wasn't totally surprised.) I knew then I had to watch the film, if only to decide whether to keep it or get rid of it I'm a hoarder so this is a very important decision!). While I was watching the film I had in mind the rape scene so my viewing was slightly tainted. The film itself is what I would classify as a psycho-thriller? It was slightly creepy/scary in parts but in a mental freak out kind of way. The story did kind of flick around a bit but from the way I understand the film, that was the intention. Towards the end of the film you are left questioning whether what you have been shown as reality is in fact reality or could it be that it is a film within a film (a tribute to Shakespeare's Hamlet perhaps?) It was in the vein of M. Night Shyamalan's movies such as 'The Village'. There was a lot of implied 'scariness' and encouraged your brain to make up the rest. It was slightly violent, which brings me to the first rape scene. This was the one my friend had seen. It was disturbing mainly because I am deeply against ANY sort of violence against women let alone something like this. It was justified (I believe) in the context of the movie and was interesting because the guy raping the main character actually says I'm sorry and he does actually mean it because *SPOLIER* filming the scene for a movie. Having watched the film in its entirety and now reflecting, it can also be seen as a trigger point for the events which then unfold. One of the main characters managers is watching the scene unfold on one of the preview screens and you can tell that she feels the main characters pain. So much so that you could almost believe that she is feeling the pain herself&#133;I can't say anymore without ruining the movie completely as once you know the twist the movie is not worth watching, another M. Night Shyamalan trait. There is a second rape scene in the movie, towards the end, though not as justified as the first. This one is slightly more disturbing as there is no audience this time. While upon reflection this scene seems important for the conclusion of the film I cannot pinpoint the exact reason. Possibly it highlights the mental confusion in the film at its climax? I would love it if someone who has watched this film could maybe clarify the reason for this scene or even just throw up a suggestion. Despite the two scenes I have described in detail I did actually enjoy the film and would recommend it. It's definitely not for everyone, but if you enjoy anime and enjoy physiological thrillers then you may enjoy it. "}{"Title":"REally good","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" This film is Silence of the Lambs meets the Spice Girls wrapped up in a neat little anime package. Loved it. Wished I was an English voice talent in it. The twists and turns in the movies started to make ME think I was losing it. The subtle references to Lambs was great. I hope there is a sequel. This movie is worth buying. Add it to you ANIME collection!!!!!!!!!!! But you MUST rent it. My daughter rented it and she said it was great, that's why I watched. But you must watch it alone otherwise it won't be as scary. The saddest part of the movie was the rape scene. When MIMA goes back to her apartment and she's on her bed crying I couldn't help but cry with her. all in all, a bizarre movie. "},{"Title":"Rex Entertainment proudly claims (truthfully) that Perfect Blue is the worlds first anime psychological thriller/horror.","Date":"18 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" Perfect Blue is the first Anime to thrill you, and freak you out, entirely on a psychological level. This isn't an action movie, it's comedy, it's not shojou, it's a psychological thriller / horror / mystery. In the past directors such as Mamoru Oshii (Ghost in the Shell) of incorporating psychological drama into their films, however these films remain action films at their core, the action is fundamental to the entertainment value of these movies. With Perfect Blue on the other hand it is the psychological elements which are the core of this film. As great is this movie is, no movie is for everyone. Perfect Blue is very heavy material in many ways. The mature content and psychological violence isn't suitable for all, this definitively isn't for kids, and some adults might find it disturbing too. Additionally this movie is heavy thought material, it's easy to get confused by it, so save the movie for a night when you're in the mood to think, not merely be entertained. "},{"Title":"one of the most terrifying characters in cinema","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  This film is a great animated thriller, and outdoes many of the live-action thrillers that I've seen. The animation is fluid and pleasant to watch, even when the scenes become graphic. For those reasons you should check out this movie, especially if you think of anime as either cartoons or all Dragonball Z.But aside from that, the character Me-Mania is probably the hardest character for me to watch in any movie. I mean, Hannibal Lector, the father in Chinatown, nothing. His concept is frightening enough, the delusional stalker. But what is really terrifying is his character design and movements. His face is distorted, which at first leads you to sympathy in a feeling not unlike the one you get from The Hunchback of Notre Dame. But this guy is no Quasimodo. Soon you realize that his face is a mirror of his soul, and there is something terrifying and inhuman in him that leads you to believe (and you are reaffirmed of this in the film) that he is capable of terrible, terrible acts.I'm female, so I guess that added to the fear of this man as well (you have to see it to get what I'm saying). But I seriously had trouble sleeping after this movie. Watch this, but be careful if you're easily affected by characters in movies (as I am) or squeamish, because there's some disturbing material in this flick. Definitely one of my favorite anime movies.rating A- for the effect  "},{"Title":"My Favourite Anime So Far Anyway","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  Perfect Blue is probably one of the greatest anime's I've seen so far keep in mind I haven't seen a lot anime is a culture I've just recently started to introduce myself to.Perfect Blue is fantastic it tells the story of a famous pop singer adored by her fans but decides to seek fame as an actress instead. In order to be more well known the writers force her to star in shocking sequences. She is then haunted by an mirror image of herself which is her when she was a pop singer.I want to see more of Satoshi Kon's works I must. But I strongly recommend Perfect Blue but if you aren't a huge anime buff don't do what I did and jump head first into the disturbing watch some of Myasaki's works such as Kiki's Delivery Service or Spirited Away.Adams Rating - 10/10  "},{"Title":"more perfect than blue","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  Absolutely beautiful, and mesmerising. This is an extremely complex and complicated movie, especially if you are new to anime. The story tells of Mima, who decides to quit her life as a successful pop star and become an actress, and of the paranoia which follows as people around her die, seemingly because of a psychotic fan. Soon Mima questions whether she is herself, or an impostor, as the outside world seems to know her every move before she does. Think The Usual Suspects had twists? Pfff. This one will have you guessing until the end, and beyond. The dream sequences, if they are dreams, are particularly memorable, and the image of the fan in his room will not easily be forgotten. only the pop music is annoying, but that hardly matters. Unsettling. 9 out of ten "},{"Title":"A Stunning Psychological-Thriller...","Date":"30 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  Perfect Blue paints the portrait of Mima-den, a retired pop-idol that wants to become an actress - or rather her agent wants her to become one...  That's where the trouble begins at least.  Mima is asked to do a series of rather unsavory parts in a recurring Japanese television show called Double Binned; some of her fans are less than pleased.  The mysterious Mr. Me-Mania stalks Mima through out her shooting, and even in the ex-pop-idols' dreams.  As her dreams become more and more vivid, more and more graphic, they begin shaking her own sense of being as her inner conscious speaks too her through its' only means, Dreams.  The dreams are worsened and Mima's troubles compounded when she discovers a web-site entitles Mima's Room which is supposedly written by her - and contains information that only she and a few people very close to her know.  As her dreams worsen she is literally confronted with a manifestation of her wish to remain a pop-idol, trying to murder her.  To reveal anymore would be a spoiler but what follows is an critical analysis of the film.  Perfect Blue is lacking of the recent fashion of computer generated art, most of the artwork including backgrounds where still completed using the good old fashioned drawing method.  The artwork is comparable to that of Ghost In The Shell, though this is less cybernetic of course, the Mima Pop-Idol Ghost is really interesting.  The use of drawing appearance affecting the dream reality making utilization of the animations limitations, I was quite impressed.  The dub is somewhat lacking as the voices seem to lack luster some time, but the main characters are well done and fairly easy to listen too.  The Japanese language version is wonderful to listen to though, they all just pegged their parts; if you can read and take in all of the beautiful artwork at the same time... it might take two or three watches to understand anyways, so give it a try.  The ending is a little bit confusing, very David Lynch, and leaves a few cords hanging but the story is engaging and the artwork is simply stunning to look at.  8 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Questionable Retrospect","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  I first saw this movie when I was 13, so of course most of it went over my head. The only reason I thought it was so cool was because of the nudity (which got it an NC17 rating in some theaters) and the gore. And because it had a really trippy ending which I thought was totally cool because I couldn't explain it.Now, after watching it some four years later, I have a greater appreciation for the plot and characters. For those who don't know; Perfect Blue follows Mima, a pop star, who goes into acting. A bunch of people are killed, and of course, people go schizophrenic. There is a bunch more, and of course some interesting film technique used inbetween.(possible spoiler) This is just a theory I have about the movie, and there are countless others that people have (so don't take this too seriously) , but I will give you (a person who has seen the film and wonder just what the heck is going on) two words double schizophrenia. As in, two people have it. (end spoiler)Anyways, to sum it up, this is quite the enjoyable psychological thriller that should be seen for more than shock value. Yes, nudity and gore can be entertaining, but there is quite the depth to this as well.  "},{"Title":"Satoshi Kon does it again","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  What I like about this movie, it's just like Hitchcock's movie Psycho. In this movie, a young Pop singer Mima Kirigoe dreams of Fame, and Fortune as an actress. So she decided to quit her career as a singer to become an actress. Mima life suddenly falls apart when she lands a role in a murder mystery. Innocence is lost and dreams become nightmares. The movie is very scary and violent. What I also like about this film, is the interviews with the voice cast. My favorite interview was with Actress Ruby Marlowe, the voice of Mima. In closing, if you get this movie, be careful, it can mess with your head. "},{"Title":"great movie- spoilers, sorry","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  This anime was a thrilling film for me to watch. I just enjoyed everythign about it, expecially the chase scene at the end. the image of the girl floating in person against herimage in the mirror running and being out of breath was absolutly disturbing to me. I loves this film.great story line, creepy atmosphere... I loved it "},{"Title":"Less Spirited Away and more the anime sequence from Kill Bill Vol. 1","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  Wow ... My friend Claire lent me this on DVD last night and I thoroughly enjoyed it.What it's about Mima leaves the idol group CHAM, in order to pursue her dream as an actress. She climbs up the rocky road to success by performing as rape victims and posing nude for magazines, but is haunted by her reflections of the past and a serial killer.Roger Corman remarked that if Alfred Hitchcock and Walt Disney had teamed up they would've made a movie something like this. It reminded me a little bit of Spirited Away but more of the animated sequence in Tarantino's Kill Bill, involving Lucy Liu's character's past.It's great fun, the animation is fantastic, the violence and nudity is infrequent but shockingly strong (even though animated). It's a bit silly but nevertheless a wonderful, powerful, must-see movie.If you watch it on DVD, you have the option of watching it in English, or Japanese with English subtitles.I bet Britney Spears will no doubt be cast in the drab American remake!  "}{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  This movie, in English or in Japanese with English subtitles is awesome. Although it starts off a little on the slow and boring side, the movie will make your head spin in all directions trying to figure it out.  A must see! "},{"Title":"Real review from a real person, not a wannabe critic","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  This is the first anime I have watched that has a good enough plot that it can be compared with live action movies.  Therefore, I'm writing two reviews The review of it as an anime and the review of it as a movie.I'll start with the movie. This movie will appeal to anyone who enjoys a gripping, suspenseful mindbender.  While it's not the same as an Alfred Hitchcock flick; anyone who has enjoyed movies such as Memento, Fight Club, or Pi will enjoy it, regardless of whether or not they like anime.  It has the same flavor of demented reality that makes these other movies so good.  My main complaint about the movie is that the ending was inadequate.Now for the anime review The animation is comparable to an average OVA (anyone who doesn't understand that should stop reading the review now).  However, this doesn't hurt the story, because Perfect Blue wasn't made to be eye candy; it was made for the plot.  The music was pretty standard fare, nothing too special about it. The music in this anime plays the same role music plays in most American movies; to add some feeling to a scene.  The voice acting was excellent in Japanese, but the dub, as usual, is horrible.  Nothing ruins a good anime more than a bad dub.Watch the movie.  You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Perfect Blue a thrilling, disturbing film","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  My story is similar to others.When I first bought Perfect Blue, I wasn't expecting much. Don't get me wrong, I'm a huge fan of Anime, though I gotta confess the plots are almost always lame, characters predictable, and usually all-around unoriginal films. However, the moment I saw it I knew there was something a little different.The beginning started right off with a strange man smiling and fantasizing about the pretty pop star dancing on a stage. It goes into a few breezy, ordinary scenes and you start to get the idea it's one of those sappy development stories, albeit a decent one at that, considering other variations in Anime.Then, suddenly, you're plunged into into a mirror-world underground of murder and mayhem, without a clue to predict next. Perfect Blue goes through some amazing, sometimes confusing, sequences that never lets you get off the hook, from hallucinations to rape to very violent, disturbing murder scenes. It reminds me a little of Nolan's Memento.If there is a very noticeable weak point in the movie, it's that sometimes the dream-like transitions can become overly confusing and a little sloppy. However, they still don't fail to have effect.All in all, this movie goes beyond the normal expectations for Anime and should not be treated as one. It's dark, gory, deep, complex, and again, disturbing. For younger audiences it would be pretty hard to understand, not to mention it definitely has some areas not suitable for children under 17. If you can stomach it, it's the movie for you. Five stars outta five stars. "},{"Title":"Good if you like Thrillers.","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  This movie is kind of different from all the anime that I've ever seen. It isn't fun or anything, It's just.. Well it's just dramatic. I would say that it's your avarage mystery thriller. The plot is kind of hard to keep up with at some points, but it doesn't really matter, because it all comes clear in the end. The ending is actually quite suprising, as it's not something you'd expect to happen. "},{"Title":"Forget.....","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  Forget everything you may heard or think about japanese animation,forget Dragon Ball,Pokemon or Sailor Moon,Perfect Blue is a whole different stuff.Sadly a lot of people don´t give animated movies the credit they deserv or they think that is just for kids and that it has to be kiddie-stuff or in a Disney way where the characters had to sing foolish songs and said cheaps jokes.Perfect Blue breaks all those myths demostrating the wide open and huge story-telling horizons that animation is able to bring.An excellent anime,or better saying what it is,a great movie. "},{"Title":"More like a Brian De Palma film","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  A lot of users and critics have said that Perfect Blue is like an Alfred Hitchcock film, but it seems to me that it's more like a Brian De Palma remake of Hitchcock's Frenzy (the only Hitchcock film that I'm aware of that has a graphic rape scene).  That's not to say that it's not a good movie, it's just that Hitchcock films had more subtlety, and you often had to imagine the more graphic elements yourself (just look at the Psycho shower scene or the amputation in Lifeboat).Spoilers Oddly enough, the first murder is treated like a Hitchcock murder (the attack isn't even shown), whereas the second (and actually imagined) murder is just downright gruesome in its unflinching depiction.  The rape scene, on the otherhand, is probably the most effective I've ever seen, despite (or maybe because of) the fact that it is a animated, b a movie, and c a staged rape for a television show within the movie.  In fact, Mima reacts to the faux-rape as if it were a real rape, phasing out of her self (dissociation, in psychological terms).Unfortunately, the ending of the movie is more De Palma, and it almost made me wish that the imagined sequence (when the Double Bind actors said that Mima created a new life as an actress for herself after being raped in a strip club) was the real story.  It would have been more interesting, realistic, and fitting for the movie. "},{"Title":"High quality","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  ( spoilers lie within. ) I've been hoping for an anime like this to reach these shores for ages. Despite the sci-fi fantasy and giant robots the genre is famous for, it's perfectly capable of making any sort of film.  Take Wings of Honneamise for example; basically a sweet drama about the first space program of a (spectacularly designed) fictional world.  It was around ten years ago that story appeared in the West, now Perfect Blue ably picks up the mantle.  And it's probably the best psychological thriller I've seen for a long time, filmed or drawn.Much has been said about it along the lines of Hitchcock goes to Japan and it's not far wrong.  Most of what people call thrillers these days are actually over cooked detective stories.  However helpless or innocent the protagonists, they usually operate with the resources and/or sanction and authority of some official body, be it the cops or the FBI or someone else.  These stories can be great, but there's something more thrilling about fairly ordinary folks with no such know-how dropped into horrible situations.  It's hard tale to spin and none did better or more often than Hitchcock.  Now we have an anime proving it can cut it in this tough sub genre.The story, as if you didn't read the front page, goes like this Mima is a sheltered girl, living in a protective publicity bubble as a member of the squeaky clean J-pop trio called Cham.  They've had some modest success and have a good following, but haven't really got off the ground in a major way.  At a small comic fair appearance she announces her retirement from the group to pursue acting.  When she gets home she starts getting strange phone calls and faxes.  She also fumbles her way onto the internet after being rattled by an obtuse, but innocent, fan letter.  There she discovers a web site put up by someone speaking as her, detailing everything about her life right down to her thoughts and regrets about her new job, her superstitious habits and her every purchase.  As things go along it seems without the group she really is a nobody.  The acting isn't an instant success.  Her standards begin to slip in grabs for acceptance and publicity.  And under the weight of the job, fear, regret and loneliness she gradually cracks up.  Then people around her start dying.This film is brilliantly put together.  In the slow and deliberate early stages we watch her uneventful life for a while, pushing for more air time in a drama series and a few mildly unsettling moments (letter bomb aside), nothing much happening really.  Then we're slammed in the face.  The script even foreshadows it beautifully; Mima, your character undergoes a psychological transformation after a brutal gang rape in a nightclub.  Then we watch them film it; take after take, camera set up after set up, long lurid close ups for what seems like forever.  The crew and production staff seem slightly ashamed, to say nothing of her managers.  People in the audience are turning away.  I'm one of them, but I have to grin about how damn brilliant this is.  It's just an unevenly dubbed cartoon isn't it?  Well this is just the start of the rollercoaster ride.  The effectiveness of this also speaks volumes about the character development, notable in Mima herself and her managers.  Handling this sheltered and delicate personality whilst trying to do their job and get her work and publicity in an unforgiving business (to say nothing of the fact that the rest of Cham are still with the agency and are starting to become quite a breakthrough success).  It's all very well done.  Another example; when her vague and hallucinatory behaviour seems to be getting too intense and prolonged (despite the rape scene and other things) the explanation is handed to us, perfectly timed.  She's been reading the stalker web site religiously as a sort of emotional crutch.  While the site itself has slowly changed tone to one of describing (as her) the kind of life she should have had.  And she starts to agree, or maybe she is updating it.As others have noted, this film seems to echo a couple of reality bending films, beating them to the punch in some cases.  Requiem for a Dream, Memento and even Fight Club spring to mind. The former involving dreams, ideals and regrets sitting alongside a slide into usettling seediness (and stealing a great moment shot for shot from Perfect Blue, as others also note), the latter two having scenes that are confusingly without proper context or meaning until a bit later in the film and generally being about losing your self and forgetting what you have or have not done. Although I found the ending a little awkward (they usually are in this kind of film) I didn't see it coming and it does sit well with everything else.  The light epilogue being another somewhat Hitchcockian touch.  Don't let all my comparisons distract though.  It's a damn fine film in its own right.  I imagine it's even better with the original dialogue.  See it on the big screen if you can.  "},{"Title":"If you liked Sixth Sense, Usual Suspects, watch this!","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  This is very likely the best animated movie I've ever seen. I won't say too much about it, because that would spoil some of the thrill of this movie, but if you liked The Sixth Sense and The Usual Suspects, this one is an absolute must-see. Even if you don't like anime. I don't do so often, but I give this one 10/10. "},{"Title":"from Fringe Video Fanzine Issue #001","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  I find it hard to pick out a really good adult Japanimation film. Being animated, at first glance, they all look like children's movies. The ones that don't usually are not that hard edged or bizarre at all. Perfect Blue, however is an exception. The film was such large success at Montreal's 1997 Fant-Asia Festival, that it forced the organizers to show extra screenings of this anime masterpiece. The film centers around, Mima Kirigoe, a pop idol who quits her career and becomes an actress. To achieve stardom she must drop the good girl look, and start doing sexually charged scenes in a made for TV movie. &#133;While on the internet Mima discovers a web site describing every intimate detail of her life. Helpless and afraid, she watches as her associates are threatened and killed by a mysterious stalker. Associate producer Hitomi Nakagaki has said that &#133;they intended to break the ice with regard to the presumed emotional boundaries of animation, to force mass audiences to recognize the medium as a forum for raw expressionist delirium and exploration of all things adult. The film is a psychological cross between Dario Argento's suspense, and the thrillers of Alfred Hitchcock. "},{"Title":"Excellent Anime with surprising content","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  I've picked up and put down this movie several times in the past. Boy am I glad I finally saw it!! This is an excellent anime! My previous best anime was 'Ninja Scroll' but this story beats it all. I'd say this is in the same set as the best of Hitchcock's movies. The plot is intrigueing and magnetic. The movie is fast moving and thoroughly enjoyable on a mental level. There is just enough switching between real/imagined to keep you riveted. Enough to make you doubt your own understanding at times. There are no scenes in bad taste and little real? violence. I'd recommend this to non-anime movie watchers as well. It made a pleasant change to the 'normal' mega-warrior - and - robots image of so many anime. My next DVD acquisition. "}{"Title":"Psychological Thriller Classic For ANY Genre","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  Psychological thrillers are not easy to pull off.  Look over the last 10 years and you'd be hard-pressed to find half-a-dozen or more that have truly been what could be considered successful on the level they should be successful at  keeping the viewer on edge, wondering how the story will pan out, wondering even if what they are seeing is real or imagined through the elements within the story.  The best psychological thrillers are those that psych the viewer out as much as the protagonist.  That's why The Silence of the Lambs is revered as a classic.  That's why Copycat was a sleeper success.And that's why I think Perfect Blue is a masterpiece.For those who are anime fans and for those who can get past the stigma of this film being anime and watch it nonetheless, this is a must-see film. The storyline is a terrific statement mirroring the celebrity-obsessed society we all live in, and the characters are given such vitality and believability with every line they speak.  Mami's struggles internally and externally, compounded by an apparent stalker and her crumbling emotional state, cause confusion not only for herself, but for the viewer not quite paying enough attention.  This is a film that may need two viewings to be fully understood, and even then perhaps some elements can be filled in by the viewer to make sense.  That is not a bad thing.The box art quotes a reviewer as saying this film would be the result of Hitchcock and Disney collaborating on a movie.  I think nothing more apropos can be said about Perfect Blue.  It is a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  This is an incredible show of what animé can be. this is unlike most animé in that it is not a bunch of scantilly clad women flying mecha but rather a thriller about a pop star named mima.I dont want to give  away the story (especially the incredible ending) but this is a terrifying movie, this is not a horror film but is by far the scariest movie I have ever seen. This movie is so scary because you have no clue what is reality and what is fiction, because in the story there are many plots interwoven into each other slowly revealing the story while complementing each other.There is a rape (sort of) scene but that can be overlooked.The animation is good and the music is also good. I wuold recommend this to anyone who wants to watch a good thriller or likes surprise endings  "},{"Title":"Film noir in Blues time","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  Mima is one-third, and presumably, the best third, of the biggest girl pop group in Japan where being a girl pop group evidently means you are required to maintain an image so squeaky perfect that YOUNG Maria Osmond would be hard pressed to keep.  Mima, however, has goals.  Pop icons also seem to last as long as your youth.  So Mima wants to try her hand at acting.  Converting her fame in one arena to a new one.  Her decision sends shockwaves through her fandom.  And when she starts to diversify her image away from squeaky clean, she hits the point of no return.  Worse, though only from an ego standpoint, the two girls she left in the group, move on and become a very successful duet, as she flounders in establishing her new career.  And, oh yeah, there's something going on...a mad homicidal fan, she's losing her mind or both.  Mima works hard to keep her slipping wits about her, keeping up appearances and watching her back.  Part Diabolique and Bodyguard (without the bodyguard), Perfect Blue will creep out your psyche even though it's just a cartoon.  And Seven is just another lesson from the Bible.   "},{"Title":"Believable, poignant story that holds interest.","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  Perfect Blue is a perfect example of how far anime can be pushed as an artform.  In fact, it's so well done artistically that one tends to forget to think of it as an animated film.  Paired with the magnificent animation is a captivating story line that follows Mimarin Kirigoe, a 21 year old girl who is graduating from idol pop singer to tv actress.+insight to Japanese culture+unforseen plot twists+artwork+music (though it tends towards idol pop sound)-some scenes are disorienting due to the way they're arranged-some disturbing sexual and violent content "},{"Title":"Intense and Original","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  The one problem with many anime is that they're hard to follow. Although this story has its twists and turns it becomes clear. Yet the story maintains originality, and the artwork is superb. You follow a teen pop-star turned actress who is haunted by her past and more during her transition into a new career. The Perfect Blue is a must for any (mature) animation fan. "},{"Title":"Excuse me...who are you?","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  I just happened to pick this movie up by pure luck. I was going through the movie store, and picked it up after hearing it being compared to Princess Mononoke. Obviously I know it was compared just because both are anime and are completely different. So I began to watch the trailer of it before the movie (obviously I didn't know too much about the movie) so I thought it was a trailer for a different movie. I thought it looked good, and then Perfect Blue came up and I thought to myself that it's good that I'll be watching it in a sec. I must say this is a very well done thriller, and it's actually the first anime I've ever seen, excluding Pokemon (have yet to see Princess Mononoke, not till August 30th. It only played in my city for 2 weeks) However, later in the movie I got confused, as did other people. But I must say it's a very good movie, and well worth my time. It was so well done, I at times forgot it was an animated movie.  "},{"Title":"Whoa","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  A friend of mine gave this movie almost half a year ago and I just got around to watching it. I was very anti anime because I thought cartoons were stupid unless they were funny. He just laughed when I grimaced at the idea of watching something so stupid and told me that if I watched it, it would totally screw me up mentally. So finally I started to watch it, but the trailer in front of it was full of so much ridiculous violence and a rape scene that I just turned it off. Not that I am against violence, I love a good shoot em up movie, but thise violence was going to far. People getting their eyes stabbed out and such. Plus the rape scene just seemed wrong to me. However summer came and I got bored and started watching it late one night. I thought that the first half was interesting, and actaully quite decent, but when the second half started moving, my mind was blown. There were a lot of times that I couldn't understand what was going on, doubles of characters the TV show that Mima was in seemed to be intertwining with her real life. Then BANG it ended, the most bizarre crazy and totally entertaining movie I had ever seen. I just sat there staring at the screen as the movie wrapped itself up. It was incredible. One of the best movies I have ever seen in my life. Better than any thriller I have ever watched, and that includes hitchcock. The ending is something right out of hitchcock, but it is nothing that you would ever expect, and I think it surpasses his best efforts, or at the least equals them. In closing, all the people that wrote those negative, or just so-so  "},{"Title":"Think Silence of the Lambs as a cartoon","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  Treats an adult subject matter in a animated film - once you get past the fact it is a cartoon, it is very compelling. Some of the visual effects used would fail utterly in a live action film - especially the pseudo-dream sequences with the lead character being pursued by an earlier, more innocent version of herself. Overall, a good thriller by any measure, one that stretches the limit of it's medium. "},{"Title":"Psycho-thriller anime","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  I had to watch this movie twice to truely know for certain what happened and what didn't. The first 45 mins. I kept on wondering why they made an animation of this story. I thought it could well have been a live action movie. Maybe it would even be better... so I thought. BUT when I saw the other 40 mins. I found out why they chose it to be an animation. These last 40 mins. when Mima is going slightly mad and imagines all kinds of events that did or did not happen is a delight to watch. Although the ending isn't really believable the animation is high rate. The chase through the city in the end by her partially imaginary other-self (it's hard to explain) I consider a personal animation highlight.Overall, don't expect Akira-animation but if you are into good anime this one you can't miss.  "},{"Title":"Not a Hitchcock, but good all the same","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  Around ten years ago, the west got to experience Akira, anime's answer to Fantasia. Now we've got our hands on Perfect Blue, a film that has been hailed as anime's answer to a Hitchcock thriller. Sadly it is no where near the level of Hitchcock, but that doesn't necessarily doom this sophisticated and clever anime to the half-priced rack which so many anime's fall into. What is so unique about Perfect Blue is that it has certainly redefined the genre of anime films. We all know the stereotypical anime &#150; robot warriors, demons, fantasy plots, but this perception has been wiped clean by Perfect Blue's arrival.Perfect Blue analyses the pop icon phenomenon, fame and its psychological impact on the performer. The film follows the similar adult lines of Polanski's Repulsion, as Mima, the main character feels reality slip, that her life is not her own. Mima, an icon in the pop industry, gives up her career as a singer to become an actress in a soap opera. She imagines an identical twin, a mirror image of herself that has not given up singing. Soon Internet sites appear describing every intimate detail of her life, and her colleagues start to get brutally murdered. In fact the whole film is based on the old reality versus dream conundrum, so much that it is done to death, leading to avid confusion. However this in itself is actually extremely effective because it produces a mental state in the audience that mimics the main character's sense of confusion.The film within a film is brilliantly woven into Mima's confused life and the parallels between herself and her character are exploited perfectly until you're not sure if the events happening to Mima are real or if they are a part of the soap opera she is acting in.The most powerful and emotive scene in the film is the artificial rape scene. It is very disturbing how graphic it is, yet it is pivotal to the plot because once it has happened, the surrealist images become darker and more dangerous. The murder set pieces are on par with Dario Argento's Terror at the Opera and are indeed very well staged. The serial killer/slasher plot with the woman-in-danger perspective is not exactly new and overall this area of the film is very cliched, but uniquely the film doesn't hide who the killer is because it is not central to the plot. It takes a back-seat as the audience gets to explore Mima's distorted mind and the psychological repercussions she suffers due to her crazed fan and the events which spiral out of control.However, I do have some niggles with this picture. The character designs are a bit bland and the animation overall isn't that impressive, surprisingly the ten-year old Akira surpasses Perfect Blue in that department, but in saying that, the quality is above average. The translation is good, the songs impressively so. The ending is however disappointing, trying to resolve the tangled plot and failing to do so with an unsatisfactory happy ending conclusion and an extremely cheesy final line from Mima which reverts Perfect Blue to the stereotypical Japanese anime it was trying so desperately to shrug off.One major flaw is that the film is not accessible the first time round. Watching it for the first time I found myself overwhelmed by the Japanese cultural standards that are so profound in the film that they were a distraction from the plot which needs constant concentration or you'll find yourself lost in the constant twists and turns. Nevertheless on the second outing Perfect Blue delivers much what it promises, and the sophistication of the direction is far more apparent and appreciated. Overall, this is a startlingly disturbing and powerful film; it may not be on par with Hitchcock as it boasts, but it is an exceedingly fine addition to the genre.  "}{"Title":"One of the best film of the 90's","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  First of all, Perfect Blue is very peculiar for an animation film as it shows the contemporary Japan in a documentary way. What's the point to do it with ink and paint? you might ask. For a simple reason to allow the very complex storytelling to mix past and present along with reality and dream. You lost yourself in this movie as the main character lost herself in her life.The scenario is brilliant, the music and its use in the film is magnificent and the filmmaking is impressive Perfect Blue is clearly one of the best film of the 90's (if not ever). And when I say film I mean Motion Pictures Perfect Blue is a lot more than a cool animated flick, it's a wonderful Movie. "},{"Title":"Psychological Thriller","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  If you are at all interested in Anime, or even movies that make you think, this is it.  It has a great plot and even good voice acting.  This movie is fast paced and it requires that the viewer pays close attention.  Also please note, this movie is not for kids! "},{"Title":"Excellent and clever thriller","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  After borrowing a friends copy of this film and mulling over whether or not to watch it for a couple of weeks I finally decided to bite the bullet and, I thought, waste 90 minutes of my life. After being bored senseless and, at times, disgusted by the usual tosh spewed forth from Japanese animation studios I honestly expected the same from this, despite a spirited defence of it from said friend. What I found was a quite excellent thriller quite unlike anything I had ever seen in the genre. It started off quite ordinarily, filling us in with the story of how Mima left CHAM to pursue an acting career but after about 40 minutes, when her life has been turned upside down and her sanity called into question, the film itself moved into top gear and used every trick possible to keep us in suspense. I found myself gripped as Mima struggled to make sense of her surroundings, what's real and what's not. I don't want to give anything away but the ending is a real shock, for two reasons. You don't know whether there is a killer or if there is who it could be. It's a great ending. The film within a film is also brilliantly woven into Mima's confused life and the parallels between herself and her character are exploited perfectly until you're not sure if it's Mima herself who is the character and vice versa. All in all it's an excellent thriller/whodunnit and the comparison to Hitchcock is more than justified. This film has single-handedly re-acquired an interest within me for Anime in general. However, I think I'll still stay clear of the violent/sex-orientated end of the market. I just hope there is more where this came from. "},{"Title":"AkiraFantasia as Perfect BlueThe Lion King","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  I picked up Perfect Blue at a music store after seeing an ad for it at the beginning of another anime I rented (can't remember the name, might've been Golgo 13). I really only remembered the title and that I filed it away in the back of my mind as one to be on the look out for. I had no idea or recollection as to what the details of the plot were, but I was convinced to actually buy the film based on the tagline If Hitchcock and Disney colaborated, this would be the result. Who can you go wront with an anime in the same vein as the king of suspence?I was caught a litttle bit offguard by the premise of pop idols until I did a little research. But this movie was so enthralling, one need not know much about them to enjoy the story.Minma's character evolved from aloof at the beginning, when she seems unsure about anything, to parinoid, and finally she comes to terms with her life and her role in the world. No mean feat by any stretch of the imagination!The film may turn off those who believe all anime is either Ninja Scroll, Bubblegum Crisis or Dragon Ball Z. But for those of you who can still sit through the entire ending of Akira and not get bored, this film is for you!It's been said that Akira was to anime what Fantasia was to western animation as both changed the status quo's idea of what animation was and how it had to look. If so, then Perfect Blue ranks as the anime equivilent of The Lion King, since both broke the rules of what type of stories animation had to convey.   "},{"Title":"Worthy addition to the thriller genre","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  I've read that this film was originally conceived as a live-action feature, but was changed to animation after the Osaka earthquake of 1994.  Whether this was a change for the better is debatable, but I think making it an animation was an interesting decision.  Some might see it as a gimmick. The psychological thriller isn't a genre one normally associates with animation, even those familiar with Japanese animation, but I think it works well here.The film is a rather interesting combination of a Brian DePalma or Dario Argento-style thriller (this film makes me think a lof of DePalma's Body Double and Argento's Terror at the Opera) set in the context of Japanese pop culture with its anime, pink videos, and Idol singers (In the English dub I watched, I did get a little tired of hearing the characters say pop idol all the time, it sounded like they were saying Popeye).The animation and artwork certainly aren't bad, definitely a step up from most stuff you see on tv, but for a film made in the post-Akira, post-Ghost in the Shell era (and with Akira's writer/director/character designer Katsuhiro Otomo on board as a special supervisior,as trumpeted loudly on the video box), it's a bit uneven.  If it weren't for a WWW page being an important plot element, and the references to 90's films such as Silence of the Lambs and Basic Instinct (and tv series such as Zyuranger, best known in the US in it's butchered form known as Mighy Morphin Power Rangers), this film could pass for being made in the mid to late 80s.  Interesting how Akira, made almost ten years before this film, has better animation quality (and has yet to be surpassed, in my opinion).Director Satoshi Kon (who also assisted with the character designs) manages to inject a fair amount of style into the film.  The murder setpieces are very well staged, almost as good as in a Dario Argento film.  In the second half of the film, it enters the realm of the surreal, and we're led to wonder what's real and what's not, reflecting the confusion of the lead character.  Without giving too much away, the ending is open to interpretation too.If you want to see some more Japanese thrillers with similar themes (in live-action, though), two films I recommend are Sogo Ishii's Angel Dust (lead actress Kaho Minami received special thanks in the credits of Perfect Blue) and Toshiharu Ikeda's Evil Dead Trap. "},{"Title":"A groundbreaking anime","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  This film is a stunning example to Western audiences of how anime films do not have to be about giant robots and laser guns. Granted, the crazed stalker theme is nothing new, but this takes a back seat to the main character's confusion and paranoia due to the mind games she is subjected to. In fact, there is no effort made to disguise the identity of the stalker, the emphasis is placed firmly on the psychological repercussions of the pressure the young Mima is subjected to, not just by her crazed fan, but on the lengths she must got to in order to maintain her popularity. The film neatly weaves real events around the similar plot of the series that Mima stars in to try and boost her flagging career. This serves to increase the uncertainty of what is real and what isn't, leaving you at the end of the film wanting to watch it again to discern which scenes are fact and which figment. The haze of confusion is punctuated on occasion with startling scenes of violence, highlighting the extreme nature of her fan's feeling he is responsible for her protection. If there were to be any faults with Perfect Blue then the voice acting (in the dubbed version), although better than most anime, is a slight detraction from the film's quality. Also, the stereotyped appearance of the stalker is a disappointment, although the animators sometimes convey a true sense of his adoration and love for Mima which serves to make the viewer more sorry for his delusion than fearful of him. And couldn't the translators have looked in the thesaurus instead of describing Mima as a 'pop idol' every single time? All in all, a thoroughly recommended film, not just for anime fans but for anyone who is interested in an intelligent, mature psychological thriller and can look past the fact it is 'just a cartoon'. You won't find anything like this on Children's BBC. "},{"Title":"Simply okay.","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  I've been wanting to see Perfect Blue since I saw magazine ads for the theatrical release; it never made it to an Indianapolis theatre, however, and I made do with the recent VHS release.The box promises a psychological thriller on a par with Hitchcock's work- as much as I love anime, I honestly can't give PB such high marks.  It's a bit better than a Verhoeven potboiler, but nowhere near the level of a Hitchcock.  The main plot points (and the suspense) are very cliched and overused- if it weren't for the psychological angle, the entire story would be a waste of time.The sub-plots were interesting, but as many others have pointed out, it's best to be aware of or accepting of some very Japanese pop-culture standards, such as the pop-idol phenomena, the sex video industry, etc.  The differences between Japanese and American cultures are very pronounced sometimes, and the fact that the storyline revolves around Japanese pop-culture may make the movie off-putting for casual fans.The animation wasn't as spectacular as I was expecting- this is my own fault, rather than the movie's.  I've come to expect a certain level of animation prowess in theatrical releases, and this felt more like an OVA.  The animation is quite serviceable, though.Character designs are a bit bland.  The deformed appearance of the boy (Me-Mania) makes it obvious early on who the culprit is going to be.  Character voices (English translation) are okay- I've heard worse.  The song translation is well done, but I'm not a big fan of j-pop...In the end- I don't mean to sound too down on Perfect Blue.  I don't feel it's an appropriate movie for non-anime fans, but if you do like anime, it's a decent purchase.  "},{"Title":"Flawed Voice Acting Hurts The Films Effect","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  This is one of my favorite anime films simply because it is very unique in style.  I have a subtitled copy at home and when I watch it late at night, it's still one of the few films that  manages to truly freak me out.  One of the most common complaints is that the dream versus reality bit is overdone, but I think it's very effective in producing a mental state in the audience that mimics the main character's sense of confusion.The artificial rape scene disturbs me much more than real rape scenes in other movies, and I think that that's the emotion that such a scene should provoke.  I almost always object to such scenes in movies, but this scene is pivotal to the plot.  In case you haven't figured it out, this is not a date movie in the stereotypical sense.  Also casual anime fans might be disappointed with the lack of mechs and sex.  A general knowledge of what a Japanese Pop Idol is would also be nice to have, but a rough idea can be figured out pretty easily.Now, I do not consider myself a subtitle-snob.  When that one in a million decent English dubbing job comes by (Wings of Honneamise for example), I give it credit.  Admittedly, this movie has some difficult roles, but this should have made the search for good voice actors that much more important.  The voice of Mima is appropriate.  However the voice of the Mimaniac totally ruins any sense of menace or seriousness he possesses, and the voice of Mima's Idol Ghost is more annoying than eerie or frightening.  As a result, the dubbed version of the movie loses much of its ability to provoke any sense of horror.  I recommend watching the movie at the theater just to support the release of anime in US theaters, but please try to find a fan-subbed copy to truly enjoy the film.  One last thing, the English dubbing of the songs is surprisingly  well done.  Unfortunately, this is relatively unimportant as the movie progresses.    "},{"Title":"What is Perfect Blue?","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  What a great film.  I'm not being sarcastic, I really mean it.  This anime made me panic even though I didn't realize I was so tense.  The animation didn't really impress me, but I can't recall any other anime that screwed around with my mind as much as this one did (including Akira and Ghost in the Shell).  While that didn't sound exactly like a compliment, I'll just say that the entire film was riveting.Of course, this is not a family film.  It's a disturbing psychotic masterpiece.  I could discuss the philosophical parallels, irony, the intense depth of the film, etc., but what I say doesn't really mean anything for those who haven't seen the film.  In addition, opinions of this film will be, I expect, widely varied.  Some people will think it was a waste of their time.  Others will be confused.I agree, there are times when I don't think I'd want to see this film.  It's not something that'll make you laugh (well...except Mima's extraordinary ability with computers), but rather, make you think just because the way the film is styled forces you to.  The film plays with emotions; there were times when I felt disgusted, embarrassed, horrified, and sadness simultaneously.But the film will never be a waste of my time, because I truly appreciate the cumulative efforts of those involved in the creation of Perfect Blue to create a film of such mental assault that I sat stunned, in my seat, when it was all over.  No other film I have seen has done as much.I was left so numbed that I didn't even realize that the title still doesn't mean anything to me until just now.So, what is Perfect Blue? "},{"Title":"Very Hitchcockian.","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  This anime psychological thriller is very spooky. Red herrings are thrown left and right. The main character Mimi begins confusing her fantasy with reality, especially during scenes where she's filming a movie. For fans of the television show, Profiler, there is a character in the film reminiscent of the TV show's Jack. The film did make me roll my eyes in a couple of spots, but nothing that distracted me from the focus of the movie. Warning for the squeamish Some characters die very graphically in this film. "}{"Title":"superb psycho-thriller","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  Having seen PERFECT BLUE this past weekend, I'm amazed and delighted.It is a psycho-thriller worthy of Hitchcock, and if questioned on which film Hitchcock did, I'd have to say PSYCHO, of the 1950s.  One scene in the movie blows past even the famous shower-stabbing scene in PSYCHO.Overall, if one is not familiar with certain Japanese cultural conventions like Idol Singers, the pink trade and Japanese amusement parks, it might raise a lot of questions in the mind of the viewer, and --to be honest-- it begins very slowly like many Japanese anime/live action/OVAs normally do. At first, I was bored, and even disapointed since I had been anxiously awaiting seeing this full-length movie, but I was NOT to be disapointed for long!Non-Japanese-culture-familiar can easily follow the plot since enough is revealed in the plot that it becomes self-explaining as it _roars down on you like a freight train_ (!) once the obligatory opening scenes and character exposition is over.About 15 or 20 minutes into the movie, all hell breaks loose,and you wind up wondering if the heroine is a regular girl dreaming of being an Idol Singer (J girl pop-music groups), and then an actress, or an actress dreaming about being a pop-singer, or a pop singer dreaming of being an actress.   Are those the hallucinations of a sick mind, or the dreams of a young girl? Who's killing people, and why?  Who is the killer--her, or another, and is she in any danger herself?Surrealism...a thriller...a murder mystery like none I've ever seen..a real gasper when you _think_ you know who the killer is, but are they, and if so, who's doing all the rest of it?A true tour-de-force, and I cannot recomend it too highly.  After the slower early minutes of it, you will be on an emotional rollercoaster that you will never forget for the rest of your life, plus you will ask the question (frequently) of yourself, what actually _is_ reality, during this movie.You will never be quite the same again after you see this one. "},{"Title":"Wow! I've never seen anything like this before!","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  Mimi, singer in a prefabricated Spice Girls-styled trio by the name of 'Cham', announces her ambition to leave the band to pursue a career as an actress. Her initial role of a one-line part in a daytime soap is unpromising, until she is coerced by her avaricious manager to move further away from her original squeaky clean image. She is soon doing nude photo-spreads and agrees to play a graphic rape scene in a new film. At the same time, someone is documenting her every move on the 'Mimis Place' internet fan page in the guise of her personal diary, and various people in her surrounding life are being brutally murdered. As her image becomes more and more manipulated by those guiding her career, the lines between her personal, public and imaginary identity become increasingly confused as she is tormented by a delusionary manifestation of her former pop persona.For a straightforward Psycho-thriller, 'Perfect Blue' already stands head and shoulders above much of the genre. It may lack the self-knowing humour and big-name US soap stars of the likes of 'Scream' and its current gamut of emulators, but in terms of intelligence and focus it is far more effective. It's hallucinogenic spiralling descent into madness is perfectly paced and gives an obvious nod towards Polanski's 'Repulsion'. Even more remarkable then, is that it has been realised as a anime/manga film (such as 'Akira' or 'Legend of the Overfiend'). I'm no great expert on Japanese animation, but here the expressionistic editing style seems distinctly more cinematic than that of standard animation techniques, and the non-fantastical nature of the script is a departure from the usual genre material. As such, the atmosphere created is unique and otherworldly, whilst at the same time providing more graphic nudity and bloodshed than would be allowed if it were all real. 'Perfect Blue' was an exclusive presentation by the Institute of Contemporary Arts in the UK, so whether it gets any wider video release remains to be seen. If it does then I shall certainly be tracking down a copy.  "},{"Title":"Praise of a well-done anime","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  Well done throughout with nice post-modern scene-cuts. I left with the itch to read the book that the film was based on. That is a good sign. If I wanted to pick on something, it would be the last minute of the film, but hey - is there a perfect film? Again, very well done, and it had lots of anguish built in, which is a feeling that I think is quite hard to express skillfully. In a film or anywhere. I can't wait to possibly grab my own copy of it sometime in the future if it gets to the video stage of distribution. "},{"Title":"If Kubrick directed Anime it will be something like this","Date":"4 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" Mima Excuse me who are you.The story is about a retired a pop idol, worshipped by the masses until fashion dictated otherwise. In order to salvage her career, she is advised to drop music and pursue acting. A soap opera role is offered but Mima's character is less clean cut than desired. Regardless, she agrees and events take a turn for the worse. She begins to feel reality slip, that her life is not her own. She discovers (imagines) her identical twin, a mirror image that hasn't given up singing. Internet sites appear describing every intimate detail of her life and a figure stalks her from the shadows. Her friends and associates are threatened (and killed) as Mima descends into a dangerous world of paranoid delusion. She fears for her life and must unravel fact from illusion in order to stay alive. Perfect Blue represents a major change from traditional anime subject matter, analysing the pop icon phenomenon, fame and its psychological impact on the performer.It always shocks me how some people can dare to over look things, solid masterpieces out there but people still over look them and go see other films that are just stick in the mood basic films. I just adore the feeling of not knowing anything at the first then be amazed after wards and a film that get's you thinking as well, not like movies today that always play it save by doing the simple three act structure that I normally skip if I had the chance. Perfect Blue can be best described has a movie that you don't just put your feet up, sit back and have a delightful time, no in this you got to use your brain and try your best to piece it together to get the movie. Perfect Blue is Anime that got under my skin and drove the main character and me insane.A quick fun fact here but Black Swan is actually a remake of this movie, yes to those who didn't know that well you do now. If I have to compare what's the better movie I got to say that overall Black Swan is a great movie, but I liked Perfect Blue a lot more so Perfect Blue all the way.The animation in this never looked so well done, so beautiful but also scary and so haunting to look at. At times I thought I was watching a Hayao Miyazaki movie or a Stanley Kubrick film at one point, just be the switch of the atmosphere like it's peacefulness and then a utterly insane feeling to the movie.For problems Without spoiling anything the ending to me didn't end on a good note in my opinion. It isn't terrible it's just that it left me there going Nah.Overall Perfect Blue is an dark and twisted Anime movie with beautiful but haunting animation that sells the movie off has a deep thinking movie that you shouldn't get lost on track if you really want to understand the film. The film is a slow cult following that I will totally recommend to people who love Anime and analyzing films. "},{"Title":"An interesting study in celebrity obsession.","Date":"15 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" Perfect Blue, director Satoshi Kon's debut feature, is clever, assured and completely involving. Originally planned for live action, its budget was slashed when the Kobe earthquake of 1995 damaged the studio and it was decided to animate it instead. The film's influences include Vertigo (1958), Stage Fright (1950), Suspiria (1977) and The Accused (1988). Kon treats it exactly as if it were live action, mimicking camera effects and tricks, and creating beautiful cinematography that animates contemporary Tokyo like a caress. The film plays with our most intimate ideas of identity - of who we are, of who we want the world to think we are, and of what we're afraid we may become. It also addresses the issue of ageing in the entertainment business. There is self-respect in a label usually applied to banal, repetitive pornography and abuse. The result is an adult animation that seems very much like a great film. "},{"Title":"Has some flaws and ends kind of weakly, but it's generally great","Date":"29 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" If you haven't yet heard, Japanese animator Satoshi Kon passed away earlier this week. He had four films, all quite loved, under his belt. Besides this one they include Paprika, Millennium Actress and Tokyo Godfathers (he was also the creative force behind the television series Paranoia Agent). Pefect Blue was the only feature I had not seen before, so I watched it in memoriam (I'll also be watching Paranoia Agent). I have to say, I like all of Kon's films, but none a whole lot. I have a problem with the animation and the drawings. The films kind of look cheap and they lack detail. They're certainly better than most television anime, but they certainly lag far behind Studio Ghibli. All four of these features have mind-bending stories, but they also all feel convoluted and ultimately unsatisfying.Perfect Blue is no exception, though it is probably my favorite of the four. It is about a young pop star, Mima, who decides to move onto an acting career. This ticks off her fans, especially after she does a nude photo spread and then willingly films an exploitative rape scene, sullying her virginal image. One creepy, stalker-ish fan in particular seems to take it all very badly. Meanwhile, Mami discovers a website that claims to be her own personal website. At first she assumes it's a crazed fan (possibly the stalker), but the shared details of her life are too intimate for anyone to know besides her. Is the stalker privy to her thoughts, or does Mima have an alternate personality, one that wants her to remain the pop star, that is trying to sabotage her? Soon the reality of the film begins to unravel and you can't quite tell what's going on.This split personality plot has been done to death in the past decade or so, but I guess in 1998 it was fairly fresh (we hadn't seen Fight Club and its ilk yet). Unfortunately, after a lot of fun with the twists and teases, it kind of deflates and ends with a sigh, never explaining what exactly is going on in that final half hour or so. I'm all for ambiguity, but this isn't a very controlled ambiguity. It's slovenly, and there just isn't quite enough information to form a coherent idea of what Perfect Blue is actually about. I still liked it a lot, but it definitely ends disappointingly. "},{"Title":"Despite a few annoying Oh it was only a dream! misdirections, still a strong surrealist movie","Date":"5 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" From master anime director Satoshi Kon comes another surreal fable dealing in dreams, technology, and pop culture. Mima leaves the J-pop group she was a member of to focus her career on acting, but with that comes the pressure of disappointing her fans and the anxiety of possibly not succeeding. These culminate--along with a stalker fan who looks like Sloth from the Goonies, a photographer who takes lewd pictures, and a rather surreal plot in the television drama proper she's working in--in a mysterious presence that claims to be her but seems out to kill her. And dreams.I tend to resist putting the label Lynchian on things that share a surreal or multi-identity subject, but here it fits. Perfect Blue shares a lot of thematic and stylistic approaches as Mulholland Dr. and Inland Empire, and the ways that Mimi would respond to a character only to find that she's on stage acting for the television drama could easily have been inspiration for Laura Dern's work in the latter. Perfect Blue would probably be a great way to get Lynch fans into anime.As for Satoshi Kon, this is a pretty standard example of his work, which is a good thing. Animation is especially set for the surreal because of its movement, though Kon has always been good at minimizing the graphic strangeness to key moments and letting the rest reside in the plot and drama, a better choice in the long run because it resonates. Things in this movie have already aged, though. No actress today would even have a chance without being familiar with social networking sites and blogs on the Internet, for example. Considering the way in which Mimi's anxiety somewhat helps create the monster, anyone who likes this movie would do well to watch Kon's miniseries, Paranoia Agent.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Not for those looking for easy anime viewing","Date":"11 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" For anybody hoping for an anime with a straightforward easy to understand storyline upon their first view, I would not recommend this movie. You will be disappointed. However for those looking something thought provoking, I would enthusiastically say give it a go! Perfect Blue is one of those films which &#150; if simply taken at face value &#150; is only too easy to misunderstand. To begin with, on the surface, it appears to be a typical story about a young upcoming pop idol/actress &#150; Mima &#150; who is being stalked due to the fan attention her career in the public eye is bringing her. But then as events move forward suddenly things become very confusing, to the point they appear to make no kind of logical sense at all. By the time you reach the end you might well be left with the thought, as I initially was, What a jumbled up mess that turned out to be. But this really is an anime which can only be appreciated how it was supposed to be if you're willing to watch it with an open mind, and consider that it might take you a few viewings before you're likely to understand it properly. The clues which take you to a clearer conclusion as to how the different story elements add up are present within the movie, but easily missed if you're unwilling to think about the visual information presented to you from any alternative perspective. It's not enough just to follow what's happening on-screen, but from time to time also ask yourself questions about your initial judgements on the scenes.Though initially my thoughts were different, I now think that this anime has been very cleverly put together. It's by no means the scariest film I've seen or the best animated. And when it comes to some of the voice dubbing and the ending scene I still feel there's much room for improvement. But overall I still feel that the film works fantastically as a psychological thriller, and has the right kind of eerie/disturbing atmosphere throughout to define it as a classic amongst its kind.I give it a 7 out of 10! "},{"Title":"I crave for animes that really do make you think","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" Mima, who is a pop singer, eventually retires and enters the word of film acting. However, when Mima starts her new career, she is stalked by an angry fan of hers and a series of bizarre events begin to happen.This film portrays the consequences of fame in a rather extreme matter we see Mima slowly become insane when she has hallucinations, forgetting her true self, suffering from a lot of paranoia and more.I crave for animes that really do make you think and this one is definitely one of them. It's violent, it's scary, it's disturbing, it's mind f!@#ing and is also needed to be seen more than once. PERFECT BLUE is awesome! "},{"Title":"Perfect Mind£@&#128;k","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" This is a movie that deserves the live-action treatment and a much wider audience. Perfect Blue is an understated and underrated thriller. Some IMDb users reckon that they predicted the ending of this film within an hour. Well, all I can say is that they must watch a heck of a lot of thrillers. Perfect Blue kept me guessing until its final climactic scenes. There are very few scenes in this movie that don't feature the protagonist Mima and there is no other character that she can truly confide in. The result is that the viewer rarely gets a chance to draw any conclusions about what the hell is going on! Director Satoshi Kon's almost leisurely and cunningly ambiguous approach to the story could be viewed as a turn-off but if you view Mima sympathetically, you'll end up sharing her sense of isolation and paranoia as her grip on reality begins to loosen. This really isn't a film where the viewing experience is enhanced by the use of cannabis! Despite the usual stagey static feeling of an anime production, Perfect Blue manages to present believable characters in believable situations. Well, that is until Mima begins to hallucinate and the people associated with her start to die..! "}{"Title":"This could have been a regular movie instead","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" The script is very similar to a TV movie script or a police series episode, just a little better, bearing the hallmark of US films. I see no particular reason why this was made anime. The animation is not bad, but not great, either.The story is about a young pop singer who decides to turn actress, disappointing her more maniacal fans. Then it all goes on around the little frightened girl who doesn't now what is going on. She is left clueless for so long that the viewer gets bored. The end explains quite a few things, but not all of them.The movie does have the merit to show how the exploitation of teens in the media industry really abuses them, rather than pampering them. However, this doesn't make me feel better about all the singing bimbos acting on playback out there.Conclusion decent anime, decent script, a bit boring, but nothing out of the ordinary. Anime, I think, should be about excelence and art, not mundane subjects such as this. I think I'm going to kill the producers ) "},{"Title":"The color of illusion is Perfect Blue","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" Mima is part of the pop idol trio Cham, which has a cult following but no chart-topping hits. For the sake of her career, Mima is pressured by her management into giving up singing and becoming an actress. Unfortunately her squeaky-clean pop idol image is holding her back, and Mima reluctantly agrees to a nude photo shoot and the role of a rape victim in an erotic thriller. But some of Mima's fans from her Cham days do not like this new Mima, and she starts receiving threatening letters and faxes that call her a traitor. Worse yet, she discovers a website called Mima's Room that describes her daily routine in disturbingly accurate detail. Mima suspects she is being stalked, but that may be the least of her problems when the people around her start being murdered, and Mima herself has dreams about being the killer.Perfect Blue is an unusual anime film because it did not have to be animated. This psychological thriller could very well work as a live action film, but the animation gives it a unique style that works very well with the movie's central theme of illusion vs. reality. Director Satoshi Kon puts the viewer right in Mima's shoes, and as she is overwhelmed by pressure and her mounting fear, the audience is right there with her as she becomes disoriented. Is she dreaming, or are the terrible events surrounding her real? Is she perhaps being manipulated by an outside force? The repeated shots of Mima suddenly waking up, along with several scenes being presented from different perspectives, keep the viewer from being certain of what is real and what is fantasy. It is an effective, if eventually tiresome, technique.Some have complained that the nudity in this film was not erotic enough, which is very disappointing considering that the nudity comes from two rape scenes (one simulated, the other real) and a photo shoot that is intended to be a rape of a different kind. The violence is also shocking considering how innocently the film begins, but the murders are appropriately brutal.Unfortunately, Perfect Blue does keep up its momentum, and while the ending does not ruin the film it's formulaic and a bit too upbeat considering what preceded it. Still, repeated viewings make it clear that not everything was tied up in a little bow, and perhaps there was more truth than illusion in Mima's nightmares. "},{"Title":"Great movie for someone who is NOT an anime fan","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  Hey, I am not an anime fan. Nor do I like the pop culture scene. But I did appreciate this movie because it makes you think. My friend Froy bought this movie over for me to watch and at first, I thought it was going to be silly.I had no idea an anime cartoon could be that serious and thought-provoking.  "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  Whilst I am nowhere near as amazed and astonished as other IMDB readers, I did find this anime to be well worth watching. Having just watched Metropolis - a _truly_ amazing film - may have affected my opinion; I guess if I were coming into this as a stereotypical American filmgoer who hasn't seen a non-Disney animated feature in his/her life then I would be a lot more impressed. Whilst the plot is good, as other people have pointed out there are too many holes that can't be easily filled. Even Mulholland Dr. had a solid plot when you sat down to think about it; this does not.7/10 "},{"Title":"Cheated by another movie.","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie.  Great animation... the style makes it look kinda surreal.I recommend this to anybody.  Not your average anime flick.  Just rent it and see for yourself.p.s.  Have you seen the movie Requiem for a Dream??  They totally ripped a scene from Perfect Blue... I feel so cheated!! "},{"Title":"Argento in anime ?","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  This one had a good distribution in France, for once, but wasreceived with mixed blessings. The director's technique isastonishing, facinating, with marvellous shots and visual ideas,and the idea of doing a horror/thriller very much in the DarioArgento vein is enthralling ; the main character is alsoextremely engaging and well fleshed-out without being some malefantasy. BUT&#133; the ending ultimately leaves more questions thananswer, the where-is-reality theme is overplayed to death (Thecharacter seems to spend her time waking up and wondering whereshe is), while the criminal aspect leaves you with twointerpretations - supernaturel or not - both unsatisfactory the main theme, mainly about fame, its trappings and the fact oflosing one's soul - and mind - in pursuit of a dream that mightbe fallacious. The movie remains quite fascinating, butirritating at the same time, since it could easily have given amasterpiece and a landmark in the public's perception of animes.Noth a hit and a "},{"Title":"a riveting psychological anime.","Date":"10 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" There have been very few films that have made me almost literally sick to my stomach (with the exception of Braindead) but I would have to say that Perfect Blue is most definitely up there. One scene in particular that had that effect on me was the rather nasty scene where a pizza-delivery boy stabs the photographer to death in his apartment with an icepick (a friendly warning to viewers-please beware!! this scene is EXTREMELY graphic!! If you are of a nervous disposition, or of a weak bladder, then avoid at ALL costs!!) On a slightly more positive note, Perfect Blue gives an excellent insight into the way in which many artists/performers are used and abused in the entertainment industry. I kind of feel sorry for people like the film's lead character, Mima (short for Mimarin) in a way.what is interesting about this film is how the viewer's sense of distinguishing between fantasy and reality is blurred along with that of Mima. You are left not being able to determine what is real or fantasy, and end up feeling very disorientated! The animation on show in Perfect Blue is very sharp and crisply-drawn. The drawing style used for the characters is of the more realistic school of Anime, which is what I prefer the most.Perfect Blue is a cut above you average Japanese animation. "},{"Title":"Great Double Reality Until the End","Date":"23 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" I get nearly all my movie recommendations from IMDb readers of my comments. I'm a student of folding, which often exhibits as a mix of reality, a movie within the movie, or an imagined reality.Here we have all three in a very clever and engaging mix that could only have been pulled off in the anime format. I actually invested a lot in watching this because once someone goes to the trouble of weaving so many realities, it is common to maintain ambiguities about which is the true reality.In this case, it could be the reality of the teevee show, or of the website, or of the gaslight imagined world. Let me advise you not to take this as seriously as I did, because it has a huge copout at the end.That ending is a scooby-doo explanation where all worlds but the real one are taken away. A crazy person in a costume is the villain. I suppose it could be recommended as training in moviewatching sophistication for kids.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"Something is very wrong.","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  The movie starts out like some small-scale drama about a boring pop singer wanting to become an actress and so leaves her band. So far so unoriginal. Or is it? Realistically I should have been thinking that while watching this movie, but I wasn't. Because something was horribly horribly wrong. There was a sense of foreboding so strong in this film it was almost tangible. It was also extremely captivating and tense. I cant really describe it any other way, just that the film had me hooked from the get go. I knew something was wrong, and then the murders started happening. Oh wow.never before have I seen a film switch just like that. What started as a creepy drama suddenly turned into a gut-wrenching, disturbing yet highly engrossing. The sick nature of the film is not for everyone, but those that can stomach it will be amazed beyond belief at how tense and scary this film becomes. It is horrible, but it is entertaining, a contradictory I dont think I like, but cannot help.No one under 18 should watch this film. Not because of the content, but also because I dont really believe they're going to understand it. there are no monsters or giant robots. Just an excellently crafted psychological thriller that will have you talking about it for ages after its finished.Just dont watch it alone. "},{"Title":"A powerful suspensful film - not your typical Anime.","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  Perfect Blue If the term Anime conjures up images of robot-warriors or demons, (or god forbid  Pokemon!), fantasy plots, static Cubist animation, androgynous hybrid heroes/heroines, horrible lip-synching, and blood splattering across the screen in Peckinpah proportions you're not alone.  But a well -crafted, psychological thriller?   Anything's possible&#133; Mima Kirigoe is the lead vocalist of Cham a Japanese  Spice-Girls clone.   Tired of her vacuous pop-idol status she announces that she is leaving the group to pursue an acting career.   Away from the warmth of the spotlight and relegated to bit roles, Mima becomes introspective and depressed.  Her only solace is the Mima homepage created by a devoted fan it lyrically details her career in first person and reminds her of happier days.  At least temporarilyAfter Mima accepts the role of an emotionally disturbed character with a dark side, the tone of the homepage turns sinister and it becomes apparent that she is being stalked.   Soon after two of her colleagues are brutally murdered, and several clues point to her involvement.  Tormented by nightmares and hallucinations Mima begins to experience difficulty separating her sleeping and waking states, and appears destined for life in a sanitarium.  Can she escape the spiral  before she reaches the point of no return?   This is the second full-length anime feature that I have seen in as many months (Princess Mononoke being the first) and I was surprised by the effect it had on me.  What begins as a pleasant, innocuous music video, rapidly devolves into a disturbing movie within a movie.  From the intrusive sounds (the phones sound like chapel bells), to the scripted rape scene, to the brutal murders, the experience, both aural and visual, is extremely powerful.  This intensity helps enhance the seamless blending of reality and fantasy - you really can't distinguish between the two.  Is Mima really a pop star/actress, or a wannabe with delusions of grandeur who has completely lost touch with reality?  Whenever you think you've figured out what's happening, they fake you out again.  Being kept constantly off balance in this manner is very disquieting and I can only imagine that that's what it must be like for someone on the edge of madness.  I know it's a trip I don't planning on booking anytime soon.   If you've ever been curious about this genre, and enjoy suspense, you won't be disappointed.  "}{"Title":"an animated psychological thriller that is better and more engrossing than most live action ones.","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  (my comments are based on the 85 min. unrated director's cut)it's a bit ironic that this movie has more style and substance than about any live action thriller that i can think of.the animation is smooth. some of the scenes benefit from being animated and probably wouldn't be nearly as effective if done in a live action sense.the plot is complex (maybe a bit too complex at times) and keeps you guessing right up until the shocking end. it's also quite violent and not for the squeamish.if you think all animation is supposed to be for kids, this film will definitely be an eye opener. a well done psychological thriller.rating 8.5 "},{"Title":"Dark, disturbing psychological thriller","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  This movie is a very dark, surreal psychological thriller that really messes with your head. Often, you're not sure if the scene you're watching is really happening or if it's a dream, hallucination or a scene from a TV show. I liked this but I think it got a little overused after a while and will undoubtably confuse some viewers. The story was gripping and well-writted and the animation was quite good.This is a good movie for fans of anime or good Hitchcockian thrillers. I should point out though that it's definitely not for everyone. "},{"Title":"Not quite Perfect, but still a great movie","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  The first time I watched PERFECT BLUE I was underwhelmed. I disliked what I perceived to be the 'supernatural' element of the movie. I watched it again several months later, intending to get rid of my DVD, and realised that I had missed the whole point of the film!PERFECT BLUE is actually a very good, intelligent movie. Director, Satoshi Kon, was employed to make an exploitation flick using the original PERFECT BLUE novel as his source material. Kon disliked the script the studio provided and, when he asked how rigidly he had to stick to the plot, was told that he had to keep three elements of the story a singing idol, a stalker and horror. Using these elements he and writer Sadayuki Murai created what is effectively a coming-of-age story about a young woman leaving one stage of her life and entering another.The plot can seem contrived and the ending is a little silly (though it is quite meaningful when looking at the film as a story about growing up). Also the animation is not too great -this was only a straight to video feature, after all. However, if you can get past these problems, this is a very enjoyable movie.7/10 "},{"Title":"Something is just missing...","Date":"20 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" Mima Kirigoe is a bouncy pop star whose profitability has almost been exhausted by the music industry; Mima's agent wants her to make the difficult transition into acting despite the protests of her manager, Rumi. Mima's fans from her pop career aren't happy about this change either, and tensions turn violently quickly. But who is committing these vicious acts?Satoshi Kon makes us question what we perceive publicly may not be what happens privately. He uses this dichotomy to criticise how people are run into the ground by the entertainment industry, privately these people are trading their dignity for fame, but to those on the outside, such as Mima's stalker, it all seems glamorous or even self- indulgent. Kon, however, doesn't just ridicule people who run the industry, but asks what type of person wants to enter this industry, and what does it take to succeed in it? And he believes it can only be the mentally unstable.This belief frames the film; Kon chooses to give the film a psychotic tone and feel, as an audience we are disconnected from it all. Kon uses editing to blur the boundaries of reality; in the scene where Mima first reads her stalkers blog, Kon jumps back and forth between the two slowly warping her stalker into Mima herself.The script also obscures the reality of the characters, if you look at that blog it does not just detail Mima's movements but her exact thoughts and feelings. These two characters seem to share a psychosis, and the constant repetition by Mima of saying Who am I? makes it obvious how Mima feels about herself. Yet I was left unsatisfied.The animation is the first thing I had a problem with, Kon draws the characters in a clichéd Anime manner. Mima for example is big breasted, and has large facial features. Kon also uses bold colours to distinguish the characters from the background; this felt like a budget constraint rather than a style choice. The backgrounds are lethargic as well, and this becomes apparent when the action is fast paced, especially in the climactic scene of the film where it becomes hard to understand how things are happening. This is highlighted even more by some of the interesting scenes, especially the scene in the bath.I wasn't worried about the characters either, now I know this is intentional, but when you consider that the film is trying to unravel a mystery it is hard to care about that when those effected by it are unlikable. Mima is annoying airhead, her manager is weak and self-absorbed, her agent is sleazy, and her stalker is just weird. Adding more scenes like the one in the bath would have made me feel more engaged, the run time is only 85 minutes so this wouldn't have slow things down and added depth.Kon took a huge risk in picking such a complex topic for his debut film but it feels like an incomplete artistic vision. "},{"Title":"Mind bending Multi layered thriller which isn't just an anime movie","Date":"7 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" I had love for Miyazaki's movies because of his imagination, screenplay and story. Fortunately ran into this and started watching it as another anime movie but it was a rarity. If akira is one type, then its just another side. Both are extremes. It may bot have all the regular/imaginative ingredients of an animated movie but sure can twist your mind and it is a must watch for people who loved thrillers and non- linear screenplay movies like memento, Amores Perros, Mullholand Dr. Must watch. Its just not a anime movie; much more than that. Glad I watched it. You will feel for the main character who (although it was animated) very well. Go for the original Japanese audio movie with English subs rather than English dubbed. You will have THAT feel. "},{"Title":"Excellent psychological thriller","Date":"23 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" I am a bit late to the party with this review, its been over a decade since this movie came out... scratch that, 17 years! but after seeing it, I couldn't help but not review it. The story is about a pop idol, Mima Kirigoe, who leaves the singing bushiness to pursue acting. This move to acting and the scenes she takes part it gets her attention from her stalker. The film centers around her paranoia. Perfect Blue is a fascinating movie. You never really know what is going on nor whether or not yo can believe what you are seeing. It has this tension surrounding it that can make even the most mundane scenes seem terrifying. The violence is brutal but effective, and I can honestly say I was glued to the screen the whole time. It has almost a Hitchcock feel to it. On the technical aspects, its pretty good. The animation gets its job done, but it's nothing spectacular. The sound and music do a good job of creating tension. The dub... well, if that's the way you want to go, it's not bad. Aside from a couple awkward voice actors, most do a good job, especially the lead. This is a film that I would recommend to anyone, assuming they are OK with the more graphic scenes. It's and excellent physiological thriller that must be seen. "},{"Title":"Easier to follow and better than 'Paprika' yet more intense","Date":"18 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" I first saw this film when I rented it out seven years ago but it was the English dub. I watched the majority of it first time around but because the disc was faulty, it froze at the part where Rumi, wearing one of Cham's costumes, is pushed onto a shard of glass, making me think that was the ending due to the disc skipping to the credits but that part was in fact the climax. I found the original Japanese language version with English subtitles on YouTube and decided to watch it again to see if it was as good as I remembered. Despite the English dub of my first viewing differing slightly from the Japanese dialogue with English subtitles, I did indeed find this film as good as I remembered first time around but found certain parts very disturbing.The animation is decent and not as choppy as that in 'Paprika' but there were times where I thought the background characters needed more life and the lip-sync was very basic. The backgrounds are worthy and while the colours are not quite as bright as those in 'Paprika,' the characters are richly cel-shaded. The story is gripping and easier to follow than that of 'Paprika' but it does have several intense elements that are undoubtedly aimed at a more adult audience such as rape, nudity, pornography and bloody images. For me the main plot is the best part that involves Mima leaving her band to focus on her acting career and a ghost of her past stalking her and encouraging her to re-join the band. There are quite a few memorable scenes such as Cham performing their last song with Mima at the beginning of the film, Mima returning home to discover her goldfish are dead, Mima's ghost stalking her and Mima kneeling in the bath. While I preferred the pop songs when they were sung in the English dub, the music during the climax is atmospheric and haunting. I found the ending surprising because it differs from what I originally thought if was but I'm glad it was less intense than what I thought it was if it was abrupt.Overall this was a gripping and intense yet memorable anime directed by the late Satoshi Kon although my number one choices for anime films would be those produced by Studio Ghibli ('Spirited Away,' 'My Neighbour Totoro,' 'Howl's Moving Castle' etc). 8/10 for both the English dub and the original Japanese language version. "},{"Title":"A Truly Suspenseful Anime With a Hitchcock Flair to it","Date":"25 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" If Alfred Hitchcock and Hayao Miyazaki worked on a project together, this is probably what they would make. Perfect Blue revolves around a young woman named Mima, who leaves her career as a pop singer and starts a career as an actress. While doing this, she is stalked by an obsessed fan and tormented by, what seems to be a ghost of her past self as a pop singer. This sends Mima into a deep psychological torture that may drive her off the deep end.So what are the pros of this movie? Well, the story is probably one of the best I've seen in any animated film, the editing was superb, and the music was always perfect for the present situation. The story itself can get really confusing at times, which is probably what the film is going for, but is explained in a clever manner later on. In fact, the way Mima compares the movie she's shooting to her current situation is a pretty clever idea and it sure as hell confuses the audience about what's real and what's not. Great storytelling right there.So what are the cons of this movie? While I don't hate this movie at all, I'm not gonna act like I don't have my problems with it. Luckily, there's only very few. The animation was bit choppy at times and I can imagine that it probably didn't look very good on the big screen. I do think Mima was a bit of a bimbo at times and the ending was terrible. Now I'm the real me, she says. Really? That's what this movie is ending off of? But all of these are blown out of the water by the pros.I give Perfect Blue an 8/10 because it truly is a very suspenseful film that keeps you on the edge of your seat all the way through. Whether you're a fan of anime or not, I assure you that you will enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"Outstanding anime horror thriller!","Date":"24 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" Beautiful singer Mima use to be a pop singer until she became an actress for a TV show, it may have become her dream that just came true but an insidious fan is stalking her. She does have fame on her hands and a great lifestyle thanks to her singing career, her nude photo shootings and acting career but her past haunts her and seems to drive her out of her mind.An excellent Japanese animated horror thriller from Satoshi Kon (Director of Millenium Actress) and supervisor Katsuhiro Otomo (creator of the groundbreaking Akira) comes a mind bending tale of the macabre. Nicely animated and genuinely disturbing at times especially that rough murder sequence, it's a very Hitchcock and Dario Argento-esquire shocker with nudity and graphic violence thrown into it! this definitely isn't kiddie animation for it's an animated movie intended for adult audiences.A true must see for fans of horror movies, thrillers and animation as it's one of the best in it's genre.Also recommended Misery, The Burning, Psycho (1960), Akira, Ghost in The Shell, Ninja Scroll, Deep Red, Saw Quadrilogy, Maniac (1980), Ichi The Killer, Driller Killer, The Devil's Rejects, The New York Ripper, Hostel 1 & 2, Psycho II, American Psycho, Suspiria, Heavy Metal, The Professional Golgo 13, Battle Royale, The Untold Story, Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer, Nightmare (a.k.a. Nightmare in a Damaged Brain), Silent Night Deadly Night, Prom Night, Happy Birthday to Me, Se7en, Silence of the Lambs, Manhunter, Hannibal, Red Dragon, Hannibal Rising, Ringu, Silent Hill, Black Christmas (1974), Sleepaway Camp, One Missed Call, Audition, Grindhouse, Vampire Hunter D, Vampire Hunter D Bloodlust, Basic Instinct, The Hitcher (1986), Texas Chainsaw Massacre Series plus 2003 remake and The Beginning, Vertigo, Psycho III, High Tension, Funny Games, Wolf Creek, The Shining, 8MM, Original Sin, Sin City, A Blade in The Dark, Macabre (1980), Shock, Twitch of the Death Nerve, North By Northwest, Rope, The Others, Stir of Echoes, American Pop, The Sixth Sense, Heavy Traffic, Pin..., Scream 1 & 2, The Ring (2002), Mother's Day, Opera, Hellraiser 1 & 2, Candyman, When a Stranger Calls (1978), and Terror Train. "},{"Title":"perfect","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" When Mima quits the pop group Cham, she moves her attention to acting. She has a loyal following from lots of fans; but one fan has taken it to far. Not happy that Mima has left Cham, this way to loyal fan starts to effects Mima's life, molding it to his vision. Though Mima has her own problems. With threats from her fan, she starts to lose the plot, unable to distinguish between reality and imagination. Though Mima tries to battle on, starting her movie career. Much in the vain of Jodie Foster, Mima has a scene in the movie where she is raped. From this her fan starts killing people involved with the movie; in a real bloody fashion.When you start to watch this, you may feel this is just a simple drama about change, but this is so much more. This is a dark, twist psychological thriller about perfection in the eye of the beholder. Much like whats going on in Mima's mind, you cant tell what is really happening or just imagined.Much like the series Paranioa Agent; also by Satoshi Kon, this deals with change, gossip, the effect of society spreading rumors, escaping perfection and an inverted spin on Stockholm syndrome. With a lot of red herrings throw all over the place, this slowly builds to one great revelation. Its much like the old saying, Don't trust anyone.This is abit of a slow burn to begin with, but it does quickly picks up the pace. The animation is detailed, yet very simplistic. This also has one of the most haunting scores i've heard in a long time. Using a low key violin, with a looping hum and a very tribal chant, it will be in your head days after you've listened to it.If you like this movie, i highly recommend the series Paranioa Agent, as it runs very parallel with this. The only thing wrong with this movie is that its not very long; only about 80mins, but it would have been annoying if it got dragged out to much.This is one of the best thrillers you'll see in a long time, just don't let the animation stop you. "}{"Title":"Perfect Blue  mind f**k","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" Perfect Blue is a perfectly good movie. I'm mostly writing this review to counter the one on the page... There is nothing wrong with the storyline of PB. The fact that the killer 'looks' like Mima is not a fact. Mima's delusional paranoia is causing her to view a projection of herself, and her slipping grasp on reality is causing her to blur her movie scenes (eg, the pizza boy scene) with reality. That is how the killer can appear like Mima when Mima isn't around - we're not actually seeing the killer. We're seeing Mima, or her delusions.The CHAM thing doesn't make too much sense since they weren't that popular, but I'm sure the industry still views a struggling popstar as a bad choice for an acting role.So there. "},{"Title":"Eagerly watched, Happily satisfied","Date":"28 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" Somewhere along the road of my journeys through anime, I somehow saw this browsing through some anime dvds at the local store slowly led perfect blue into my hands. the title definitely rang a bell, and from the few things that I had seen, this movie looked very sickingly disturbing.This enticed me. The movie is slow at first, though through most movie experiences, slow movies with an abrupt end always leave you thinking about that movie. Kind of had a Single White Female zang to it, with how it ended. The movie is deranged, and definitely kept me entertained. I very much enjoyed it.The artwork was great, it style added to the dramatic psychological feeling because of cartoony realism. Always a plus!I'd definitely suggest this to anyone. 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Exquisite viewing pleasure, but not perfect","Date":"18 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" First of all, let me comment on those saying that they have enough of hyper realistic anime, because then why didn't they just make a regular film? Well that's just bogus from people still stuck in movies is real people time. I for one sometimes think whilst seeing a regular movie why not making an anime out of this? Furthermore, there IS a reason why an anime might work better, simply because the characters are more abstract and easier to identify with.This said, the script & realistic drawing, though groundbreaking for anime perhaps, is a fairly common thriller script, including the serial killer. But it's the characters (the 'acting'?) that lift it above the ordinary. I absolutely fancy Mima (in a cartoonish way I might add in order not to be considered a nerd with a disturbed affection allocation), and the film really made me care for her. The nudity helps, of course, but it's more. While you think her just a stupid little singer wanting to be an actress, she really grows during all the mess.The twist didn't really surprise me or 'do' it for me, as I've become numb to twists, but it doesn't matter. Though the story's mainstream, the movie-making is top-shelf. The angles, development and jumpy cuts keep you glued. The 7.4 it gets at the moment might only be a slight underestimation, it still is imperative watching. Ai no tenshi! "},{"Title":"excellent psychological thriller and look into the darker side of fandom and ambition","Date":"28 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" Violent, disturbing, and altogether excellent despite and somewhat because of it.Stay away from this if you prefer your anime to be cute or superhero based. See it if you want to see how this art form can be used to create images and feelings that are more real than most live action thrillers can hope to achieve.My biggest gripes are the slow early pacing on in a short movie, the character designs which I found unnecessarily ugly, and that Mima's descent into insanity gets so much screen time that the ending comes a little abruptly, both in terms of pacing and foreshadowing.Perfect Blue requires the same suspension of belief as most thrillers; why doesn't Mima seemingly have any friends?, why doesn't she go to the police?, who is handling security on these movie sets and studios? These things detract from, but don't spoil this film at all. "},{"Title":"Cliched, cliched, cliched","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  Anime fans would have you believe that 'Perfect Blue' is an incredible, mind-blowing psychological masterpiece that forever changes the entire medium. Well, truth be told, most anime fans watch little else beyond animation - if they did, then they would realize just how derivative this film when compared to your average Hollywood stalker movie.This is material so generic, it's plagiarism. Not only is the story completely reminiscent of a hundred movies, it blatantly steals entire shots and scenes from the films of Dario Argento. 'Perfect Blue' might have been a well made film, if we hadn't seen all this stuff before countless times. As a fan of anime, it pains me to say this...but this is one film that's only respected because it's animated. "},{"Title":"Whats real and whats not?","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  An overall god movie. The beginning of the film is quite slow, almost boring at parts. But what it lacks in the beginning it picks up at the end, which is really something special. The English dubbing is not all it could be, there by I would have to say -Get the Japanese version with subtitle, its much better. "},{"Title":"Methinks people are easily impressed...","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" ...because it's anime.  I admit the middle is fascinating, but even that goes away once it's all explained, or rather, not explained at all.  Not thought-provoking type no explanation, but plot-hole type no explanation.  (SPOILERS why can the double Mina fly?  If it was just another person, how did that happen?  Why did the real Mina see herself, and not the imposter?  All this makes the viewer think there's more going on here than there really is.  The ultimate resolution is far too pat to allow ambiguity to be an excuse.  This isn't artistic license, this is just a bad script.  END SPOILERS.)  The ending is generic, and the only reason one might not see it coming a mile away, is because the middle is so distracting that the viewer is led to believe there is more going on than there actually is.  The film as a whole is a decent enough time, but I think that a lot of people are so used to watching Anime with absolutely wretched scripts (METROPOLIS, etc.) that when one comes by that's simply not too bad, it blows them away.  Look at it this way if this were a live action film, it would be made for TV, or a failed Hollywood project that typically gets dumped in February. "},{"Title":"What movie did you guys watch?","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  My roommate rented this movie after all of the reviews and recommendations we had heard/read/seen. I don't understand how so many people can be so wrong.This movie was just bad. Ok, the idea was pretty interesting, but the execution was awful. The script was lame, and the animation was the worst I've ever seen. I really enjoy a lot of anime (Princess Mononoke, Ninja Scroll, and Ghost in the Shell to name some of my favorites), but this is such a terrible example of the form. And please stop comparing it to anything Hitchcock did - that's just an insult to everyone involved.I just keep wondering if all of the other reviewers saw a different version of the movie, or just another movie completely. This is a horrible addition to anime, and just a bad, bad movie overall. "},{"Title":"Mind-numbing and all-out disturbing","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  Anime films have a way of assaulting the mind and soul and this film is no exception.  Although not as landmark as Akira, Ghost In The Shell or Jin-Roh, Perfect Blue still packs a solid mind-numbing punch.  Perfect Blue is about a young woman who was part of a successful singing group who quits to pursue an acting career.  After making her decision, she becomes the obsession of a really pyschotic admirer.  She also becomes extremely delusional and slowly loses her grip on reality.  Perfect Blue takes a few shocking twists and ends up with a particularly violent but correct resolution.  The film's main theme is about the price of fame in one's life and the subject is studied really well.  To me, this film is the best film on the subject of paranoia and fame since The Bodyguard.  It is shocking, scary, violent, and disturbing but it is beautifully drawn and directed very well.  I give this film a 10 out of 10!   "},{"Title":"Nothing short of amazing!!!!","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  The story of Perfect Blue is a saddening one. I am not talking about the subject of the movie but the fate of the movie itself. Perfect Blue has been grossly and unfairly overlooked by the masses, myself included until recently. Having seen this video in the store for awhile and not hearing a thing about it save only what i had read at review sites i blindly bought this. I let it just sit in a pile of other dvd's for about a week almost forgetting about it. For some reason this little voice in my head was telling me that it'd prolly blow like so many other anime i have seen, thus i was in no hurry to subject myself to it. Finally i was so bored one night that i figured Why not? and threw it in.All i can really say is WOW!!!!!!!!!This is without question, far and away, the best anime i have ever bought!!! I would never have guessed that that little piece of plastic could hold so much insanity! It starts off innocently enough and for a bit i thought maybe i had made another lame purchase but for some reason i couldn't quit watching because i could just feel that something was just very wrong within the movie. Looking back i see it kind of like boxing. For the first half the movie they are jabbing you and suckering you in and then they just drop the bombs and by then it's just to late. All you can do is stare wide eyed at the horror unfolding while your mind it racing back and forth trying to figure out if there is a bad guy and if so who is it? Once you think you know the carpet is ripped out from under you. This happens again and again. You start to wonder what's real and what is imagination. Everything becomes blurred and just when you realize that you really don't know anymore...everything finally comes together.I have heard a few people comment that they didn't like the ending but i think it made perfect sense. You will prolly need to go back and watch some parts again to fully grasp what all is happening. After numerous veiwings i am still amazed! The only other movie that gave me the same sense of impending doom and fear was Session 9. The fact that Perfect Blue is anime just makes this movie all the more amazing. Truth be told though, you prolly won't care that it's anime (unless you totally hate anime)or you'll forget that it is. This movie sucks you in that deep and doesn't let go.If you have seen it in the stores and wondered if it was worth it then the answer is YES.I honestly hope this thriller\suspense type of anime doesn't get jumped on and mass produced like every other type of anime. Not because i don't think that it's great but because i think most every attempt at it would pale when held up against Perfect BlueJust forget it's anime because at it's root it's a incredible story that takes you on a one way trip through the heart of insanity. "}{"Title":"Best Anime Ever","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  Wow.  Excellent movie, perfectly made.  Scary as hell, and so disturbing I couldn't even /think/ about it without terrifying myself.  Love it.  My second favourite film ever.  The music is brilliant too - especially the Cham song Ai No Tenshi.  I'd reccomend everyone goes and sees this movie. "},{"Title":"This is one of the best thrillers I've ever seen in Anime","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  When I first saw this movie I thought to myself this movie is kind of boring. But I saw it a couple times I began to so interest in it because I started to listen to the story line and it's very interesting and I started watching it twice a day. That why I give this movie a 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Perfect movie.","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  This is one of the best _movies_ , and definitely the best animated movie I have ever seen! I really mean it. It's a precious modern story of a girl. It's incredible... Forget Pokémon or Dragon Ball, for God's sake! This IS a GOOD movie in ALL the sense of the word! (excellent, excellent direction by Satoshi Kon).Perfect movie 10/10, without any regret or reconsideration.Go watch it! It's great!Go watch it! It's great!Go watch it! It's great!Did I ask you to watch it? "},{"Title":"Totally Crazy! I loved it!","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  Oh my gosh! I loved it! I saw that it had one of the people who created AKIRA help make it. I hate AKIRA so I assumed I would hate Perfect Blue, WAS I TOTALLY WRONG! I was confused for most of it, like I was for most of AKIRA, but unlike AKIRA, Perfect Blue came together in the end. It is one of the most amazing anime's I have ever seen! GO MANGA! "},{"Title":"One of the best anime I've ever seen!","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" When I first heard about it and saw the cover (picturing three girls dancing on the stage), I became skeptical, thought it may be another girlish anime love story. But then, I bought the video and watched it. It was totally AMAZING! Never have I seen such a gripping, dark and emotional story being created into anime like this! I shouted right away  GO TO HELL, DISNEY!! I've watched many animation movies and this is the only one I got to really really feel the emotion, especially after the rape scene when Mima discovers her fish are dead and tears down the whole room, saying  Of course I don't want to do this!! It's her first confession and at the same time, her other-self appears and mocks her  You're FILTHY now! The idea of putting innocence and darkness into one body is really incredible. It's almost unbelievable that such a pretty, childish and angel-like face is capable of doing some monstrous things, such as the last scene when the false Mima tries to kill the real one. It was totally magnificent. The violence is indeed gruesome, but it does not become the major thing in the movie. The major thing is the confrontation between the real and filthy Mima and the sweet-face but vicious Mima. And that's what I called a psychological thriller. The cinematography and editing is excellent. I believe there are some stories are meant to be made in Anime, and Perfect Blue is one of them. See this movie and have a change perspective of seeing animation movies. "},{"Title":"Best anime movie you've never seen.","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  It's too bad this movie will be overlooked by most North Americans -- even if your local video store has this one, it's probably tucked away in a tiny little Anime section where few people will discover it.  I'll just say this -- Find this movie.  Rent it.  See it once, at least.  You've never seen anything quite like it.Try to imagine if Alfred Hitchcock directed a superbly drawn anime, and you'll get a feel of what to expect in this movie.  Some explicit violence and sexuality are here, but never more that what the story calls for -- every frame of this movie is present for a reason, to tell a story.  This story involves a pop star deciding to quit the music scene to pursue an acting career.  Her first role, however, will force her to shed her nice girl image, and forever leave behind her pop singer life.  When her producer is murdered, apparently by an obsessed fan of that pop singer she left behind, the mystery begins and her new life begins to fall apart around her.Even if you are not normally a fan of anime, this movie is worth seeing -- it stands out not only among other anime movies, but also among the best murder mysteries ever put to film.  "},{"Title":"O.K.","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  I used to live in Japan and so I know some Japanese culture and all. And it always makes me wonder. Somehow, acting and story line of Japanese shows always look a bit silly to me. This particular movie is definitely a better one. Story line is kinda neat. But it is predictable most of the time. The main character looked pretty silly (maybe it was meant to be). I heard so much good thing about it before I went in, so I guess I was somewhat disappointed with the film. It was supposed to be full of suspense, but it really wasn't. Maybe in Japan, a film about stalker and a little bit of twist is unique. But by now, I have seen so many North American films where twists are almost a must. So I wasn't too impressed with it.I don't know. If the show is cheap and you got money to burn, so for it. But this movie is perfectly good on a video rather than theatre. "},{"Title":"A new type of japanimation","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  This is a very good Japanese animation film considering that many of Japanese animation are craps.  The general characteristics of japanimation- stupid comedy, meaningless violence, sexuality, and science fiction setting- are not present in this film.  Director Satoshi Kon has incorporated surreal setting, serious plot, and stylish presentation technique into this psycho-horror, a genre which animation has never stepped into.  Although there are some violence and sexually explicit scenes involved (I wonder if the US market would accept this film), they do not spoil the film, but rather enhance it.  By effectively exposing character's psychological change to the audience, the film really draws you in.  Perfect Blue gives you a new kind of impression that other japanimations are not capable of. "},{"Title":"Interesting but not Satoshi Kon's best work.","Date":"3 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" The film revolves around a Japanese pop idol who leaves a girl group to start a career in acting. However she is uncertain about her move and is followed by ghosts both real and imagined from her previous life. Like in Paprika Satoshi Kon plays with the meaning of reality and what it means to be sane. The sense of paranoia and uncertainty of ones own senses when experiencing an emotional trauma is well conveyed here. However ultimately the film feels too flat for my tastes. Paprika is a lively colourful and imaginative romp into the world of insanity. This on the other hand is much more controlled and realistic, and while that would usually be something that recommends a film here it ends up falling flat. I kept hopping the film would sprout wings and explore the realm of paranoia and insanity the way only anime can really do so but it never really truly delivers. "},{"Title":"This anime hurts, don't do it.","Date":"16 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" I'm new in this kind of anime, and I enjoyed very much watching Japanese anime in English and Japanese versions. They are very .. what to say? .. New. I never had this experience. But, I hate that I spend that much time finding the subtitle for the Japaneses version of Perfect Blue. It was a bad anime after all this effort to make it look like some kind of Hitchcock's movies. Even the crime was very regular. Maybe it's me, I was looking for a kind of Akira or Ghost in the Shell anime. I should read more before downloading. What? A faking rape scene with whole details? and CUT, change camera position then I'm sorry before start doing ...? What kind of people are making these. This anime traumatized me very bad. I begun hating anime. "}{"Title":"Deep, eh, Perfect Blue","Date":"5 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" It's as if one of Dario Argento's giallos had been mixed up with Japanese ghost story elements into an Anime psycho shocker... with all of the strengths and weaknesses intact.Basically, the animation is just average, but is elevated through some clever visual flourishes, which underline the central issue of what's real and what's just illusion. An old hat, to be sure, but there are intriguing aspects to the otherwise quite silly and rather contrived story which culminates in an unfair, though effective solution.All in all, passable fare for genre aficionados.5 out of 10 brutal stabbings "},{"Title":"Nice visuals and music but thats about it. Stay away.","Date":"20 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" Perfect Blue is a 1997 psychological thriller film from director Satoshi Kon. It is based on a novel by Yoshikazu Takeuchi. To put it simply this movie is bad. Like REALLY bad. It is confusing and mentally challenging to understand.Perfect Blue tells the story of a young women named Mima Kirigoe who is part of a Japanese pop group called CHAM. She decides to leave the group to become a actress. Then, it all goes downhill from there. You see Mima starts having hallucinations and you don't know which of her 'reality's' is real or an illusion.I will admit that while the film is really confusing, the animation is beautiful and nice to look at, and the music is pretty to listen to but that's about it. It doesn't have many good qualities to it.I give Perfect Blue a 2/10. "},{"Title":"Definitely not the best of Satoshi Kon","Date":"20 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" I must say I was disappointed in this one and expected a bit more from Satoshi Kon.It started as a celebrity-wannabe drama, developed into personality crisis drama and only then into something you could call a thriller. The beginning was really dragging on, many characters seemed stereotypical (sure, it's always the nerd and the fat woman behind everything) and the main character appeared superficial. The ending was also very disappointing just as things started to get really good it turned into an average scene where a maniac is chasing an innocent girl, moreover, the last episode was just corny.However, this anime did have some excellent parts. The scenes where reality gets mixed up with dreams and Mima's role in the movie were marvelous. I ended up utterly confused and on the edge of my seat waiting to see what happens next.All in all, 'Perfect Blue' doesn't have much to surprise you with but it might be a good way to kill your boredom. "},{"Title":"Why this movie should be in the top 250 if not the top 100.","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" There are perhaps few instances in film where the viewer can truly say something is superior in an animated format then in a live action shot. Grave of the Fireflies is one such masterpiece, this is another.The basic storyline is as follows, a young girl travels from the countryside to the city, where she dreams of being a singer. After some fairly good success with a group named Cham, she gets the opportunity to switch from music to movies. Is this what she really wants? It wasn't what she came to do, but who doesn't aspire to such heights? Unfortunately in order to make the transition she must go through a degrading rape scene, which after some thought she does. As her career moves forward she indeed takes a strong lead in the television series she had been a one time cameo on. But what of the little girl still trapped inside her? What of the new found success of Cham upon her leaving? As the main character breaks down she begins to see things, notably herself, hating her for what she has become. As people on the set begin to die, and her life more and more mimics the show on which she acts, she loses track of reality.In a world of lies you tell to others, lies others tell to you, and lies you tell yourself, who can you trust? Who is a killer? Is there a killer at all? Who are your friends and who are you enemies? Who are you? Perfect Blue is a thriller. This movie will make you guess, on no other medium can I imagine the splits being so well done, the breaks from reality so fluidly incomprehensible and at the same time so accurately formed. Best of all not a step is missed, on multiple watches you will be wowed, not a hair out of place, seamless. This movie doesn't just play with the main character's head, it plays with yours.~Ryan "},{"Title":"Tell me. what is reality ?","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  Those were the key words in a Fields of the Nephilim song and could be the motto for this anime. Your Phaithful Phroggy was glad to see it on a big screen and to check the numerous Dario Argento refercences, but there was too many I'm-waking-up-but-is-this-reality ? shots to suspend one's belief and the psychological ending was disappointing as it refused to choose between onirism and downright fantasy. If the > scenario is flawed, the animation and cinematography are stilltop-notch.  "},{"Title":"Disturbing","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  Perfect Blue is one warped anime. It wasn't the post-modern editing and story sequence--it's been done better before, in Evangelion. The device of is this scene real?...No, it's a dream/movie/TV series was repeated, and repeated, and repeated ad nauseum. Despite this conceit, the story is actually fairly linear, although still fairly crazy.What makes this a disturbing anime is much of the imagery. There's a dizzying scene of a movie rape scene, and people bleeding from stabs in the eyes. But the pop-star self of the heroine, wearing outfits the color of candy, flitting around in cotton-candy mini-skirts, shrieking, and so on, upset me...although this may be my own fetish. The scene of the dead fish is also freaky.I have more criticisms. The Mimaniac (clever name), a stalker, is silent throughout most of the movie. Near the end, he talks, and ruins his air of menace. The end is very, very tame compared with the graphic, confusing, psyche-shattering events preceding it.In short an obsessed anime, executed with enough technical skill to make it nasty.  "},{"Title":"Good but not great Anime","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  I like some of the animation in PERFECT BLUE. Some scenes were very stiff but other scenes were beautifully rendered without being too flashy. The problem with PB is the story. It has too many implausible details like the killer being able to look like Mima, the popstar. I mean, come on! They might get away with it because it's animation but it would be impossible to recreate this in a believable fashion in a live action movie. It feels like a cheat. The only way this implausible detail could have been possible is that the killer has some sort of psychic link with Mima. Otherwise, I just can't see it as being remotely plausible. But even the idea of the killer having a psychic link with Mima can't explain the scenes were we see the killer without Mima being around, like the pizza boy scene. The fact that the killer looked like the pizza boy during that scene really doesn't make any sense at all. Also, the fact that a popstar quits her group because she thinks the image of a pop idol is suffocating her is a tad ludicrous in this case because CHAM are almost unknown and have never had a top 100 hit when Mima was part of it! Now how suffocating can that be? The story would have made more sense if CHAM had been popular. PB is filled with violence and nudity and a simulated rape scene, which makes this a DEFINITE R-rated anime, even though everything else looks like something straight out of SAILOR MOON. What's also interesting is how they completely leave out the idea that Mima can have a boyfriend or even friends. Leaving the pop band doesn't mean Mima can't be friends with the other members of CHAM.Anyway, the film is entertaining and it does have some spooky qualities that make it really interesting. But it's a tad overrated. I give it 6 out of 10.A couple of pointsAm I the only who thinks that the ugly creep was made to look like Michael Jackson?The first song CHAM play at the beginning sounds a lot like that song from the French band, 2be3. "},{"Title":"Good story. Creepy mood. An ok film.","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" Good story. Creepy mood. An ok film. But when it ended, I just thaught Ok, so thats that.... It didnt stick with me. Worth the watch perhaps, but not that good. Average 6(10) "},{"Title":"An anime that cries for live action!","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" A friend of mine told me to check this film out. I was reluctant at first, since I find most thrillers to follow along the same lines, but my friend told me that this film was really different.My friend was wrong. This film isn't different at all. This is basically your standard Ashley Judd thriller, except that it's anime. If you're familiar with anime, this film won't even make you budge. There's a scene where there's a dead body in an elevator. They way it was shown wasn't really shocking at all, even though that was obviously it's intent. Had it been filmed in live action, however, it would have made a very nice shot, which would probably have lingered with you for a long time afterwards. But in other scenes, the director goes all out anime and just lets there be blood spurting in every director. No matter what, it's not original, and we're all yawning twenty minutes into the film.The plot follows Mima, a singer in a pop band called CHAM!. In the beginning of the film, Mima announces that she is going to retire from the pop scene and try to strike out as an actor instead. So she enters a TV-series called Double Bind, which is basically a thriller series. But not all of Mimas fans are happy with her decision to become an actress, and some feel that she is a traitor for giving up on the band. One fan takes the step to far as he begins to send her threats, and even harms some people around Mima. It is all to much for Mima, who eventually starts seeing illusions of herself, prancing around in her old CHAM!-dress. What follows is a series of events where we aren't sure what's real, who's killing who and why this is happening. In the end, only one thing is explained for sure, whereas all the rest is left open for interpretation.But, by the end, you won't care anymore. You'll be snoring already. In fact, the second the end credits rolled, I hit the stop button, obviously disappointed and went to tell the world what a dull movie this is. Sure, the plot may not be exactly that of other thrillers, but it's close enough. Add to that, it brings absolutely nothing new with it. It's just an ordinary thriller, except for the fact that it's animated! Dull! And you don't really care for any of the characters either, because there's no background, or character even, given to any of the people in this film.If you would compare this film to, say, Silence of the Lambs, this film pales in comparison. That film has you on the edge of your seats, and there's many chilling scenes. There's also the awesome performance of Anthony Hopkins, and a good story. This film has no good performances, since it's an animated film, it doesn't have a very good plot, and it's not chilling or atmospheric.So what does this film really have going for it? I can't actually think of anything. It's just dull. "},{"Title":"MUCH better anime to be seen!","Date":"10 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":" *****Very VERY minor spoilers****** Okay, I just checked this out when it aired (dubbed) on the sci-fi channel. I will tell you ahead of time, I watch any anime I can get my hands on, so no worries this review is going to be like some of the other clowns commenting on this with things like I had no idea what an 'anime' was before this, har har!. *eyeroll* Anyway, I will say first that this is a little different than most anime I've seen thus far. After watching, this really struck me as a cross between Law and Order SVU and anime, only in this movie, you follow around a pop singer/beginning actress instead of the cops. No supernatural stuff to be found in here, so no awesome robots or post-apocalyptic societies.Now, I usually love anime, and seeing me giving one a low rating is quite unusual, so why four stars? Let me count the ways - I was paying pretty strict attention, and it makes VERY little sense! When you hit about the middle of the movie, the Mima (the main character the film follows around) is having serious delusions, first seeing herself in many places in her old pop-singing outfit, and later, apparently dreaming of her work as an actress. It quite literally hits a big piece of the movie where it's practically IMPOSSIBLE to tell what's real and what's not. I only wish I was joking.- This anime is dated. They have a bit where Rumi (The girls' manager? Something along those lines) is explaining how to use the internet. Not only is Mima's spoiled whining harsh on the ears, the explanation is painfully simple and grating to anyone who's ever been even in close proximity to a computer.- I've seen a couple commenters say the dubbing is pretty good. I say - not REAL good! Most especially in the beginning, where Mima is singing with the two other members of her pop group CHAM, the dubbing was about half again as good as in the original Godzilla. Needless to say, the voices and the the mouths moving don't always match up.- If you're not fond of characters doing stupid things to further the plot, you may have a real problem with this movie. One point in particular that left me incredulous Mima receives a letter bomb, and her manager's hands are cut up pretty good. Yet...no one calls the police? - I'm not usually one that even tries to figure how how things are going to turn out in mysteries and thrillers of any kind, but the ending is pretty predictable. Needless to say, your first impressions of the characters are probably spot-on. However, in one of the very last frames, the movie tries to throw in one last twist (?), but I fail to see what that was trying to accomplish or imply.Now for the things that earned it four stars - If you're into techno or j-pop (I am, of course), you'll probably find the music in this pretty nifty.- The animation is pretty good. It looks more realistic than in many other anime I've seen, though it's not my personal favorite style.- As you'll recall in the beginning of my review, I mentioned that I'd just caught this on sci-fi. Now, having not seen the original version of this in either the r-rated or unrated version on DVD, I realize that (as usual) the network may have cut some pretty good chunks out of it. However, the editing must not have been too severe, as taking a look at the message board here proves that even if you've seen it on DVD, it STILL doesn't make a whole lot of sense. Either way, I'm giving it a little benefit of the doubt, as I vividly recall the horrible and totally unnecessary edits commonly made to anime. Never mind the fact that one often sees things like this on Law and Order or CSI, but there you go.Finally? I'm personally offended that some people have dared to compare this to an absolutely fabulous anime that came out the same year, Studio Ghibli's Princess Mononoke. Not only are the two of COMPLETELY different genres, comparing Princess Mononoke to Perfect Blue is like eating a piece of chocolate VS. being stabbed in the eye. No, really.Bottom line - don't waste your time. If it's a crime/psychological thriller you're looking for, there are vastly better movies. If you're looking for good anime - RUN AWAY. Hands down, this is probably the worst anime I've ever seen, and definitely the one that made the least sense. "}{"Title":"Boring and predictable","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  This movie is very slow paced and boring in the first 40 minutes and the end is predictable although there's some suspension. Animation is pretty good at best, but there's also lot of scenes that could have needed more work. Music is absolutely horrible, Cham's songs are very cheesy and annoying. Overall not the worst Anime I've seen, but I wouldn't recommend it to anyone who isn't a big fan of Asian animation. I give it 4/10. "},{"Title":"Antiseptic Meandering","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  Like Satoshi Kon's much better film Millennium Actress, Perfect Blue eeks out it's story like a meandering beach comer turning over stones; any inherent poetry of that description doesn't apply to Perfect Blue, however.   Unlike Millennium Actress, Kon never manages to build an emotional connection between the viewer and the characters, leaving a dispassionate barrier.Barred beneath a plot of tasteless sand there may be a glimpse of sentiment that could warrant artistic expression- unfortunately, those who crafted this mechanically orchestrated opera didn't believe in that sentiment enough to imbue any great worth or artistic beauty when rendering it.At the hart of the Perfect Blue is the question do I like who I've become?  Satoshi Kon wraps that question in a package of insanity and couples it with the warn out tedium of a psycho killer.   In the end, Kon seems unable to tell the story he wants to, doesn't seem to know why, and forgets what question he's trying to answer in the process.  "},{"Title":"Bad movie; worse porn","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  I am by no means a fan of anime, yet I felt compelled to check out Perfect Blue for a number of reasons the film is based on the notion of an obsessive stalker (a subject of great interest to me); anime cliches, such as giant robots and mystical spirits, are almost entirely absent; and I had heard rumors that there was a lot of nudity in this one. Despite Perfect Blue's unconventionality, however, I remained quite disappointed.Perfect Blue's irreparable flaw is that it is simply too ambiguous to be enjoyable. Every interesting scene ends with the revelation that it was actually an illusion, a dream, or a scene in a movie. Ambiguity itself is not a bad thing; Spirited Away, for example, made heavy use of symbolism, but it did so successfully because it retained empathetic characters and a storyline that could be followed. In that movie, I wanted to see Chihiro find her way home. In Perfect Blue, I just wanted to know what the heck was going on.Perfect Blue even failed to gratify my most libidinous desires; nudity is brief, and when present, unerotic. There is a staged raped scene between Mima and an actor; during a photo shoot, Mima is coerced into taking off all of her clothes (but a potentially erotic stripping scene is entirely cut--we go straight from the beginning of the photo shoot to seeing the actual photographs); and finally, in a climactic scene, Mima is assaulted and violently stripped by her stalker. The heavy male presence, and the brevity of the female nudity itself, prevents this movie from compensating a poor script with genuine eroticism.On the plus side, there's a great soundtrack. The music has an almost hypnotic quality about it; Cham's song is strangely upbeat and melancholy at the same, which suits the mood of the movie perfectly. (Unfortunately, that's the only good thing I can find to say about Perfect Blue.)2/10 "},{"Title":"I'm sorry I saw this movie","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Horror, Music","Review":"  Some friends of mine are very into the Japanese style of animation known as anime.  I have always loathed it.  Nonetheless, I went to see this film with an open mind because my friend who took me promised me it was anime for people who don't like anime.Well, at least the Japanese characters looked Japanese.  Contrary to anime convention, there were no red-headed, blue-eyed characters with Japanese names.Other than that, though, the movie was uniformly awful.  All the psycho-thriller cliches were there.  I knew twenty minutes into the movie how it would all turn out.  The dialogue was awkward too, but that may have just been the translation.But worst of all was the animation.  There was little in this film that couldn't have been done (better) in live action.  The only reason to make this film a cartoon was to save money on sets, actors, etc.My friend wants to take me to see Princess Mokonone next week.  I think I'll tell him I'm sick. "}]