[{"Title":"She still can't act","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"30 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had high hopes for this -- really, I did.  I thought it would be a sweet, charming and tugging-at-the-heartstrings comedy.  But I was TOO hopeful.Story in one sentence  two best friends (one gay, one straight) end up in bed together, have a son, raise him together, everything hunky-dory until she wants to marry someone else and the little family gets screwed up.Let's talk about what's the worst  the script, hands down.  Everything is so spliced in or cut out it's just terrible.  The transitions are so choppy, that we barely have enough time to understand the undeveloped characters -- they're just thrown at us and next thing you know, it's years later.  It's unrealistic and it's too fictional to really understand or get into. Madonna is suffering from never finding Mr. Right, Rupert is the gay buddy that somewhat turns into the bad guy and poor Benjamin is just caught in the middle.  We don't know WHO to hate in this movie -- that's pretty much the hard part.  Everyone is in the bad guy role, they just don't fit it due to the fact they all need sympathy.As for Madonna, yes, it's obvious she took lessons.  The problem would be that she is way too conscious of the camera.  Her husband commented once that she needs to let the director direct -- and I think that's a huge problem with her performance.  She is just too beautiful in this movie. I mean, she's supposed to be sobbing her eyes out and she looks up and is all glistening and pretty.  Sorry, but in order for me to believe her I want to see it on her face that she's worried -- you know, red eyes, puffy cheeks, smeared makeup -- the works.  Madonna had too much creative control in this and it's obvious.  Her expressions don't fit her tone of voice either; she seems to blink consciously and doesn't have much expression  -- but hey, close your eyes and listen to her and you'll see that she's making progress.All in all, a good storyline put to a bad script and bad performances. Anyone who tells you this is a great movie is obviously a star-struck Madonna fan. "},{"Title":"AAAAAARRRGH(gurgle)","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"31 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" So bad it's good. Or something. At least, I didn't actually vomit up my Hungry-Man TV Dinner -- I sat glued to the screen, fascinated with Madonna's vapid-rapid-blink acting style, Benjamin Bratt's inability to manufacture charm, and the fact that the normally appealing Rupert Everett was markedly repugnant in this film. Madonna looks equally strange. The creature/product has been molded into something quite cute at various stages in her career, but in this vehicle she looks like she's been hitting the steroid needle. I tried and tried but was unable to analyze just what was wrong with her. You be the judge! Watch it! Preferably with some unsuspecting friends and gallons of alcohol. "},{"Title":"Good Lord !","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What´s this ?Stop ! Don´t buy a ticket for this ! Hollywood has to stop making trash like this. I mean.. there´s nothing bad about trash but this is nothing more than simply boring. A Film about woman who wants a kid and a father who is gay and not really the father and two other guys and some other gay guys and the mother who doesn´t know what she wants from another guy who´s not gay and what ....   uuuurgh ..I´m sorry but I can´t see any more stupid films that end in a court room. If you write a script and you don´t know how to bring it to an end just choose a court room as the location. And why is Madonna such a nice person at the beginning of the film, such a cheap jerk in the middle of the film and so nice again at the end ? Why does she have to leave her best friend like that. Did they cut out the scene where a big stone falls on her head and she suddenly changes into an unfriendly bad person as well as the reverse scene ? And these stupid ... no ... it´s not worth writing about this any more.... just ignore this Film ! "},{"Title":"The Next Worst Thing","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie definitely ranks among the worst director John Schlesinger has ever made. Visually brilliant movies like URBAN COWBOY seem long gone if compared to this - pardon me - extraordinary piece of crap!Madonna delivers an overwhelmingly shallow performance while Rupert Everett has to deal with her moron behavior as the film´s character Abbie.Maybe Madonna decided to make a movie about her coming of age as a superstar - searching for the right guy to raise her child with. I really think she deserves her husband in real life, Guy Ritchie.But I can´t bear her attitude towards her gay friend, whom she chooses to be the child´s father - played by Everett. First of all, she lies to him, saying he´s the father of her child. When she finally meets Mr. Right, she doesn´t seem to care about him any longer, treating him like an unloved being.Accordingly, she abducts the child from the shared apartment to solve the problem that unfolds when she meets her new lover. Correctly, Everett deems himself forced to take their case to a California court.It is there, however, that Everett learns Madonna has played tricks on him - since he isn´t the real father of the child. He is then - on top of everything - blamed with ruining Madonna´s life.Nobody asks how Everett must feel about the whole story..I simply think that this movie is - apart from the terrible storyline - unbearable. You can´t just walk away with a film like this, which incorporates an attack on the self esteem of all gay men!!Madonna ought to stick to her music career at last, since she doing fine in that area. But I strongly advise her to keep her fingers off the filmmaking business!The movie is pure bad taste!!!! "},{"Title":"Very P.C. and raises serious questions in a light-hearted way","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Madonna plays a women let down by one man too many. In a night of drunken excess, she sleep with her best friend - who happens to be gay. She is pregnant as a result and they decide to set up home as a family, remaining best friends as they take on the joint responsibilities of parenthood. Things get complicated as Madonna's character falls in love with a new suitor. Probably the most PC movie of the year. If any of the subject matter interests you, and especially if you like Madonna, go and see it. If well-told stories about nice gay men and children leave you cold, forget it. This doesn't take the Mickey out of gay people, neither does it sacrifice by way of caricature or cheesiness. Instead it raises real social questions about rights and responsibilities towards children, and without preaching. "},{"Title":"Its Been months since I've seen it, and I still can't get the rotten taste out of my mouth","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Its been months since my wife dragged me to see this film, and I still can't get the rotten taste out of my mouth.  Ten minutes into the movie she and I were looking at our watches, wondering how much more we were in for.  At that point we knew we had a film that could surpass The Postman (the Costner movie, not the Italian one) in trite pompousness.  The only positive thing I can say I gained from The Next Best Thing is that it has given me a new concrete reference for the term Bad Movie (it nudged Postman out by a nose).I want to express, these feelings don't come from any bias I may have against Madonna or any of the other actor's involved in it(including TVs Doogie Hauser), in fact I have a great deal of respect for Madonna's business acumen and her ability to continually re-invent herself.  A big part of her past success has come from her wisdom to surround herself with capable people, but that seems to have not made a difference this time. The usually engaging Rupert Everett walks woodenly through every scene.  Julia Roberts' 'Squeeze' Benjamin Bratt stumbles through his poorly written lines. And as for Madonna herself--what accent is that you're affecting?Stay Away, stay away in droves. Or better yet, watch it, and learn what real pain is. "},{"Title":"I've Fallen and I can't get up","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  `The Next Best Thing' was excruciatingly slow.  From the start the plot left a lot to be desired.  On several different occasions I hoped the movie would end, but it just kept on.  The acting was mediocre at best, but even the best actors would have had little to work with.  Unfortunately `TNBT' made it to the top of `Movies I wish I had never seen.' "},{"Title":"Almost like TV-movie","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I almost felt I watching tv-movie on Hallmark. Especially the last 45 minutes are like in tv-movie. The movie begins with comedy touch and later it becomes boring drama. Madonna is ok in this movie, but the film doesn't have good script. All the actors are ok. The movie isn't funny and surely isn't touching. Maybe better script should worked. If Madonna wants to become better actress, she should rely on better scripts. This film is like tv-movie; after you have watched it, you simply forget it. ** stars from ***** stars. "},{"Title":"MUCH better than I expected","Date":"11 August 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is really a sleeper. I can see why people who watch it expecting a campy fiasco like Madonna made with Sean Penn would be disappointed or even p.o.'d. I avoided it for 9 years just on principle. In fact, during the first few minutes when I accidentally caught it on TV, I kept thinking, Who is this actress who looks so much like Madonna but who can ACT???? This is really REALLY not a romantic comedy, no matter how light and funny it is initially. It is a more serious than usual role for both Madonna and Rupert Everett, and they both did very well. It is touching and funny, and might have suffered 9 years ago because the viewing public was not ready for the very realistic portrayal of these complicated questions about who is really family and why. "},{"Title":"Exceeded my expectations.","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm with songman018.  I give it an 8 rather than a 10, but I agree with everything he said about it.  I'm shocked at how poorly this has rated among IMDB members.  I would've read some other comments to get a feel for why the average rating is below 5, but I don't want to blow my image of either the movie, or get disappointed in the people that viewed it.  I thought that it was an incredibly appealing and sensitive film and that all of the actors within were amazing.  I don't think I can say much more about it that songman didn't already cover for me.  I'm very pleased to see that someone else enjoyed it as much as I did.  Watch with an open mind and heart. "}{"Title":"An Arrangement","Date":"28 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Next Best Thing casts Madonna as a free spirited soul (some stretch of casting there) who has a one night stand with an old friend and soul mate Rupert Everett. But that's not likely to happen too often as Everett is a gay man with whom she confides her innermost.I think Everett's character must have been based on Roddy McDowall who was a confidante to many of the rich and glamorous and unlike that other gay man who did that as well, Truman Capote, McDowall never wrote any tell all memoirs.It rarely happens in real life, but a blessed event came from that mating and Madonna and Everett decide to move in together, not marry, but raise the child as a mother and father with each leading their separate lives. It actually does work for a while.Madonna really gets into the mother role and Everett's a great father figure. But he never forgets his social life with friends and lovers like Neil Patrick Harris and Mark Valley.But then Madonna meets Benjamin Bratt who wants to get married and that puts an end to the arrangements.The Next Best Thing while a sincere effort in its own way of showing the complicated problems that gays and lesbians have with the raising of children, their own children at that, it sadly degenerates into the kind of soap opera that one finds on the Lifetime Channel. It's not a horrible film, just will never be on anyone's ten best list. "},{"Title":"Light Fare that touches the heart","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I gave this film a 10 not because it was the best movie I've ever seen, or because the acting was stellar and the script was amazing, but because it accomplished what it tried to do.  It touched me.  Granted, the script was bad.  The acting was average (however Madonna really shone through in this film).  But the message and the sentiment was showcased well enough for me to say that I've thought about this movie several times since I saw it.  The movie made me happy, sad, and stuck with me.  It entertained me.  Isn't that what a movie is supposed to do?  I loved it! "},{"Title":"Next WORST Thing!","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Gay Robert Whittaker (Rupert Everett) gets best friend Abbie Reynolds (Madonna) pregnant after one drunken night. She has the baby and they agree to live together and raise the child. Everything is fine until she falls in love with handsome Ben Cooper (Benjamin Bratt)...and wants full custody of their child. Yawn. This has been done before, but never this badly. The script is lousy (some of the lines were beyond belief), Madonna's acting was terrible (no shock there), the direction off (I could direct better than this!), badly edited and it's just plain dull! The comedy wasn't funny, the drama has been done before in countless Lifetime movies on TV and it gets annoying that Hollywood thinks that a gay man getting a little drunk could automatically sleep with a woman. Speaking as a gay man myself, I can tell you, that isn't the case! Also Madoona looks terrible here. She's supposed to be 34! She was 42 when she made this--and looks it.SPOILER AHEAD. Also at the end, Madonna is happily married, but Everett is still alone. I guess it's OK for the straight woman to find the man of her dreams, but not the gay guy. SPOILER ENDThere are a few good things about the movie--Lynn Redgrave shines in a supporting role and Everett was as good as was humanly possible. Also it's fun to see Michael Vartan in an early role and Neil Patrick Harris playing gay six years before he came out! But, all in all, this is a total mess--not worth anyone's time. Sadly, great director John Schlesinger's last film. Avoid. "},{"Title":"Great idea...wasted.","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Great story and some fine photography, but who was the casting agent??? King Kong?? Put Madonna and Everett together into a movie and what a bomb. It might have salvaged this embarrassment if either of them could act !! Everett is plain pathetic and bares no resemblance to a father than my cat does. Watch the scene where he's reunited with Sam and laugh along with me at his abysmal rumblings. There was about as much warmth in that acting as there is in my cat's dinner bowl!!With a pathetic attempt by Madonna at showing frustration and worry and fear in 'custodial' type scene's just couldn't convince me that she knew where she was supposed to be. When she's got her hand up to her eyes in those courtroom scene's and in the car at the end, she is probably trying desperately to read her next lines/movements off the palm of her hand.That this aging 'pop' star who has succeeded in getting acting roles is a mockery of a democratic nation and proves it's not what you know but who you know. The role could have gone to a 'real' actress makes this film just obscene. Warble your heart out Madonna and let the real actors have the work. You surely dont need it. Everett, get some acting lessons. How on earth did you get to where you are now? Are all Producers able to be bought? "},{"Title":"next best thing","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i really liked this movie. being a yoga instructor i was impressed with madonna. being one of the biggest fans of her has nothing to do with it. i will be the 1st to say, as far as acting, well, lets just say she could be the weakest link. BUT, that only pertains to the earlier films. due to the fact that all & all the movies were bad scripts. shanghi what? next best is the right movie, the right direction,& a wonderful cast. rupert was great. benjermin bratt, aside from being beautiful, he did really well too. but it all comes down to madonna's cute dark humor that steals the show. 1-10 (9) "},{"Title":"Not horrible, but far from decent","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First of all, I didn't completely hate this movie.  It had its funny parts, even though they were few and far between.  For instance the scene where Robert goes back to get the house keys from Kevin.  But the movie was pretty sad.  I don't think that it deserved to be nominated for any Razzies.  It was NO WHERE as bad as Battlefield Earth.  And 2000 bad some pretty bad movies.Madonna just isn't an actress.  We'll get that out of the way right now.  She was HORRIBLE in `Who's That Girl'.  But I did actually think she did well in `A League Of Their Own'.  Yet&#133;this just wasn't her movie.  She is a wonderful singer and has a husband and two kids.  She should stay away from Hollywood completely.  She was completely emotionless and the crying scenes from her were more of a joke. Everett seemed out of place in this movie.  I know that ever since admitting he was gay (Who didn't know in the first place) he has been stuck with only stereotypical, politically incorrect gay roles.  I do think that he's a pretty good actor (My Best Friend's Wedding).  But&#133;he didn't have too much to work with in this movie.This movie is a huge change for Michael Vartan, who is usually playing a puppy-dog-eyed-sweetie-next-door type.  E.G Never Been Kissed.  But he does a good job playing Abbie's ex boyfriend.  It shows that he can play diverse roles.I think that the only reason that Madonna took this role was to feed her ego.  I guess she loves being in a movie where all that the other characters do is talk about how beautiful and successful she is EVERY SINGLE SECOND.  Here's a little assignment for you.  During the first half of the movie, count up all of the times that Everett tells her that she's the most beautiful woman in the world.  It could possibly be more times than they said f-k on `Good Will Hunting' (over exaggeration here).  Or maybe it was getting to take off her pants to reveal her old wrinkly legs and little thong.  Or possibly, it was singing `American Pie' and having her sing it at the end because she had just recently made a remake of it.What I don't understand is what Abbie has to be upset at Robert about.  She gets pregnant.  Then she tells Robert that it's his child.  Then 3 years later she finds out that Robert really isn't the father because they are both O (just because the two parents are O doesn't mean that the kid can't be).  Then 3 more years go by.  She finds a man, and gets engaged to him after about a week.  Then she wants to move Sam all the way to New York.  Then she abducts Sam.  And THEN when Robert brings the REAL father of the child into Sam's life to try to get custody of a kid who in my opinion is his, Abbie has the nerve to cry in court and get mad at Robert for bringing Kevin back into her life!  You would think that Robert should be the one crying.This movie left a bad taste in my mouth.  I wouldn't watch it again if you paid me (well I probably would&#133;but&#133;you get the point).  Then the whole movie ends with a little cheesy summary at the end that shows that everything worked out fine.  And the sad thing is that they butchered this true story. Another Note Did anyone notice that at the beginning of the movie Everett said that she could have a baby without a father because it was the 2001st century.  That would mean that the rest of the movie would have taken place in about 2007.  I don't usually analyze movies  that way but it's just something that I caught.  2 out of 10.    "},{"Title":"Too close to be objective!","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a gay man with two children, this story did not play very well with me.  Rupert Everett's character is a complete ass and no wonder Madonna's character didn't want him around her child anymore.  My ex-wife and I worked things out because we both loved our children.  Yes, we hated each other at times during our divorce, but the children always came first.  Maybe the subject was too close for me to be objective, but it would have been a better film if they had gone a different direction with the last part of the story.   "},{"Title":"The Next WORST thing, more like!","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Oh dear.Don't get me wrong, I love Madonna as a singer and a bloody good one she is too. And she was good in Evita. But no matter how hard she tries she is still Madonna, and as 'Abbie' in this travesty of a film, she proves that she really should stick to the day job (i.e - singing)I'm trying to be constructive, but this film is truly apalling. Admittedly, Rupert and Madonna are hindered by one of the worst, most hackneyed screen plays I have heard in many a year. Hear are just a few snippets of the trite, contrived, cliched dialogueBeing a parent takes more that DNA!!I take sick companies and make them wellI miss him. He was totally me!The use of gay stereotypes is utterly apalling (I would be outraged if I were a gay man) the plot is dull and the characters are so thinly developed that there is no room for empathy. We learn next to nothing about the character of Abbie (nor do we care) and Rupert's Robert is simply a gay stereotype - I can't believe that he read the script and then agreed to accept the part. Perhaps he was feeling under the weather at the time and his judgement was impaired. Whatever the case, by the time the brat of a kid has his fate decided, you really could not care less what happened to him, Rupert or Madonna. All that stopped me hitting the fast forward button at regular intervals, was the unintentional, self parodic hilarity of this film. A prime example being the impromptu performance of 'American Pie' around the grave of one of the bloke's boyfriend's. Supposedly a poignant touch, this is unintentionally hilarious and has to be seen to be believed.Avoid it at all costs, unless you have a fondness for seriously bad films, unintentional, self parodic humour, wooden, over-the-top acting, a wafer thin plot, characters who are little more than stereotypes and contrived dialogue. Need I go on? "},{"Title":"Exactly what I expected","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This sounded like a hideous, shallow, self-righteous vanity project when I first read that it was being made, and surprise! That's exactly what it is. Laden with enough TV movie-cliches to sink the Love Boat, this is a repulsive excuse for cinema, directed by a once-great filmmaker who made The Believers not too long ago...What the heck happened? When they started singing American Pie around the coffin (with Doogie Howser as the bereaved widow) I actually started laughing out loud. This product causes brain-rot. Avoid at all costs! "},{"Title":"Awful drek!","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What were they thinking?  This movie is so boring and awful.  You can't wait until its over when watching.  Benjamin Bratt was totally underutilized in this film.  Madonna was awful with her London-esque accent.  Not recommended. "}{"Title":"Dull and uninteresting","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Story about best friends, one gay man and one straight woman having a baby together and growing up to learn how to adjust to odd situations here and there. Quite odd and interesting in a weird way, (the child 's curiosity of why mommy and daddy sleep in separate beds was amusing) but ultimately the story is dull. The fact that everything in this movie expects us to believe this is supposed to be 'natural' makes it even more weak than it should be. Stick with GUESS WHO'S COMING TO DINNER which makes an interesting point of view for not only the couple but both their parents' side too (something THE NEXT BEST THING should have tried harder to think about). "},{"Title":"Unintentionally hilarious","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is bad, bad, bad.  There is no chemistry between the two leads and the very talented Rupert seems out of place here, in the type of role he has handled with past aplomb.  If you're a discerning movie viewer you probably won't make it to the end unless you're on the masochistic side or someone who revels in bad film making -- which this is.  The cliches and bad acting abound almost from the first frame but don't quit watching until you see the funeral scene in the early part of the film.  You have to see it to believe it.  I think the intention was for there not to be a dry eye in the house when the mourners start singing (yes, folks -- a singing funeral, although it should be for Madonna's acting career).  Instead everyone in the audience burst into laughter.  Too bad -- Everett deserves better than this.  So do ticket buyers. "},{"Title":"Even Rupert Everett can't save this turkey!","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow! Once again, Madonna goes to particular pains to show us that as an actress, she's a decent singer. As I was sitting there listening to her lines of dialogue, I kept thinking is this some foreign film, and her lines are being dubbed by someone who is just getting acquainted with the english language? Also, I found it hard to find sympathy for any of the characters since as written they were self-centered and churlish. Benjamin Bratt had zero chemistry with our heroine. Interesting love scene at the car wash, though. Is John Schlesinger getting his ideas from Ally McBeal these days? "},{"Title":"Wow, this is a terrible movie","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow, this is a terrible movie.Did everyone connected with this movie decide that - heck, Madonna's in it, so by gum it's got to make money?!  Don't worry about acting!  Script - no bother!  Rupert - you need a break so sit back and cruise.  Gay man + straight friend.  It worked before so it has to work again!Her breathy voice is annoying before the opening credits are finished. What is up with the British accent?  (As if that has never been brought up before - haven't any of her friends told her that she isn't fooling anyone?)  She is a marketing genius with her music and deserves all the praise she has received in that arena, but maybe she should be satisfied with that, and leave acting to the talented or even the mediocre.It's obvious that she put a lot of effort into this, and I almost feel bad about putting it down. Nice try Mads, but this is not your thing.The whole script just has no idea what direction it wants to follow.  Pick a tone and stick with it.  How about the courtroom (a la The Practice) scene, or even worse, the pat and neat ending?Easily one of the worst movies I've seen in years. "},{"Title":"Not that bad, worth seeing","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Despite Madonna's lack of screen persona for most of the movie (she does have moments where she pulls it off), the film succeeds in probing questions about unconventional relationships and how they are viewed by society and the legal system.   Even though I am a Madonna fan, I was distracted by her attempts to create her practically trademark pseudo-British accent without any consistency.  She employs this accent many times, on and off screen, and I for one would like to see her give it a rest.   Rupert succeeds convincingly, although Hollywood's  portrayal of homosexuals as Judy Garland-loving,  gorgeous Adonis-like creatures with impeccable taste and sharp wit, is getting old.  Even though Rupert's scene as a flamboyant queen with large glasses and beret got a few laughs -- it only fed on existing gay stereotypes and took away from the fresh story that I thought I was in for. The later courtroom scenes were a little dramatic, and it is slightly unbelievable that in the six years that Abbey and Robert spent raising the child, they didn't think ahead and address the issue of custody with some binding legal  documents, both for their own sake as well as the sake of the child.  It was clear that both of them didn't want to keep living the single life. Even with its problems, The Next Best Thing is a decent film worth seeing.   "},{"Title":"Pleasant, if unchallenging, watch","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is more or less an extrapolation of the real-life relationship of Madonna to her friend Rupert Everett. To refresh your memory, Everett is the big handsome lug who wants to be the first gay James Bond.Anyway, the movie Everett (gay, as in real life) and Madonna (straight) are both depressed one night, and they get drunk and get it on and she ends up getting pregnant. She wanted a baby anyway, so she goes through with it, and the gay dad decides to move in with her and be the child's father, although the parents agree to pursue their own lives in other matters. Very enlightened.Things work out great for many years until Madonna falls in love with a guy who lives in another state. She decides that she can just take her son and go, but Everett and his family don't see it that way. They go through some ugliness, and some family court battles, and the movie is about their attempts to resolve the matter.I guess you can deduce from that summary whether you want to spend any time on this slice-of-life character based comedy/drama. Madonna dances only around the living room, and she sings only briefly and informally (although this quiet duet with Rupert Everett, over the casket at a friend's funeral, was the best scene in the movie.)I thought parts of this film were quite touching, it was slickly produced, there was some humor, and the characters were developed quite well. I didn't mind watching it at all, and never touched the remote. Believe it or not, screen legend John Schlesinger (Billy Liar, Midnight Cowboy, and many other fine films) directed this movie. He is now in his mid 70's.The biggest negative, in my book Madonna now speaks exclusively in perfectly modulated tones with her new refined accent. This would be fine if she were doing public service announcements, but it is much too stiff to bring vitality to a character, and she seems to deliver all her lines with the hollow self-awareness of a Stepford Wife. I don't really understand it. To me, Madonna's great success was generated by her vitality and daring. Now that's all under control and she delivers every line like one of those official spokespersons for the British royal family. Huh?She has some talent, and I don't see why she needs this facade to hide behind. I'd like to see Madonna do a Jessica Lange - let us see her as a person, breasts sagging a bit, face dirty, makeup running, hair unkempt, face contorted with rage, whatever is really deep down underneath the stylish clothing and the Henry Higgins articulation lessons. "},{"Title":"wow was that ever awful","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i can't name anything good about this movie.  it sucked.  madonna was terrible (and i think she can be good, but this was a bad role for her), the script was awful - extremely bad dialogue, the ending was a farce, and the cinematography was annoying.  even rupert everett was not good and that is hard to believe.  he was a semi-annoying cliche character doing annoying things..  what a colossal waste of time and money.don't bother. "},{"Title":"Self-regarding and shallow nonsense","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A vanity project gone mad. Rupert Everett never had much credibility to begin with, but whatever he had, it's gone now, as he plays the buffed-up but sensitive gay gardener. Madonna is just as bad - did she insist on script changes (You're smart, you're beautiful etc.), or were the writers fawning over her as much as she fawns over herself? What was truly mind-blowing was that this tosh was directed by the once great John Schlesinger (compare and contrast with Sunday,Bloody Sunday). Is it the money, John? Just say so, and we'll have a cash collection. Worst moment? Probably when a mourner says that the deceased would like Don McClean's American Pie played at the graveside. As opposed to what? Bartok's American Pie? Noel Coward's American Pie? Then everyone starts singing it. Pass the sick-bag, Alice. "},{"Title":"Ouch?","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is difficult to remain objective in your verdict when something has so much disappointed you. First of all, let  me say that this is simply not my kind of film. However, I can appreciate a good story as much as the next guy and  after the first half of this film I'd put myself over my distaste for Madonna's acting abilities (or lack thereof) and I had the feeling I was enjoying myself to some degree. Then the break (yes, we have breaks) and everything changed for the worse after I'd sat down again.  There are great problems with this film, and as far as I'm concerned they are concentrated around two things. First is Madonna's transformation from angel to demon after the argument in the supermarket. One little fight and everyone evacuates the house? Pleeeezz... Whereas the film does attempt to achieve some amount of moderation in the first half, everyone suddenly goes ballistic in the second, theMadonna character more than anyone else. Which brings  us to the second problem of the story, i.e. the lawsuit episode. We see the stakes raised continually the Rupert  Everett character isn't the real father, he brings in the 'Kevin' that Madonna broke up with in the beginning of the film and gets blasted for it by her. Two minutes before the end,  things have gotten near irreconcilable. But wait a minute,  what with the happy end? So to my utter amazement, I see  things pretty much restored in the last few instants of the  film. There are numerous other points of criticism you can mention (most notably the question why no one seems to get any older in ten years), but the shaky storyline (and sometimes unbelievable dialogues) really brings this film  crashing down. "},{"Title":"Next best thing to a coma!","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is terrible.  It actually insults the viewer in its' writing, which has no regard whatsoever for character credibility and continuity. We are supposed to believe that the leads Abby and Robert (played by Madonna and Rupert Everett) are intelligent, yet no time is actually given to showing us that they have seriously pondered the situation confronting them, ie. Abby becoming pregnant to with gay Robert's baby and raising it together as a family. I don't think Madonna is a bad actress, but this is most definitely not the film for her; the conglomeration of lines that calls itself her character, Abby, is so badly written that no actress could pull it off believably, and Rupert Everett just re-does his My Best Friend's Wedding routine, which was great then, but is wearing a bit thin here. The film sledgehammers us with the fact that Robert is a loving, caring father, but at the expense of any putting forward any kind of relationship between Abby and the boy.  And the slight twist in the storyline is a complete waste of time.  Basically, this is a very topical issue, but obviously too complex for the writer.  Madonna has the capability of putting in an amazing performance (see Evita and A League of Their Own), but who chooses these roles? "}{"Title":"Potentially interesting idea suffocated by cliche-ridden script","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although praised for her roles in the likes of Desperately Seeking Susan and Evita, The Nest Best Thing sees Madonna returning to the form of such previous mishaps as Body of Evidence and Dick Tracey.The film tracks the relationship between broody yoga teacher Abbie (Madonna) and her gay best friend Robert (Rupert Everett), who end up in bed together following a rather over-zealous Fourth of July celebration.  Although Robert agrees to help raise the resulting child, things become problematic when, several years on, Abbie meets and falls in love with Ben (the vastly underwritten Benjamin Bratt), who asks her to settle down with him.Although there is some on-screen chemistry between Madonna and Everett, the audience expects more, considering the twosome are real-life friends and basically playing themselves.  Everett fares best, pulling out all the stops in a reprise of his previous gay role in 'My Best Friend's Wedding'. Madonna's performance, on the other hand, is constantly inhibited by her mega-star status.  It is sadly impossible to forget that she is none other than Ms. Ciccone, meaning that her desperate-for-love character appears somewhat implausible.The script is a clunker, rendering the first half-hour of the movie cliche-ridden and woodenly acted, as the actors have little to work with. To be fair, it does get better as it becomes less predictable, and it is a good move by director Schlesinger to avoid playing the conventional happy ending card, instead prompting the viewer to ponder for themselves the futures of Abbie, Robert, and their son, Sam (Malcolm Stumpf).  This cannot, however, excuse several fatal blunders, including the fact the Next Best Thing suffers from an identity crisis, flailing wildly every which way from forced rom-com humour to courtroom drama, not helped by Abbie's sudden and bizarre personality change mid-film.  Perhaps irresponsibly, the script also allows Sam (a rather old-looking 5 year old) little emotional reaction to the troubles between his parents.Although watchable, with reasonable enough performances, the mediocre script fails to convince, leaving the viewer with a frustrated sense of what should have resulted from a potentially interesting Hollywood pitch. "},{"Title":"A true case of the next best thing not being the real thing","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What seemed like a good idea at the time ends up being quite a disappointment on the big screen. Apart from a script that's heavy-laden with banal lines, too many ideas and moods, and a particularly wooden performance from Madonna (she only really shines a few times, it's a continuity-obsessed viewer's nightmare. At one time, Rupert tells us it's the 21st Century (how modern), yet a few scenes later, he's at a gravesite of a recently departed person, and the headstone says 1953 - 1992! Then, there's no apparent ageing or fashion changes in six years, and Madonna's comparing her breasts in 1999 to what they were in 1989! It's a dog's breakfast really. And the film does not satisfactorily address the whole gay parent issue. It tries to, but it keeps shying away from the more sensitive issues (such as explaining to Sam the son that his dad is gay, and why faggot is not a good term to describe him). And as for the totally unbelievable developments and the ridiculous supermarket scene, well, the less said the better. Abbie may have been looking for the next best thing, and she certainly got it with this film, a less successful copy of The Object of My Affection, which was, while still cheesy, had at least some credibility. "},{"Title":"Worse than I expected.","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Madonna & Rupert have zero chemistry together and there's not a believable moment in the film, despite the high drama turn of events. Not a lot of humor either. The movie does make some surprisingly effective points about the inequity of gays and lesbians in our judicial system, but a typical episode of Will & Grace reveals more about the dynamic of gay men and straight women than this flick.  "},{"Title":"And the moral of the story is...","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ...don't ruin a perfectly good friendship with sex.After reading other reviews of this film I honestly wasn't expecting much.I was very pleasantly surprised.Rupert Everett (Robert) and Madonna (Abbie) have great screen chemistry together. In all scenes where they are together (most of the film) they just click and everything is very natural and believable.Robert pretty much puts his own sex/love life on hold so that he can be a real father to their son Sam -- very well played by Malcolm Stumpf.Abbie does the same -- but when Mr Right walks into her life (Benjamin Bratt as Ben) the deck is shuffled and a new hand is dealt. The conflict in the movie arises when Ben is offered a partnership in his banking firm -- but it requires him to move to New York. Robert is not about to lose his parenting rights as Sam's father.  A fairly ugly legal battle ensues in which a lot of low blows are given -- and taken -- by both Robert and Abbie; ruining what was one of those rare 'friendship-of-a-lifetime' relationships.Abbie needs to do what she believes is best for her and, ultimately, Sam.  Robert needs to do what he believes is best for Sam and ultimately him; he cannot give up his landscaping business to follow his child to the concrete canyons of New York City.Neil Patrick Harris (the child star of Doogie Howser, MD) doesn't have enough screen time as the HIV+ young man whose life partner has died of AIDS.  (Pneumonia to his partner's family.)  But in the small amount of time he is on the screen his performance is stellar.Illiana Douglas as Elizabeth Ryder (Robert's attorney) turns in a surprisingly subdued performance -- an attorney you will actually like and root for.Lynn Redgrave and Josef Sommer are great as Robert's parents -- willing to support their son both emotionally and financially to see that their grandson is allowed to live with their gay son as his child.  They were both fantastic.Their are some great little plot twists and courtroom revelations that will surprise and entice you.  The lengths that both Abbie and Robert go to to keep individual custody (and the reasons behind those lengths) are sad but believable if you have ever seen a real life child custody case.This is probably Madonna's best performance ever -- but there seem to be a lot of Madonna Bashers out there that are going to pan this film just because of their (erroneous) belief that Madonna is not an actor.One of her best scenes is alone in front of the mirror when she pushes her breasts up high and perky and says 1989 and then drops them to their natural position and says 1999.  Too funny for words.There are many great one-liners and the entire script is a finely honed piece of art.  The photography was excellent, as were the settings.Whether or not you agree morally or politically with the message of this movie you should see it -- probably even more so if you disagree.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Laughably bad","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Reading so many positive reviews makes me wonder if I saw the same movie. Although there were moments in which Madonna was a credible actress, those moments were few and far between -- and her occasional faux-British accent was very distracting.  While I really like Rupert Everett, there was little he could do to rescue this film considering the calibre of the lines he had to deliver.  The plot also left quite a bit to be desired the huge shifts in the relationship between the two main characters were not very plausible. Moreover, there were noticeable errors related to the passage of time which added to the un-believability of the story.    "},{"Title":"please don't go!","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Must be a real optimist to produce and act in a movie like this. Maybe Madonna and Everett recognize themselves in this story and believe that it could be interesting. Madonna got old. Schlesinger got very very old. Everett does his better but this is not enough to save one stupid thing like that. For me this movie was born bad directly from the script, with all those pathetic dialogs and the too old hand of the director does not help. I have been trying to hold until the end but I could not and I left after about 80/85 minutes "},{"Title":"PAINFULLY BAD!","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  THE NEXT BEST THING is probably one of the worst films I've rented this year. It is painfully bad. Not only because Madonna can't act, but the direction (by John Schlesinger) is slow, boring and pretentious. The movie starts off as a slow and not-so-funny comedy and then abruptly turns and becomse some really tragic (in the worst sence) plot about the rights to a child.Madonna plays a girl who wants a kid, but can't find the right guy. Her very best friend is gay, and one day they drink too much and ends up in bed. Nine months later enter SAM, their little kid. This works as pretty nice premisses for a movie. But it doesn't start their, and it doesn't ever end either... It starts off with scenes that are totally unnecissary to tell this story. And then turns to become a juridic fight over the kid. The comedy turns drama and almost in to a thriller, but never is neither. The only thing this film is is BORING! And so very boring that 110 minutes of it are about 100 minutes too long!Madonna is not good in this film and the director and the author should be better off selling pancakes at IHOP. However Rupert Evert (as Madonnas gay friend Robert) is pretty good, even though he is extremely uneven, mostly due to really bad directing (why does Robbie change from really nice guy to complete monster and then back again?).AVOID this film at all costs! It's a total disaster and I hope I will never come across a film by John Schlesinger or a film written by Tom Ropelewski ever again!VOTE 1 "},{"Title":"The next best thing to this would be death!","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a piece of CRAP. Madonna couldn't have acted her way to a piece of toilet paper in order to wipe the crap from the script. There was NO chemistry between Rupert Everett or Madonna, the script made no sense and was completely unbelievable, there's more humor in a seminar about mold and mildew, and the directing was awful. And the lighting! It looked as if somebody was holding a piece of aluminum foil under Madonna's face whether the scene was supposed to be day or night.It was as if the VHS tape had a special odorama scent that issued a foul odor into the room starting 5 minutes into it, and the foul smell increased to the point my eyes were burning and I couldn't breathe the air without a barf bucket nearby.Probably one of the worst films I've ever seen, I would have expected Hollywood to implode on itself after this mega stink-fest...  "},{"Title":"Bloated and lacking content!","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Acting awful, story awful, direction awful.The movie seemed really slow, choppy, and lacking in dialogue most of the time - ridiculous story.Literally the worst movie I have ever seen - it's even worse than The Patriot (Steven Segal).   Though, I haven't seen Battlefield Earth yet... "},{"Title":"Staggerlingly awful","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a huge failure thanks to Madonna'a inability to overcome her own superego, the screenwriters inability to give the (ha, ha) actors something meaningful to say, and John Schlesinger's impending state of dotage.There is not a single moment of real human interaction, movie magic,  or genuine emotion.  Madonna heads up the torture squad and brings actors Everett and Bratt down to her level of non-talent.  Old professionals Lynn Redgrave and hubby Josef Sommer do not bring anything either.  I have to conclude that Madonna has a day job she is good at.  She certainly earned her Razzie Award as Worst Actress.  Sad that a director of such masterpieces as Darling and Midnight Cowboy can be responsible for such garbage.  I hope everyone had a lousy time making it - I certainly had a lousy time watching it and why should the viewer be made to suffer the most?  "}{"Title":"COMPLETE AND UTTER TRASH","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Could it possibly be true that John Schlesinger directed this film?  It looks like it was made by a beginner, and a not very talented beginner at that.  The dialogue is lousy; the plot predictable (and who cares anyway); the acting at best unconvincing (Everett) and at worst dreadful (Madonna).  It has some of the worst cinematography I have ever seen.  Can anyone tell me why there is a shadow over Madonna's forehead in every shot?  What were they trying to hide? "},{"Title":"Could it really be this bad","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Did I miss something? Was this movie advertised as a comedy? The only explanation I could think of was that the makers were trying to make us laugh but forgot to tell us it was a comedy. Madonna, I have always admired your music, but your acting was not the next best thing, it was the worst. This was the first movie my partner and I ever saw together. She is the best thing, this movie is the worst. "},{"Title":"one of the worst","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Seeing this movie is the next best thing to having your intestines removed with a teaspoon. I never was a big Madonna fan (Like a virgin, touched for the very first time...), but I never thought she could be THIS bad. I stopped caring about all these characters within 15 minutes into the movie, and the only people I sympathized with were myself and any other suckers who paid to see this movie. It's just plain stupid. It's not funny, it's not dramatic, it's not believable - people don't act like this! It's ludicrously bad and all copies should be BURNED. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!!","Date":"14 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Great movie. Great acting. This is a great story.The world must not have been ready for it back in 2000. I thought Madonna's accent was a little distracting in the beginning but after I got involved in the show, it totally went away. This a great story about life and what struggles face us all in this world of diversity.It shows that people are full of love but life and the world's expectations interfere where love lays.Definitely worth watching!I laughed and I cried which represents a great movie to me! "},{"Title":"The Next Best Thing is Not Seeing This Film.","Date":"20 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Next Best Thing (2000) Dir John Schlesinger / Cast Madonna, Rupert Everett, Benjamin Bratt, Illeana Douglas, Lynn Redgrave Miserable sack of trash with a title that swerves around the issue of sex and friendship. Friendship is not the next best thing to a stupid sexual fling. Madonna and Rupert Everett are best friends. He is gay and the father of her baby after one drunken night. It is a bitter film that boils down to a custody battle when Madonna is engaged to someone she met in Yoga class. It jumps from Madonna in labour to her son at six years old in a matter of a scene that strikes as confusing without subtitles. The ending is slapped on and awkward. Dreadful directing by John Schlesinger who once made superb films such as Marathon Man and Midnight Cowboy. Now he directs this garbage just after directing another crap fest called Eye for an Eye. Madonna is hideous in a role that is very unsympathetic. Is it possible that this is her worst performance or is this one of her many toss ups? Everett fares far better as someone wrestling with his sexuality as well as friendship and potential fatherhood. Benjamin Bratt's performance as Madonna's Yoga class boy toy is about as inspiring as a kick in the ass. Illeana Douglas and Lynn Redgrave also make the mistake of showing up in this. Pointless soap opera where the next best thing is a paper bag to vomit in. Score ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"the next best movie (rental)","Date":"2 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Well, for my 1st crush as a teen, this Madonna is not any more a dream for sure  this Californian yoga practicer who fights for the custody of a child is faraway of the big apple carefree crazy girl ! This modern incarnation seems particularly anxious, not really a loving happy mother and more interested in pursuing men. About her first gay companion, i don't know what to think. Actually, i'm a bit tired to see that romances in the new millennium mean a gay story. However, this one asks a much controversial question which is can gay be parents ? However the movie organizes a stupid plot for answer with having this gay making love to a woman ! Worse, the movie begins as a comedy and ends like a drama. This kind of mixed content is generally not convincing. The only good surprise here was the song « American pie » and their young son who was full of life and looks like the son of Pénelope. "},{"Title":"strange","Date":"21 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" one of films only for lead actors fans. a confuse story with a high potential . a lot of events without purpose. Madonna and Rupert Everett. strange choices, too many characters without precise status, a baby like project and ball - in same measure, and something else, very obscure. the acting seems be result of hard improvisation and the roles are just images discovered on train window. a strange movie who could be only occasion for the two actors to note another characters in CV. sure, the good intentions are not little. but the message of film is obvious only a fog wall. and it is the essential bad thing. because it demonstrates a not inspired script, a director who do not know what he want, a large improvisation who has not beginning or end. "},{"Title":"More About Photographing Madonna","Date":"2 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Firm-bodied California yoga teacher Madonna (as Abbie Reynolds) suffers the end of a relationship, which is sad because she is getting older and wants to have a baby. Her gay landscaper pal Rupert Everett (as Robert Whittaker) suggests Madonna become a single mom through anonymous fertilization, but she wants a love child. Being best friends, they have too much to drink one night and copulate. Madonna learns she is pregnant. She and Mr. Everett decide to live together and raise their son, who very quickly grows into Malcolm Stumpf (as Sam)...All goes well until Madonna attracts reluctant yoga student Benjamin Bratt (as Ben Cooper). Now a foursome, the cast has a problem because Mr. Bratt, a self-described workaholic, has to move east for a better job position. He could live luxuriously as a California yoga teacher, but whatever... This well-intentioned story, unfortunately the last film directed by John Schlesinger, is more concerned with how to present a seemingly self-absorbed star than it is with filmmaking. Everett should have taken the kid and moved in with Neil Patrick Harris (as David).**** The Next Best Thing (3/3/00) John Schlesinger ~ Madonna, Rupert Everett, Benjamin Bratt, Malcolm Stumpf "},{"Title":"Un fortunately, 1 is the lowest that I can rate a film on IMDb...","Date":"1 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There are many films that I have rated 1 out of 10 that do not deserve the shame of being equated with this film. I am a very ardent Madonna fan; however, this is easily the worst film that I have ever seen. The script and the performances were so bad in spots that I felt nauseous with embarrassment. I couldn't look at the screen. My eyes went south and I was left with Madonna's voice sounding through the screen slipping nightmarishly in and out of a British accent. The plot was poor to begin with but the film was so badly put together that large time lapses left you confused and disoriented. Friends-jump-lovers-jump-enemies-jump-court-jump-friends-huh? what? Do yourself a favour- never, ever, ever watch this film. Unless you've always wondered, just how bad a movie can be. For all of those films that I've rated with one star (Xanadu, JAWSThe Revenge, etc...), I'm sorry; you are much better than this film. "},{"Title":"Very nice start, but it drives off into a canyon","Date":"27 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film drew the usual raft of competing bitchy one-liner put-downs from all the critics. No surprise there, because the film is, on balance, a failure. But for many fans of Madonna - those who want to see that volcanic stage personality burst forth on screen FINALLY - this was one of the most frustrating experiences of her career. Because it's a film that could have been very good, and even started nicely enough. But the script took a rapid turn off the highway and became a lumbering, runaway truck heading into a canyon. Neither Madonna nor Rupert Everett nor director John Schlesinger could escape the wreck.I agree that the film hit the wall after Abbie learns she's pregnant. It's that the film tried to carry all sorts of leaden political baggage instead of being a FILM. Having set itself up as a send-up of contemporary L.A. life, thinking itself so hip and modern until it goes too far, there was a lot of promise for this movie. Instead of the boring, groan-inducing turn the relationship took, it could instead have been a funny take on two highly self-absorbed people bumping up against the utterly selfless task of parenting, and alternately reaching their limits. Madonna and Everett would have run away with such characters and given them all sorts of humanity and comic touches.But instead, the screenwriters reached their limit of creativity and murdered the film. I feel bad for both Everett (whose career nosedived after this film tanked) and Madonna, who had just come off a Golden Globe for Evita and a raft of Grammys for Ray of Light.How could the studio have done this to them? Who are the idiots who wrote the final screenplay?There are funny, quirky moments, though. Madonna even has a few chances to poke fun at herself, and Everett has a funny turn by utterly queening out just to get even with one of her nasty exes. But those isolated moments just make The Next Best Thing even sadder to contemplate. "}{"Title":"Only for Madonna fans, seriously.","Date":"17 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Oh what the hell?... I don't care of what others think, I really enjoyed this movie back in summer 2000 when I watched it on theaters.I made a reflection today. I have spent a lot of money on actresses that I feel attracted to. In the same year, 2000, I watched many of Kirsten Dunst's movies just because I thought she was sexy.I watched The Next Best Thing because I was as die hard fan of Madonna's work and sexiness. To be honest, the plot isn't that bad at all and it even has some drama although it's considered as a romantic comedy.The plot is somehow related to a comedy because the situation is ridiculous but it surprisingly works for the movie. Getting pregnant with your gay best male friend and raising a child together? Yeah right.I recommend this movie ONLY for those who love Madonna and her work. Otherwise, stay away from it! "},{"Title":"Changes In Script And Casting Would Have Helped","Date":"29 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Mercilessly condemned by viewers and professional critics, this comedy-drama is not very good; but I have seen films that are a lot worse. A young woman named Abbie (Madonna), who is straight, has a one-night fling with her best friend Robert (Rupert Everett), who is gay. The result is that she gets pregnant. Abbie and Robert agree to raise the child together; but complications ensue when Abbie falls in love with someone else.The first part of the film is lighthearted, and plays like a music video, with some good songs, like Steppin' Out With My Baby. By the time we get into the second half, however, the lightheartedness has morphed into bitterness and controversy, a change in tone that is jarringly out of sync with earlier sequences.But an even bigger problem is the casting of the two leads, and the Robert character. Madonna tries hard to be a convincing Abbie; her performance isn't bad, really it isn't; she's just a little too wooden. But her celebrity persona as a musical pop star overwhelms all effort to make her seem like some average homebody. As a result, I would have preferred another actress.I did not care for Robert at all, with his exaggerated attempts at witty banter and his fluttering about, typical gay stereotyped behavior, vain and self-absorbed. Later, he becomes rigid in his ability to compromise, a character contrivance that only serves to advance the film's plot. And then Rupert Everett, with his hammy overacting, makes the already flamboyant Robert character almost unendurable. Everett's British accent in a Southern California setting is totally out of place. Almost any other actor of comparable age could have rendered a less painful performance.What makes the film bearable is some good music, including Don McClean's old song American Pie, and a nifty performance by Malcolm Stumpf as the child, a performance that was thankfully lacking in precocious behavior so often seen in child characters.If they had reworked the script in such a way as to have a more consistent storyline, toned down the Robert character, and chosen different performers for the two lead roles, The Next Best Thing might have been better received. As is, the film is interesting mainly for its music, and as a textbook case of what can go wrong when script and casting mistakes are not corrected. "},{"Title":"What was the deal with the shadow?","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Was it just me or did anyone notice a shadow on half of Madonna's face thru out the whole flick? That alone distracted me from getting involved with this film...Also the pairing of her and Bejamin Bratt, totally unbelievable... "},{"Title":"Just excruciating.","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yikes.  This movie is like a car wreck -- you want to avert your eyes, but are compelled by the ghastliness of it.  There is only one bearable scene, and it's directly after the alternately laughable/deadening courtroom scene when Rupert Everett is shown bare-chested on his bed, bathed in golden light and vertical shadows, looking pensive.  Good grief, is this man gorgeous or what?  But a great beefcake shot does not a movie make, and this thing is further testament to the fact that if Madonna feels compelled to make more terrible films she should at least get a lighting designer who uses gels much more...creatively.  Someone wrote in a review that she has absolutely no screen presence (completely true), but she should at least look halfway decent.  This film is a mish-mash of really idiotic, leaden dialogue, bad '50s-style melodrama, unrealistic characterizations and trite gay man/fag hag situations.  I hope to God Rupert holds this debacle against Madge and sticks to period pieces from now on (for example, if you want to see good Rupert Everett movies, rent Another Country, Dance With A Stranger, or An Ideal Husband). "},{"Title":"It's not THAT bad","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, this movie is no masterpiece. Sometimes it has really bad dialogue. BUT if you don't have too high expectations it can be an enjoyable movie for a rainy afternoon. The beginning is pretty bad and I already thought it would be a complete waste of my hard earned bucks. But I must say the movie became better and better once the child was there. Madonna is a damn fine singer but only a mediocre actress (even tough she was excellent in Evita). Rupert Everett is a very good actor but this script doesn't allow him to show that a lot. In the end, it's enjoyable and a better and more serious approach to gay parenthood and custody than one would think. I rate it 7/10.PS If you wanna see a movie with a similar topic but better script and acting watch The Object Of My Affection starring Jennifer Aniston and Paul Rudd. "},{"Title":"Two Movies In One The Second Saves This!","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a very difficult movie to rate. I actually found it to be two movies in one the first was so dull I almost didn't make it through. It was a slow-moving and dull account of an untraditional family, with Rupert Everett playing Robert, a gay man who in a fit of drunken silliness sleeps with his best friend Abbie (played by Madonna) and ends up as a father. I thought that there was very little to like in this part of the movie. The acting was sub-standard and there seemed to be no real chemistry between Everett and Madonna, who plodded through the script without any obvious emotion being displayed. I was ready to rate it a 1 (or maybe a 2) and move on.But then, somehow, a little more than halfway through, the whole tenor of the movie changes. The awkwardness of the unconventional relationship becomes apparent, as first Robert becomes involved in a relationship with another man, and Abbie becomes engaged. How can this unconventional family survive? Jealousy begins to raise its ugly head, and there is the inevitable decision to be made who gets custody of Sam (Malcolm Stumpf) after Abbie's marriage? The resulting ugliness of a custody suit certainly brings out the emotion lacking in the first half of the movie, as the acting picks up dramatically. There are enough twists in the course of the court fight to keep the viewer interested, and the second half features a good performance by Benjamin Bratt as Abbie's fiance.As I said, it's two movies in one. If you can stick with this through the first hour or so, you'll enjoy it. Put the two parts together, and you get a 6/10. "},{"Title":"What a movie, should be better","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When i see Madonna in Evita i admired her so much about her acting which is absolutely perfect and wonderful. Seeing this one, Madonna's character seems not very well presented, the face looks not cheerful at all. After seeing the first fifteen minutes, i can say the story can't attract my attention to continue the movie.The script might have been out of control and i don't find the story much more interesting anymore afterwards. "},{"Title":"The Next Worst Thing ... Ever","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What can I say.  Madonna should have known better than to get involved in this execrable load of old sentimental nonsense.  Surely she can't need the money that badly.Rupert Everett, on the other hand, proved that he is a one trick pony once again giving a spectacularly wooden performance as the only character he ever seems to play that of the English gay guy goody two shoes.The only real star of the movie, Lynn Redgrave, always a remarkable actress seemed totally out of place and seemed almost embarassed to be involved.I had no sympathy with any of the characters and couldn't have cared less what happened to them.Complete drivel, and I urge you to avoid this dreadful movie at all costs. "},{"Title":"More than what meets the eye...","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I didn't expect much from this film, and I was proven right at least acting and comedy wise.  However, it did suprise me how strong the message was, and how it dealt head on with the issues of custody and parental rights. For a romantic comedy,it really made you think and thus earned its stripes from me! "},{"Title":"I'm the first person to write a review? **POSSIBLE SPOILER**","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"    ***PARTIAL SPOILER AHEAD***  I saw the trailers and I thought, this is going to be cute.  What I didn't expect was to see only one picture of the child as a baby.  I was waiting to see her care for him as an infant.  Disappointment.  It totally detracted from my sympathy when the custody battle ensued.  I wasn't expecting the revelation, but I had seen it in a romance novel before.  If you want heart tugging, try Look Who's Talking, Look Who's Talking Too or Big Daddy.  This wasn't what I expected... but it was heart warming and funny in places... and better than some movies I've seen. "}{"Title":"The Next Best Thing to Acting?","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm loathe to write this, because I love Madonna. I even bought the DVD, sure that I'd want to own this!  But while Madonna is a genius with music and a Diva otherwise...she'd best leave acting to the talent of those who CAN actually act!  To be fair, I do believe that her skills have improved some, but not enough to carry this movie all the way through. Her changing accent (from British to American, back to British) was annoying, and her poor attempts at showing emotions like sadness/anger/rage were all so controlled!  You could observe the thought process on her face,  as if thinking, Ok, look angry/sad/mad now!   I didn't believe for a minute that she was someone other than Madonna.  And puh-lease...this movie was ALL about Madonna!  Her Yoga, her single-parenthood, her friendship with the real-life Rupert.   But is it fair to say that Madonna can't even act like Madonna???  I think that's putting it mildly.  Rupert Everett was funny, his usually charming self. Lynn Redgrave was a hoot, and Benjamin Bratt was a doll.  But Malcom Stumpf, the little boy, lacked charisma and there was nothing remotely cute about him (how many kids can you say that about?).  Otherwise, the scenes were choppy, possibly poorly edited, the lines were cliched, and the plot was redundant, at best.  Overall, a good attempt, but a sad turn-out. It's like a re-make of the Object of My Affection gone bad!  Don't take my word for it.  Rent it and see for yourself. But don't spend over $20 owning this movie--you'll never watch it again. "},{"Title":"Quite Good","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My mom and I meant to go see Hanging Up, but it had left the theater the day before. So we skimmed the listings in our newspaper, and decided The Next Best Thing was our best bet. I'd seen previews on TV and thought that it might be good.Unlike some movies, the previews didn't give the film away at all. I was surprised at the subject matter and plot to the film, as it wasn't at all what I'd expected. But I laughed and cried through the whole thing, and thoroughly enjoyed it. Madonna was good, and Rupert Everett was wonderful. Although there were sad parts, it was never depressing, which was nice. Michael Vartan was miscast - he was better in Never Been Kissed.As long as you have an open mind and are willing to submerge yourself in a film, I'd say go ahead and rent it! 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Next Best Thing Is Wonderful!","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When this film came out I was interested by its premise and wanted to see it... but after hearing bad reviews and no word about it from friends I skipped over it.I rented it on video today and I am shocked at how GREAT this film was and how it managed to create hardly a buzz. Madonna's performance is incredible, better than she was in Evita, and Rupert Everett is equally good.What I liked most about this film was the characters seemed very real to me. At first I thought Madonna's character, Abbie, was going to be cold and intimidating but she turned out to be soft and motherly.I thought the ending was perfect and I'd like to see it again! "},{"Title":"The most wonderful (and tricky) father love story","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  (Possible spoiler!)The best thing about The Next Best Thing is that you don't experience it as a gay movie or as a gay parent issue movie, but simply as a father movie.The story develops itself in a way that it tricks all your (possible) prejudices - strong!Wonderful characters! And Sammy is so adorable and sweet. This movie fills your heart in many ways. OK, it's a little over the top the way it all starts one night of being foolish (?) and -woah- there's a baby! But hey, it's not totally impossible isn't it? No problem if one tries to explore how things could work out. There have been a lot worse invented situations to base a (successful) movie on. And the movie definitely transcends this anyway. This great movie was the nicest surprise of the year!  "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i must say i'm not very into romantic trash movies, and this was definitely one of those. I presumed that it would be a romantic comedy, but it's more like a romantic drama. The trailer doesn't represent the movie at all.OK, now I know that Madonna can't act at all, although compared to the others she wins. She's definitely better than the guy who plays Robert, he is overacting through the whole movie. I wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone, except when you really like romantic trash. I would say 4 out of 10 points. "},{"Title":"Much better then the critics said!!!","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, I just saw The Next Best Thing tonight. Being a MAJOR Madonna fan, I was very excited to see the movie, even after reading some of the bad reviews the film was getting. But then again, Madonna can´t be in a film without the critics trying to tear it to pieces. What did I think? Well, the movie is far from being flawless. But it´s very funny, touching at times and the acting is mostly excellent. Madonna may not be the greatest actress in the world, but she does a great job in this film. Rupert is good as always. I went to see the film with my boyfriend and we loved how much the film celebrated it´s gay audience. I felt the tears coming out of my eyes when Madonna and her friends sang American Pie at the funeral of their friend.... It must also be noted that Madonna looks stunning in the film for a 40+ year old!!!! And the soundtrack is excellent, with two Madonna songs along with Beth Orton, Moby, Mandaly etc. The only real problem I had with the movie was the script. It worked fine until the last 30 minutes or so - then it became a bit hard to believe and things seemed to happen a bit too fast. But this movie is very entertaining, and a must for fans of M and Rupert.Don´t believe the critics and judge for yourself. I did and I surely don´t regret it! "},{"Title":"I Wouldn't Call It The Best.. But It Deserves A Look","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Next Best Thing, was on my most highly anticipated movies list. However it sadly did not live up to my expectations. With a story we have heard many times before (except for an all too obvious punch at gay pride), and a actress/singer no one would except if their life was being threatened (why, I don't know)... TNBT just never picked up any momentum.  Throwing itself back and forth from what could of been a powerful movie, to a lush courtroom drama and ending up with nearly no meat for its veiwers to chew on. However- Madonna, (looking beautiful as ever) in a part not given much depth, not by acting but by script, and Rupert, who held the movie his way surprisingly well enough, actually make for a stunning movie duo. On a rather off the subject note- Madonna needs to be given a chance, she has the talent to be an great actress! Look at the changeable emotions in her charecters... (mainly seen in Evita, Dick Tracy, and Desperately Seeking Susan). Somewhere, and somehow for unapt reasons she got a bad acting nod pinned on her, when it is quite obviouse this girl has power and glamour. However- One should not throw away something they have worked so hard for in the past (singing), for one movie for a complete year, and it obviously not going to be respected even if it were good or bad. The Next Best Thing, was not a bad movie, but it was not a great movie either, I would watch it again, because I can tell it is one of those movies you have to watch again to get more out of.  This movie resolves well, and does have a few sparkling, notable moments (and contrary to what most think.. the Funeral scene was well done, and the song American Pie is kind of like a metaphor in the movie and works well attached). Give TNBT a look if you like those harmless, soft, engaging movies or if you are a fan of Madonna's... but if you are not don't stray away her image oddly enough is believable as someone else.. and lets face it that really is the only reason none of you would say you didn't want to see it. Be fair. "},{"Title":"no Oscar material","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Come on, you guys! We all know Madonna´s acting is no Oscar material since ´Shanghai Surprise´ (although a nomination for Evita would have been fair). But the woman is one of the last real Hollywood diva´s. It´s fun to watch her, never mind the acting, like it was (and is) fun to watch Joan Crawford (f.i.). I saw ´The next best thing´ at a gay movie festival in Holland, with an all gay audience, and the first half of the movie was received very well. You could feel the disappointment when the drama took over, but the majority of the audience left the cinema smiling and humming ´American pie´. That should say something.    "},{"Title":"father loves his kid","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A happy-merry-go-round comedy with Madonna willing to have a kid at any political cost(erase the word 'political'). The ignorant father will love that child and will fight to keep him by his side.Touching moments,motherly care and a bright kid that can conquer any sympathy.Excellent act by Rupert Everett.Without him,the movie would go  for a big flop because Madonna is not so convincing. Good plot and effectual philosophy on human relations,on the gay issue and the theoretical ground of 'father'. "},{"Title":"Worse than I imagined","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I like Madonna as a singer; I appreciated her so much in Evita (if you like musicals...); I heard she just won the Oscar for the worst actress of the whole century (I don't remember the particular name for such price...) and I couldn't believe the reason why... but after having seen The Next Best Thing I understand the reason! I found her inexpressive, as flat as Earth before Galileo, compared to Rupert Everett, so funny! The subject is important, serious and topical, but unfortunately it has not been deepened enough... What a pity... Rossana "}{"Title":"Like Madonnas acting abilities, OK but not great.","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am a huge Madonna fan but even I must concede that she can not act! Ive always defened her acting (sometimes ok but never great) but I was cringing at some of her lines. The film itself too was only ok. Haveing read bad reviews it was slightly better than I expected. The screenplay was very mixed up especially when it came to time and dates (eg the head stone date said 1992 and the child was conceived after the funeral and only aged 6 by 1999!) The was an interesting tableau durring the getting drunk scene that was good to look at but didn't fit into the rest of the films structure.I have to say that the soundtrack is probably the best thing about the whole film, very modern and up beat. In all the film was watchable mildly enjoyable 5/10 and mainly for Madonna/Everett fans. "},{"Title":"Other than gorgeous Rupert - what a bore!!","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is rarely that you see a movie where it is obvious the actors are acting. I don't know whether it was a poor script or poor direction but even actors I have admired in the past delivered a wooden performance.  As for Madonna - she should stick to singing - something she is fantastic at!  Acting is definitely not her forte.  Her accent (English??) fell in and out and her lines were delivered with hardly any feeling for the character.  The story was predictable and unbelievable - sound impossible ?? then see this movie but for God's sake don't pay for it - wait for it to be in the 7 videos for $7 category at your local video library!  "},{"Title":"She Still Can't Act!!","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think The Next Best Thing had a good storyline, but fell short in the following areas 1. Madonna's acting. 2. Cheesy dialogue. 3. Undeveloped characters (Benjamin Bratt's etc ....)But it had the premise of a very promising movie, with its subject of what constitutes a family and whether a gay man can act as a father to a child.Madonna still needs some polishing on her acting skills though. "},{"Title":"Very relevant and very entertaining","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I was on vacation in New York last week I got a chance to see THE NEXT BEST THING one evening. And it was definitely worth the money despite some not-understandable critics.First of all I find the story very relevant. It was about time that gay parenthood was the theme of a movie (if there was one before please correct me). It was a nice portrayal of alternative lifestyles in the new millennium. And there was no putting up the index finger, no clichees used. It was just a normal and very human story that touched my heart.Now to the much critized acting. I think critics just like to trash Madonnas movies because they can't accept or don't want to accept that someone can be very good and right on track in various fields of the entertainment business. She is a good actress and she has proven that before just take a look at Evita or Dangerous Game. And she proves it again in this one. You never see Madonna the superstar on screen. Instead you see a normal caring mother and friend that has too deal with reality in the year 2000. I found her performance funny and touching as well. And no matter what movie she stars in and no matter how good she really acts there will always be a bunch of critics out there to trash it. Please you guys wake up and face reality!As for the others. Of course Rupert was great and so was the boy. And just wait until you see Benjamin Bratt performing yoga. It's hillarious! "},{"Title":"Gun the critics, decide for yourself!!","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had read all the harsh reviews and had skimmed through the bad press still, resting on my hunches, I went along to see this movie. I admit that I actually left the theater having  laughed, touched and totally moved. Madonna has probably delivered the best performance of her acting career, although the British accent definitely requires explanation. Hard as it may be to believe, she is actually convincing as an everyday yoga teacher, rather than the mega-super queen of pop. Ruppert Everret as ever, is his pleasant, gorgeous and witty self.  The fact that Madonna & Ruppert are real life best friends further complements their on-screen chemistry. But the highlight of the film is Malcom Stumpf  the child star playing  the couple's son with his brilliantly real portrayal of a child torn between his parents.But I did feel that the stereo typical sub-plots like their friend's death from AIDS, drag queens and Ruppert's un-approving father were just added as fodder for mainstream audiences. Another thing which bothered me, was that the period from Madonna's pregnancy till their child's 6th birthday flashed by in less than 6 seconds!!! Madonna could have at least altered her hair style to make us believe that 6 years have gone by!!! After all the woman is known for reinventing herself every 6 months!!!!Nonetheless I say, let the critics gun down this movie, keep an open mind and go give it a shot. You will find yourself having been pleasantly touched by this warm, funny and moving tale of an unconventional, modern day American family.  "},{"Title":"Romantic comedy or drama? Make up your mind.","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, I had nothing to do this afternoon and decided to go see The Next Best Thing. I've seen Rupert Everett in other movies (My Best Friend's Wedding, An Ideal Husband) and have always found him to be entertaining but unfortunately, he couldn't save this movie.The premise of this movie is fairly simple. A gay man and a straight woman are friends, in fact best friends. They confide in each other about everything and are always there when the other is down. When we meet Abbie (Madonna), she discovers her boyfriend is moving out of her place and calls her gay friend Robert (Everett) asking him for advice. He tells her to go get dressed as if she were going on a date (to make her boyfriend jealous) and then proceed right over to his place to tell him everything. The two of them meet up, get completely sloshed and somehow end up having sex. Not too soon afterwards, Abbie discovers she's pregnant and tells Robert the baby is his. After a little deliberation, they decide that they can raise this child together and in doing so, they decide move in together. Keep in mind that Robert is still gay (only had a momentary lapse of straightness, no pun intended) and that he continues on with his life-style. Mean while, Abbie, after having her child begins to date again. Do you see where this is heading?As you can tell, the story is fairly straight forward. There are a couple twists near the end but nothing all that surprising. But the problem is that this movie had an identity crisis. You're given the impression from the commercials and trailers that this is a romantic comedy, kind of like Object of my Affection and that's what you expect. It starts out that way and then part way through it turns into this serious drama...and it's a very obvious switch. For me, I didn't like this transition. I felt a little bit frustrated as they made this switch and drained out all the humor from it.I've seen Madonna in a couple of other movies and have never really liked her all that much. For some odd reason, Madonna decided that she needed to work on her enunciation and accent (at least I think it was supposed to be an accent) in this film. What ended up happening is that her dialogue was annoyingly over enunciated. Frankly, it sounded terrible. Also, for whatever reason, they decided to dub Madonna's voice (whether she requested this or was the director's decision) back in so whenever she spoke to Everett or anyone else, you occasionally could hear the voice overs. It was quite obvious and quite annoying. I don't usually get very nit-picky about things but in this case I'm going to. All throughout the movie, every single time the camera was on Madonna, there would be this band of light across her eyes. Do you know what I mean? You know those light effects that they used to use in the old black and white movies where Carey Grant would be speaking to someone at night and there would be this band of light across his eyes to give him this air of mystery. Well, samething here, except that when the camera moves back to any of the other characters, the lighting would be back to normal. What's up with that? It just looked plain silly...but I got a pretty good laugh out of it. Again, whether Madonna wanted this herself or this was a directing decision, it was a bad one. The whole scenario was just hard to believe and although Madonna is a mother in real life, she didn't do a very good job of portraying it here. There wasn't the chemistry that was needed between her and the child and the chemistry between her and Everett wasn't all that good either.Rupert Everett was pretty good though. He provided most of the humor and when it called for genuine anguish he made it come through but unfortunately, he couldn't hold this movie together. Overall, save yourself a couple of bucks. This movie isn't worth watching on the big screen.A "},{"Title":"Worth a Look","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Next Best Thing was a bit of a surprise.  I found that Madonna's performance began somewhat hollow but became very natural and real as the film progressed.  Her scenes with Rupert Everett and the child actor are very natural and honest.  Rupert is his usual best. The film is very interesting and should hold your attention until the very last scene.  A very light-hearted and entertaining dramedy. "},{"Title":"Madonna  a great singer and great actress .","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is wonderful!. Rupert is good, like always but Madonna is excellent . Watching this film and Evita you will see what a good actress she can be . And the song Time Stood Still from the O.S.T. performed by Madonna is one of the most beautiful ballads I have heard. "},{"Title":"Uh, Madonna? There appears to be a bad, English accent in your mouth.","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What is with her and that North Dakota version of an English accent? If the Rupert Everett character had been played by Chow Yung Fat, would she have attempted Mandarin Chinese or at least the Chinese laundry lady accent (ain-chent chii-knees seee-kret)?!?Her devotion to yoga has translated her acting style into some sort of bizarre, non-reactive bliss fest that is as interesting on screen as watching dust settle on furniture.I didn't really see all that much chemistry between her and Rupert Everett either. More between him and the kid. And that's not saying much.I would have LOVED to have seen Benjamin Bratt and Illeana Douglas in the leads and these two in the supporting roles. Far superior actors and I would hedge a bet that the chemistry would've been a lot more explosive.Ultimately, I have to blame John Schlesinger for this wasted opportunity. What was he thinking during the dailies? Why didn't he get the M woman to stop the bad accent? Even if she believes that's her real voice, why didn't he tell her to play the character like a woman from the Detroit suburbs? "},{"Title":"Engaging story line, good comedic moments","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie had all of the elements I like  interesting, realistic story, some funny dialogue, and a few excellent yuks.  Other user comments for this film show that there is a wide array of opinion on the acting abilities of the central players.  I didn't have any big problems with the acting and, while the accent thing was noticeable it wasn't distracting.  But just where was the elocution coach?Rupert Everett - he's funny, good-looking, and intelligent.  Who needs more? "}{"Title":"Severely disappointed, am I.","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  	I wasn't expecting this movie to be a hall of famer, but I was expecting an enjoyable, sometimes funny, sometimes sad movie.  I got none of the above.  I tried to ignore the critics' bad reviews, I tried to ignore my friends' bad reviews, and decided to see this movie anyways, keeping an open mind.  Now I find myself thinking about what else I could have spent my money on that is more worthless.   	First of all, the movie is billed as a romantic comedy, but I don't think I laughed once.  I didn't cry either, as some people have said they did.  I did feel sorry for Rupert Everett in the custody trial, but it wasn't really that moving.  The unbelieveably cliche funeral-American Pie-evil family that doesn't want to admit their son was gay and died of AIDS scene actually made me wince, as well as the extremely dumb and unfunny way they handled the scene where Abbie and Robert have sex.  Apparently, it's funny that they're housesitting for two fastidiously neat gay men and they completely destroy the house in their fit of lust.  Bad script, that's all there is to it. 	As for performances, yes, Madonna is as wooden as all the critics said, which is sad because I've always defended her acting.  But in this movie, it sounded like she was just reciting her lines, no emotion, no heart.  And the slight British accent she adopts every time she's talking to Rupert is extremely annoying.  Rupert Everett is his usual charming self, but even he can't save this mess of a movie.   	It's just..bad.  All of it, bad.  It makes me very sad to say that because I love the stars in it, and I thought it sounded like a good story.  But really, if you're a fan of anyone in this movie, don't taint your opinion of them by seeing this movie.     "},{"Title":"Mediocre","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Madonna and Rupert Everett star in this lethargic and surprisingly generic dramedy that is mediocre at best. The first 45 minutes of this film are absolutely awful with one of the corniest, laughably bad funeral scenes ever put on film. From there, the movie does get better but not by much. It never pulls itself out of the TV movie territory it gets stuck in. Moreover, the whole affair is executed with relentless sloppiness from the direction(by the once great John Schlesinger no less) to the musical score to the editing to the script. Madonna is ever so slowly getting better at the acting thing but she still has a long way to go. There are moments when she's able to exude warmth and endearment but most of the time she is made to cry pathetically and spends half the movie with her face covered in tears. Rupert Everett fares better but never really looks like he cares much. This is a bad movie with good intentions but that's the extent of it. "},{"Title":"My heart was pounding when the big problem was coming at this happy family and It was too sad to watch Rufu go though","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Recently Movies that evolves around gay theme, they don't much trying to explain the definition of gay or cry to persuade people to love them based on who they are. Now, society assumes that being gay is natural but sometimes people can be hypocritical like one day, they can accept gays and other day they can't.Anyway, in this movie, there aren't too much conflict between gay and hetro. Actually they both don't have problem of blending to each other but too much later on, Rufus has to face the the harsh law.My heart was pounding when the big problem was coming at this happy family and It was too sad to watch Rufu go though emotional pain when he was about the lose his beloved son.It also p***ed me off, when people went against him at the end because he was gay. They didn't have problem in the beginning but I guess they could use it as weapon when there isn't much solution.It is very dramatic movie..  I give about 9 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Sloppy and patronizing, but fitfully entertaining","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie kept me watching, but was still maddening.  For a movie from a gay director, with a gay leading man and a very gay-friendly leading lady, why is it so stereotypical in its depiction of gay men specifically the two mincing old queens Rupert works for, who squeal and wear scarves & draped-over-the- shoulders sweaters and argue about old show tunes?  Can't we move beyond such stock characters nowadays? Also, there's a lot of choppiness in the scenes and inconsistencies in the characters and their motivations - was a great deal left on the editing room floor?  Some scenes are just downright bad, especially the poorly-handled and unbelievable scene where Madonna and Rupert Everett sleep with each other.  And please, somebody declare a moratorium on scenes where the characters have a sing-along at a funeral.  Ugh!Despite all these unsatisfactory elements, the movie's not without its charms.  Although some reviewers have been awfully harsh on her, Madonna actually gives a decent, relaxed performance - I'm not a huge fan, and have hated other performances of hers, but she's not half bad here, and has improved.  She and Rupert Everett have a nice chemistry due to their off-screen friendship.  Rupert can be great, but his snit-fit in the grocery is very badly handled, though more the fault of the writers and director, because its jarringly out of place given how the character has been up to that point.  And the scene where he flames out to embarass Madonna's old boyfriend is hilarious in concept, but limp in execution.  He doesn't have the broad comic flair needed to carry it off.  My main interest in Benjamin Bratt's performance was in trying to determine what the scars (?) on his chest were from. "},{"Title":"Lukewarm comedy/drama","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For those of you who were wondering whatever possessed Madonna to remake Don McLean's classic song, `American Pie,' see `The Next Best Thing.'  If nothing else, the film certainly provided a newfound appreciation for Madonna's updated version of the song, which appears several times in the film.  The single and the film share the same tone - modern and almost ominous at times.`The Next Best Thing' stars Madonna (sporting that annoying British accent) as Abbie, a Yoga instructor who longs for a family, but feels she is way past her prime.  Rupert Everett, in a role similar to his character in `My Best Friend's Wedding' co-stars as her gay best friend, Robert.  After about twenty minutes of friendly banter reminiscent of `The Object of My Affection,' the film takes some unexpected twists and turns, leaving the audience exhausted by the end.When one of Abbie and Robert's friends passes away, they spend the night drinking and trashing the house where Robert works as a gardener.  After ending up in bed together, Robert learns that he has fathered a child whom Abbie is now pregnant with.  Flash forward six years, and the three are a happy, picturesque American family.  However, what lies underneath this seemingly happy family is a bubble waiting to burst, as Abbie and Robert never explain to their son, Sam, why they never sleep in the same room, or why is Robert is called a `faggot' by Sam's friends.  Cue good looking investment banker, Ben, (played by Benjamin Bratt) who falls in love with Abbie, and the family is torn apart.The film turns from witty family comedy to weighty drama when Abbie considers following Ben to New York and taking Sam with her.  What ensues is a nasty court battle that while providing some moving moments, didn't seem to make sense.  The entire storyline seemed as if transplanted from another movie.  The characters departed so far from their personalities that it made the entire idea seem removed from the rest of the movie.  Abbie and Robert, who once were each other's best friends, seem to care more about winning than saving their friendship.  Although she raised Sam with him for six years, moving to New York and ditching Robert doesn't seem to be a problem for Abbie.  Never mind the kid, the idea that their friendship has been destroyed was the most heart wrenching part of the film. In `The Next Best Thing,' Madonna plays the character she does best - herself, and she does do it well.  Her newfound confidence and image as loving mother translated well to screen, providing for some of the film's most moving moments.  Everett and Madonna play off each other well, making their friendship believable.  Everett was his usual charming self, adding a sarcastic comment whenever possible and providing all of the funny lines.  Although this typecasting made the movie seem dull at times, the actors did what they do best.  However, the most interesting characters were the supporting roles that left the audience wanting to know more about them at the end.  Neil Patrick Harris was intriguing as Abbie and Robert's friend David who just lost his lover to AIDS; Malcolm Stumpf was equally charming as their son Sam, displaying much potential as an actor.The film provided some very funny as well as moving moments, all the while posing some interesting questions about the meaning of family and friendship.  That Abbie and Robert's friendship could take such a quick downward turn from the introduction of just one extra person made the audience wonder how easily a friendship can be destroyed, and how much it takes to keep it going.  Although the film provoked many emotions, much of the plot seemed unnecessary or so out of character that it was unbelievable.     "},{"Title":"The Next WORST Thing.","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Only Madonna and her real life buddy Rupert Everett could have come up with the idea for their new film NEXT BEST THING. Since this film does with Madonna's character of being a single parent, and having a best friend who is a homosexual. Hhmmmmm, this sounds too real?  So since Madonna has enough power to make a musician like Alantis Morrissette become big, why can't she make a movie like this? NEXT BEST THING tells the story of Abbie (Madonna) who has just broken up with her long time serious boyfriend.  Abbie then seeks comfort from her friend, who happens to be gay, Robert (Rupert Everett).  Then one 4th of July evening after fooling around, Abbie and Robert both get drunk silly, and find each other attractive (I guess it takes that many drinks to find Madonna attractive).  A few weeks later, Abbie tells Robert that she is pregnant with Robert's baby.  So instead of getting married, remember Robert is gay, so they move in together and raise the child together (fair enough).  Then years have passed, and the child is all grown up, Kevin (Michael Vartan). Now Abbie meets and falls in love with Ben (Benjamin Bratt), and Abbie wants to move to New York with Ben, and taking Kevin with her.  This leaves Robert the pain and pressure of trying to win custody of Kevin. This is a mess of a movie, it's trying to be too many things within it's two hours length.  First it wants to be a buddy/buddy romantic comedy similar to Everett's MY BEST FRIEND'S WEDDING.  Then it wants to be a family comedy of a single mom and a homosexual man rasing a child.  And then it wants to be a movie about child custody.  Plus not to mention that this film pretty much has the lifestyles and beliefs that Madonna lives with yoga, AIDS, single parenting, and homosexuals. The acting in this film is also bad, Everett comes off annoying most of the time, and Madonna (when she's not showing off her looks and body) whines and cries.  Even vereran actors Joesf Somer and Lynn Redgrave are wasted in this film.  Only Benjamin Bratt comes out ahead, as the films only saving grace. And what's with director John Schlesinger?  He directed a excellent movie back in 1969 called MIDNIGHT COWBOY, why is he directing a piece of trash like this?  It appears that he just sat in his chair as Madonna and Everett took control of the film.  And why does every scene with Madonna have her glowing, and the light is just focused on her eyes.  I haven't seen such vanity since Barbara Streinsand's MIRROR HAS TWO FACES. But I guess being a mega pop star does that to a person. This film is a waste of time for everyone involved, some movies just sound good on paper, this is one of them.  But I'm sure Madonna wanted to make this film, since it seems that she had complete control over it.  And also, how many times does one have to listen to Don McLean's American Pie being played throughout the film?  I counted at least 10, then there's the ending credits with the star's own version.  This film is just plain bad, and only Madonna fans will walk out enjoying it, since they watched her for two hours.  Others will feel cheated, and I don't blame them.  *1/2 (out of five)  "},{"Title":"Wasn't as good as I expected...","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  From the previews, I had expected a lighthearted comedy, with more focus on the humorous side of a gay man and a straight woman raising a child together.  The chemistry between Madonna and Rupert Everett was great, and it could have carried the movie on its own.  However, when complications lead to a custody battle, the magic gets ugly, spoiling what I initially thought was a cute movie. "},{"Title":"Another reason to ignore the critics","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film has many, MANY small flaws.... none of which really detracts measurably.  At some point I realized that just about any film like this would have received the same overly cool reception.  Why?  Because everyone knows from the get-go that it's a gay movie and most people also know it's got an un-gay twist in it.  So a lot of straight people see it braced for some gut-level discomfort, and a lot of gay people see it prepared to grimace at the un-gay elements.  Thus, probably way too many viewers arrive at the theater with their colons already in a knot.  Added to this are the perhaps 8 million garden-variety cynics who've trained themselves to loathe anything Madonna is involved in and who will want their voices heard.No matter.  Maybe have a cocktail first, then just sit back and enjoy.  Everett and Bratt are quite good, Madonna is adequate (not horrible, but adequate), and several of the smaller roles are done well in spite of the quirky, uneven script -- which, granted, is substandard, but not nearly the atrocity some are making it out to be.Nobody in the cast will win any awards for this film, and those of us who came for the story won't care.  "},{"Title":"What's up with Madonna's accent?","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  All during the movie, I kept wondering what the heck is wrong with Madonna. I hated her accent.  It sounded so fake and unnatural, almost like a whine. The movie was okay, I've seen far better.  To me the Object of My Affection was a much better movie with a similar topic.  Madonna can sing, but I would give up on the acting if I were her.  Don't get me wrong , I love Madonna, but the accent has to go! "},{"Title":"An Aptly Titled Flick","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well folks, Oscar material this film isn't, but what starts out to be a predictable and stiffly-acted piece takes some unexpected plot turns to wind up as a thought-provoking and worthy evening of entertainment.  Though Madonna's off-screen music and moxie have much to recommend them, in this film she's not playing a far cry from her real-life self.  Unfortunately this does not assist her acting, as it comes across rather demanding and forced.  Does she still need to prove something at this point in her stellar list of accomplishments?  I'm glad she's taking yoga, because she's so much more appealing when she can R-E-L-A-X.  Deep breath now, Madonna....there we go.  Rupert Everett finds a good balance between amusing and sincere, and Benjamin Bratt does a competent turn as the hunky White Knight.  The role I would have liked to see expanded was Illeana Douglas as Rupert's lawyer. It's nice to see her cleaned up and articulate after some of the roles she's played elsewhere. If you're a critic looking to find great acting, you probably don't want to look too deeply at this flick.  Yet if you want to laugh a little and expand your thinking about relationships, gender roles, forgiveness, yoga-as-a-path-to-health, and parenting, by all means see it. Namaste. "}{"Title":"What's up with Madonna?","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie had three good parts to it, Rupert, Benjamin and the little boy. Madonna's worst movie yet!  Rupert is superb as the father and the little boy shines as the innocent bystander.  Madonna on the other, no one knows what she was up to.  In various parts she seemed to putting on some what of a British accent and then in others having a New York accent.  Her acting skills were at a low.  Benjamin Bratt surpasses Madonna along with Rupert. Both men deserve an honor for taking on this movie.  I am usually a big Madonna movie fan but in this movie she needs to find a different ray of light. "},{"Title":"No, it is not THAT bad","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  OK, so critics are crucifying this movie....so what?  That's their job. I saw The Next Best Thing opening weekend.  And, although the movie has some flaws, it is still very entertaining and charming.  It is true that the movie brings out all stereotypes of the gay community.  But, when we consider who this movie targets (MainStreet USA), stereotyping is the best anyone can do for now.  Afterall, gays are not seen in the USA as equals - not yet.  So the screen writer had to throw in things the majority of the population associates with gays (not to humiliate but to add humor and/or get the audience's attention) crossdressing, promiscuity, flambouyance, love of the arts, wealth, girl-guy friendship, accepting mom, condemning dad, AIDS, etc. etc.   Maybe in a near future we will be able to enjoy similar movies where each character can be fully developed instead of fully stereotyped.Good enough for either the movies and great for a weekend rental.  "},{"Title":"The Next Best Thing... to a REAL movie.","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Next Best Thing is just that, the next best thing to a real movie. I went into this movie with extremely high hopes. I thought it was going to be a light-hearted comedy starring some of my favorite actors, Rupert Everett and Benjamin Bratt. But instead it was a film that lacked direction, a good script, and a decent lead actress. Madonna's performance was terrible. However, I think she could have been more likeable had she been given a decent script. The dialogue was unnatural and uncomfortable, not to mention unconvincing. And what was with Madonna's accent? "},{"Title":"I'd hate to see what the 'best thing' is","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hey, I'll admit it, I'm a bit of a Madonna fan.  And being a Madonna fan, you would expect me to have paid my $7, and seen The Next Best Thing the day it was released.  I did not let you down.  But, on the other hand, the movie let me down.  I'm sad to announce that Madonna's acting has reached an all-time low in this film, and, unfortunately, her expertise (or lack thereof) has rubbed off on her co-stars...poor Rupert and Ben...The beginning of the the film showed some potential - a 30-something yoga teacher trying to get over a series of bad break-ups.  Something we can all relate to?  No?  Well the movie goes on despite the audience's plea for it to stop before it crashes down taking the careers of Madonna, Benjamin, and Rupert along with it.La dee da.  Madonna and her gay best friend (Rupert) get trashed, have sex, and ta da!  Madonna is pregnant.  Like true best friends, they resolve to raise the child together, because, they already love each other, and won't have to deal with the hassle of marriage.  The child is born, and the best friends raise the child together in the bohemian atmosphere of Los Angeles. Alas, the paradise is not perpetual-for Benjamin Bratt is on the way.  He woos Madonna, and eventually proposes marriage.It is at this point where the movie drops horrible cinema to an entirely new level.  In one scene, Rupert and Madonna are happy best friends, and in the next scene they hate each other.  Can we say transition, people?  Lets work on that for next time.For those of you who have not yet seen this film, I will not continue summarizing, but I can honestly say that it goes down hill fast, and skips out on subplots that needed to be developed further.  For instance, Neil Patrick Harris plays a gay friend of Rupert and Madonna's, he is suffering from AIDS, and his soul mate has recently died.  Are you wondering how this connects to the movie's main plot?  So am I. "},{"Title":"Ignore the critics","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't understand the critics on this movie... everything I've heard from them was bad, but the movie touched me.  The movie brings up honest and important issues about what it means to be a parent.  It portrays gay people as capable of being excellent, loving parents.  Sure Rupert Everett's character gets angry in this film, but he's not a jerk (as some critics suggest).What I will admit is that the characters should have been developed more & the (small) AIDS storyline was unnecessary. "},{"Title":"Delightful drama/comedy","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A delight all-around. I saw this opening night with a few girlfriends (my boyfriend refused to go) and we all loved it.I have been a fan of Madonna since I was 5 (I am now 21) and I enjoy most of her movies. Even though you may not like her character in this, she still does a good job. Rupert Everett is hot! He is caring, devoted and supportive of everything that happens. A good soundtrack as well. If you like Madonna or Rupert Everett, you should not miss it.  "},{"Title":"No Oscar here","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  We hoped for a good movie as Rupert and Madonna would seem a perfect on-screen match.  Unfortunately, it just never materialized they way one would hope.  Too many real life things in Madonna's life are simply transferred over to the screen. Rupert does a fair job but clearly crying on demand is not his strong suite.  Benjamin Bratt and Neil Patrick Harris both deliver some strong performances but sadly their roles are limited.The time sequences in the film are poorly done and therefore leaves several errors in the movie (see goofs).The ending also didn't feel very realistic, especially after attempting to take you through a real life situation.This movie would probably make an ok video for Madonna and Rupert fans but that it about it. "},{"Title":"worth seeing despite bad reviews","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The reviewers are partly right -- The script has problems, so does the structure of the film. But one has to wonder if the bone-chilling harshness of most reviews has to do with (1) it's a gay movie where the gay character is normal, not a drag queen or AIDS patient; (2) Madonna stars in it. Or perhaps because TNBT is one of those sappy, maudlin but enjoyable little films. In fact, it's even more than that -- It will make you think a lot afterwards, which is definitely rare nowadays for any movie, let alone a romantic comedy/drama. So the story is not entirely credible; but is Notting Hill? So it throws you Hollywood cliches; but doesn't Jerry Maguire? Bottomline, it's far from a terrible mess as many reviewers claimed it to be. The movie is beautifully filmed (so much that it irked reviewers), with high hunk factor. As for acting, Madonna is much better than in the past. She still has major flaws, but I actually felt I was watching Abbie, an everyday woman, instead of Madonna, a superstar. Plus, it's not fair to tear her apart while many other actresses who are even worse are tolerated because of good looks or one blockbuster in the past. Rupert Everett is alright, sometimes great; the supporting cast is strong, albeit underused. At the end of the day, TNBT is a unique and intriguing movie that is worth seeing for anyone who goes to movies for thoughts, not just adrenaline. "},{"Title":"I'm sick of romantic comedies!","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Personally, I really didn't like this movie, although most of the people I saw it with really liked it.  I think it was too mushy and cute for me.  I don't like that sort of happy love story/romantic comedy.  To me it seemed like a two hour long music video for Madonna's new song.  I thought it was way too long and way to boring.  Parts of the movie moved way to fast, and other parts didn't seem to move at all.  Also I thought how some of the characters interacted was poor.  If you like Madonna and cheesy romantic comedies, then by all means, go see The Next Best Thing.  But if Never Been Kissed made you want to vomit, then this isn't the movie for you. "},{"Title":"For the love of God, somebody stop her.","Date":"30 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Hundreds of years from now, I imagine historians and archeologists, not to mention film preservationists, will spend years and years gazing in puzzled horror at Madonna's body of film. It will evoke feelings similar to the nausea, fear and disbelief we feel now while studying Mayan hieroglyphics of wholesale human sacrifice and ritual slaughter. Only much less interesting, naturally. What is it about Madonna? In movie after movie we have to endure the excruciating process of her struggling with all her might to bring a human emotion to her face. This Herculean labor, brought to its absolute zenith in Evita, but not much abated here, may be great fun for afficionados of porn acting, but for the rest of us sheer torture. Then there's her voice. She delivers her lines like a tenth-grader playing Hamlet's mother, but with less conviction. Madonna seems entirely incapable of expressing intelligence or emotion, but if she would just let her hair down and act like the good old all-American tramp she is, all might be forgiven. Alas, she seems to have some curious delusions of grandeur. She is the most self-conscious bad actor who ever disgraced a movie screen, and yet she doesn't have the nerve to be camp. Is it possible to be wooden and plastic at the same time? Madonna manages to make Jenna Jameson look like Judi Dench. The movie? Couldn't tell you a thing about it. "}{"Title":"What happened here??","Date":"11 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Before even seeing the movie I was sure that I was going to love it. It featured one of my most favorite entertainers, Madonna, and an amazing talents of Rupert Everett. Unfortunately the only thing I could do from turn it off was that I had to see the end. There are so many holes and empty dialog's. It is one misgiving after another. You have the feeling that you are watching this feel good and enlightening relationship when you are robbed from it out of any feeling that could be in the same ball park as good. I understand that real life has its twists and turns but to market a movie as one thing and take it to a entirely new level of what this turned into was a complete other story. This movie was, no is mean spirited and awful. You could feel the pain and anguish that Rupert's character felt and that was amazing acting but the story was just so badly written and carried out with Madonna and Ben Bratt. It is a sore to watch and expect anger to come with watching it. I think that perhaps Madonna should just stick to the stage and not to the big screen. And Ben Bratt one day you'll pick a winner when it comes to movie projects (beside Miss Congenality-it's funny!). "},{"Title":"Nice little film","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The next best thing is a fine, entertaining film that combines genuinely funny parts with a mild, non-patronizing social commentary on gay rights and the new family types that are becoming more and more common nowadays. It asks for a great exercise of suspension of disbelief, since some of the behaviours and coincidences shown in it are hard to believe, but this didn't hurt my enjoyment of this film and the good opinion I have of it.Madonna stars as Abby, who has just called it quits with her latest boyfriend and has a romantic encounter with her best, gay friend, Robert, as a result of which she falls pregnant, and they become Sam's parents, two best friends living under the same roof with their child. The perfect family, until things begin to get a little complicated...The movie starts as a comedy with some elements of romance, but it isn't as predictable as it might appear, and it contains some delightful twists. Madonna does a decent job as the main character, and she composes a quite likable single mom.The weakest side of the film is, in my opinion, the ending, that comes a little too abruptly -I felt that some things weren't properly explained. However, I would recommend the film to anyone who wishes to sit and enjoy an above average comedic drama with nice characters. "},{"Title":"the next WORST thing","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" i cannot recall the last time i left a theater feeling as dumbfounded as when i left this horrific film. this movie was just plain stupid. i mean, seriously, didn't anyone at any point realize that it was a mess, or was it like when you drive by a car accident and cannot help but look as you pass? unfortunately, car accidents are more interesting because you never know what you'll see. plus, you kinda wonder just how bad it could be, half hoping it isn't that bad, and half hoping it it. with 'the next best thing' i can tell you exactly how bad it is, and unfortunately, like a car accident, i could not look away from this. unlike a car accident the only reason i looked was because it was being projected on the wall in front of me. short of fire, or removing my eyes from their socket i did not see another option. "},{"Title":"Unbearable","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's important to note that when I decided to watch this movie for the first and only time, I had high expectations. Although Madonna is usually always bashed by one or all critics in every movie she's done, but often, what critics think, and what I think of a movie are usually on different ends of the spectrum. I wish I could say the same for this Movie The concept was a unique one, which helped drive my curiosity enough to want to see this film A Woman and her Gay Best friend get drunk one night, do what a drunk couple does best, she gets pregnant, and a dramatic comedy unfolds with the ordeals faced by a gay man and his baby mama. Unfortunately, between the movie's script (both the story itself and the writing) mixed with a wide variety of Actors, ranging from not that good to not that bad make for a very uncomfortable journey into an inter-sexual family. All goes well until Abbie (Madonna) meets Ben Cooper (Benjamin Bratt.) As Abbie and Ben decide to move their relationship to next level along with Abbie's son, Robert (Rupert Everett) is forced out of the picture. determined not to let Abbie's sudden backstabbing lightly, the former friends engage in an ugly court battle over their son. As the plot fumbles along, the story gets uncomfortable and tediously strenuous, and leaves the viewer confused and unfulfilled.It's no surprise that Rupert Everett gives the best performance in the movie- and no surprise that Madonna doesn't. Although playing a yoga instructor, single mother, and best friend to Rupert Everett ( which at the time was very coincidentally what Madonna was - into yoga, a single mother,and best friend to Rupert Everett)- the role hardly comes naturally and often seems forced and unconvincing. Unfortunately it's not her worst acting, but not her best. Not worth a full viewing. "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I know from 'Desperately Seeking Susan', 'Dick Tracy' and 'Evita' that Madonna can act. At first, I felt that something was missing from her performance here. I finally concluded that she has the talent for romantic comedy and for pleasant drama, but at least in this movie, when it comes to unpleasant drama, she hasn't got it.Madonna was so warm and caring as a mother. If this is how she is with her own child, I have confidence the child will probably turn out all right. She also made a convincing yoga teacher. I didn't care that much for the yoga class, except for the one clumsy newcomer.Rupert Everett gave the standout performance here as the gay best friend. I thought his best scene was the one where he asked for Abbie's keys. I liked his taste in music, too. I may be straight, but I'll choose Frank or Judy any time. Also that song that Abbie and Robert were dancing to when they knocked over the furniture. Madonna's own music, on the other hand ... well, actually, I don't dislike her as much as others who perform in the same style.The movie nearly got off track toward the end, but the ending was satisfying and didn't make things too easy for the characters. There was a challenge to overcome that actually added to the movie.This was pretty good. Not great. "},{"Title":"Very disgraceful that this is Schlesinger's last movie,,,,,","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I cannot believe John Schlesinger directed this mess. The man who made Midnight Cowboy and Maraton Man would end his movie career affiliating himself with one of the worst actresses known to mankind Madonna. Why he would use Madonna for a lead role makes no sense to me. THe movie is basically quite simple a middle aged California woman (Madonna) gets pregnant from her gay friend (played by Rupert Everett)and she wants to raise the child, and then ends up going to court and ensuing in some legal battle. I actually got a few unintentional laughs from her bad acting in this movie. It had a good premise and a very likable actor, Rubert Everett, but the movie was very hard to sit through. It literally started to fall apart about 3/4 of the way, almost like the writers and the director gave up. Madonna's character simply was not believable,, and she is completely unable to focus enough on herself to make any character real. THis is where she lacks acting talent. I like her as an entertainer and some of her music,, but dayimmm, this movie blows. I feel bad that this turned out to be Mr. Schlesinger's last movie. May his legacy continue to live on with his better films. "},{"Title":"Madonna keep your day job; one of the year's worst","Date":"11 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  THE NEXT BEST THING (2000) *1/2 Madonna, Rupert Everett, Benjamin Bratt, Malcolm Stumpf, Neil Patrick Harris, Michael Vartan, Josef Sommer, Lynn Redgrave, Illeana Douglas. (DIR John Schlesinger)What is it lately with films - especially comedies - trying to be so politically correct?  Is it an unstated law that all works of art - particularly film - must kowtow to the powers that be by not offending ANYONE?  If these are the questions one asks in watching this schizophrenic comedy/drama don't expect any answers revealed here.Perhaps more pertinent is What has happened to Madonna?  I mean, the Artist formerly known as The Material Girl, seems to have mellowed since her days of motherhood have overtaken her film career (and this is not necessarily a bad thing, just a point of reference on the timeline of arguably the world's most famous woman) and one would think in material so close to her heart she'd make sure it was delivered in better shape than this lackluster, listless and rarely funny comedy.Madonna plays yoga instructor Abby whose biological clock has gone past the snooze stage and is hellbent on getting a real romantic life since the latest in a string of heartbreaks, Kevin (Vartan), has dumped her for her clingy nature (I know this is a stretch of the imagination and therein lies the problem of crediblity in casting her as someone so unlike her).  Naturally she goes to her best friend and confidante, landscaper Robert (Everett), her openly homosexual shoulder to cry on who knows the routine by now and shortly thereafter the two unlikely lovers share a besotted evening of bliss and before you can say PLOT TWIST - presto! She's pregnant with his baby.  (Are you laughing yet?) Of course he wants to be the father to the child and the friends agree for Robert to move in and as in all movies lately the next scene is a six year old Sam (newcomer Stumpf) who is arguably the best behaved child in recent memory onscreen.  The two close buddies seem like the world's best parents and share responsibilities without a hitch nor a hindrance occurring.  That is until Abby grows jealous of Robert living his lifestyle to the hilt AND balancing his domestic bliss as the father of his beloved child.Now there is absolutely nothing wrong in this so far.  At least not until Abby winds up falling for hunky, Ben (Bratt), a big shot corporate merger who winds up in her class and in her heart which leads to the biggest problem that comes out of left field they want to marry and Robert goes ballistic.  What happens next shifts gears so quickly it leaves your head spinning and what next comes is a slapdash `Kramer vs. Kramer' off-shoot with vitriol and a practically spitting Abby taking Robert to court and having his sexuality in question of his being a good parent.  Not only is it ridiculous and outrageous but it is completely wrong for what the film has presented as the two friends being inseperable and rings entirely false (and you want blood drawn for Abby becoming a bitch without hesitation).Everett, who became a seemingly overnight sensation for his scene-stealing (ok FILM stealing role as Julia Roberts' gay gal pal in `My Best Friend's Wedding'), is a very charming and effective comic actor and here he does have a sardonic edge to his flippant remarks (and handles his dramatic scenes deftly, perhaps TOO good for the material given him).  Ultimately it is the slam the brakes departure from light-hearted high concept comedy to a courtroom drama that pulls out all the stops that slows the film to a grinding halt and ends with an inexplicable and totally offensive ending for its audience.Director John Schlesinger is not exactly known for his softer or even humorous side (`The Falcon and The Snowman' and `Midnight Cowboy' - great films bar none - are a few of the many exemplary stories he's helmed), but comedy is not his forte, and seems equally out of his element here.You'd think Madonna, who can be funny even when she's not really trying (and I realize that's hard to fathom), would realize how badly the film fails to make a transition and how awful her character becomes.  Why should anyone (especially her hard core fans) want to see such a painfully arduous dramedy like this? Madonna, keep your day job (or at least give some consideration to those who want to actually see you again on the big screen). "},{"Title":"I tried, I really tried to like this movie.","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't get it. The movie has a fairly good plot, phenomenal actors (okay, with the  exception of Madonna) and an award-winning director. So why did it come out so flat  and two-dimensional? Come on now... we can't blame it all on Madonna.I was really looking forward to the release of this movie, but was so disappointed after  viewing it. I think Madonna was great in Body of Evidence and Who's That Girl? is one  of my favorite madcap comedies. But she just doesn't seem to bring any warmth to her  character at all and let's face it -- her acting in this movie was about exciting as plain  oatmeal. The other actors were great.The writing leaves a bit to be desired in more than a few places. I think they could have  handled it better, made it warmer in a lot of areas. I guess that and placing Madonna as  the lead character hurt what could have been a sensitive and entertaining film. "},{"Title":"What a waste","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Now I'm not the type to offend easily by certain messages in movies because you can learn from them. And because of the personal differences I face daily I understand indifference and rebuke ignorance, but this movie was out of line and should have received less than the Gigli rating.Its been four years since this movie was released and I just watched it for the first time on USA the other day. I knew why I wasn't interested in the first place. *Spoiler warning ahead*This movie wasn't about two supposedly best friends who accidentally sleep together and oops she gets pregnant. This movie wasn't really about the fact that he was gay either. It plays a large part in this movie but doesn't come close to the issue at hand. This movie was about Madonna's character and her careless actions. It was all about her selfish ass. This movie practically shouted Gay rights in every scene but it wouldn't have to come to that if she had treated whom she so-called her Best Friend with respect. She used him and treated him like he was a leper for being who he was. He licked her wounds, cared for her, was loyal to her and took better care of the child than she did. She was never going to let him know that he wasn't the father, then leave him, take the kid and ignore his existence cause She got what she wanted. What a b*tch. People like that gets not respect from me.Its like getting a major f*ck you from a friend you knew all these years which boils into nothing. It makes you question her care for him. She lusted after him and  she knew she couldn't have him so she tried to break him with a child. She ain't right. Making Rupert's character gay made the plot messier.  "},{"Title":"Worth seeing but Madonna is pretty bad","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Abbie and Robert are best friends who share everything, despite that fact that she is straight and he is gay.  After a drunken night of self-pity they end up having sex together and she ends up pregnant.  They decide to move in together and raise the child together as parents.  This works well for 5 or 6 years until Abbie meets a new man and plans to marry and move to New York. Their informal parenting agreement comes under intense pressure.I wasn't sure what this film was meant to be, and after watching it I'm still not totally sure that the producers knew how to pitch the tone of the film.  It starts out as a sort of comedy that has an edge of a relationship drama about it, but by the end it has turned into some sort of modern day Kramer V's Kramer.  That's not to say that the plot doesn't work, I found it interesting if not totally involving.  The basic idea should have been more touching but the delivery isn't that great.After trying to set up likable characters, the film then goes out of it's way to make them unpleasant as they get involved in a battle for custody. However I suppose that this was the intention - since when have divorces, separations, custody battles and such ever been nice things?  However we lose sympathy with all the characters and, as the child is allowed to slip out of view we end up not really having anyone to really get behind. Maybe I'm being too picky - but the change in the character was very sudden and very extreme considering the light comic touch for the first half.The cast are a mixed bag indeed.  Everett comes off the best.  Aside from some gay prancing at the start that reduces him to yet another gay caricature, he does OK and gets better the longer the movie goes on, eventually becoming the more dominant character by the end.  And thank God for that, because Madonna is about as awful as I've seen her.  She can't act natural at the start of the film and she certainly can portray the dramatic stuff when she needs to at the end.  It is amazing to see how laboured she is, sure she has moments but I was left with the impression of someone who really should stick to the day job.  Bratt is a cute guy and he give good support - and it's not his fault that, with the speed the film rushes him and Madonna together, it never really convinces as a relationship.Overall this is an interesting film that is worth seeing even if it doesn't really work or hold a consistent tone.  Kramer V's Kramer it is not but it is still watchable, but you'll be surprised that Madonna still hasn't caught on that she shouldn't bother trying to act anymore. "}{"Title":"Pretty Good, Dubbed","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I once watched this on French TV, dubbed.  It actually seems like an OK movie in a different language, with different voice actors in a completely foreign tongue.  However, seen in its original version the effect is no less that horrifying.  Madonna might have done well if the whole thing had been set to music and she was relieved of any obligations of having to speak dialogue.  But even bad-movie freaks would be weirded out by how wooden, awkward and cringe-inducing her performance is (to be fair, Tom Ropelewski's dialogue couldn't be made tenable by Meryl Streep).  The script smells of desperation; lame dialogue, clumsy time jumps and characters whose motivations seems to come from nowhere.  Take out the gay angle which is its only novelty, and you've got something so bad and uninteresting even the PAX channel would reject it.  What a sad, sad, sad coda to John Schlesinger's career.  And Rupert Everett is so NOT a gardener. "},{"Title":"bad bad BAD.","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Oh yes, I rented it. Of my own accord, with my own $1.32. I was wary of the whole Madonna thing, but assuming that Rupert Everett (of My Best Friend's Wedding and An Ideal Husband fame) would never do anything TOO stupid, I gave in. And, had I not been watching this with friends, I would have turned it off and returned it half-way through.This film is a human rights violation. How on earth do movies like this get MADE? Honestly, spending more than a dirty million on a piece of crap like these has got to be a crime. Madonna is pathetic, as always, Everett wouldn't be anything to complain about if his character weren't so silly and moody. Terribly uneven. Together they have a small amount of chemistry, but that falls completely apart after they decide to raise their child together. The secondary characters- Everett's parents, Madonna's future husband and her ex, are unlikeable. The plot is meandering and DULL- and FAR TOO LONG. The only things that should be commended in this clunker of a (sorta)rom-com-drama is the perception of Madonna as a yoga instructor (it works, somehow), and Rupert Everett's eyes comically enlarging as the sole supplier of the only (and few) laughs.Don't waste your time when you could be seeing perfectly good family dramedies like Kramer vs. Kramer.  "},{"Title":"Setting the record straight","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Madonna is a horrible actress. This is not an opinion; it is a verifiable fact. She's horrible. If you're one of the handful of people who think her acting is something other than horrible, I feel sorry for you. You lead a very dim, simple-minded existence. It is a sad life for you, I'm sure, although you may well be blissfully unaware of your ignorance and so, in many ways, you're better off than most of us. Now, the question is, why do so many people (and admittedly, I'm one of them) take such glee in pointing out Madonna's utter lack of acting ability? I think it's because she has always presented herself as such a strong, in-control personality and because her success in the music industry is typically chalked up to her exercising full control over her projects and her image. Her primary objective has always been to shock the public (her surrogate daddy). When we are indeed shocked, she derides us as Puritans. When we're disinterested, then we just don't get her. So, when she selects a movie project, and there can be no doubt that she is involved in every aspect of it (even choosing her husband to direct), her critics are overjoyed when it inevitably crashes and burns. And why shouldn't we experience a little schadenfreude--she thinks we're idiots. "},{"Title":"Madonna does a credible acting job, and the whole film is mostly interesting.","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Critics Ebert and Berardinelli often seem like they wrote their reviews at the same time, in the same coat closet. But not The Next Best Thing where they came away in opposite camps. And perhaps therein lies the problem with this film. It depends on your predisposition. I can't understand the 12% or so of the clearly BOGUS votes of 1. Those viewers show no ability to analyze and rate a film. The median vote on IMDb of 6 is about right.It also gets weary hearing every other user review slam Madonna's acting. The truth is she has become a fairly good actress, and better than some who are earning good livings at it. Her big problem has been with the roles she has chosen. Given a decent role, and above-average direction (not her husband, Guy Ritchie), she is a fine actress, although she will never challenge  Streep or Foster as one of the superb actresses of our time.In this film, where she apparently has a child by her best friend, a flaming gay guy (real gay Rupert Everett), while they are both drunk, they decide to raise the son togther, until her true love (Ben Bratt) happens along. A custody fight gets ugly, because she wants to move from Calif to NY, then it comes to light that another guy is the biological father all along.  Some real issues that sometimes real families have to resolve.My only real complaint is that Madonna's and Bratt's characters seem to totally gloss over the meeting, courting, and falling in love process. In this film it happens almost instantly with no indication of weeks or months passing, and it comes off as very phony to me. Aside from that, it is a fairly interesting film. "},{"Title":"Given the subject matter, this is a fairly good film.","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A 30s-something self-absorbed female has a best friend in the person of a very likeable homosexual male.  After one-too-many affairs with obnoxious, alpha-male types, she and her gay friend celebrate her new found freedom by partying and drinking too much, culminating in an accident in which they do it.  The unlikeliness of that aside, two months later she turns up pregnant, and the two of them decide to parent the child.  That's the plot point, after which it's all about the politics of whether a homosexual can be an effective parent of a boy child.  Many and troubling relationship issues are exposed, but skillfully, and it succeeds as a sensitive and enjoyable story. "},{"Title":"Someone should put Madonna's acting career out of its misery","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I find it unbelievable that after so many years, and so many flawed attempts and so many flops, there is still people willing to put money in movies for Madonna to act in. Just face it, people the woman can't act. She is good at changing her image, which is the main reason why she is still around and has not yet joined the rest of the '80s pop acts in that big prairie in the sky where dead pop acts go when they pass on. Image changing, however, is not the same thing as acting; you don't make everyone believe you are a different person just by changing your hairdo. But there are still suckers who remain unconvinced not only they still put her in movies, but also, the movies they put her in are not real movies they are Madonna's vehicles. Everything in the movie is built around the concept that she must look good at all times. In this movie, they even shine a torch or something on her face all the time, with the purpose, I guess, of making her look luminous and other-wordly.  It doesn't help at all that her character in this movie is a repellent, manipulative and selfish woman. The only reason why I watched this excruciating piece of torture till the end was because I hoped she would get her just deserts by the end. I should have known better, ha?  "},{"Title":"Honest Try","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The cast and director are good in The Next Best Thing. Rupert Everett's Robbie and Madonna's Abbie are quite creditable, up until Benjamin Bratt's other man Ben shows up. Then Tom Ropelewski's writing becomes increasingly quirky, allowing his characters--especially Robbie--to act and react in oddly unmotivated and unbelievable ways.Since Robbie provides the drama's impetus, his character choices become important to the story's integrity; unfortunately, the viewer isn't convinced by his actions.  It's not Everett's or Madonna's fault, as their work is quite sincere and heartfelt; likewise, Bratt is well cast and holds up his end nicely. It's just that the plotting becomes increasingly contrived to the point of disbelief (and some annoyance) and not even Director John Schlesinger can pull a miracle with this material. A pity, for this acting trio works very well together, supporting the film's basically intriguing premise. It's up to Ropelewski to create viewer empathy, and his skill here is obviously limited.  One may, however, tend to remember the novelty of this domestic situation, which has its dramatic pulse on today's hip mores.                      "},{"Title":"The worst","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie just couldn't be any worse. Madonna fakes a British accent (VERY badly) part of the time, even though the character isn't British. What's up with that? Madonna has proven herself to be one of the worst actresses (and I use that term very loosely) of all time.  The whole concept of this film, as well as the acting, is soooo bad, I actually felt embarrassed for everyone involved. Oh yeah, the music is horrible, too. Definitely not worth your time. Everything about it stinks. 0 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Does being gay make you an unfit father?","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  People do not always fit into our neatly prearranged categories. Sometimes we may be comfortably in a category when unforeseen circumstances take us out.  This film deals with tough questions such as fatherhood, talking to young children about sexuality, and custody and places them in situations in which real people might actually find themselves.  The treatment is excellent and recommended for anyone who might question the appropriateness of gay fatherhood. "},{"Title":"Madonna (still) cannot act discuss...","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This lightweight romantic comedy has just started showing on Sky - a sub movie channel seems the best place for it. Rupert Everett is the latest actor to put his reputation on the line by co-starring with Madonna, and he just about manages to pull them both through.The most remarkable aspect of this gay guy-straight girl tug-of-love movie is that it was directed by John Schlesinger with a script as frequently lazy, scenes so prosaic, and editing so inept, can this really be the work of someone who brought us Billy Liar, Sunday Bloody Sunday and Marathon Man?Madonna plays a fag-hag yoga teacher who inadvertently ends up 'in the firm' (so she thinks) by her gay best friend. Deciding to have the baby, both agree to do the modern thing and bring up the kid as father and mother together. This situation makes relationships with others almost impossible, and it comes to a head when Abby meets a handsome, rich businessman, decides to marry him and move across America with Everett's son.This takes the last stretch of the movie into a rather formulaic court-room set-piece where Everett is able to rail at the injustices of a society that doesnt respect the familial rites of gay men (even though, somewhat ironically, he has since discovered the child is not biologically his). There's just time for a brief fallout between the former friends and an even briefer rapprochement conducted on an LA street.Nothing sticks in this movie. The characters, the settings, any of the jokes or the drama either of the custody battle or the initial conception. It's unfair to lay all the blame at the door of the actors. In one example, the film timewarps from a cutshot of the birth to the kid's sixth birthday party with no intervening context!This might work if there was some implication of progression in the relationship or the characters themselves even the hairstyles for God's sake! But it doesn't 'feel' like even the next day from the preceding action.The other unavoidable interest 'factor' of this movie is Madonna herself. Universities run courses on her as a cultural phenomenon. Maybe they could do a module on why a women obviously so determined, creative and committed to acting finds the actual art itself so elusive.Yet again, the effort she is putting into performance (like Evita) is almost palpable, but with little dividend. She still sounds detached from the actions and speech of other characters. You are always aware that she 'is acting'and not being. People have put this down to her iconic status, but it doesnt wash. Julia Roberts is similarly iconic, but that doesn't get in the way of a performance like Erin Brokovich because she has filmcraft. Madonna doesn't and probably never will, however hard she tries its not something that can be rehearsed like a dance routine.Another thing she lacks is comic timing, which is pretty much lethal for a romantic comedy, and perhaps explains why Schlesinger produced such an equivocal film in the end.Everett himself seems happy to typecast himself as the English Queen in America, after this and My Best Friend's Wedding, by cultivating a knowing and egregious superficiality. "}{"Title":"Poorly done movie","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's almost as if Madonna and Rupert Everett simply showed up on day one of filming without reading the script for the film so they had no idea what they were getting into...the plot concerns Madonna and her gay best friend, who have a one night stand and he moves in when she ends up pregnant from it.  Of course, all is great for the next few years until Madonna meets up with Benjamin Bratt who wants to marry her and take her and her son away to New York.  Of course, Rupert does not like this idea and a court battle ensues.  Needless to say this is an awful movie, Madonna's British accent comes and goes throughout the film, even though since she is playing a yoga instructor living in Los Angeles, where a British accent makes no sense anyways.  Rupert tries hard to liven the movie up, but even he seems to be bored by the plotline and its constant failures.  It's easy to see why this movie failed on its release.    "},{"Title":"Someone stop Madonna and Everett!","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Next Best Thing is an absolutely awful movie. Still, what do you expect from a movie starring Madonna and Rupert Everett. The movie is really boring and not funny at all. I'm not surprised it flopped. The plot to the movie was terrible too, but maybe with a different cast it could of been just a little better. And, can Madonna make up her mind if she's speaking in her actual American accent or if she wants to use a fake British accent.  "},{"Title":"An enjoyable, very original movie","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie has been on cable TV for months and I just got around to viewing it. It had a very original story, was beautifully photographed with other excellent production values, well acted, and well written. I don't understand why it was so poorly received. Perhaps it is more of an old-fashioned movie (I'm 66) with a modern plot situation. Even with the gay man conceiving a child story it could be a family film. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"The BEST Movie of 2000","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"       I really don't understand people.  Do you all have nothing better to do then write nasty review about this great movie?  You can argue with me all day if you like, but Madonna CAN act.  People who are not fans of her music just tend to take her acting ability with it, which is unfair.  She was wonderful in this movie, as she is in everything she does.  Along with Body of Evidence and Evita, this movie shows what an incredible actress she really is and isn't even given any credit for it.  For the people who are reading this for the plot of the movie, here it goes.  Madonna plays Abbie, a forty-something woman who is single and desperate for a family of her own.  One night, she and her gay best friend Robert have a little too much to drink, which leads to a roll in the sack.  When Abbie discovers she is pregnant, she decides to keep the baby and have her family with the father (Rupert Everett).  Along comes Ben (Benjamin Bratt), who is understandably taken with Abbie.  The two form a relationship with causes conflicts in the family, especially with Abbie's son.  What's so great about this movie is that it starts out as a light-hearted comedy and slowly turns into a drama.  I would highly recommend this movie.  It is definitely the best movie of 2000.  Pay no mind to the Razzies and check this one out.  If you're a Madonna fan, this movie is definitely for you.  If you're not, lay off her acting ability.  It's tired. "},{"Title":"What a load of bull!!!","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Madonna gives a rotten performance here in a dislikable role that she never should have done. The whole film is completely unbelievable and preposterous. Rupert Everett is the only thing that even partially carries the movie. AVOID THIS ONE! I am so tired of the gay stereotype movies I could scream. Let's give gays a little credit and show them in an accurate light for once. "},{"Title":"not bad but could have been better","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Forget about diamonds.  `The Next Best Thing' is dedicated to the proposition that a gay man is really a girl's best friend.  But, man, can that make life complicated!  Madonna stars as Abbie, a Southern California yoga instructor who just can't seem to find that certain someone to provide her with marriage and a child but who, at the same time, hears her biological clock ticking ominously down.   Rupert Everett plays Robert, her gay best friend, whom Abbie leans upon for support in times of grave romantic crisis &#150; which seems to be just about her normal state of affairs.  One night the two get a little too drunk and frisky and end up consummating their friendship, an act that leads to Abbie's pregnancy and a decision between the two to move in together and raise the child as mother and father but not husband and wife.  All goes fairly well for six years or so until Abbie falls in love with a young New York executive who wants to marry her and move the three of them away from Los Angeles and the man Sammy thinks of as his father.  This leads to a complex court battle between the principals as the suddenly antagonistic best friends struggle over custody of their child.In this day and age when less traditional relationships and families abound in our society, credit `The Next Best Thing' with at least trying to come to terms with some of the unintended and unforeseen consequences that result when well-meaning people wind up in overly complicated situations.  We see that Abbie obviously has strong feelings for this man she knows she can never have, while Robert feels inexplicable stirrings of jealousy when Abbie begins to develop an interest in her new beau.  We also see the difficulties faced by little Sammy as he begins to grow up and be questioned by his little friends about the unconventional relationship of his parents.  (However, this interesting theme is dealt with in only the most superficial way before it is conveniently swept under the carpet).  As the film examines the setup from its many different angles and perspectives, it attempts to deal fairly with the principal characters involved.  No one is made out to be the heavy or the villain, yet, at the same time; all the characters have their moments of unreasonable selfishness.  The main problem with `The Next Best Thing,' however, is that it is attempting to address these really serious issues in the context of a lighthearted romantic comedy.  As a result, the plotting seems somehow more contrived than it might if it were developed along the lines of a serious social drama. We never really believe any of it, partly because the film seems to spend more of its time displaying and lingering over the truly phenomenal bodies of its three main actors than exploring the depth of their characters.  It all seems so surface slick, replete with a too-cozy happy ending done in summary written codas flashed on the screen immediately prior to the closing credits.Madonna and Everett are both physically very attractive performers &#150; a real boon to the 40+ actors set that doesn't seem to get too much work in the movie romance department these days.  As an actress, Madonna has certainly come a long way from her truly wretched performances in the early part of her film career.  In this film, except when she is called upon to cry &#150; in which case, she is still incredibly unconvincing &#150; she does seem to have a more relaxed presence on the screen than she has had previously.   Everett looks as though he would much rather be sinking his teeth into a far meatier role, but, given the material he has to work with, he does a serviceable job.  Oddly enough, this film contains a host of secondary characters who pop up so infrequently or disappear entirely with no explanation that one wonders either why they were included in the first place or at what stage between scriptwriting and final editing they lost their way.  This sloppiness and the overall timidity and slickness of the film are particularly surprising given the fact that director John Schlesinger was once responsible for such classic edgy works as Darling and Midnight Cowboy in the 1960's.`The Next Best Thing' has its heart in the right place and its twisting/turning plot structure, built on the complex emotional needs of its character, carries the audience along fairly nicely.  We can identify with these people because, although they seem well meaning, they are also way over their heads with the cards life has dealt them.  Who among us cannot empathize with that situation?  A pity, then, that `The Next Best Thing' didn't provide a bit more serious context in which to explore it.  "},{"Title":"Ugh!!!","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  That about covers it for this disjointed, highly disappointing film. Sorry Mo, but this is not your best work (I like the song though). The (normally) ever pleasing Everret was also disappointing... Possibly the best actor in the whole damn thing was Neil Patrick Harris. And the ever-young-doc wasn't in it enough to resuscitate it I'm afraid... I guess it passed the time though - particularly when it involved looking at the very gorgeous Benjamin Bratt. Not a great movie - even though it had the potential to be completely ground breaking given the story line. The movie did live up to showing you the horrendous (and all too common) reactions to a gay man being a father and how biased society is. And it totally failed to make a stand about it. I'm not going to give away the ending, but in my opinion, it should have been arrested it was such a cop out.Bummer - it could have been *so* good too. "},{"Title":"SHE CAN ACT","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Forget what the critics have to say about this gem of a movie.....its not as superficial as some critics deemed it to be and Madonna finally acquits herself nicely....The movie stands for rights of gay people without trashing any straight ones....the writing was a little soapy but you could tell where Rupert injected some of his wit.....This is a gr8 family movie too....for the new american  "},{"Title":"Great up until the last 30 minutes","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The next Best Thing - After yet another failed relationship, Abbie seeks solace in the arms of her best friend Robert.  Robert is what every woman wants in a man - he listens, he's caring, funny, understanding, attentive, a great dancer and stunning to look at.  Unfortunately for Abbie, he's also gay.  But one night of celebrating  will change their lives in ways they never dreamt possible.I wasn't sure what to make of this movie from the previews was it supposed to be a comedy a drama?  It turned out to be a bit of both. An interesting look at relationships from a different perspective, the first 2/3 of the movie are quick paced and hilarious. Rupert Everett, has made a career playing witty, charming characters and hits the mark once again - his timing is impeccable. Madonna on the other hand is cast against type - for once, she is not a glamorous diva, but a regular woman with real desires and concerns.  Their real-life friendship translates into believability on-screen and draws you into the story.  Then the movie takes a serious turn. The dramatic element of the film works about as well as a speed bump on the I-5 - it kills the flow.  The final third of the movie is too Kramer vs. Kramer - nasty, depressing and unnecessary (I swear that Kleenex had a hand in the rewrite).  Although Madonna makes a good villain, Everret's frustrated outbursts are clearly forced and you don't believe their tense exchanges. If you are looking for a great date movie, this is it.  It also works as a comedy, just remember to leave before the nastiness starts. "},{"Title":"Very good from Madonna","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really think this is the best movie Madonna has ever done. Madonna is natural in her role. The next best thing is touching and it has both the hilarious moments, but also the sorrowful parts. Beautiful story which has unexpected turns.  "}{"Title":"emotional manipulation at the expense of plausibility","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you want to be surprised by what turn this movie takes, don't read this (although it's fairly predictable).The courtroom scene is entirely implausible. Abbie lied to both Sam and Robert about who Sam's father was this led Robert to assume financial and emotional responsibility for Sam, as well as assume custodial duties. This motive for her lie is easily interpreted to illicit such actions from Sam in a courtroom, it is called fraud. This inexplicably is not mentioned, hinted at, etc. Obviously we aren't shown every minute they are in court, but it was clear to me this angle was not considered from what we were shown. Robert's lawyer would have to be totally inept to not realize this point (especially since she was already involved when Robert discovered the truth).Biology is not the ONLY consideration in custody cases, not even close.In The Next Best Thing it seems to be the only issue. To be fair, Robert's perception of himself as Sam's father is heavily emphasized, but in reality that would only matter as it was the result of the opposing party's fraudulent lie. Abbie is the one who brought chaos into their life, both with her new relationship (which would not be perceived as stable by the court BTW) and her lies. It is even revealed that she negligently failed to notify the biological father of the proceedings.What kind of judge would miss the fact that every event in the proceeding is the result of Abbie's lies and manipulation?It seems the court scene in The Next Best Thing is written more for emotional manipulation of the audience then to portray the reality of a California custody hearing.  "},{"Title":"Very touching and sweet, one of the better things out there!","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Abbie (Madonna), a yoga instructor with her own studio, has bad luck with men. The only man who really connects with her is Robert (Rupert Everett), a dear friend, who happens to be gay. One special evening, Abbie and Robert become somewhat drunk and end up sleeping together. One can guess the result. Abbie becomes pregnant. Abbie hastily convinces Robert that romance is overrated, that they should move in together, and that they should raise the child as a couple. Everything goes wonderfully until Abbie meets Ben (Benjamin Bratt). Suddenly, Abbie is in love and things are going to get complicated. Will there be a happy ending for everyone involved?This movie has so many assets. Madonna looks beautiful and acts with feeling, Everett is his usual wonderful self, and Bratt delivers another fine performance, too. The child actor who plays the son is very effective as well. Adding to the good dramatics is a gorgeous California setting, some nice costumes, and a touching script. The ending is a guaranteed to send one running to the tissue box. Okay. One understands that not everyone is enamored with Madonna. If you can get past HER past, give this movie a try. It is a fine example of sensitivity and intelligence on its gay issues, for one, while delivering a romance for those who clamor for more, more, more in that particular film category. "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise....","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After reading all the negative comments on The Next Best Thing I was dubious about hiring the DVD, but just couldn't resist seeing how Madonna performed.The movie itself is very good - not without flaws, but still enjoyable and immensely watchable. The courtroom scenes are particularly well done.Now for the $50000 question - how does Madonna perform??? In my opinion exceptionally well. She has really matured as an actress during her 20+year career. She seems considerably more comfortable in front of the movie camera , and after the first few minutes of the film I forgot I was watching Madonna and I believed her characterization of Abbie.A lovely film to watch on a rainy Sunday afternoon. "},{"Title":"a very good film, but a weak scenario but madonna acted better than in evita","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love Madonna's songs (like a virgin...) I think she is a very great woman and she still looks beautiful at the age of 40. She acted very well in this film, she played her character very good and she was a good choice for playing Abbie Reynolds. I love this film much more than Evita. Evita was to historical and it was a difficult story.  Also Rupert played very well, I saw him in prèt à porter and in his cameo part in the classic 'Shaekespeare in Love' This time I saw him first playing a main character and he did very well. Benjamin Bratt was also good but hadn't a very good part to let see the best of his acting. Lynn Redgrave one of my favorite actresses was very good like always she didn't appear much in the film but she was very remarkable in the part of the sweet mother from rupert. Also Josef Sommer did a good job. The story is weak yes, but I won't say it is a bad movie.I hope Madonna, Lynn, Rupert... will do other great movies. Because they have all the talent to play wonderful like in this film.Rating 8,5/10I don't understand why some people gave points less five!!! "},{"Title":"1 out of 10","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Including Body Shots, Stop Or My Mom Will Shoot, Teaching Mrs. Tingle, and even Never Been Kissed, I have never walked out of a movie before the end.  Until today.  Thinking that The Next Best Thing might be an enjoyable yet sappy popcorn movie, I wrongly paid $4.25 to see it instead of going to class.I knew that when Rupert Everett and Madonna started singing American Pie in a very solemn tone during a funeral, I was in for a bad movie.The lines were hideous.  I truly think that Madonna let little Lourdes write some the script.  My two favorites? When I die, I don't want to be buried or cremated.  Just chop me up into little pieces and put me in the freezer next to the frozen pizzas for thirty years. Dear God, wherever you are, could you please hook me up?Both ludicrous lines were uttered by Madonna, who is arguably the worst actress since Pia Zadora or Sophia Coppola.  Did she admire Anjelica Huston's lighting in The Addams Family?  She certainly seems to think that backlighting will make her look younger.  Everett is downright silly in his role, never once convincing the audience that he has any interest in his character.Director John Schlesinger has an impressive resume, including Midnight Cowboy.  Why the hell did he decide to do this?  At least Julia Roberts had the good sense to steer clear of the movie.  I'm sure she heaved a sigh of relief when accompanying boyfriend Benjamin Bratt (who plays Madonna's heterosexual love interest) to the premiere.  By the way, the only enjoyable part of the experience was seeing the preview for Robert's Erin Brockovich.The movie is a bit too didactic and is constantly shoving several incoherent messages down the throats of the viewers.   Never have I seen such an insipid and worthless waste of time.  The next best thing to this movie would be ingesting rat poison or getting run over by a car. "},{"Title":"Deeply underrated film.","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The film is not perfect, but it is far better than most of these reviews would indicate. Madonna does a very credible job with her role. The plot is relevant to the current state of social affairs in this country. The resolution of the plot is as believable as most fictional plots.Some of the elements and characters may be underdeveloped. Perhaps this would have been corrected in a longer movie or TV miniseries, but movies are made for shorter attention spans and require a willing suspension of disbelief or at least an imagination capable of filling in details that cannot be incorporated in a feature length film.It seems to me that for many of the reviewers here, this film caused some kind of discomfort, because the criticisms don't ring true if one has actually watched the film with an open mind. Rather than giving voice to that discomfort, the movie gets blamed and panned.The movie is thoughtful and the ending is satisfying if a bit contrived. Unconventional families make many people nervous in this day and age, and it hard for me to believe that this didn't have something to do with the opinions of many of these reviewers. "},{"Title":"balck and white dress","Date":"14 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I really like this movie... I cried every time I watch it. And how can you do this with your body madonna? I have to start on yoga too. Love when she is on the mirror with. 26 years old... 36 years old... so lovely.I would like to ask you about the magnificent dress she wears , I want the same for me!!!Could someone please tell who's black and white madonna's dress in this movie? I really think is amazing!!!! you know the one she wears when they are in the house where he works because the people who lives in the house is on trip!well, thank you!!!!! "},{"Title":"Is not  best the  thing","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" With a beautiful Madonna and gorgeous Rupert, The next best thing is just a drama. A drama with the best intentions. But with a plot that down and down until a obvious thing. So,The next best thing is not the best like they say.The story is about a girl with his best gay friend. One night, with all the drink you can imagine... the next best thing born. Sincerely, i think the plot could be better, but that don't means the story is bad. The movie talk about about the new couples and families and how is better handling the things with tranquility. Of course you can be with other person and be good parents and have, at same time, good l life and sexual life. But you must have carefully with the children. For that reason The next best thing is not bad. Because, in some way, makes us reflecting about the new life of XXI century. Oh Kay, maybe is not the best thing, but after all is a good thing.*Sorry for the mistakes... well, if there any "},{"Title":"It's just a great story.","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I found the movie just great. I can hardly believe it has just a few good votes. Maybe the actors are not the best, but the story is just awesome. It is so sensitive and it makes you feel involved in some manner with the story. Defenetively, the way the story turns deeper keeps you attention till the end. Madonna is one of my favorites singers. However, I don't think the same way as an actress, but in this film she was just so sensitive (not the typical sexy, naughty and out of mind Madonna). I truly recommend this film to all those that like romantic movies. Grab a popcorn bag, lay down and enjoy a great afternoon!! "},{"Title":"Incomplete, but not that bad","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A pleasant comedy in the first part and a sad drama in the last one, it's an enjoyable movie with two good main characters ( Madonna and Everett ) but the problem is that it doesn't achieve the problem what to do with the fathers of the child? Even the director (the great John Schlesinger who certainly isn't at the levels of the 70's) isn't able to give an answer and this is really the point. Why making a movie if you can't achieve it? I find it incomplete and well, a bit surreal&#133; Luckily there are nice actors ( the boy is the best ) and a wonderful soundtrack. Two of the songs ( time stood still and a cover of McLean's American pie) are sang by Madonna with Rupert Everett and this is no doubt what Madonna can do the best choosing the songs to sing. What a pity she can't choose as well her roles! Even a genius like Schlesinger can't help her "}{"Title":"Corny beginning, but strong developments","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is really not as bad as the rating wants to make you believe. I admit that the beginning is just cheesy and absolutely horrible, riddled with stereotypes and awkward performances. It gets better from the moment on when Madonna confronts Rupert Everett's character (Robert) with his upcoming paternity. The moral implications of a gay man and a straight woman deciding to raise a child together are indeed challenging and very much up-to-date. Here the comedy aspect is overlaid by some sincere issues that make this movie more interesting than the beginning has implied.The movie even turns into a family drama and becomes very emotional. You will love Malcolm Stumpf as Sam, the protagonists' son. He is very convincing and shows substantial natural talent, which adds considerable quality to the story. The final dramatic climax is an ensuing court room struggle for custody of the little boy between Robert and Madonna with her new boyfriend Ben. This causes very strong moral and emotional implications. Robert's desperate struggle and his honest commitment to be together with his beloved son goes straight into your heart and addresses the issue of homosexuals and their rights to raise children. Here again Malcolm Stumpf bears a significant part of the emotional burden, and does so genuinely.This movie is very simple in its equipment, but the messages delivered and the characters portrayed make it worthwhile. Rupert Everett does a great job, and Madonna shows that she can act if she has to. It is a very tough subject, and in the end you will not consider the movie a comedy any longer. This is a good thing. "},{"Title":"I was surprised how much I enjoyed this movie.","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I agree that this is not the best movie ever made. Then again 99.999996% of movies are not. For what it is, I thought this was a pretty good film. I was very surprised to see Madonna act, as I have never seen her do anything but sing, and I don't care for most of her singing (the lyrics, not the voice). I thought she played Sam's mom very well. I have liked Benjamin Bratt ever since I saw him in Demolition Man. He certainly has pumped up since then! I think he did what his character called for, and more. I was in tears at the end of the movie, but I am not ashamed to be a sensitive man. Rupert Everett certainly held his own. I love the IMDb, and I read every comment about the movies I watch. I enjoyed this more than I did Titanic. Does that make this movie better than the big boat movie? No. They are different. I enjoy the fact I have really enjoyed some movies that have gotten a 3, and didn't care for The Godfather (IMDb #1). I try to watch every movie as a sole entity (except, obviously, those that are pre/sequels or otherwise connected purposely - Kevin Smith's View Askewniverse, for example). In reading these comments, I see that some people apparently go into a film with some pre-conceived idea of how the movie should be, and then rip it apart when it doesn't turn out that way, or sometimes if it does! I personally think that is somewhat unfair, but then again I applaud diversity, and that includes those who don't agree with me. I believe it was Voltaire who said I may not agree with what you say, but I will defend to the death your right to say it. That I am in total agreement with. "},{"Title":"But not quite good enough","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's a little sad to compare this movie with Sunday Bloody Sunday, also directed by John Schlesinger 30 years ago. Like NBT, the earlier film dealt with gay issues and had three main characters in a triangular relationship. But SBS was set against a realistic background, with flesh and blood characters, and was thought-provoking and touching; whereas NBT wastes its first 80 minutes being an extended, not-too-witty, mawkish TV sitcom set in a LaLa Land peopled by shallow, stock characters, and only in the last half-hour does it engage your intellect and emotions, only to collapse again into sentimentality at the close.Madonna may not be the best actress in the world, but I found her reasonably credible in the role of Abbie Reynolds, a yoga-teacher of indeterminate age who badly wants a baby, but who can't find a straight man willing to commit, and turns to her gay best friend, Robert Whittaker. Until the final section of the movie, Rupert Everett, as Whittaker, has to do little more than reprise his role in My Best Friend's Wedding. The third figure in the triangle, Benjamin Bratt, playing Abbie's new love Ben Cooper, also has little to do, except look clean-cut and well groomed - and pitch his voice a tad lower than Everett's! Malcolm Stumpf plays Abbie's son Sam as a notably mature 5/6 year old, which is not surprising as Malcolm was admitting to 8 when the film was made; and the rest of the characters, including Robert's Mum, played by Lynn Redgrave, hardly matter. All in all, this is not a great success for anybody involved, but eventually the film does have something moderately serious to say about relationships, and it just about holds your attention until it ends.  "},{"Title":"What a load of #^%@$#$","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First question. Didn't Madonna and Rupert read this sucker before they agreed to do it?? Are they asking us to believe that a true blue gay man is really going to get drunk and have sex with a woman? He is not Bi-sexual, he's Gay! No freakin' way!!Are they asking us to believe that a single man, straight or gay, would rather spend all his time with a kid rather than going out and getting some?? This guy isn't gay, he's mentally disabled!!I don't think there is anyone stupid enough to believe a beautiful(?) woman and her GAY friend were going to spend the rest of there lives together?? So how can Rupert's character gets upset when she starts seeing Benjamin Pratt?? What is it with that beam of light on Madonna's face? No matter where she is, indoors or outdoors, there is a beam of glowing light on her face. It doesn't help her look any younger so why is it there??Madonna has always been a hit and miss actress. She should stick with singing and making videos. Hey Rupert, keep trying...... "},{"Title":"** Sorry Mo, your film blows","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am the biggest Madonna fan in the entire world but even I can find very little to like in this horrifically bad comedy-drama about a single aging woman who has a child with her gay best friend (Rupert Everett). While Madonna is far more relaxed and charming than she's ever been in a film before, her work is completely unraveled by extremely incoherent direction by John Schlesinger and a pitiful script by Thomas Ropelewski (which she and Everett supposedly contributed to). Everett's performance is a lot more grating than his best friend role in My Best Friend's Wedding and the script takes him to an annoying extreme of saintliness as the plot progresses. The film wouldn't be half bad if the first two-thirds were continued on, but as the story takes us into a Kramer Vs. Kramer-like courtroom case in the end that turns its main characters into the most unlikable idiots it seems impossible to enjoy the film. Benjamin Bratt is once again useless and charisma-free as Madonna's boyfriend, the one who throws the wrench in the perfect clockwork of their dull family existence. At least Madonna looks like she's having fun (and for the record, I LOVE the accent!)  "},{"Title":"Madonna is wonderful.","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Since her amazing turn in Evita, fans awaited something else that would frame her unappreciated talent. The Next best Thing is something she can be very proud of (regardless of what film critics say). I loved this film, and though I like Madonna's 'lesser' efforts as well (Shanghai Surprise and Who's That Girl) this is her second best film. She'd have to do something truelly spectacular to outdo Evita.Nonetheless, The Next Best Thing is a captivating, engrossing film that was sadly lost at the boxoffice amid a flurry of bigger budget, more advertized films and the hypocritical meanderings of so-called film critics. I say judge for yourself, when Ebert says that something like Kingpin is a great film but trash this one, you know he is out of his mind! Don't listen to professional critics, they have a financial steak in what they say be it good or bad. One critic even put it this way they should have gone with the obvious choice of showing the comical rearing of a baby. And had it done so, he still wouldn't have liked it because he would have called it too predictable. Most critics don't like Madonna, and they will find fault with whatever she does, whether it's justified or not. Take it from me, the negative comments about this film are NOT justified.Madonna plays Abby, a lonely woman who can't seem to find Mr. Right. Rupert Everett plays her best friend, who of course happens to be gay. In what can only be called a moment of inebriated bliss, the two get together. The result is a bouncing baby boy! And that is when the fun, humor, heart and soul of the film kicks in.I loved this movie. "},{"Title":"How/why was it made?","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a truly awful movie. Its such a piece of West LA/gay propaganda I'm  amazed, well I'm not really, that Madonna went any where near it. The acting is utterly souless and the whole relationship is totally unreal. It was clearly made for the loony gym freaks of California with so much muscle on display it was sickening. Madonna has the body of a light weight boxer and is about as sexy. Rupert's head looks like its on someone elses body altogether.  The relationship and attitude of the overly beautiful boy/son of Rupi is sooo dubious there must have been an outcry when this movie came out.  How this film got the greenlight not mention distribution when there are so many brilliant scripts out there dying for money I just do not know. "},{"Title":"So what's wrong with this movie?","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Being somewhat jaded by lousy reviews and my general apathy for Madonna I wasn't expecting much with this movie.  And I'll admit that I was very pleasantly surprised.  This story was beautifully told, touching and as a gay man it pushed more than a few buttons.  Madonna was incredible, believable and more appealling than she's ever been.  She definitely won a lot of points with me here.  Rupert Everett was born to play Robert, his performance is flawless from beginning to end.  Far from indulging in stereotypes and caricature, which he could have easily done he makes Robert a very touching, very human individual(although an admittedly flawed one).  The chemistry between him and Benjamin Stumpf who plays his son is very convincing.  You can actually feel a connection between the two. Robert and Abbie genuinely love their son, and it's very refreshing to see a movie where there are no actual bad guys(with the exception of Abbie's ex-boyfriend Kevin, a minor character who is only onscreen for a few minutes).  If you've been soured by the bad reviews keep an open mind and I think you'll be very pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"Much better than the reviews led us to believe","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must admit, I was half considering choosing another film when I went to the cinema last night, but I was VERY surprised.  Admittedly Rupert Everett does MAKE the film, but Madonna was probably just herself.  You either love her or hate her.  The plot was not as sickly predictable as I thought it would be and there were so many times when the audience were totally laughing out loud. If you fancy some light hearted entertainment, with some tears and laughter, then this is a very enjoyable film.  If you like Rupert Everett then you will LOVE The Next Best Thing. "},{"Title":"A well done social commentary for the new millennium","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was an engaging movie about a very germane social situation facing many members of generation X.  Madonna, Rupert Everett and Benjamin Bratt all portrayed their characters very sympathetically. I highly recommend this to anyone interested in how social mores are changing. "}{"Title":"Madonna fans should not miss this one...","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Madonna's movie The Next Best Thing is not without a few flaws, but over all it is a highly watchable movie. I definitely would recommend this one to Madonna fans...They will love this movie even if all the critics don't.I am one of the biggest Madonna fans on the planet, so I am somewhat biased (I admit that), but I think this is a great movie. There are a lot of wholesome laughs and some serious drama. What we have here is a romantic comedy with a little twist.It is a cross between The Object of my Affection and an episode of Law and Order, but with more heart. When the movie is funny, then it is VERY funny. When it is dramatic, it is VERY emotionally driven.Madonna does an excellent job in her role; I don't see why people always want to disrespect her acting ability. Rupert Everett and the rest of the cast are also really good in their roles. The only flaws I have with the movie are in the first thirty minutes of the movie. In the movie's beginning, there is a real problem with poorly written dialogue. It makes it look as though the actors can't act, but it is solely a problem with the dialogue. Stick through it though, IT GETS BETTER THE FARTHER YOU GET INTO THE MOVIE. Give it a chance. I think you will be pleased in the end. "},{"Title":"Sloppy script and Madonna's sub-par acting hurt The Next Best Thing","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ever since Desperately Seeking Susan, Madonna's acting ability has been lambasted by the press with few exceptions. She proved she can be a strong character actor in A League of Their Own, and also impressed many with her performance in Evita.  But then there's Shanghai Surprise, Who's That Girl, Body of Evidence, and it just goes on. Add The Next Best Thing to that list.To her credit, Madonna really doesn't have much to work with in this film, with a script that spends too much time on the extraneous (the occasional mention of AIDS is irrelevant, as are the stilted attempts at showing Robert's tenuous relationship with his father) and never gets beyond skin-deep on the film's weightier issues. Rupert Everett is much more charismatic as Robert, best friend to Abbie (Madonna).The film's strongest moments are, quite understandably, when the script is also at its most realistic. An argument at the supermarket shows a rare hint of acting talent in Madonna. On the other hand, when the film slips into the highly unlikely it fails, as shown strongly in the film's final court scenes.Overall, the film does have some funny moments and isn't as bad as most critics would have you think. However, The Next Best Thing could have been so much better. Let's hope Madonna's next album will be far more entertaining.Rating 5/10 "},{"Title":"Very sweet and funny","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised by this movie. It is sweet, funny and open-hearted and obviously made with a lot of heart. It isn't perfect-it has some cookie-cutter moments and some glossing over, but Madonna is very credible and expressive and Rupert is wonderful. The supporting cast was mostly wasted, though they were all good (except the miscast Michael Vartan) whenever they were allowed a second on-screen. I would give it a three stars out of four, and I think that despite the WOW-BAD negative reviews, most filmgoers will come away from this satisfied "},{"Title":"As a gay man, I really enjoyed the treatment of this film's main subject.","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film at a preview screening with a number of other gay friends. The first part of the film had the us laughing constantly -- playing on the fun loving gay lifestyle. I was concerned since that can quickly become trite and sitcom-ish. It did serve to establish the characters Robert as a stereotypical gay male who suffered loss and finds relationships difficult; Abbie as a woman feeling the boom of her biological clock. Madonna and Everett did make it past the stereotypes far enough to make me feel the plight of their characters -- the final twenty minutes had me in tears. I think the ending was weak but I still walked away saying that I would see this movie again -- before it makes it to video. "},{"Title":"It's OK, but nothing special","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The acting is mostly pretty good, Madonna actually pulls off a good, believable performance. The plot is OK, but it jumps too much forward in the movie at a time; in the end, you more or less lost interest. Rupert Everett's interesting character was pretty much the only thing that kept me through the whole thing, he was funny and a great character. The plot moves along annoyingly inconsistent, jumps too much from situation to situation for you to keep track of it. Every time you thought the movie had finally reached the situation it would be about, it jumps on. The situations are sometimes interesting, as they're realistic and about stuff that happens in real life. The last situation is very authentic, and deals with a situation that's somewhat common, and nearly everybody has experienced it, or something close to it. The funny moments in the film are few and far between, but maybe it's for the best; it makes the drama a little more real. If you have the patience to sit through it, and you want a good drama, you could give it a try; but don't expect a total masterpiece. 6/10 "},{"Title":"an enjoyable movie","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Madonna is great in this one! Her performance is more than good, and it was better that her performance in Evita, well ! it's Madonna, everything she does is great!!. This is the kind of movie to watch with your girlfriend. It you have the chance to watch The Next Best Thing well!! watch it, it deserves a chance.. 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Funny, Sad, and Just Plain Great!","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"   The Next Best Thing is a good film that is sad, yet funny, and is pretty good. The story is funny, and I enjoyed performances from Madonna and Rupert Everett. This is a touching and funny film that all should enjoy. This is a good film and the whole family should enjoy it. I give this film an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Better than I could have imagined!","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"14 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The big surprise is that Madonna really can act.  She doesn't seem forced, and she is very natural.  This film is hilarious in parts, sad in others, and very touching.  Rupert is in top form, of course, and the interaction between Madonna and Rupert Everett is terrific.  They both play off of each other very well, and the comedy is wonderful.  Madonna's scenes and one-liners are easily the best of her career.  She's in top form, here.  We really get to see a side of her that is soft, and not necessarily out-spoken.  The plot twists, which I will not reveal, are unexpected, and are necessary to reach the end, and conclusion, of the film.  Although the ending could have been a little brighter, and longer, it does at least give you insight into how this American family ends up.  The Next Best Thing is light, and sweet.  It's a wonderful film, and gave me chills, and laughter. I smiled, I laughed, and I even cried, which surprised me, because I don't ever cry at the movies.  I have to say that I am pleasantly surprised by this film, the performances, and the direction.  I give it a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"This Movie Was Intended For Madonna's Target Audienece...","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I think that this movie is definitely intended for Madonna's target audience...The gay's, her fans, and girls. Overall I think the movie is a chick flick but it definitely keeps your attention. I liked it. Not the best acting, especially on Madonnna's part. But hey you can't get experience without bettering yourself as a performer. The result was this movies acting. It's a fun, young, fresh movie and I would encourage people to be open minded and go rent it. It's worth a try! If you like Madnna's music and you're a fan, in general I would like to think that you would probably like to see this movie. I know I sure did. Remember, be open minded... "},{"Title":"I LIKED IT!!!!!","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I only went to this movie because I really like Rupert Everett! His facial expressions hit the mark every time.  And of course he's gorgeous!!! I haven't seen Madonna in much.  I know she isn't much of an actress, but in this movie it didn't matter too much.  I liked the story and felt that the story carried the actors, good or bad.  As long as you are there to be entertained and not to tear it apart, you will enjoy it.Benjamin Bratt was very good, too.  I think he can make the transition from T.V. to movies with no big problems.Go see this movie.  It will make you laugh, cry, smile and catch your breath.   Enjoy!!!! "}{"Title":"Rubert Everett as convincing as Madonna is not","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Madonna is not a very good actress. Once more she is narrow in her acting and simply miscast for the role. The movie is quite enjoyable nonetheless. Especially Rubert Everett soars in this movie. A very funny man. "},{"Title":"Magical Movie Confronts Topic of Gay/Straight Parenting.","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is truly a first! John Schlesinger gives us a first look into the lives of two friends, a gay man and a straight woman, who are surprised with a pregnancy after an overjoyous night of partying.Madonna and Rupert Everett give OUTSTANDING performances as, Abbie & Robert, the alternative parents to be.  Both decide to raise the child together without marriage. The chemistry between them is magical and purposeful. The viewer is thoroughly convinced and appreciative at the peek into the lives of these individuals and their friends.  Lynn Redgrave gives a great performance as Robert's (Everett) mother.This film has everything, and something for everyone to relate to!  The first half of the movie is cute, quirky and funny and then it becomes rather serious when, Abbie (Madonna) decides to marry another man (Benjamin Bratt) and decides take their son, Sam (Malcolm Stumpf), away.  A battle for Sam ensues. There are tender and tearful moments throughout the film.The Next Best Thing is a beautiful film about love and the impulsiveness of the human spirit.  This film is a MUST SEE! "}]