[{"Title":"Drama, Romance, a little Sex, a little Action  Good Acting; Saw Twice.","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"54 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" True, there are some goofs, for the one who wants to find them. They're not important, though.The primary feature of this film is watching veteran expert actors do their craft. Kristin Scott Thomas is beautiful and plays well the part of a strong woman, but one who has been hurt. Same for Harrison Ford, who, for the ladies, is just as beau as Kristin is belle for us guys.Their hurt at the hands of their adulterous spouses brings them together in an awkward manner, but one in which they find support in each other. How they evoke their hurt feelings and their humanity within on th screen is why these are such sought performers. The viewer cannot help but feel what they feel, nor can one help wanting to cheer them when they're together.Yes, there are several action scenes involving angry corrupt cops, but they only spice it up a little, and are not a significant part of the movie.For the lover of music, Dave Grusin provides a superb Jazz based background, featuring trumpeter Terrence Blanchard. Like the actors, Grusin shows why he is one of the most sought musical consultants in the movie business. Blanchard shows why he's one the premiere trumpeters on the scene.Not a movie for the lovers of guts, blood, and gore. But for those who want to see a lot of what makes us feel inside, watch a beautiful English actress with big expressive blue eyes who can act, like Harrison Ford, to the endless soothing accompaniment courtesy of Dave Grusin and Terrence Blanchard, this is a move to watch with someone you love. Preferably in bed.I thought it deserved at least an 8. "},{"Title":"An intriguing story with a clever twist","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"26 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I admit I have been a fan of Harrison Ford for many, many years now so it didn't surprise me that I enjoyed his performance here. But I also enjoyed the way the storyline developed and thought the casting was well done. I don't know whether I buy into Kristin Scott Thomas as a Congresswoman but she is a fine actress and a beautiful woman. I took notice of her in the first Mission Impossible. Although her part was small she stuck out on the screen.Here her and Ford play people whose spouses are killed in an airplane crash. They are seated together and this is where the plot takes off. Apparently Ford, a police detective in Wash D.C., discovers that his wife was having an affair. He further discovers that the affair was with the husband of a New England Congresswoman.The story takes on many subplots as Ford and Thomas find themselves drawn together by revelations of their marriages, the uncovering of deceipt, and the pure grief and anger over the loss of a loved one.I think the movie is worthwhile either renting or catching on cable. "},{"Title":"dull, dreary romantic tale","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"40 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Has there ever been a more dour, dreary and depressing movie romance than Random Hearts, a film that drones on for 131 grueling minutes and traps two wonderful actors, Harrison Ford and Kristin Scott Thomas, in its diabolical clutches?Ford is a police sergeant working in internal affairs and Thomas is a New Hampshire congresswoman whose paths cross when their spouses, who are having a secret affair with each other, die in a plane crash.  Drawn together by both circumstance and grief, the two begin a tentative love affair despite the many complications it sets up.The actors do their best given the stark limitations of portraying two people overcome with despair, but the audience is nevertheless subjected to more than two hours of unrelieved gloominess.  In a sense, it is a bit of a relief to see a romantic film that is not all lightheartedness and carefree silliness, but a subject as profound as the study of grief and loss on the human psyche demands a less conventional, more imaginative and serious a format than this film provides.  (The brilliant film, Fearless, from 1993 is a startling case in point).  The actions of the characters often ring false as when, for instance, the two grieving spouses, sitting in a car, suddenly begin grappling in a wild sexual frenzy, a moment that elicits giggles from the audience because it is so lacking in motivation and preparation.  Moreover, the film pads out its narrative by constantly cutting away to an irrelevant and wholly underdeveloped subplot involving Ford's pursuit of a murderous cop - a sideshow that results in a completely ludicrous shooting scene that undercuts the seriousness of the film's purpose.Random Hearts is an obvious and, perhaps, even admirable attempt to bring a more mature, adult-oriented love story to the screen.  It's a shame, then, that all involved seem to have confused dreariness with profundity and gloominess with depth. "},{"Title":"Good movie to sit back and relax with your loved one","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"23 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I must be getting old because I was riveted to this movie from the first time I saw it.  I'm watching it again right now on HBO.  It's a very simple film about 2 people that fall in love after they found out that there spouses were having an affair.  Plot is very thin, but the actors acted very well in this movie.  In the mix of Kristen Scott Thomas running for congress and Harrison Ford being an Internal Affairs cop, these two meet, under unfortunate circumstances and fall in love.  I love the soundtrack.  Perfect fit.  One thing I can't figure out, this movie had a budget of $68 million dollars.  Were was it spent?  The plane crash or Harrison Ford's salary? "},{"Title":"absorbing, ultimately unsatisfying","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Random Hearts snuck up on me. Criticized for the implausibility of a) the premise and b) the pairing of an IA cop and a Congresswoman, as well as for its slowness, the film felt just fine to me , and even ended up being surprisingly absorbing. I found my interest engaged as the film cut back and forth between Ford's and Thomas's lives as they first found out about, and dealt in very different ways in very different environments with, their spouses' deaths and the subsequent revelation that they were involved with other people. It could happen; two people's philandering spouses could be on the same plane, the plane could go down, the survivors could be brought together by the aftermath. So what if it's improbable? Improbable is not the same as far-fetched. So..what if it did happen? Why not speculate? Ford's and Thomas's performances are believable and nuanced. Instead of finding their coupling implausible (opposite sides of the tracks--give me a break) I felt it driven by a grief and betrayal neither party knew how to deal with. The script does not bring them together too soon or too easily, and the end of the film does not resolve their relationship conventionally, either. Where I find it unsatisfying is when the dialogue brings up interesting wrinkles in or insights into the ramifications of the situation, personal and professional, but never seems to pursue any of them very far. And if you make the mistake of thinking about it too hard, Harrison Ford does seem about 10 years too old for the part.For five and a half bucks at Wal-Mart, with full length director commentary and behind-the-scenes featurette, the DVD is well worth owning. I don't think I would pay $20 for it on a bet, but my wife might. OK, ten... "},{"Title":"A Mature Movie You Will Love It Or Hate It","Date":"2 April 2010","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This is one of those movies you either love or hate. Having read some of the reviews posted here its a blatantly obvious factSpoilers withinWhat I liked Kristin Scott Thomas, I think she did a more than decent job here I felt for her character. This particular actress is brilliant at expressing emotion without the use of script this gift is put to great use in this movie. I think that anyone who didn't appreciate this fact were not watching the same movie i was. The chemistry between the two leads was pretty good. what i didn't like The plot was implausible didn't know this was a book before being made into a movie it explains a lot. The script in parts left lots to be desired. Overall I liked this movie I felt the two leads Ford and Scott Thomas did great work. It is a mature story for mature people I think younger viewers might not get the point. I enjoyed it a lot. "},{"Title":"Very Good Movie","Date":"28 January 2011","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I had to write after reviewing the narrow opinions shown. If any of you know of anyone who cheated on their spouse and then died without explaining the reasons, you will have to appreciate this film. The needing to know, the desire to know exactly when the affair started, the want to know what the other attraction the other had that you did not, all of those answers...the rummaging around personal belongings to find some logical inference, the mission to make it all make sense...All to find nothing that will fill in the gaps. This movie depicted the horrors to one's own identity and self confidence. This will always be one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"Anything with Kristen","Date":"4 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Of all the actresses in film today, Kristin Scott Thomas would be my choice if I had to select one for stranding on a desert island.I could watch her simply, say, sitting in a chair for a couple of hours. So it's difficult for me to be objective completely with respect to one of her films.However, I did enjoy this movie and its story, per se, more than that indicated by the average ranking among the many persons previously commenting on this site.Harrison Ford is not one of the actors, though, whose performances I enjoy most. But he's one of a handful who have reached the level of moving from 7 figures to 8 per film, so who am I to argue?Ford though is often droll in his acting style, and sometimes seems to be in serious need of an antacid and a shot of caffeine - and Random Hearts is in this grouping.His obsession in probing the losses, which both he and Thomas have endured with regard to their linked spouses, is understandable, given his profession as a detective - but not to the level presented here. Although not far, it crossed the line into the annoying category. However, most of the scenes after he and Thomas became involved were interesting and well-played.This film could have been a 9*, but I'd lower it a couple of levels, based upon Ford's overall performance, and and another, because it contained a bit more of the extraneous sub-plot elements than seemed required. "},{"Title":"Longest two hours of my life!","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This film was rubbish. I had heard and read bad reviews of this film but not even they could prepare me for how truly awful this film was. Harrison Ford just couldn't be bothered to act and his character's obsession with his dead wife was very irritating. Very disappointing- what could have been a very good film, ended up very boring, with awful acting and a bad script. "},{"Title":"An insomniac's best friend","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I would have been more entertained by watching my toenails grow.  This movie told its whole story in the first fifteen minutes and then rode out the last 2 hours reveling in some sort of pseudo-cathartic angst painted up to look like sorrow and passion but, underneath, was nothing but an excuse for Kristin Scott Thomas to look pained and Harrison Ford to mumble a lot.  I wish I could call this just a chick flick, but it's not even that.  This was Hanover Street, but without the plot.  This was every movie you never wanted to see wrapped up and thrown at you all at once.   "}{"Title":"Script? What script?","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  What was a nice premise for this film was ruined by a pathetic script that lacked research, punch and believability. The movie was full of sloppy dialogue. When Kay and the cop finally get together in New Hampshire to go see that movie, let's hope they don't choose this turkey! "},{"Title":"Just awful","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Someone lent this to me on video - I'm not speaking to them again. Mind you it was like two movies for the price of one. About 60 seconds worth of film seemed to join the two 'plots'. No, it was bad, quite simply the worst film I have ever seen! "},{"Title":"Pretty Poor","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I have nothing good to say about this movie.  After a promising start, it rapidly goes down hill.  None of the characters are particularly interesting.  The plot plods on with no clear direction.  Don't bother with this one. "},{"Title":"If you're an insomniac, this film is a must!","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Let me see, it stars....Harrison Ford...zzzzzzzzzz...oh, sorry...and Kristin Scott...Thomas...zzzzzzzzzz....ummh, what movie are we discussing here? Oh yeah, directed by Sidney Greenstreet....zzzzzzz....SORRY! Pollack! Pollack! Pollack!!! It's about...uhhh I think someone dies...maybe 2 people...maybe relatives of the stars...I forget was that Harrison Ford?...or Steve Martin doing Harrison Ford? Oh shoot, I give up, I'm going back to sleep. Or else turn this movie off. "},{"Title":"Boring, Dull, Not Believable.","Date":"14 November 2004","Score":"15 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" A friend gave me this movie because she liked it. I decided I would finally watch it. It was sooooooo long. I kept waiting for the suspense to happen but it never did. I kept waiting for something to happen after the opening scenes, and it never did. I stopped the movie and came back later. I actually forced myself to watch the rest of it hoping it would get better. It got worse. I kept asking myself, who are these people? Do they have feelings? are they just robots? I'm glad I didn't pay to see it or pay to rent it. The end would have been better if Dutch died from the gunshot wound. At least we would have gotten some emotion from the audience. Or maybe not. "},{"Title":"see this at your peril","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This was torture. This was Hell itself. This is one of the worst films i've ever seen. The recipe for the script was apparentlyTake two characters who the audience don't care about. Give them a second-rate script. Stretch 5mins of plot into 2 hours or so.I give it a 1, and only because there is nothing lower available.  "},{"Title":"I thought that this movie was probably the worst I've ever seen.","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Random hearts?!  Try random plot.  I love Harrison Ford and generally love all of his movies, but not even he could save this one.  Most of the movie is spent with him and Kristin Scott Thomas staring at each other.  Real exciting.  I felt like the movie's entire plot could have been condensed into about 45 minutes at most and the rest was just those 2 staring at each other and sighing.  It's really unfortunate, though.  The premise seemed really interesting and had it had a better script and direction, the movie could have been intriguing and even thrilling.  But, it's not.  It's dull and unimaginative.   "},{"Title":"Taking the long way to get there.","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Sydney Pollack directs a script based on a novel by Warren Adler. An Internal Affairs Officer with the D.C. Police Dept and a woman running for congress enter each others life when they are faced with the fact their spouses were killed in a plane crash. It is discovered their spouses were in the middle of a torrid affair. But life has to go on.Harrison Ford is somewhat toned down, and this movie is below his normal standards. Kristin Scott Thomas runs through a  gamut of emotions and plays her part in a convincing manner. This movie runs a little long and I understand why some people found it boring. It does seem to drag in places. This time the movie does little to even do the trailers justice.Also featured are Charles Dutton, Director Pollack and briefly Peter Coyote and Susanna Thompson. "},{"Title":"Embarrassed for Ford","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I was embarrassed for Harrison Ford when I watched this flick, which I fast-forwarded a few times due to the long scenes during which nothing happened.  Apparently, Ford was embarrassed, as well, because he didn't seem to be acting, but rather, walking around half-asleep.They say Seinfeld was a show about nothing.  Well, this was a movie about nothing.  While Seinfeld was able to create nine fun-filled years based on nothing, this movie created nothing out of a number of solid possibilities.  Seeds of plot were strewn around, but nothing was allowed to grow.  The plotlines were undeveloped.  The characters were undeveloped.  And with all of that nothing happening, the creators still found plenty of room for filler.  I was amazed.  (The Producers would have created a successful flop in Springtime for Hitler if they'd only taken lessons from the creators of this waste of film.)The high point of the film, for me, was seeing that Kristen Scott Thomas has a pretty smile and lovely eyes.  The only other movie I've seen her in was Die Hard with a Vengeance, in which she played her part as the savage bitch to the hilt.  In the former role she was excellent, so much that I felt anger and hatred at watching her character.  In this movie she appeared to do the best she could under the circumstances.The creators seemed to be attempting to romanticize adultery, making it the norm, and suggesting that those who remain faithful to their spouses must lead boring lives.  With that attitude they created a shaky relationship between the two main characters, one that gave the audience no reason whatsoever to care about it.  Certainly the movie was faithful to its title, but WHO CARES?  Precisely! "},{"Title":"A complete mess","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Motivations of the characters was completely unbelievable. Many times throughout the movie  you find yourself thinking that the characters' actions were totally illogical, making it  impossible to identify with the characters. Possibly, the writing / direction were completely out of sync making the movie painful to sit through. I wanted my money back from the video store...  "}{"Title":"Allow me to save you the trouble...","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  But not to worry, I won't spoil it-- the movie managed to do that all on its own.  The thing it is that just when you think there's an opportunity for a twist or a turn or a surprise element, the movie just keeps on yapping in the same place.  It's static-- and dry... but, if you like good dialogue, there were 3 surprisingly enjoyable lines in the film... so that's something, right? "},{"Title":"Worst-and I am a Ford fan!","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The major problem with this movie is the writing! The two stars I believe did a fine job, but the lines they were to read were NOT well written. There were many times I was laughing out loud at how stupid their lines were. The movie also started out very choppy and hard to follow. I normally like most movies I see, but this one gets a 1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Sets new standards for boredom and idiocy","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This excuse of a movie was plain awful. Thankfully there were some moments where you could laugh with the ridiculousness of the characters, the plot and the direction, but it took itself too seriously even for that. This must be one of the worst movies I have seen, ever. I wonder how Sydney Pollack and Harrison Ford took part in this. They screwed up their careers. I hope you take seriously the advice not to see it even if they pay you to do so. Do not, I repeat, do not think it might be worth a try. The only thing that saved us and the whole theatre was that once and then someone was telling aloud a joke about the plot that proved how idiotic the film was and the rest were laughing.  "},{"Title":"Questionable attitudes and no conclusion","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I have to say that Random Hearts is one of the worst films I have ever seen. Some people said about it, you can only understand it if you have life experience. The problem with this movie, as far as I'm concerned, is that there is no moral answer to the question of betrayal and the loss of a life. The figures who are ought to have a lifetime experience act very immature in my opinion. I simply did not understand the protagonists aim. Especially, his attitude of moaning the death of his wife on the one hand and falling for another one so easily on the other is very questionable. It is a difficult subject and the makers did not succeed in giving it some sense. I was frustrated because the main figures did not find a solution to the things which bothered them. All in all it is a very frustrating film. "},{"Title":"Rare misfire from Pollack.","Date":"10 April 2011","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" With a story like this, maybe it couldn't have been paced well anyway. But Random Hearts is like a glossy, stillborn mess that just sort of sits there and waits for you to decide when to turn the channel. Normally the late Sydney Pollack brought a lot more to his films, but here he must have thought star power could be enough. The story is implausible at best, and maybe just a step ahead of ludicrous. Tough Internal Affairs cop and female congressman from New Hampshire lose their spouses in a plane crash. The congresswoman wants to forget the whole thing and move on, but the inquisitive nature of the cop keeps him searching for answers. Finally, after the viewer has long since lost interest in the movie, the two begin an affair as hard to believe as Ted Danson and Whoopie Goldberg. There is WAY too much time dedicated to a subplot involving crooked cops, and this whole angle should have been written out. The whole thing plays out very, very slowly.The acting is good enough, and it is the film's only saving grace. Ford is dour and reserved as the grizzled cop. Thomas is believable and even likable as the politician whose biggest care seems to be if she should run for office again or not. She seems at peace instantly when she learns of her husband's death. The thought of these two having an affair together just isn't plausible, though. No way. It would be easier to take if the film didn't waste so much time with its subplots and parsed dialog. Pollack tries to use similar music to what he used in The Firm to liven things up, but this only makes us recall how much better that film was. And it was far from great. But that is the subject of another review perhaps some day.Was there a good way to tell such a contrived story? Not sure, but this film is a failure. In many ways, it began the downfall of Harrison Ford who has seen his career sag in recent years. Even though it was no classic, the last Indiana Jones film was the best work he's done in years. Random Hearts is essentially a waste of a good cast, director, and over two hours of your time. 4 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"She's through with him! He's through with her! And were through with both of them!","Date":"22 October 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" **SPOILERS** Overlong and somewhat confusing drama involving an airplane crash, Southern Airline flight from D.C to Miami, where two of the crash victims were cheating on their spouses.It's not much later that one of those being cheated on Washington D.C internal affair police Sgt. Dutch Van Den Broeck, Harrison Ford, got wind from her job that his old lady Peyton, Susanna Thompson, was on a flight to Miami to do a fashion shoot for her employer Sacks 5th Av of Washington D.C. Desperately trying to find out if Peyton was on the doomed flight Ducth not only finds out that she was, through a morgue photo at the crash site, but she was using an assumed name! Peyton was using the name of the wife of the person that booked the flight Cullen Chandler, Peter Coyote. Things get even more strange when it's discovered that the late Mr. Chandler's wife, who he's been cheating on, is non other then New Hampshire congresswoman Kay Chandler, Kristin Scott Thomas, who's now in a life and death campaign for reelection!The movie brings the two, Dutch & Kay, together in finding if in fact it's true that they were being cheated on by their marriage partners. And in the process they end up falling in love with each other! If it was just that the film Random Hearts would have made for a pretty good adult love story. Instead by putting into the film murder drug dealing both police corruption and political chicanery the movie at times was almost impossible to follow!Dutch who should have taken a leave of absent from the D.C Police Department in order for him to overcome his grief goes the exact opposite direction. Instead he goes full blast in busting fellow D.C cop George Beauford, Dennis Haysbert, for drug dealing by him getting, which is very unprofessional on Dutch's part, very personal about it. This not only leads to Dutch's top informant to get murdered but Dutch almost ending up murdered himself! Or at the least losing his job or being put behind bars for taking the law into his own hands! All of this together with Dutch trying to find out if his wife Peyton was untrue to him seemed too much for the poor guy to handle. As for Kay she had far more pressing problems in the fact if her dead husband's infidelity became public it could very well screw her out of a second term in the US Congress!***SPOILERS*** With the film being much too long, 133 minutes, as well as complicated and confusing you completely lose interest in it at about the one hour mark! It takes a while to realize what exactly Dutch & Kay are so desperately looking for, their cheating partners secret love nest, and when they, independent of each other, finally find it what was the big shocking surprise anyway! It only proved to Dutch & Kay, what we in the audience knew all along, what should have been obvious to them right from the very beginning of the movie! "},{"Title":"What was that all about?","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Whoo, thank god it had an end, a bad one at that, but at least it ended. I was beginning to think I had died and was in purgatory, making amends for past sins, by having to sit through what is arguably the slowest moving movie I have seen in a very long time. "},{"Title":"Yuck!","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I am usually a Harrison Ford fan, but this stinker was one bad movie.  Two hours of rolled eyes and hoping for the lights at the end.  Combining bad dialog and unbelievable story lines is usually left to less talented actors. Come on Harrison, pick better projects! "},{"Title":"Boring!","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I like a lot of the movies I see. Rarely do I find one that I think is boring, such is the case with this one. The character of Harrison Ford constantly asks 'Why' regarding his wife's affair?'. So did I, as in 'Why am I still watching this and not doing something else?' The strange part about it is that Harrison Ford is my favorite male actor. This movie is drawn out and just not interesting. "},{"Title":"Worst Sidney Pollack movie ever","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" It wasn't until I saw Sidney Pollack in the picture that I ever connected him to this film. This is his worst possible movie. Absolute dreck. The dialog is wooden and unbelievable, the plot is unbelievable.Kristen Scott Thomas is wasted in this movie. There is nothing about her character that makes you even want to believe in this story.Harrison Ford is like on Valium. There is no life in his eyes.I blame Sidney Pollack for the failure of this movie. The script is awful, and he is too smart to not see that. So it smacks of some kind of payoff, whether of a studio obligation or something else, but this is just BLOODY ROTTEN! "}{"Title":"underrated movie","Date":"8 February 2010","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I didn't believe my eyes when I saw that this movie was valued with just a 4.8. This is a very interesting movie. It isn't a typical Hollywood movie, it demands from the watcher some work. But when you are in the movie, you'll get a lot! The most important excellent work from Harrison Ford and Kristin Scott Thomas. Their characters are going through heavy times and both Harrison and Kristin succeed fine very well in bringing their characters emotion to the audience. The script is excellent. The subject is most interesting. The subject is very thorough worked out. It could happen in real. And finally directed by Sidney Pollack. So that means first class quality. Watch this great movie and enjoy, you won't be disappointed! "},{"Title":"A romance born out of tragedy,loss and pain.","Date":"12 March 2009","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" From the late Sydney Pollack comes a grown up love story about human nature,pain,passion and betrayal. Police Sergeant Dutch Van Den Broeck(Harrison Ford)is devastated when he learns his beloved wife has been killed in a plane crash,he's even more upset to learn of her affair with the husband of a famous congresswoman Kay Chandler(Kristen Scott Thomas).He arranges to meet her and see if she knew or like he had no idea.They start to befriend each other then out of their mutual pain and distress begin an intense affair(which could be seen as healing for them both).However will the memories of the dead and pressures from their respective jobs drive them apart and cause more harm than good or can they escape the past?well you'll have to watch Random Hearts and find out.A moving and well acted film with a great cast. "},{"Title":"Preposterous...but not without interest","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Unusually cold and silly drama from director Sydney Pollack. Soapy plot revolves around adulterous couple perishing in a plane wreck, leaving their spouses to find eachother and connect on their own intimate level. Romance-novel writing gets sluggish treatment, although I thought the performances by leads Harrison Ford and Kristen Scott-Thomas were fine. Slick production holds interest, even though the plot keeps covering the same ground, and never builds any emotional momentum. As a result, the climax in the airport is a big 'So What?' "},{"Title":"I loved this movie for sum reason","Date":"2 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" When I first saw this film in the theaters I kind a board with it. but when i saw it on video I loved it more. it is a very loving film to watch in your spare time. I gess this movie made me think about a lot of things that went on in my life during this film in 1999. Bonnie Hunt was so awesome in this movie telling of on herself to Kay Chandler. The actors and actresses were so loving in there roles of the film. Its so wild how Cullen got around with the ladies in this movie. The soundtrack of the film was great as well. Its like all the music went with the script of the show. Over all is one of my favorite movies of all time "},{"Title":"Liked It, But Wished They'd Used More of the Book","Date":"2 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This review will probably spoil things if you haven't seen this film, so beware. I saw this movie for the first time just a few months ago, but decided to review it AFTER I'd read the book. Couldn't believe some of the differences. Yes, the cheating wife was in the fashion business, and yes the cheating husband was a lawyer, but in the book the cheated husband is not an IA Cop, he's an assistant to a congressman, and the cheated wife is not a congresswoman, but a housewife with a small child, a boy!! I'm not sure why the whole side story of him being a cop and the whole story that went with it was added. I watched the movie a second time, and pretty much FF'd thru the whole police thing. The whole trip to Miami was nowhere in the book, nor was there a sister to Kay. Also in the book, there was more detail on Peyton's family background being all Italians and hating Dutch (his name is Edward in the book) for taking Peyton (Lily in the book) away from the family and not being Catholic. I really think the movie could've been more interesting to a lot of the reviewers had they used more of the book material. Also missing in the movie was Peyton's AND Kay's pregnancies. Even so, I enjoyed the movie. I think Harrison Ford is excellent, but thinking back, to have him an expectant father would not work at his age (the characters are younger in the book). Finally, I was looking forward to clarification of the steamy, albeit a little awkward, scene in the car between Kay and Dutch, but that too is nowhere in the book. I was almost disappointed reading when and how they first hook up as it wasn't nearly as exciting as the movie version. I'd still recommend this as a decent movie. Have to admit Harrison Ford was the main attraction for me. But I'd also recommend the book as a supplement to the story. "},{"Title":"A Movie about Betrayal, Trust, and Honesty","Date":"21 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This is the most ludicrously underrated movie out of the thousands I've looked at on this site. I can understand why most American moviegoers would not like it, as it is very nearly unique. The only movie I've seen that it might be likened to is Brief Encounter (the original English version with Trevor Howard, please), but this film is more subtle and interesting than the English classic.Random hearts is a story about two people, a man and a woman, whom the fates have mockingly drawn together for no better reason than their shared nightmare of betrayal, yet as it turns out their very different personalities perfectly complement each other in their efforts to cope and to find the antidote to their poisoned lives - which turns out to be perfect honesty with respect to each other, and integrity with respect to themselves.The movie itself is as honest and integral as its protagonists learn to be. Contrary to what some have said, the plot is both plausible and realistic, and all the little opportunities for over-dramatization that most American directors and actors cannot resist, are studiously avoided. And since the protagonists are intelligent but not particularly articulate, still less self-aware (which is what the movie is about), meanings and dramatic passages are mostly conveyed visually, and by first rate acting and direction, rather than editorially, via the script. Overall, the tone is one of somber realism, which creates the ideal backdrop for the subtly dramatic re-emergence of the underlying humanity and vitality of the characters, in the wake of their mutual trauma.I believe my characterization of this movie makes it fairly self-evident why so many Hollywood-conditioned viewers find this movie flat, boring, and unsatisfying, and I suppose that they also feel cheated because this is not a typical Harrison Ford movie, any more than Bridges of Madison County is a typical Clint Eastwood movie. Yet both of these films are among the best that either actor has ever done.Many seem to see the casting of Kristin Scott Thomas opposite Ford as bizarre, but I see it as brilliant. A principal theme of this movie is to probe for the common humanity that often underlies superficial differences of background, personality, and presentation, and to remind us of what is truly important in our character and our relationships. "},{"Title":"A comfort to each other","Date":"27 June 2015","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Sydney Pollack kept a tight directorial rein on his stars and his cast in Random Hearts. As a result you get a romantic film both tender and expressive in their faces. Good thing that Harrison Ford and Kristin Scott Thomas have faces that the camera loves.They are the most unlikeliest of lovers. The only other way that these two would meet is if Washington, DC cop Ford was ever assigned to a security detail Representative Thomas. Unlikely as Ford's assignment is Internal Affairs. But somewhere their spouses Susanna Thompson and Peter Coyote did meet. In fact they've been meeting regularly for some time now.It all comes to light when the two are killed in a plane crash that goes down in the Potomac River. As one of them is traveling under an assumed name and the other lied about her destination it does take someone with the mind of an investigator to track it down. Depending on your point of view of how fortunate for Ford that he is one.Both Ford and Thomas are dealing with other issues. Ford and his partner Charles Dutton have just busted Dennis Haysbert, a cop who was shaking down social club operators for protection money. In fact in a very interesting hostage scene Ford puts Haysbert in custody. You have to see the film alone for how he handles that.As for Thomas she's facing a multi-millionaire opponent for her seat which is one of the two in New Hampshire. Not really a good time for dirty laundry to be aired. We never see her opponent, but he's one of those family values types so we know exactly what she can expect.Still these two become a comfort to each other and soon enough become quite a bit more. How their worlds eventually publicly intersect is for you to see Random Hearts.In a modern urban setting Random Hearts is a love story, the kind that Hollywood used to do so well. Bid kudos to Sydney Pollack and his stars and cast for delivering on this one. "},{"Title":"Good acting.","Date":"16 June 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The opening scenes grab you and push you back into your seat. The two stars of the film have just lost their spouses in an air crash. They must identify the bodies. Harrison Ford discovers his wife was sitting next to a man in first class so he calls upon the wife of this man. He suspects that they might have been having an affair. Harrison Ford is such a good actor; he leads you into the film and won't let you go. This is a bit unfortunate because the story slowly deteriorates. No viewer can miss what is going to happen next but this review will not tell you just in case someone new to American cinema fears a spoiler. The acting is so good that the film can hold your interest, but it does not seem to live up to its riveting beginning. "},{"Title":"I love this film!","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I think this film is excellent.I was amazed by Kristin's acting skills.She made a great job in this film.She played multiply roles really good.As a wife,as a woman,as a mother,as a senator.And the story is also mysterious and sentimental.This film also disscuss about the truth and lie.Do you believe the words what people say?Do you really think what you see is what you get?Do you really understand your wife and husband?When everything become different,what would you do?Do you have enough courage to find out the truth at all costs?I think this movie truly inspired me to think about these questions.And the ending made me feel warm and sweet. "},{"Title":"Excellent cast, bad direction, dissatisfying story line","Date":"10 March 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Kristin Scott Thomas provides a truly inspired performance here - totally believable...she really engages you. Unfortunately, Sydney Pollack's direction of Harrison Ford results in an uninteresting character who is too stiff, depressed and geriatric. Ford is also totally unconvincing as a police sargeant, and even seems a tad psychotic in his investigative technique. Although I am a huge Ford fan, this movie would be totally unwatchable without Kristin Scott Thomas...she carries the day. The plot wears thin early-on in the movie, and is never rescued. No clever dialogue, and no real relationship development after the heavy petting scene in the car. The soundtrack is a syrupy rip-off of Dave Grusin's Fabulous Baker Boys melodies, and the ending makes you want to throw your shoe at the TV in disgust. Not a date movie. Avoid this one if you're a Harrison Ford fan. "}{"Title":"Yawn Down '99","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The concept of two people (internal affairs detective Harrison Ford and US Representative Kristen Scott Thomas) with nothing in common but their respective cheating spouses having just died in the crash of an airliner, and the two strangers being forced to deal with the emotional and physical wreckage, holds about twenty minutes worth of interest in Sydney Pollack's Random Hearts, a 133 minute yawn fest best viewed on TNT (in order to avoid the cost of a rental). This is an amazingly dull movie.I have admired much of Pollack's work (and he is an engaging character actor whose performance in Tootsie was both pleasing and funny), but Random Hearts is easily one of the dullest pieces of film making I've ever dozed through. There is quite simply nothing to hold your interest, not even a lame side story of Harrison Ford trying to prosecute a corrupt cop. There's no intellectual or sexual tension, no intense interest in finding out the details of the spouses' relationship, and I defy you to care whether or not Ford and Thomas get past their grieving to become a couple.It's all so forced and TVish that I'm not sure why I stuck with it to the ending credits.This is the sort of expensive, glossy junk that talented actors and directors sometimes put out there to suck us in and make for themselves some quick cash.I think it would have been more merciful if the film stock had crashed in the Potomac with the cheating spouses. "},{"Title":"Better than 5","Date":"3 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" It's worth more than a 5! Random Hearts is one of very few films shot entirely in the Washington DC area, and I like to revisit for historic reasons.The film unfolds slowly and runs for more than 2 hours &#x96; a tough sell in an age of 10-second attention spans. But the plot is more complex than it seems. There is a large cast of sleazy, disgusting people. I got much more from a third viewing; significantly turning up the volume during the first 5 minutes &#x96; especially the haranguing, racist lawyer in the court scene. The dialog often seems to be almost mundane filler, but no phrase or word is wasted because everything comes back to haunt later as the lies and deceit crash back down the mountain of infidelity. Meanwhile their workday routines are what anchor the sad survivors.Ford is an IAD detective investigating a crime lord who's brazen enough to attempt murder in broad daylight. Kristin Scott Thomas works very well as the icy preppie congress-critter kicking off a campaign and determined to keep any whiff of negativity at bay. Her strategy is to move on immediately since there's nothing she can do to bring back either her cheating husband or his lover. But Ford is a cop and has to know; not so much out of spite, but because his training taught him to spot liars &#x96; and he couldn't believe that his wife had duped him. Naturally they realize their spouses were leading double lives while their friends and co- workers covered for them.The couple finally realize as the gossip reaches her daughter that they both need closure. Both stars played the best, most convincing roles of their careers. Harrison Ford in particular reached his John Wayne moment. The love scene in her car at National Airport is so packed with intense emotion that words escape me.If you hated it the first time around, try it again, and repeat, this is not a chick flick. "},{"Title":"Blech","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This was, in a word, BORING! as many people have said the same for this movie.  Harrison, what were you thinking?  Well, my mom is on your side anyway.  She thinks you should have made another Star Wars film instead.  Actually, Harrison Ford was the only good thing about this movie.  Weren't to hard on the eyes if you know what I mean.  Before I even watched this movie, there was something about the cover that turned me off.  I guess I was right, but my mom really wanted to see it so I watched it with her.  I should stick to my intuition more often.  Someone get me out of here! "},{"Title":"A typical Harrison Ford romance","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Why do people need to follow the opinion of the herds of masses and critics? RANDOM HEARTS, directed by the brilliant Sydney Pollack (who has a small role in the film too) is another Harrison Ford vehicle. As such, it is quite good and entertaining. Surely, anyone who goes to see it has this in mind, or read the book which is no better. Even Kristin Scott Thomas fans, myself included, knew it would be a variation of her again playing the love interest of her eldest uncle. Even as such, the film is satisfying. What's so bad about this movie that is much better in the other (much higher rated) Harrison Ford vehicles? This film is no masterpiece, but it's not as bad as the masses would have the potential viewer believe. "},{"Title":"Not nearly as bad as other's say","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I read the other comments here about this movie before watching it.  If you've read them, you will know that they are almost all negative.  I really don't understand that.  I admit that it is far too long (it needs about a half hour cut out to speed it up a bit).  The music is often inappropriate.  But, strong performances by Ford and Thomas are indeed enough to carry this.  With all his fame as a movie star, I'd forgotten that Harrison Ford really can act!  This role as a man who has defined himself based upon a lie is remarkable.  I find it completely believable that he wants all the details he can get so he can see what was real and what was deception.  Thomas is always wonderful and this is no exception.  Her initial denial which leads to confusion and then to inner calm is tremendous.  This movie is never going to be on anybody's list of great flicks, but it isn't that bad.  I'm glad that I waited to see it on video, but it is worth the $3 or $4.   "},{"Title":"Poor use of good resources.","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I clerk in a video store, so I try to see the movies we're about to put out each week. I don't have a problem with this; in fact, I sort of feel it's a privilege. Not so with this film . . . After an hour and a half of our hero whining and growling his way through scene after scene, I was truly wondering if they planned to get to the point. I felt like I should be getting paid for watching this at home, in my free time. And if I'd known there was another hour to be endured, I might have given up right then. I didn't care about the characters, the filming was unremarkable, and Ford made kissing look like a chore. Even the score was incongruous and jarring. What a waste. "},{"Title":"A Lemon. .   A Totally Flat Tire. .   P.U.","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Argh!Don't mistakenly think that this film has intrigue, or some kind of plane-crash conspiracy as the video summary implies.  No! The story consists of a guy who wants to examine stained sheets, and wants another person to join him in his neurosis. I'm afraid my plot description may have actually added more excitement than the film provided. A lemon, without even a laughable scene.  PU  "},{"Title":"Random, yeah right","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Harrison Ford plays Sergeant Dutch Van Den Broeck of the District of Columbia Police Department.  He tries to get the bad guys, but doesn't do a very good job.  When we meet up with him he's trying to catch a corrupt undercover officer.  Kristin Scott Thomas plays a New Hampshire Senator, Kay Chandler, trying to get reelected.  She's running against a candidate who has plenty of money.  The last thing she needs is the death of her husband. She's a politician- she can't be bogged down by feelings.This story moves slowly and painfully.  I was looking at my watch every five minutes wondering when it would be over!  The story gets lost in details the director, Sydney Pollack, didn't need to put in.  We don't want to know about Dutch's police investigations.  They throw in some insight to politicians and the &#145;spin control' they do for campaigns.  After seeing the movie I'm still wondering why they got involved romantically.  Doesn't anybody mourn anymore?  Don't you need more than two weeks to even consider going &#145;horizontal' with someone else?It was good to see actress, comedian, Chicago native and Second City Alumni Bonnie Hunt.  Her role isn't necessarily comic relief, but she was the only one I wanted to see more of.  Do yourself a favor, wait for it on video if you want to see it at all.  "},{"Title":"Good enough plot, decent script, but way too slow.","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  To quote one critic's review of the movie, it started off slow and stopped.  The plot was believeable enough (although some of the characters' actions seemed very, very RANDOM), the script was fairly well written (in that the dialogue did not seem forced), but everything went way too slowly. There were too many pauses between lines, and the way the lines were delivered was not all that great.  This movie had potential, but blew it like a teenager turning to drugs.  My advice?  Wait for it to come on TV before you see it. "},{"Title":"A whole lot o' nothing....","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  It was tough watching Harrison Ford obsessing over nothing. Kristin Scott-Thomas should have slapped this guy and told him to take a hike.Save your money. Don't even bother with a rental fee, unless you need a good nap. "}{"Title":"how could anyone possibly ENJOY this movie???????","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I went to see Random Hearts with 3 friends, and at first, I thought maybe it was just me who wasn't enjoying the movie.  After all, I didn't like As Good As it Gets and that movie won all sorts of awards.  Well, it wasn't just me...none of my friends liked it either.  It was unbelievable slow, much like getting teeth pulled.  The only action that is in the movie is what is in previews.  We didn't walk out of the theatre because we all assumed something more would happen. We weren't as smart as the 7 or 8 people who did walk out. I have never walked out on a movie in my life, but I definitely should have.  This is all tough for me to write, considering I am relatively easy to please when it comes to movies. It takes a lot for me to think a movie is awesome, but not much for me to just like it. This movie didn't even come close in the like category.  Not only was the movie about 2 hours too long, but it was like two separate trite stories in one, but they weren't smoothly sewn together. Plus, the soundtrack if you could even call it that was so annoying. Like Seinfeld has the same riff that is played over and over again (difference being that i like Seinfeld)..this movie had this jazz riff that it kept playing, which sounded highly inappropriate at times, especially when people were dealing with the deaths of the plane crash. Hard to explain what I mean, but trust me it was awful.  I cannot say enough to make people not waste their money. After I left the theatre, I honestly wanted to write to the movie company and demand my $7 back..sheeesh, I could have gone bowling or something for that money.  "},{"Title":"Bad.  Boring.  What more be need be known?","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I am usually fairly blah about movies.  That is, good ones are OK.  Not so good ones are OK.  Great movies are awesome, and bad movies are, well, bad. Unfortunately, Random Hearts falls into this last category.  Seldom have I seen a movie that absolutely refused to pique my interest, but this one did. The storyline was uninteresting, the characters were not intriguing, and the plot was downright predictable, which is a shame, because I generally like all of the people involved in this production.  I felt as the leading lady did when Harrison Ford's character refused to stop obsessing about what had been happening.  I too found myself screaming (to myself, of course), Why do you want to know so badly?!  I don't care!  This is one of the few movies I've considered walking out of half-way through.  An hour into it, I figured it'd be over soon, and decided not to though.  Well, it wasn't over soon.  Two horrible hours and fifteen grueling minutes later, when it WAS over, my wife and I left the theater.  Oh, it DID give us some conversation material though.  And at least we agreed on the film's value.  I guess that's why I gave it a '2'. "},{"Title":"Truth is stranger than fiction","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I do agree with most people here about the scipt being weak - particularly the sub-plot. Anyhow, having 'A' actors in the cast does mean you would at least get your money's woth.Judging from the comments, i can see why most people found it BORING. But if you look around - truth can be stranger than fiction... "},{"Title":"The Corny jazz at the beginning gave it away","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Why is it that such romantic movies that never actually go anywhere, always start (and probably end) with crappy jazz?  It's not clever and it makes it look like a bloody tv-movie.  This film was sappy, slow paced, boring, unoriginal, wooden and did I say boring?Harrison Ford was probably trying to be mysterious and crude, but he was just a crawling, mumbling cop that seemed to walk into the congress-woman's home like everything was fine, when he behaved like a pervert - staring at Thomas with a pervy glare, hardly ever bothering to speak.And why the hell do they always get British actors to put on crappy accents - they're casted because they're famous, and everybody knows they're british precisely because they're famous! "},{"Title":"Great Story...","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This film is absolutely perfect.I find it's story unbelievable.And all the small details on this film make me give a 10 to it.Go and buy this great movie now.When you are watching this film ; please be careful at the wonderful playing of Harrison Ford and lovely Kristin Scott Thomas.We can always have things like that in the real world. "},{"Title":"First rate cinema","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Reading the other comments about this movie in the IMDB, provides some insight into what is most wrong with the American film industry - the American audiences!  This movie was extremely well acted - the central roles played by Harrison Ford & Kristin Scott Thomas could not have been better casted. It was craftfully directed, and the story unfolded at an interesting pace - in a manner that both allows and requires you to think about the relationships that surround the pivotal plot event, a plane crash that reveals an illicit affair. The betrayals and reactions to them are hard to watch, but they're plausible. In fact, while the incessant, almost obsessive pursuit of details by the betrayed husband, Dutch, apparently made some of the reviewers uncomfortable, it was a likely reaction - especially given that it challenged not only his role as a male and husband, but, perhaps more, it brought into question his savvy and astuteness - not an easy thing for a police investigator. But then again, no buildings blew up, there was no gratuitous sex, and it didn't have a happy ending - all of which seem to be ingredients for blockbuster American films. "},{"Title":"My husband and I liked this movie","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  We rate it 9/10.  However, if you are used to seeing Harrison Ford in action movies, you might not rate it as highly.  Ford is a really good actor, not limited to any one kind of role.  In Random Hearts, he and Kristin Scott Thomas portray some deeper and more conflicted emotions, not the stuff of the shallow action movies.  It was relatively slow-paced, especially towards the end, but the pace fit the emotional context of the film.  Bottom line - if you want to see some good acting and a thought- provoking portrayal of a more deeply emotional plot, see this one!  On the other hand, if you are looking for fast pace, and very surface characterisation, look somewhere else. "},{"Title":"Excellent..excellent...excellent","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  One of the best movies I have seen. I don't much care for the wild hairdo of Mr Ford, but Kristin is simply incredible. For those who like mature movies with subtle mood variation and I-Hate-You-I-Love-You sort of movies, this is GREAT stuff. Kristin as Congresswoman Kay and Harrison as Dutch are awesome. The kiss scene in the car parking lot is more intense than any thing I have seen. The movie flows smoothly. Ford's hair style and the earring in one ear are irritants through out. the daughter of Kay is so plain, she doesn't look like the daughter of two gorgeous people. All in all, a great movie, great dialogues, great acting, great Kristin!! "},{"Title":"A great Movie for the romantic in all of us.","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is a wonderful film, and it gives a different premise on two people meeting and falling in love. Harrison Ford is a police detective, and Kristin Scott Thomas is a congresswoman, and they both discover that their spouses, after having died in a plane crash, had a long standing love affair. Without revealing too many details, I will say the the movie is enchanting and the ending is quite unpredicable! This is a must-see for Harrison Ford fans. Kristen Scott Thomas is also quite good as the spouse left with a daughter, of which she doesn't know what to say about her deceased husband while the scandal of the affair surfaces in the press.  This is a good movie-don't miss it! I will warn you that this is not a good first (or even a second) date movie. See it with friends first.Carmen  "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Random Hearts is quite possibly the worst movie I have ever seen, and I have seen Nicolas Cage's Firebirds...  You don't see the plane crash, you never find out the reason of the affair, the many mini-plots are not resolved, the surprises have no backing, you can see the microphone in 20 or more scenes, no chemistry, not romantic at all, and it was so very disappointing. "}{"Title":"Worst Movie of 1999","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  during the whole movie, i was telling myself that i have to get out of the theater. there was no point to the movie. What did he want to know? When the whole thing started? Why it started? Sheeeeesh, all my friends and i kept saying WHY DO YOU WANT TO KNOW? LET IT GO ALREADY and (a maybe spoiler coming up) when the two of them got together, sheeesh how ridiculous can you get? it was SO obvious that something like that would happen, that i was sure it wouldn't (anyone following me?) i mean a movie shouldn't be THIS predictable, and them two getting together is WAAAAY too predictable.  "},{"Title":"horrible","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I was very excited to watch this movie.  so immediately after i put it together (i am a projectionist at a theatre) i watched it.  i spent the first half of the movie trying to think of some work that i should be doing instead of watching this horrible film, and the other half trying to sleep. I decided it would only be fitting for me to put down the hours i wasted watching that miserable film in the schedule so that i may be paid for it.I wonder who decided to call it a thriller and what they base that  on. And how could  such a respected group of filmmakers could possibly make a movie so horrible.   Dont waste your time.  Not even for curiositys sake.  "},{"Title":"Complete Waste of Money","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I just have to ask what the executives were thinking when they released this.  Did they figure that with Harrison Ford and Kristin Scott Thomas that it would be a huge hit.  Not that the acting was bad...They had nothing but a crappy script to work with.  In hind sight I should have walked out and counted my loss, but I kept expecting some surprise twist at the end.  Boy am I kicking myself for that stupidity.  I should have spent my money Oktoberfesting.  That would have given me the same mind-numbing effect of this piece of $#!# movie. "},{"Title":"This is a flat-out awful movie","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  There really isn't much to be said about this movie except that it is absolutely awful.  I'm writing this in the hope that people will not go to see it after reading this review.  In fact I strongly believe that if writing these words prevents even ONE person from going to see this movie I have made my contribution to this world and can, therefore, die a happy man. No one should have to be tortured by Sydney Pollack's tasteless atrocity of a movie -- if you can call it a movie (nothing moves on the screen THERE IS NO STORY!).  Not only did I realise how much I hated Sydney Pollack while watching this movie, but considering that he had quite a large role in this muck made me vow that I would never see anything with which he is associated -- ever!  I probably spent more time looking at my watch during this waste of celluloid (and 54 million dollar budget) than at the actual pictures. To make a long story short this movie can only make you a dumber person. It offers nothing to understand or appreciate. Take my word for it -- and NEVER EVER EVER SEE THIS STUPIDITY. thank you. "},{"Title":"like the english patient, except horrible","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this movie instead of Mumford. Bad error. I was convinced by two of my women friends that this would be pretty decent. They wanted to get their money's worth, so instead of a funny (or so I've heard) well written film, I was dragged to the 2 hour plus piece of treacly, trite, marketing survey shaped crap. I've seen a lot of horrible movies, mostly as a result of watching Mystery Science Theater 3000 for so many years, but this one is definitely down there. It looked all too polished and slick. Both leads seemed so utterly desperate to make this good. Kristen Scott Thomas looks especially pained at times, delivering lines meant for a Melanie Griffith, or at best an Arquette.do yourself a favor, go see Mumford instead. if given the choice. fight club comes out next week. save your money for that.  "},{"Title":"you will regret every penny...","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  i guess there's not much need to describe the plot. it was the slowest, most meaningless film i have seen.  most probably the worst film of the year - it's hard to come up with something worse than this. yes, it is a thriller though - i was thrilled to leave the movie theater... "},{"Title":"Random Hearts is deep and powerful.","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I really wonder why everybody dumps on this film. I thought it was excellent. If Ford stars in it how bad can it be. It's a story of 2 people who are deeply touched by an emotional event beyond their control and then help each other rebuild their lives. Until one has been cut to the bone by romantic betrayal they cannot fully appreciate the depth and power of this film. My favorite scenes are when Ford and Thomas first meet at her home and then later at his cabin in the woods. The locations for this film are great also such as the home of a well-to-do couple like Coyote & Thomas and then in the Maryland wilderness. My only struggle with this film is how Ford's character stays in his grief so long. I think if it were me I would have rebounded upon developing a new relationship. But that's just me. "},{"Title":"Sensitive Subject sensibly seen","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" In defensive of reality, I have had to give this movie a high score. The story is convincing, the acting, credible; the direction, tight; the emotions, high; the pace, flowing and the after movie discussion around the table over whiskeys and coffee was racy, thought provoking and left no doubt in anyone's mind that ...rather them than me. Infidelity is part of our daily lives, it is a choice we choose in the heat of the moment, most times without regard to the lives that are destroyed in the wake of those heated passions. However it is those lives that are left to pick up the pieces. The script produced sublime parallels, each leaving huge what ifs?. Certainly a well spent 133 minutes. Conversely, it was the 7 hours of discussion afterward that proved that this movie had both content and entertainment.A sensitive subject very sagaciously handled. Well done Mr Pollack... "},{"Title":"INTRIGUINGLY CLEVER!","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This movie is one of my absolute favorite. I liked the plot, I also like the outcome of what it's worth. Who would know an airport crash would bring people together, I mean so close that they would find solace with each other even though their own spouses have perished. I've noticed one thing in the love scene between Ford's character and Kristen Scott Thomas'. I've noticed she was pregnant with her son at the time, that's why she probably had to be so discreet with that scene. I was glad that Dutch's partner, Alcee got that corrupt cop at the end. He should know his days were numbered. The ending was great, and Dutch is a Lieutenant. All worked out well. Great movie, great plot, and a perfect performance for Harrison Ford, Charles S. Dutton, and Kristen Scott Thomas. A 10+! 4 stars! "},{"Title":"You have to be in the right mood for this","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Yes, I can see this film is never going to pack cinemas or win awards, but it's not trite and is quite well acted. This isn't a film to watch because you want a story, or escape, or a smile. It won't make you feel better about life.But if you're feeling morose, and quiet, and aren't feeling particularly optimistic about how things will turn out, you might find some kind of solace in the aimless wandering of Ford and Thomas' characters. When something very bad happens to you, you do feel confused and battered, and the lead characters in Random Hearts reflect this well.The criminal sub-plot does feel a bit redundant, like it's strayed in from another film. Perhaps it was some kind of attempt to keep a fig leaf of commerciality on what is basically a couple of hours of numb meditation, although I haven't read the original novel so I don't know if it had some greater significance that I missed.Some of the other reviews on here quite rightly call Random Hearts noir and cathartic, the film equivalent not so much of watching paint dry as watching a river flow. "}{"Title":"Implausible but satisfying love story","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I was surprised by this dramatic love story about a couple who shouldn't have been. Ford's wife is killed in a plane wreck and by accident he discovers that she had been having an affair with the man she was seated with on the plane. (Coyote)He meets the man's wife, a congresswoman, who was also unaware of the affair. As preposterous as it might seem they develop a genuine respect affection for each other and a brief affair ensues.This implausible plot is carried off by the acting of Ford and Thomas. The movies left me with a strange but satisfying feeling. "},{"Title":"The possibilities are endless!","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  With a script such as this, the what's next could have gone anywhere. I think the intensity of this film, might have turned some people's opinion into thinking it was tediously played out. I am not one of those people. Kristen Scott Thomas & Harrison Ford, had an electricity between them. The relationship was believable in a not so believable plot. The looks exchanged between Kay & Dutch left me feeling like I was part of their world. Even when Dutch would hug Kay you heard that little Mmmm sigh from Harrison Ford. I was sucked, immediately into this film, and almost hated to watch it end. One of those movies you just want to keep on watching and watching. That is what acting is all about. producing a product that makes you feel a part of the action, and the possibilities for a future relationship between the two, were endless!      "},{"Title":"VERY GOOD","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Random Hearts is a very well directed, well scripted and perfectly cast actors for the primary roles. I found it to be so intense, that you have to stop and wonder in almost every scene Harrison and Kristin are together, how their characters deal with this horrible situation they find themselves in. Very talented acting from both of them. A lot of people I believe who did not appreciate the movie for what it was, did not get the point of the movie or could not even fathom a situation like theirs.(please skip this next part if you have not seen the movie yet)I loved the ending, which was a great surprise which tied the whole movie. It was relieving to see how these two good persons can come out actually happier in the end. "},{"Title":"Complex slow moving character study","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This film started out with everything a producer could hope for.  It had a great director, a bona fide superstar as leading man, a terrific female lead and an interesting premise for the story.  The beginning of the film is masterful.  The spouses of two air crash victims go about the routines of their lives as the news of the disaster creeps into the fringes of their consciousness.  As most of us do, they regard the news with a disconnected interest, another news story about strangers dying.  Suddenly, it occurs to Dutch (Harrison Ford) that his wife said she was going to Miami and he discovers two awful truths, that she was killed and that she was traveling with another man.  He then informs the wife of that man that her husband was on the plane.  The treatment of this entire chain of events was extraordinarily well done.Unfortunately, after this the story bogs down and becomes highly contrived.  Dutch then becomes obsessed with knowing everything about the illicit relationship.  This is almost believable.  But he also drags Kay, (Kristin Scott Thomas) into the vortex and they develop this complicated relationship of grief, passion and maybe even love.  Not so believable.The microscopic character study that ensues of the complex emotions and reactions of the characters is well done, but the viewers find themselves wondering why they have to watch it since most sane people would just have let it go.  After all, the offenders are dead, and little is to be gained by knowing the details of the betrayal.The story also introduces a completely superfluous subplot about the pursuit of a crooked cop by Dutch, a detective in internal affairs.  The only distant connection to the plot is the fact that Kay and Dutch are together during the shootout with the bad cop.As filmmaking, this film is first rate as would be expected from Sydney Pollack.  The color and exposures were particularly rich and the scenes compelling.  I particularly liked the scenes from the tango nightclub.  There were a broad range of different settings and situations and all were handled with great realism.Harrison Ford was asked to play a character quite different from his customary strong, direct and dynamic roles.  This character was far more complex than any he ever attempted and Ford didn't have the range necessary to give a satisfying performance.  He was fine in the cop scenes, but in the scenes with Kristin Scott Thomas he was overly subdued, almost like he was medicated.  This made his performance seem lifeless.Kristin Scott Thomas, on the other had was brilliant.  She showed incredible command of all the myriad emotional states that Kay sustained.  As a British actress playing an American, her accent was flawless, though the character being from New Hampshire should have had a New England accent.Overall, I gave this film a 7/10.  Despite the plot flaws, it was well constructed and as a character study it was excellent.  Most viewers will find such in-depth character studies slow and boring, so if you are looking for pace, you might want to pass on this film.  "},{"Title":"Full of sensitiveness","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I am very surprised that one line summary (the one put under the general vote) is used to give a general opinion certainly not shared by all.  This one line summary could demolish any picture. I liked it very very much because the story goes very deep, and furthermore it is very complex.  How could these two make a lot of speeches in such a situation.  I think that the main actors act exactly as if they were involved in a true story.Harrison Ford is really very very good, sincere and human. Kristin Scott Thomas is very good also, but since it is the first time I see her I don't know if she always act this way. "},{"Title":"Leave your watch at home so that you won't see how much time you've wasted.","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I feel cheated. A quick look at the trailer makes this movie seem like an action/thriller type movie, but instead is a long drawn out overly sentimental exploration into the lives of a couple of people who are drawn together by tragedy and of course end up falling in love which would have been okay if that could have happened at the very end of the movie. However, they first start to connect about halfway through the movie and spend the next half of the movie doing nothing but being wishy-washy about their relationshp and discussing their feelings for each other.Now I have nothing against movies that delve into interesting relationships between characters, and I don't think that plot is the most important thing a film can have. But if a movie has neither an interesting plot nor interesting characters, then what's the point in going?By the way, this is the only movie I've been to where members of the audience heckled the movie, and then were cheered on by the other audience members. "},{"Title":"like Ishtar...just not as funny","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  If you like Harrison Ford, you probably shouldn't see this movie.  If you're a fan of Pollack, you should stay away as well.  In fact, if you like movies at all you should sit on your  seven bucks and skip this disaster.  Random Hearts is one of the most boring movies I have ever seen.  In the first 30 minutes, I kept wondering how the movie would reel me in.  I then discovered that this would not happen and sat through the last 145 in pure amazement that I hadn't left the theater.  I have walked out on two movies in my entire life and Random Hearts made a strong bid for number 3.  The only reason I didn't leave was that the film bored me to such a point of lethargy that I could not muster the strength to leave my seat.  The script was terrible, the acting was uninspired and awkward, the direction was cheesy(how many times must I watch two forlorn characters touch fingers through a pane of glass?) and the score was downright annoying.  Also, the scene in the airport parking lot was one of the worst I have ever seen.  I laughed out loud(no, it wasn't supposed to be funny) and then actually shielded my eyes to thwart an oncoming feeling of blindness.  Ford as the star and Pollack as the director may garner funding, but it won't necessarily make a good movie.  Random Hearts was pure cinematic torture.  Parting questions1) Did Harrison Ford lose a bet? 2) Is a week long enough to mourn for a deceased spouse?If anyone can answer yes to these, the movie makes a lot more sense. "},{"Title":"Without a shadow of doubt the worst film I have ever had the displeasure of watching","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  An utter disgrace. How on earth did this movie ever get any sort of funding. No plot, no intrigue, absolutely NOTHING TO IT!!!! I felt physically sick at how bad this was.I think you may get the message now what I felt about this travesty of a film!!!!! "},{"Title":"Great performances and style, but the script can't focus worth anything. **1/2 out of ****","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  RANDOM HEARTS (1999) **1/2Starring Harrison Ford, Kristin Scott Thomas, Charles Dutton, Bonnie Hunt, Peter Coyote, Dennis Haysbert and Sydney Pollack Director Sydney Pollack   133 minutes   Rated R (for small amounts of  sexuality, violence, and language)By Blake French	Harrison Ford really is a good actor. It's just a shame that he has been given nothing but insufficient scripts lately. The same goes for Kristin Scott Thomas, but her last film, The Horse Whisperer, was one of the best of last year. Then we have Charles Dutton, Bonnie Hunt, Dennis Haysbert, and Sydney Pollack--all potentially fine actors and actresses. Not surprisingly, the performances here are superb. Even though Random Hearts isn't necessarily bad, in the end it only proves that even these performances can't save this movie from defeat; it can't focus past the end of its nose.	Random Hearts opens with a great setup, in which two separate individuals meet after each of their spouses were killed in a tragic plane crash on their way to an exotic island carrying on an ongoing affair. Harrison Ford stars as Dutch Van Den Broeck, is a detective, or something or other--not that it really matters all that much. He is right in the middle of a big murder case when he meets Kay Chandler (Kristin Scott Thomas) and discovers the secret to his wife's death and dismay. Kay is a struggling but well-known candidate in the center of a heated election, campaigning against the scum of the earth. She and her teenage daughter are both in sorrow, but also in denial, regarding the loss of a member in their outwardly happy family. Again, great setup. The film contains two different characters and two separate points of view. The movie then introduces the subject of Kay and Dutch's involvement's with each other Dutch would give anything to have his many questions answered about the entanglement with his wife and Kay's husband. Why did they begin an affair? How long was it going on? Were there any other adulterers involved? How did they get away with this? At first Kay seems a bit repetitive, but it is not long before Kay and Dutch are sleeping with each other, as they seemingly discover it was destiny that allowed the two of them to collide.	Wait a minute! I though this movie was going to detail a tearful search for answers to questions about the affair, not about Dutch and Kay falling in love? Well, they do fall in love. The only thing keeping them from serious commitments is her job and his love for his late wife.Random Hearts is very effective in its old fashioned style. At times the production is quite slow moving and when not, it keeps tedious material nearby. This is pretty tame content here, much milder than the usual Harrison Ford character. I'm quite surprised it got an R-rating, it seems notably PG-13 to me, but maybe teenagers and kids would get bored with the material. Harrison Ford and Kristin Scott Thomas both are blossoming with inspiring romantic chemistry. The love triangle of the marriages is a beautiful concept. I only wish we knew more about what was going on.The main flaw here is not in character but structure. The first act is strong, but after that the film seems like a random collage of events, which may be related to each other, but certainly not woven together like they should have been. The ultimate failure is due to an overly confident beginning--then the writers do too much of a good thing complicate things, but never introduce or conclude the subplots in an appropriate way. Lets see, besides the would-be mystery involving the affair, the plane crash, the romantic sparks between Kay and Dutch, this film is about a top secret case which Dutch is in the middle investigating, the heated upcoming election of a candidate running for mayor, Dutch's stolen watch, the murder of a witness, the turmoil a mother and daughter go through when their father dies, best friend cheating on each other's spouses and always being there to save the day, a drive by shooting, the lack of humility, competition, reputation, identity...Brought to you by Columbia Pictures.  "},{"Title":"Very intense, emotional, but very beautiful","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Just trying to help bringing things in the balance, which won't work anyway when I see all the negative reactions. Random Hearts is a movie with a very human, but complex theme. Two people meeting each other after their loved ones have died in a plane crash. Then they discover that both of them have had an affair. Coincidence, the affair of Dutch Van den Broeck's wife was with the husband of congress member Kay Chandler. Both character are brilliantly performed by Harrison Ford and Kristin Scott Thomas. They have very different ways in dealing with this issue.Van den Broeck, being a policeman, who never suspected that his wife was having an affair (the movie starts with her inviting him to bed), just wants to know why... (When was the last time that she spoke the truth to me) Kay Chandler wants to get rid of the thought as soon as possible and tries to concentrate on her job, being elected to congress again, and her daughter (She must not know what her father has done). They meet each other in Dutch's search for the truth.While going through a very difficult time of accepting and dealing with their partner's death and adultery, both Key and Dutch grow towards each other. This is pictured very intensely and beautifully. Kay states is beautifully in the interview she gives in the hospital when Dutch has bee shot, We are friends, but because of what we have gone through together, we are now more than friends, we are survivors.There is no real why for the adultery, as Dutch discovers when listening to the voice-mail of the telephone in the apartment that was used for the adultery, when Peyton Van den Broeck says, Why are we doing what we are doing?.I don't see why people cannot just enjoy this very intense movie and they think it is a dull and horrible movie. OK, the end was a bit disappointing, but that was probably because I was under the impression that I was watching a romance and romances must have a certain ending. I think, however, psychological drama, may be a more fitting description of this movie.One thing is for sure I came into the cinema when the movie started and when the movie ended I went out of the cinema again. In between I was so taken by the beauty of the movie and the intenseness of the development in the two main characters that I just hadn't noticed how much time had gone by. "}{"Title":"Good Performances With A Strong Story!","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  There are those out there who feel that `Random Hearts' is too dull a motion picture. However, you have to look past the 2 hours and 13 minutes running time. There is this incredible story about a man who looses his wife in a tragic plane crash. However, what's even more tragic is the fact that she was having an affair with a man who was married to a Congresswoman. Strong performances from Harrison Ford and Kristin Scott Thomas make this a good movie. Harrison Ford ignites the screen with his presence as he tries to figure out why in what appeared to be a perfect marriage did his wife cheat on him. `There's has to be something. Some sign of something!' says Ford. But perhaps the answer that he must accept is Thomas' reply, `You'll never find what you're looking for.' Sydney Pollack's direction is good, but the film does feel a bit long at times. Nonetheless, it works in the end. *** "},{"Title":"Gives boring a whole new dimension","Date":"29 October 1999","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Did you ever see the film Marathon Man? The part with the dentist? I would rather have that happen to me than to sit through Random Hearts again. It wasn't simply uninteresting, or uneventful-- It was horribly, painfully, and agonizingly BORING. At one point, I momentarily lost conciousness. To the average layman, I may have appeared to be sleeping, but the other movie patrons knowingly realized I actually BLACKED OUT from the bordom. I thought I was going to die. When the film finally ended (I think it was twelve hours long, but I'm not sure), I let out an exhasperated Thank You Jesus, It's Over!!, to which all other movie goers cheered. If I had to listen to Harrison Ford drone on one more second in that monotoned whine, I would have been forced to search for something sharp to jam in my eye to divert my attention. This is 136 minutes of my life I will never get back. "},{"Title":"In Response to Bob-45","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  A bad movie is a bad movie. If this film had any redeeming qualities, half the people in the theatre (I was at the premiere) wouldn't have been groaning and yelling out the plot even before it unfolded. Definitely a good TV movie for lonely homemakers, never should have been cinematically released. If this one ever cracks the AFI top 100, I'll buy every remaining copy of it and burn it in a huge bonfire. "},{"Title":"It's good actually...an so sexy...","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This film is slow, but it's good actually, the story was unique but rational, it could happen to everybody. The actor and actress are good too. In fact, I'm crazy about the way Kay touch Dutch, she's so sexy. Quiet but sexy...But nothing special on the way it tells story, just usual, no great picture, no special camera moves, but its simplicity was inherent with the story, the music was good. So I think this film is good actually "},{"Title":"An unfulfilling mystery/love story","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This movie begins in a confusing manner by skipping between 3 separate plot lines. Eventually everything comes together to make sense, but nothing in this movie seems to get resolved.The emotions that were explored in this movie kept me interested, but the ending was very unsatisfying. SPOILER ALERT After her sudden death, Harrison Ford's character, (a Washington DC cop), is obsessed about the reason for his wife's affair, but the questions are never answered. I guess the point is that they never COULD be answered, but that doesn't make a good story.Ford ends up in a relationship with the widow of his wife's lover, but the movie ends without their relationship being defined.The other plot line involves an internal affairs investigation that Ford is working on. Because of his personal matters, he doesn't handle things well at work, and he almost loses his job, and then his life. At the very end of the movie we learn that he ends up being a hero and gets a promotion. No details though, so that plot line is also unsatisfying.I did give this movie a 6 out of ten because the emotions kept me interested. "},{"Title":"A Good, Mature, Implausible Movie","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Tired of teenagers and twenty-somethings?  Here's a movie with mature characters and good dialogue.  After his wife is killed in an airplane crash, Harrison Ford discovers that she was having an affair with Kristin Scott Thomas's husband, who was also killed in the same plane crash.  The movie consists of the manner in which the two remaining spouses deal with each other and handle the discovery of the deception in their marriages.  The script moves right along and is well done.  How you will feel about the ending depends upon whether you are a romantic or a realist.Here's what makes the movie implausible  At the beginning of the movie, Ford's wife tells him that she is flying on that plane to that destination--supposedly on business.  Why, then, in the world would she go to the trouble of creating a false identity for her ticket and fly as the other man's wife?  I think that the script writers couldn't think of any other way that Ford could find out about the affair.  It's a pity, because good mature movies are rare these days, and they should make sense. "},{"Title":"I thought it was rather good.","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I thought that Random Hearts was thought-provoking, and demonstrates at least partially how different people may react in different situations. I can imagine a detective having to drag himself through all the gory details, as Harrison Ford's character did, in order to achieve closure.  Maybe the reason I liked it as well was its view of Miami, that is, the lively good night life part of it.  ) "},{"Title":"Weak movie, thin plot","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I was pretty excited to see a good Harrison Ford suspense thriller (as I felt the advertising hinted at) but instead got a weak in the knees love story that was unbelievable and uninteresting. The suspense backplot was incredibly shallow, and it was near impossible to care about any of the characters.This movie gets a 4 because I like all of the actors and the director, it was made well enough but eminently forgettable. "},{"Title":"Sappy, Good, Sweet","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I thought it was really enjoyable. I'm a hopeless romantic, so I love that kind of thing.  It was neat because just when they would kind of advance in their relationship, they'd find out something about the affair between their husband/wife. "},{"Title":"Can I Have My 2 Hours and 15 Minutes Back?","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I have found the worst movie Harrison Ford has ever been in. What the hell was this movie about. Who gives a  s**t about the main characters. Thomas and Ford both did a fine job acting, but I just didn't care about them. To make this neverending movie be worse was that it didn't even have a good ending. No excitement, no nudity, no real action, and originality without any point. I gave it a 2, because of the acting. "}{"Title":"Woefully Under-written Congresswoman = Utterly Mysterious Motivation","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This movie amused me because neither Luedtke nor Pollack, it appears, thought that it mattered why the congresswoman was behaving as she was.  The makeout scene in the parking lot of Ronald Reagan Airport made no sense at all.  It was a genuine flub that threw off the rest of the movie.  Perhaps the film-makers did not want to follow the very different manners of the two protagonists as they coped with grief and betrayal.  That might have made for a TV Movie of the Week weepfest, I grant them.  However, in the absence of such clarification, K. S. Thomas had nothing to communicate to me.  I believe that the writer and director owe me three bucks! "},{"Title":"The Real Main Character","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Did anyone else notice that the only other thing that made as many appearances as Ford was the boom mike??  I counted 8 appearances throughout the film, and this was only in first viewing it.  If anyone wants to play the FIND THE MIKE game, go ahead and rent this movie.  Otherwise, save your cash. "},{"Title":"Is adultery worse than death??","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I have very mixed feelings about this movie. On the plus side there is good acting and lovely music(I hope to go and buy the CD)......but on the other hand the two main characters spend most of the time looking and feeling sorry for themselves. In brief....a plane crashes and two of the victims were flying off to Miami to continue their bonking......unfortunately leaving separate spouses at home who subsequently start bonking themselves....well.... Quite frankly the aldulterers are happier in demise than their surviving spouses ever will be in life and the lead actor in this film makes out that adultery is worse than death..... The lead actress(who steals the show) is the spitting image of Hilary Clinton.....with a teenage daughter and philandering husband to match....... So my recommendation is....enjoy the music!!   "},{"Title":"Will the Real Sydney Pollack Please Stand Up?","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Thank goodness for the magic of DVD. At least the DVD gave us the attractive options of 'Isolated Soundtrack' (whee fun.. 135 minutes of tired music, set against a mystically bland film) and the 'Director's Commentary' (in which he admits that some of the film is totally improbable, like the car date rape scene).  Were it not for the DVD, my roommates would have subjected my loving fiance and I to one of the century's worst pieces of celluloid.I'm not trying to say that the movie was bad; that would be unfair to all the bad movies that we've seen and enjoyed.  This movie generated strong feelings of ambivalence in me and the viewing audience I was with.  How can I care about this psycho, obsessed cop who can't GET OVER IT?  How can I care about a congresswoman who is so cold and emotionless, she may as well have been English?  Even the daughter, a character designed to milk some sympathy from the teat of the audience, is cloying, tiresome and unbelievable.  And what the hell is Charles Dutton doing in this film?  His turn as Ford's partner is just as drab as the dialogue the characters spew from beginning to end.Here's my advice to anyone considering wasting money on renting this film - go to the bookstore and buy some refrigerator magnets.  Throw out all the conjunctions and then try and make a few intelligible sentences describing your parents and family pets.  You'll have spent your money more wisely. "},{"Title":"What was Harrison thinking when he accepted this role?","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Seeing this movie makes you wonder whether Harrison even read the script.  Such incredibly unlikely events occur, yet they bear no theatrical merit whatsoever, as they leave the viewer merely baffled at the characters' actions.Don't bother with this Ford flick. The Mosquito Coast rules in comparison. "},{"Title":"Much better the second time","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"     I saw this film for the first time last September in the US.  On the flight home I read the book.  Last night I rented the film and looked at it again.  Only the core idea is retained in the film.  The book dealt rather clinically with the issues and the characters in it seemed hard edged and cartoonish, rather like those in the War of the Roses by the same author.  Having seen the film again I now think I like its rendition much more, at least as entertainment.  Despite its focus on grief and betrayal, the film offers a much softer, warmer story.  The second time through I was not upset by the plot changes.  The crime sub-plot seemed to work well and even Dutch and his lack of words even seemed credible.  Ms Scott Thomas is excellent.  Give this film a second chance! "},{"Title":"The worst!","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I don't usually get too opinionated, but this is the worst movie I have seen in a long time.  About halfway through, I picked up a crossword puzzle while my wife attempted to enjoy it. Boring, long, two different plots which had no connection, and totally unintersting.  Even the 'thriller' portion of the movie was just an excuse by the director to wake the deadened viewer.  My wife, who loves love stories, said that they didn't even succeed in making a succesful love story.  So if that's the only reason to see this movie, then they even failed in that area.  "},{"Title":"What time of year was it","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Not a bad film. But I was puzzled by a couple of things. It was obviously fall in both New Hampshire and on Chesapeake Bay. Yet it was bright spring or early summer in Washington. And if Kaye was just gearing up for election, it most likely would have been early spring or even late winter. I worry when producers ignore such obvious inconsistencies, perhaps rationalizing that dumb viewers won't notice or even care. It also stretches my credulity to think that anyone would fly all the way from Washington to Miami and back in one day for a very short meeting. Oh. One other thing. You certainly won't be seeing this anytime soon as an in flight movie. "},{"Title":"I kept waiting for something to make sense","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This movie is about the worst mess with good actors I've ever seen.  Most of the things that happened are so illogical as to defy any sense of possible reality.  It seems as if no one cared enough to make sure things made sense.  For example, the Kristin Scott Thomas character was a Congresswoman running for reelection, yet at a rally she was introduced as your next Congressman.  And this is only a minor bit of nonsense.  If you haven't seen this movie, consider yourself lucky. "},{"Title":"A dark sound-track that pretty much epitomizes the film","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Dark, dreary and boring.What has happened to Sydney Pollack?My take is that this once good director has become a dinosaur in modern times.  He clearly hasn't produced or directed anything in a long time, and I'm including the Talented Mr. Ripley in this. (Sense and Sensibility is the last good one for me, but that was largely due to Emma Thompson)Always one to use a big name male star in all of his films, Random Hearts goes by the same Pollock formula by casting Harison Ford as the deeply driven, morose, detective who is on a crusade to find out why his wife was having an affair with another man, in which he doesn't find out about it until after her tragic death in a horrific plane crash with her paramour (Peter Coyote) at her side.In true Pollack fashion of grabbing an actress of the moment, Kristin Scott Thomas plays a Congresswoman/wife of Peter Coyote who also has no knowledge of her husband's indiscreetions and is both appalled and shocked at Ford's insistence that their late spouses were involved and in true detective fashion, they should investigate further.   What this movie is trying to reveal is that behind every happy marriage is a dark side of wanting to feel young and alive while still maintaining a regular monogamy with their spouse. What it sadly does is show nothing more then the dark sides of the betrayed survivors and they're indiscretion in what should be their time of grief.One has to wonder if Pollack's reasoning for making this film was to come to grips with an indiscretion of his own or the  loss of a loved one who may have betrayed him.  It clearly just doesn't come over very well in film and the story is just plain depressing.The bright spots to the film are the accurate portrayal of a airliner crash scene and the dismal task of survivors having to identify their loved one's remains.  This film's defining moment is when both of the deceased are displayed on a small video screen with a tragic waste of life-look on their faces. Sadly, this film is just like this scene. It should be properly buried as soon as possible. "}{"Title":"Zzzzzz.........","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  You know, I really like movies. I often enjoy movies that a lot of people think are bad, and I pride myself on not being too critical of movies, because I try to dwell on what a movie has to offer, not on what it lacks. Unfortunately, I could find little of value that Random Hearts had to offer.Well, I had higher hopes for this movie. I've always said I'd see anything with Harrison Ford in it, but even an actor of his caliber was unable to save a snoozer of a story like this one. In short, my two primary complaints were this 1) About 45 minutes too long; 2) Conspicuously devoid of any decent action or humor. On top of that, the characters did not represent people I would particularly like in real life, so why would I give a flying flip if they ended up happy or not? Kristin Scott Thomas' character, Kay, is too cold and snobby, and the relationship these two people develop seems too haphazard and confusing for any of us to really care. Plus there's that bizarre scene in the car (of course, I won't tell you what it is), which just added to my distaste for this movie because it made me say yet again yeah, right..give me a break. What we're left with is a soporific and languishing collection of filmed scenes that was simply too dull, too uninteresting. "},{"Title":"A meandering mess","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  So about 15 times during this movie I found myself noting when Kristin Scott Thomas' English accent broke through her attempt at an American accent. I noted this because there was little else to capture my attention.My wife wanted to rent this movie. I was less interested, but hey, it has Harrison Ford, how bad could it be? Little did I know I would spend most of the movie wanting to throttle Ford's character while screaming, OK, LET IT GO! LET IT GO! His tortured cop does have hit an emotional chord. Unfortunately, so many of his actions are untrue to integrity and dignity that after a while you don't care anymore. Meanwhile. Scott's congresswoman is very good at hiding from the truth, which somehow seems appropriate, given her profession.I dunno. I could wail on and on about this movie, but probably the most succint way to describe it is as 3-4 chapters from the middle of a book. The beginning is implied, the end doesn't exist. It's A Day in the Life of two characters who are unfortunate and not quite likeable. "},{"Title":"Take Chubby Checker's Advice...","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  LET'S DO THE TWIST !! LAME1 LAME! LAME!Hey, I won't rehash the storyline but I will rehash the  users' reviews1. TWIST!! Where was it?? Maybe I am programmed by Hollywood to look for some unusual aspect of a storyline...never happened here and thus, I write this off as an unintelligent flick.2. Someone mentioned the earring. YES!! This bothered me too!! I kept wondering (and hoping) it was a mole. The earring was totally OUT of place with Harrison Ford's character!3. Yes, airlines check ID's - so traveling under another name is pretty hard to do these days.4. I think the actors did a superb job with what they had to work with. The only problem was that the story is weak. OK, so what do you do? Radically change the book's story (I haven't read it)? Or change it enough put a TWIST in to make it happen? Then if you choose the latter, you risk having the author sue you for plagiarism because in this case, you would have to really rearrange things.I was looking for a plot twist on the political aspect of this movie. It was sitting right there and no one went for it! Even better - how about connecting the corrupt cop with some aspect of the dead husband? What about having Harrison Ford's dead wife a victim because she was somehow swapped for another person?Basically, this story is LAME and I cannot imagine ANYONE wanting to make a movie out of it. The actors should get Oscars just for saving face in such an obvious omission!I never recommend NOT SEEING a film; watch this and make your own conclusions. And while you are doing so, think of ways to improve this dog. "},{"Title":"A great Movie for the romantic in all of us.","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is a wonderful film, and it gives a different premise on two people meeting and falling in love. Harrison Ford is a police detective, and Kristin Scott-Thomas is a congresswoman, and they both discover that their spouses, after having died in a plane crash, had a long standing love affair. Without revealing too many details, I will say the the movie is enchanting and the ending is quite unpredictable! This is a must-see for Harrison Ford fans. Kristen Scott-Thomas is also quite good as the spouse left with a daughter, of which she doesn't know what to say about her deceased husband while the scandal of the affair surfaces in the press.  This is a good movie-don't miss it! I will warn you that this is not a good first (or even a second) date movie. See it with friends first.Carmen  "},{"Title":"Interesting premise, strong acting- but where did it go?","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I didn't mind this film, I found it interesting in some parts - not exciting just interesting.  What fascinated me the most was that it went for over two hours and seemed to go absolutely no where.  It seemed very stagnant.  Unfortunately this film was categorised as a romantic thriller on the cover- the romance part I got but where was the thriller part when everything seemed to be a forgone conclusion.  I think this would have worked quite well as a play- as there was not much action.  I can't say it was bad, I didn't look at my watch once so either i was intrigued, or I was just waiting for it to go somewhere.  Pretty much knew what was going to happen and how it would end given their respective careers and positions, so I tended to focus on the more technical side of the film.  It was well acted, very nicely photographed and edited but unfortunately not very exciting - I've read textbooks more exciting.  Also Harrison Fords earring - what was the point-it didn't suit him, or the personality of the character he was playing. "},{"Title":"Every Screenwriter should see this movie--Terrific and yet it fails","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Harrison Ford should have been nominated for an oscar.  This complex movie pushed everyone's talents and everyone delivered.  ( Though Harrison overdid it just a bit in one scene where he became Charles Bronson--see if you can spot it. ) But if the acting was great, and the script well written, why did I find myself drifting, thinking about what a fine job they did, rather than getting into the movie?   There should probably be a rule--every screenwriter should see this movie.   Because if not the acting, not necessarily the screenplay itself ( the movie is totally believable ), the movie fails in the reaction it creates in the audience.   Starting with the plane crash that leads to questions of infidelity about a congress woman's husband and a policeman's wife, this movie spins a whirlpool of depression so powerful that the viewer is sucked in. We root for the characters and wish them happiness, but like the shattered victims of senseless crime in real life we find ourselves emotionally shutting ourselves off from them. What this movie may have needed was a little more humor.  I have no idea how it could have been brought in, but I found myself laughing at only one scene When Harrison Ford is asked if he ever cheated on his wife. "},{"Title":"Liked it more than I expected","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I am very surprised by the low rating this has received on IMDB and by the cool to lukewarm reviews it got.  This is a very good movie.  It is one of the better ones I have rented in quite awhile.Some people comment on how slow moving this movie is and perhaps, for the stereotypical Harrison Ford fan it is.  But I found the pace to be just right for the plot.  (Possible Spoiler)Ford's character was truly happy in his marriage and believed his wife was too.  Ford is a cop who is trained to see things as they really are, see beyond the facades.  When he finds out that everything wasn't as it seemed in his marriage, he is shocked.  I imagine many people would slowly stagger through many weeks, months, years if they find out something that they so strongly believe is true is not.  And you can't even ask Why!Kristin Scott Thomas is outstanding.  She plays the part beautifully.  Everytime I see her, (Four Weddings and A Funeral, The English Patient and now this) I become a bigger fan.  This women is a good actress. "},{"Title":"Oh this movie is slow, but I liked it.","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was surprisingly well made.  Not totally for what the plot was, but more for the cinematography throughout.  This movie is not for the action viewer, nor is it for the perverted.  But technically I thought it a good (in a corrupt sense) romantic type movie.  Oh sure(SPOILER)their spouses had affairs, but maybe these two were fated to be together.  I have no complaints about this movie.  And it's far better than say The English Patient.9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"How does a motion picture stand so still?","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  When Ford's wife and Scott Thomas' husband, traveling on a Mr. and Mrs. ticket, are killed in a plane crash, obsessive Ford badgers reluctant Scott Thomas into unravelling the details of their affair.That's the plot summary.  What it doesn't say is that Ford is a sergeant in Internal Affairs and Kristin Scott Thomas is a Congresswoman gearing up for an election fight.  This information, however, is worse than useless, it is distracting. Ford's current dirty-cop case and the sketchy political machinations surrounding Scott Thomas' campaign have the feel of an afterthought, one designed to give weight to the stars' sense of loss and, in Ford's case, to introduce a bit of action into an otherwise stagnant tale.  It adds nothing to the principal storyline.  (Those expecting some grand plot to develop around the fact that a Congresswoman's husband and an Internal Affairs sergeant's wife are killed will be greatly disappointed.)Stilling the waters of this landlocked pool of pseudo-intrigue still further is the film's sense of humor, or lack thereof.  This is one of the most humorless films to come along in some time.  When Scott Thomas delivers her big joke--she wants to know if Ford is a democrat--Ford takes it seriously, asking why she wants to know.Random Hearts is also one of the least psychologically astute movies to appear in a while.  All the time that should have gone into developing the relationship between Ford and Scott Thomas instead got diverted into the meaningless activity of their careers, leaving the two of them looking anemic and pathetic and leaving a gaping hole in their relationship.  That hole is called motivation. "},{"Title":"Uggg.  And it Just Goes On...","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  While watching this film in theatres, I remember thinking only one of two thoughts continuously  'When is this movie going to get exciting?' and 'When is this movie going to end?'.  This was, without a doubt, the most BORING movie I have ever had the misfortune to see.  If it had had a plot twist, even somewhere near the end like in The Sixth Sense, it would have changed things a lot.  But, oh, no, it had to just go on and on and on about nothing!  I literally tried to fall asleep in the theatre at times, but the boom mike was practically shoved down Harrison Ford's throat, so I couldn't. I don't recommend this film to anyone for any reason.  Even if you are a huge Harrison Ford fan.   "}{"Title":"The scriptwriters should be flogged","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The film is not boring, but slow in some places. The acting is great.  The sub-plot of the how the two dead people met etc. is fascinating, but its never properly explored.  The Congresswoman's character is severely flawed, unless she is just a user.  The policeman's character seems very shallow - a combination of script and directing?  There's a great line when congresswoman says to her election committee something like We've got a big problem, I'm not sure if I can lie anymore.6/10The film ends exceptionally poorly and based on what we saw earlier, completely illogically. "},{"Title":"this film was horrible!!!x2","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  i usually love harrison ford movies, so when i picked out this movie i had great expectations. boy, was i disappointed!I think the actors did a nice job but the story line was confusing, boring and just plain horrible! there were two stories, not connecting in any way. one was how harrison ford's character was a seargent and was trying to catch a murderer and the other was how he was trying to find out the story of his now-dead wife and her now-dead lover. bothstories were just plain stupid. i have one nice thing to say about this movie. it was definitely unpredictible. but, what did unpredictibly happen  just made the movie more confusing.  "},{"Title":"A decent movie for the middle of the week.","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  If you are looking for something to watch in the middle of the week because you hate TV then this is a good movie to watch. Not the greatest Harrison Ford move, but it is a good story. I haven't really seen many of Kristen Scott Thomas' movies, but I thought she did a good job of showing realistic emotions in this film. I rated it a six. "},{"Title":"nice try but.........","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  You have to admit this movie could have been good, it had a very nice plot and premise but, like the plane in the movie took a nose dive after take off. First off i dont think the screen writers wrote the press as smart. They seem to not be able to write a story unless its dropped in their lap. In other words the press are only used when convenient for the story. Our actors really tried to do a good job, but the script was just bad. The movie dragged on and on from the needless subplots to the old 80's detective saxaphone music it was all just needless and boring. The only thing i found interesting in this movie was the chemistry between mr.ford and his leading lady, but sometimes the lines they spoke just didnt seem believable. Another subplot i found interesting was the crooked cop. All in all nice try but not worth the money i rented it for its a 1.00 dollar movie rack for the forsiable future. "},{"Title":"Dull. Drags. Dumb.","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Well, I would not want to wish this sort of movie on any of my foes. Dutch, a policeman, finds out his wife was killed in a plane crash. He also finds out she was with a man too. The movie is absolutely dull, with the score not seeming to fit a romance movie of ... well ... this calibre. Nevertheless, Ford and Scott-Thomas do a great job of boring us out of our skulls until the climactic twist occurs, which is downright hilarious if you stood awake during the first two hours of the film. Mind you, Ford and his obsessed over dead mate character comes nowhere close to James Stewart's character in VERTIGO. If you want to see a romance movie with no romance between the two living characters, this movie is all of that and less! "},{"Title":"Great premise, except    (Possible spoilers)","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Two people thrown together by fate this time in the form of surviving spouses of a plane crash. It always makes for a great story except not this time.KST gets a lot of great lines and is generally believable as the congresswoman whose philandering husband happens to be on a romantic weekend with someone else. Someone else being Harrison Ford's character's wife. And that is where the excepts start rolling.1. The lovers are traveling under Mr and Mrs Cullen Chandler. Why, For years photo id at check in has been required so why not just travel under their real names since they can't get on the plane without proper id and tickets in their names? Anyone who is going to recognize them will anyhow. which leads to except2. The passenger list would be released to the press and the fact that the congresswoman was listed as a passenger would tickle the imagination of at lest someone looking for a Pulitzer or a promotion. Spin control would not handle it so why not have the two meet at the plane crash scene and go from there. except3. Harrison Ford's character just doesn't know when to quit and as such is repulsive rather than attractive. How can the congresswoman fall for the cop when he is so unlikable. She plays it well until the writers need them to get together so 4. The anger turns to romantic kiss scene has happened many times before and usually works, but here, because there is no underlying chemistry, it just seems cheap. and contrived. Which leads to 55. She shows up at his cabin. Right enough said we can't have Hollywood romance if they don't have sex. Can you spell Gratuitous?In the end I think the writers got it together. When she finally talks to the press I really liked the lines, they worked and were appropriate even if the rest of the movie wasn't. Roger Ebert says that this movie just needed one more re write to tell it from her point of view. He was right. It was an almost good movie that just didn't happen. "},{"Title":"Great performance.","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed Random Hearts. It was shocking to see such a low rating on IMDB, but chacun a son gout and all that. I am a big fan of Harrison Ford, but I do have to admit that he was ill cast in this movie, and the reason I gave it 9 instead of 10. Kristin Scott Thomas, though, was just wonderful. She was believable and beautiful, in spite of being made up for half the movie like she'd been crying for days. Could Random Hearts have been better? Sure, but it is very much worth seeing as it is. "},{"Title":"Pretty Weak.","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Being a Harrison Ford fan I am probably being kind.  It was predictable, sappy...my husband made a lot of gagging sounds while we were watching it. What a disappointing movie.  Our local newspaper (San Jose Mercury News) actually gave this 4 stars out of 4 stars!!!  Hard to believe that the reviewer saw the same movie we did. "},{"Title":"Sets a new standard in awfulness","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I have to say that I thought this movie was TERRIBLE.  It really could rank up there as the worst movie I have ever seen.  I even felt cheated spending $1.99 for a cheap video rental!It just amazes me how the talents of two terrific actors like Harrison Ford and Kristin Scott-Thomas could be wasted in such a dud.  Harrison Ford couldn't have tried harder to play the most repellent, leaden bore I have ever seen in a film.  You have a situation in which there was absolutely no chemistry at all between the lead protagonists -- I mean, not just bad chemistry, NO chemistry.  To have the guy suddenly attack the woman in the car and have her LIKE it, with her grabbing his hand and pressing it into her crotch, was just ridiculous.  Speaking of ridiculous, how's this for a blooper the airline delivers Peter Coyote's luggage to his widow and daughter, and, after a plane crash in which the plane nose-dived into a bay, the suitcase was in perfect condition!!  Well, maybe the airline put it on the wrong plane . . . . . "},{"Title":"Have a time to watch this movie.","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Title Random HeartsPersonal Comments What a movie story!!! I very like it. This movie will made you some research and also some thinking while the movie is playing.  I like this movie.  Harrison Ford is always a good actor - find it out as he plays Dutch Van Den Broeck in this movie Random Hearts. Moreover , Kristin Scott Thomas (Kay Chandler) plays also a very good  acting  in this movie... I very like this movie.Furthermore, Find how Harrison Ford and Kristin Scott Thomas finds their New Romance  in the middle of a mystery of their  deceased spouse. This movie will made you not to a lie. I love  H. Ford's ways of acting.Thanks to all people who made this movie. Have a time to watch this movie. - G.C.O.  "}{"Title":"trouble sleeping","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This has to been one of the worst films of Harrison Fords I have seen.SPOILER I wish he had gone down in the plane with his wife and then there wouldn't have been a movie.  I do not recommend this one to anybody.  If you have trouble sleeping just rent this you will be asleep in no time. "},{"Title":"Cop obsessed with adulterous wife","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  A real turkey.Someone had a lot of money, hired a lot of talent, and didn't know what to do with it.  Where is the Sidney Pollack of Out of Africa?  He must have taken vague lessons from the late Stanley Kubrick in his last acting stint in Eyes Wide Shut, for this movie has no point.  The screenplay is so predictable, my wife and I were rolling on the floor laughing when our predictions came true.  Predictable is OK if it is fun.  This is no fun.The movie ranks right up there with Model Shop with Anouk Aimee and Gary Lockwood, and Ned Kelly with Mick Jagger.  While in the Army, with nothing else to do, I walked out on both of those.  If you haven't heard of them, that is the same place in your memory to store Random Hearts.  Do not waste even a moment on this groaner. "},{"Title":"Medicore...at best","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  It clocks in at 215.  Starts good enough.  Extraneous plot device thrown in with bad cop going after Internal Affairs office.  Totally needless.  Biggest flaw comes when two grieving people whose spouses were cheating with each other and are killed in a plane crash attack each other lustfully at the airport...FOR NO GOOD REASON.  It's called Random Hearts because they RANDOMLY put a romance in it!  There is no good reason for the two leads to become involved - period.  It would've been more interesting to show Ford's character's obsession with his dead, deceitful wife. "},{"Title":"What a bunch of schlock...","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I really like Harrison Ford so I eagerly rented this movie only to be disappointed minute after minute.  Mr. Ford seemed to be walking through very warm water looking for a place to urinate.  His co-star was very good and had the better lines.  The story intrigued me but the mistake - BIG MISTAKE - as everyone is identified via driver's license or passport before they board any american commercial aircraft left numerous plot questions in my mind. I could have cared less about these people.  In fact, the sub-plot of the Internal Affairs investigation was more interesting than the two lovers killed while flying first class to Miami.I am disappointed in the director, Sydney Pollack who gave us the classic Tootsie and other films.  This one is a waste of time and energy.  "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I thought","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I had the misfortune of reading all the user comments\ reviews in between renting Random Hearts and actually watching it that evening, but perhaps this was a good thing. As I sat down with my girlfriend and we braced ourselves for the worst, we realised IT REALLY WASN'T THAT BAD.  There is a big difference between boring(a word found in all comments I read) and a movie that is just slow. We've turned off horrible movies before, but this was just a simple, light suspense\romance\action movie, and I could think of worse ways to spend 2 hours.  "},{"Title":"Long, slow but nice","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I don't know how I would feel if I lived in USA. I would watch some preview scenes, advertisements, I would know, Sidney Pollack directed it, Harrison Ford and Kristin Scott Thomas starring in. I would watch this film as soon as possible without reading any bad review. Would I be disappointment?I read a lot of review which is said how bad this film was This is boring, long film without passion emotions and it is not interesting. Harrison is wooden, cold. The sublots should be cut. Too serious, particularly for Harrison Ford. I am interested in the subject, and I like Harrison Ford in the films which are not actions. I like Sidney Pollack and Kristin Scott Thomas too. So reading the reviews on IMDB website then in other sites then in February in the Hungarian movie magazines I was wonder and wonder what the film was. Anyway there are films, directors, stars what/who I want to see despite any reviews.I can understand people who thinks this film is boring and cold and has got not any passion, but I feel different. It is true I liked Sliding Doors, The Forbidden Woman (this is a French film, I don't know what its title in English, or in French). Basic of these films is development of a love.I think Random Heart is a nice and interesting film in its own way.It may be true that the sublots -the congress election and the cop's investigation after a corrupt policeman- are not written well, are not worked out in details but add something to the leading woman and man character.After his wife's death and betrayal emotion, angry of Dutch comes to the surface during his work. He will be suspicious and almost lost his best  friend (then the woman too). The film shows two ways to survive the tragedy our wife/husband's death and cheating.  One of them is the woman's this is tragedy,  but the life is continuing.  She doesn't want to mourn forever. What she wants to know-what her husband's lover-the cop's wife- thought about her she will not learn never. She is forced to behave in this way. The elections are comes, and anything about his husband may become scandal. She wants her daughter not to be disappointment with her father. The man is a cop.He suffering from the fact he lived in lies. He wants to know -maybe every men would want to know in this situation-when his wife started to cheat him. How long had she got lover?. He needs the woman's help but she doesn't want, but the guy is stubborn and steady/persistent. The woman can't stand him because he always steps into her life and she cannot forget. Their relationship is tense at the beginning then slowly developments a type of silent sympathy which is prefer an alliance against the outside world, the tragedy. (I said it in spite of that they made love in bed) However the cop,  can't stop with investigation, can't stop close and can't allow the woman close to him but he starts the love, and the woman wants their relationship to continue. But it can't. The woman realizes it. The end is a bit sad, but logic, and nice at the same time.It was pleasant for me to see again Peter Coyote-I like this man's face- Sidney Pollack. I hardly knew Bonnie Hunt but she was good.I think Harrison Ford did an okay job. His eardrop is unusual but at the beginning then finally I believed that the woman liked being at his company in spite of his temperament.  It was pity he had not got any joke. But Ford has got a good sense of humour. A reviewer noticed (in Hungary) Ford is charismatic against his haircut and ear drop and we are waiting for his presence and would like him to smile at us and make an ironic notice. But Dr Jones is not smiling at us.. But he smiles at the end and it is soooo good. With the rest  I agree. I very like him in this role- He is good in acting of this a bit rough, cool but somewhere in his soul smart cop.. The character of Kristin Scott Thomas is a woman who is determined, self confident, but she is closed inside a ivory tower and she keeps aloof from her emotions. But she is a really woman who become indecisive and find support on the cop.The two cool, reserved- people find each other.Maybe the script is not good. It is full of common, banal sentence, but there are some humorous sentences from the woman and movement particularly from the man. It is a good film but not for everybody, not for the general big audience. I watched the females under 18 and males above 45 liked this film better. About the latter, maybe Sidney Pollack made this film for his age-group which doesn't go to multiplex. Anyway I advice the people who like energetic plots with action scenes, who like only Ford's action films miss this movie.  "},{"Title":"Long, slow, personal","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Well,if you like Harrison Ford, as he exists and acts, this one will please you (except the earring thing-) Ms Thomas is a very talented actress, and quite capable to present the multiple  layers of the life of a woman in politics from the most public to the most intimate. (The things the media so likely to mix up -()This movie however far slower than any other videoclip style nervepuller on the market. The personal message is well coded in the storyline, and if you can not find something like this in your personal experience, you might find it difficult to realize, what is going on, and you will find it definitely boring. It is not just about two persons, their betrayal and survival tactics. It is also about the _created_ environment of american politics, and media. The message is not as rude and hard as it should be, but as I said, it is a slow and personal movie. I also liked the director's presence on the screen, actually mirroring his real task directing the several layers of the life. The ending is gracefully well crafted, not _oversweeted_ but promising.You should watch this film with someone you can trust, you love, and you can talk to. And slow down a little, sometimes there is no need to rush. "},{"Title":"looking for the truth","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Harrison Ford excels as an Internal Affairs officer searching after a plane accident on why his wife went to Florida for no reason.Human relations and romance mingle together in a context of mysterious events.Revealing the truth can be torturing but sometimes it is the only way to satiate human anxiety.  "},{"Title":"A slow but good drama movie.","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is a drama movie. As so many other drama movies it is about love. Random Hearts deals with unfaithfulness and being obsessed about knowing how the love of your life could be cheating on you. If you like slow drama movies this is the one for you. Christine Scott Thomas is acting very good and Harrison Ford is fairly good although he looks as a stone sometimes. It is a movie worth seeing. "},{"Title":"How could Sidney Pollack direct such a terrible movie?","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  And how could Ford and Scott Thomas give such a bad performance? this is one of the worst movies i have ever seen, and i saw enough of those. the writing was awful, the directing was amazingly with no imagination, the acting was nothing. even the editing was full of mistakes. i think i deserve a medal for not leaving in the middle. fooy, so bad.  "}{"Title":"Random Hearts does not really succeed.","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  As a love story, Random Hearts does not really succeed. The plot line is that Harrison Ford and Kristin Scott Thomas have both lost their spouses to a plane crash. The catch is that their spouses were having an affair with each other. Harrison Ford is unconvincing as a jealous and remorseful widower. Kriston Scott Thomas is cold and aloof throughout the movie, except for brief bursts of lust. The interaction between Ford and Thomas is unemotional and rarely romantic. The movie does have an interesting side-plot about Ford (who plays an internal affairs officer) chasing and catching a bad cop. Unfortunately, the movie seems to need this side plot to boost the main story. The ending is disappointing as well.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I was aware of the basic storyline when I went to see this one, so I didn't expect a comedy.  However, I didn't expect one of the more depressing movies ever made either.It's hard to knock Harrison Ford-after all, with his wonderful body of work, there's no question of his talent.  But this one truly is a clunker. Kristin Scott Thomas was so-so in her role.I won't go so far as to say this is the worst movie I've ever seen---I'll save that honor for the Blair Witch Project---but I think only true Harrison Ford fans would really enjoy this one.  If you must see it, I'd suggest waiting for it to come out on video tape and rent it on dollar day.  And have a box of tissues handy and be ready for a good cry!  On a scale of one to ten, I'd say it rated maybe a five or six. "},{"Title":"Wait for the video if you feel you need to see it!","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Two things -- too long and totally lacked credibility.  This movie didn't make any sense and was excrutiating to sit through.  I am usually pretty patient, but man...  It just doesn't keep your attention at all!  I think I am being nice here even!  You keep thinking it's almost over only to find out it's still got another half hour!  Good actors. "},{"Title":"Constipated","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Constipated. Yes constipated. That's how Harrison Ford looks in the movie Random Hearts. (I can't lay claim to the description by the way. Lay the blame my Wife's way).	But as usual she was right. Ford's not necessarily full of it, but he sure looks that way. Harrison Ford spends much of the film looking doleful, unsatisfied, overfed. He's supposed to be heart broken but has been ignored so completely by screenwriter Kurt Luedtke (Out Of Africa, Absence Of Malice) that mind broken would seem to be closer to the mark.Ford plays a Washington cop called Dutch who works in internal investigations. Snazzy sunglasses. An earing. He's a bit of a snappy dresser because his wife (played by Susanna Thompson) works for a fashion house. She heads off suddenly to Miami by aeroplane for her work.Kay Chandler (Kristin Scott Thomas) is a politician who's husband also suddenly leaves suddenly, he says for New York, on business. A plane goes down and the travelling husband and wife are found strapped to adjacent seats under an entirely new hubby and wife name, dead.Kay is up for re-election. It's bad enough that her husband has died but she doesn't want her husband's philandering ways to hit the press.Dutch who was in love with his wife, goes a bit screwball and goes on an investigative binge. He has to know the details of the affair.Dutch and Kay meet. Will a new love blossom? Could these two fall into each other's arms within days of their spouses' untimely deaths?Justifying this, making it believable for the viewers, is a huge dilemma for a filmmaker, even one with the track record of director Sydney Pollack.Pollack directed Out Of Africa, Three Days Of The Condor, Absence Of Malice, The Way We Were, They Shoot Horses Don't They, The Firm and  Tootsie, among others (including the pretty awful Sabrina).Random Hearts works very well indeed for its first third. It sets a cracking pace presenting the far too busy, overstressed, western, urban, lifestyle of the two married couples in a breathtakingly complex and rush about way. No wonder these married people had drifted apart!There's Dutch the cop dealing with a corrupt colleague and Kay the politician marshalling her energies and troops for her  campaign. Television screens, mobile phones, quick commuter flights and particularly voice mail intrude and are used to distraction.The general theme is that of perfidy and treachery, of the lie and its sibling called distrust, taking precedence as the usual means of communication. Is there anyone in this world of police, politicians, husbands and wives who can be trusted?Can these two overcome the loss of their partners and the discovery of the adultery and get on with their lives? And should they be upset about the adultery anyway? One of the characters speaks eloquently in favour of affairs. She'd hate to live without the excitement of illicit romances!Now all of this is interesting enough but what of the execution? Well, I'm afraid that once the plane's gone down, so does the film.It's as though Pollack ran out of airspace with his aircraft. He reduced Dutch to mostly standing about in that Harrison Ford, hair standing on end way even if Kristin Scott Thomas, an English actress, American accent wavering, tried to inject life and brevity into what became an increasingly stolid movie.Scott Thomas (The English Patient, The Horse Whisperer) is an intelligent actress who managed Kay very well indeed and Harrison Ford would have done a lot better with a better script, or at least some more lines. Looking heartbroken for an hour and a half is quite rightly the realm of French actresses, not American leading men.On the plus side, at least Ford's leading lady wasn't improbably younger than him this time, but then for the final insult we were treated to a classic Hollywood, let's tie up all of the loose ends ending. That left me groaning and as constipated as poor old Dutch.  "},{"Title":"No disaster but a flawed rewrite","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  	Like many others, I had been attracted to the combination of Pollack, Ford and Scott-Thomas.  I had enjoyed the work of Pollack and Ford on Sabrina, a well made film and a careful rewrite of the old material.  On hearing that this film was in production I ordered and read the book.  Immediately it seemed  that this would be a more difficult story to film.   The characters are not always sympathetic,  there is little if any humor and the author makes  numerous plot shortcuts to focus on his principal  theme that, since each would see the other as the  only one sharing the unique combination of loss and betrayal brought on by the air crash, the adulterers' completely surprised spouses would seek each other out.  Moreover, he imagines that resolution could come to both through a bitter exploration of the adulterers' hidden lives and that this experience of thick and thin could yield a deeper love than each had previously.  Although much of the book deals with their bitterness and their building hatred of  their former partners, in the end acceptance and  forgiveness are found.      The film script retains only the air crash and the shared predicament of the spouses. Where the woman is the research aggressor in the book, it is the man  in the film and the woman is never a willing  co-researcher.  The film has a completely new  dramatic sub-plot for Harrison Ford which seems even  more contrived than the double coincidence of the air crash.  The congresswoman up for re-election  sub-plot for the woman is also new, yet it works  better.      Audience the expectations of pure romance or  romantic comedy cannot be met because this story  focusses on a very bitter pill.  Where resolution and  forgiveness is achieved in the book, however, lifting  the burden of bitterness from the reader and  permitting levity, there is no corresponding moment  in the film.  Although forgiveness is never hinted at, we are left to surmise that healing following a  shooting does double duty.  Ford's character need not  be such an unentertaining man of few words and  Scott-Thomas's accent change is a little  disconcerting at first.      This film is not the dead loss suggested by  others.  It is, however, a difficult film to  appreciate because the rewrite and adaptation to the screen is below the standard previously achieved by  the director cast. "},{"Title":"Only sligtly more entertaining than sitting a home during a blackout.","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Unfortunately, I totally agree with the previous users comments.  I should have checked the reviews before I went (not that I would have listened anyway, but you never know).Seriously.  The only reason I went to the movies that night was because some idiot had plowed their car into a transformer or power pole or something like that, and had basically wiped out power for the entire block.  It was 930, and I wasn't about to go to bed right away, so I figured I would go kill some time at the theatre until Edison got it back on again.If it wasn't for the fact that I would have had a dark house to come home to, I WOULD have walked out of the theatre.  It's that boring.Don't get me wrong.  It's not a BAD movie.  It's well made, well edited and all that.  The actors of course, were great.  It's just that the script / story sucked.It's too bad, too.  Because I am a huge Harrison Ford fan, really.  I figured .. Harrison Ford .. it's bound to be good.  I mean, Han Solo .. Richard Deckerd, that guy he played in the Tom Clancy movies .. Harrison Ford ALWAYS gets to play the cool characters in the cool movies, right? NOT.And it's not that it's some kind of a romance movie that most guys can't get into.  It's not that at all.  I enjoy those types of movies when they are good, too.If you just HAVE to go see Harrison Ford on the silver screen because you dig the guy so much .. fine.  You asked for it. "},{"Title":"LAME-O","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  What a disappointment.  I didn't read reviews first because I assumed with Harrison Ford, how could it not be good?  Well, I assumed wrong.  I can't fault his acting, but what a lame story.  I was hoping the dead, adulterous spouses would come to life to liven things up a bit.  If you're a Harrison fan, don't go to this movie, it will tarnish your image. "},{"Title":"Oh dear....","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Sitting through this film is like waiting two hours for a bus, and then when it arrives, only to have it break down on you. What I mean by that is you sit through this film with great expectations but the conclusion is no more satisfactory than the rest of the film.It is quite a unique film in that it maintains it's quality throughout the film.  Most films have peaks and troughs as plot twists and action sequences heighten the excitement.  This film however, was unique in that it managed to maintain a steady trough throughout. This is the only film I have seen this year where I have caught myself looking at my watch - twice. "},{"Title":"Stay away, what more can I say ?","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  It's been a long, long time since I could say this about any movie, espcially a movie with a mega star like Harrison Ford, but save your money - this one is really bad. From the beginning of this movie I was asking myself why are they doing this ? I am still totally puzzled by the absolutely needless sub-plot in this movie. I'm actually at a loss as to what I should write as my review, it was that bad. Kristin Scott Thoomas and Harrison Ford are both wonderful actors, but this movie has nothing to it, it's flat and lifeless. I actually left the theatre saying to my friends, I feel badly for the lead actors in this movie, it was far below their usual excellent standards. Maybe I'm being a bit harsh, but I was just completely disappointed with this movie. "},{"Title":"Good story, but much too long","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Kristin Scott Thomas was an excellent cast to play the up-tight Congresswoman Kay Chandler and Harrison Ford (Dutch Van Den Broeck) was an excellent manic Internal Affairs detective who goes a little over the line in this intriguing mix of drama, romance and suspense.  The story itself was good, but probably could have been handled in 1 1/2 hours, instead of over 2 hours.  The main plot was well-thought out, however the sub-plot (where Harrison Ford does the actual police work) was slow, seemingly meaningless, and difficult to follow.  It wasn't until the very end that the subplot was finally tied into the main story.As a minor point, in more than one scene, you will find obvious references to major sponsors.  It's a sad sign when advertisers begin to promote themselves DURING the movie, instead of before or after.  Watch for it when Dutch goes to the store to purchase a weather radio for his father-in-law. You won't miss it, it's blatantly obvious.Random Hearts is a good movie, but, at over two hours, wait for video.  The big screen adds nothing to the effect of the film and you can always hit pause when you need to take a break. "}{"Title":"The movie that could have been great.","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This movie could have been great.  The performances were very good in spite of one of the possible All Time Most Awkward Kissing scenes in a car.  The roles and performances were believable in all areas except in the Car.  They both should have just said No! to keeping it in the movie.  The pace of some scenes was so slow I saw people sleeping in the Theater.  The ending helped make it worth the wait.  Perhaps not probable, but you are hoping these two devastated people find happiness.  No nominations, no awards but not the actors fault.  "},{"Title":"An astonishingly minor film","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  It's an astonishingly minor film, content to withhold even the satisfaction of generic closure; the randomness of the title, with its implication of turbulence and drama, is the very thing that's missing from the film, which is carefully composed, meticulously played by two very restrained actors, accompanied by discreetly elegant jazz. The main idea seems to be about doubling and echoing - their twin interest in what happened and the pain of the loss and the absence pulls them together	such that they're not sure what's a truly experienced emotion and what merely arises as a matter of structure and proximity at a time of crisis; Ford's job as an internal affairs officer, both pursuing and goading a dirty cop, ought to be further elaboration on this, as should be the theme of projection and image-making (as in her political campaign). But it never really gels - the melodramatic structure doesn't facilitate things when it's as stifling and solemn as it is here - what should have been a quivering pain becomes merely turgid. "},{"Title":"Disappointing film with plot and technical flaws.","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  My wife and I looked forward to another great film under direction of Sydney Pollack - we were extremely disappointed. Random Hearts had the potential, particularly with the assembled cast. We wound-up disliking the main character's, i.e.,after awhile they became unsympathetic. We couldn't really cope with Ford s obsession regarding his wifes infidelity...okey disappointment, etc., etc., but, the trip to Miami and the hotel room ?????? Enough already.Another aspect of the film which was disconcerting; the mike boom appeared in many scenes - camera-work and editing seemed rushed. I rate this film way below average.  "},{"Title":"Dramatic and real without being Dressy.....","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  If you think this will be standard Harrison Ford fare, then you may be disappointed.  Random Hearts is billed as a thriller, but contains a bare minimum of testosterone-laced action one might be expecting.  It does, however, have a serious dose of something that we don't often see in movies today.  In-your-face reality.This is a rather intriguing (and to some married couples, possibly more than a little disturbing) story of two people grieving over their respective spouses when they are informed that their bodies were found in a jetliner crash.  The kicker being that neither one was supposed to be on the airplane in the first place, and in the second place were having an affair together.Harrison Ford's character, Sergeant Dutch Van Den Broeck,  is a Washington D.C. Internal Affairs police officer who discovers that his wife's last minute answering machine message about a business trip is a lie when he stops at her place of work in a panic to verify which flight she was on. When her manager tells him point blank that the wife is most certainly not traveling for work, the glimmer of something not quite right sparks in his eye, and his cop instincts kick into high gear.As U.S. Congresswoman Kay Chandler, Kristen Scott Thomas portrays the other surviving spouse.  So caught up in her job (fancy that!) and her re-election campaign, she is completely caught off guard when she finds out not only that her husband is now dead, but that he had some extracurricular activities of which she was totally unaware.Some might see the relationship that ensues between these two grieving spouses to be a bit ridiculous or contrived.  I think that any psychologist dealing in traumatic situations would be able to tell you in no uncertain terms that it's a very natural reaction for the story to take this turn.Two people, feeling betrayed, lonely, and grieving the loss of a spouse and the very relationships they thought they had turn to each other to find some sort of solace.  Perhaps, even, as a way to get even with their deceased and unfaithful spouses in the only way they possibly could.There are definitely some steamy scenes in this film that are a serious departure from Ford's usually more romance-oriented characters.  The scenes don't come across as gratuitous though, but filled with pent up need and loss that culminates in these two escaping into each other for a short while.This is not a glamorous film, and with the nature of the subject matter, it certainly shouldn't be one.  Some folks who are looking for a traditional Harrison Ford, action-packed thriller could be quite disappointed and might consider the reality of the film to be more disturbing than entertaining. Those folks may wish to wait until the next Tom Clancy or Indiana Jones-type movie comes along.  If, however, you want to see some raw emotion and realism on-screen, you'll probably find it to be worth the price of a movie ticket.  "},{"Title":"Random Hearts---Random Plot","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Random Hearts---Random Plot or should I say no plot at all. My wife and I went to see this the other day. Being a Harrison Ford fan I must admit that I was very disappointed. This was a drawn out plot that went absolutely no-where. Not that it didn't have all kinds of opportunities but nothing tied together. Not worthy of Harrison Ford. Sadly I give it a 3. "},{"Title":"I've seen worse","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I've read approximately 10 reviews of this film, but haven't taken any of them to heart.  Harrison Ford is being criticized for everything from his haircut to his earring and I really don't see what any of these things have to do with the film.  As I recall, he had bad hair plus bad reviews in Blade Runner but it's still a favorite among us videophiles.  It is slower than the majority of his previous films but not worthy of the trashings it has received.I would gladly pay $7.50 just to watch a bald Harrison Ford mow his lawn.  "},{"Title":"Pretty hard to watch...","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" ...two wonderful actors whom I usually enjoy in such a bad movie. The first movie in a long time that I wanted to walk out of. My wife convinced me to stay and after it was all over (2 hours, 10 minutes) my wife told me I should have tried harder to convince her "},{"Title":"Boring with a capital B and a capital ORING","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The ads imply that there's some great conspiracy going on. There is, its the only way get anyone to see this lame movie. Its a basic love story about two people who's spouses die in a plane crash. He made living noticing things but he never noticed this is what they tell you but that's only because the character is so moronic. I couldn't force myself to care about any character in this film if I wanted to. "},{"Title":"Good idea, awful execution","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The idea for this movie is quite good. Unfortunately, the plot is one of the most contrived, indeed one of the downright worst, in a major hollywood picture since, well, its just bad, ok? The film has way too many was that supposed to be serious? or funny? moments, sends its romantic leads flying around the country with the flimsiest explanations you've ever heard, and has an egregous floating subplot with absolutely nothing to do with the rest of the picture, except to make it longer, something I certainly was not hoping for.On a side note, the projector cut out in the theater I was watching this in, and people applauded. I don't think this turkey is going to do very well.  "},{"Title":"The 14 Microphones Movies","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Not only did the movie suck for its long and meaningless objective. The Academy Award winning Director let 14 microphones show during the movie in 14 different scenes. I don't know if that was lousy direction or if it was done intentionally in order to remind the spectators every 10 minutes that they are watching a movie??? I also don't know how can they advertise Harrison Ford (58) for that movie as the sexiest man alive!!!!! "}{"Title":"Don't Waste Your Time","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This movie had potential, but only in the trailer and promotional blitz studios like to make these days. Harrison Ford was horrible in a character that was very hard to like. Kristin Scott Thomas was another disappointment with dialogue that bordered on comical. Many in the theater were laughing at lines that I doubt were designed that way. Save your time, and money, and miss this horrible movie. "},{"Title":"A Chick Flick","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I can't resist a good Harrison Ford action movie.  But my husband refused to go saying it was going to be a love story.  How can that be? I asked, Harrison Ford is in it!  Well, for once in his life, he was right (I hate to admit it.)  There was no problem with the acting, but I was deeply disappointed with the lack of Ford's typical action adventures.  For some unknown reason, the sex scene in the cabin actually made me uncomfortable--as if I were a peeking Tom. And although I felt the female role (the Congresswoman) was believable, the male role was not.  How can a man be that intimate with a woman without ever revealing the anger he has regarding a problem on the job?  And what was he looking for anyway?  A farewell note?  And what wife encourages her husband to make love to her an hour before her assignation with her lover (especially to the point of making her late to the tryst)?  Was she a nymphomaniac or simply oversexed? A starry-eyed woman looking for romance might enjoy this movie, but an action buff would have difficulty with it.  It's not a typical Ford movie so take warning not to be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Get ready for a different type of Harrison Ford movie.","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  A film for mature, educated audiences...I saw Random Hearts in an advance screening shortly before its North American release. This romantic drama was quite a treat. I'm sure this story will not be everyone's cup of tea, especially considering the film's darkly downbeat premise. But the pic has some very uplifting strong points in its favor.All-time Box Office Draw Harrison Ford (Star Wars, Raiders of the Lost Ark, The Fugitive, Air Force One, Patriot Games) is at the top of his game as the harried and desperate Internal Affairs officer, Dutch. Ford's very subdued, nuanced performance shows quite the range he can achieve with class and determination in bringing the audience into his world of loss & betrayal. This is the perfect complex role and very different type of film for Harrison Ford to grace the screen with between his action blockbusters. Next year Harrison Ford returns to action, first for director Robert Zemeckis (Forrest Gump, Back To The Future) in his summer 2000 thriller, What Lies Beneath, and reportedly later in the year in the film adaptation of Tom Clancy's The Sum Of All Fears. 'Fears' will be Harrison Ford's third outing as CIA operative Jack Ryan.Director Sydney Pollack (Out of Africa, The Firm, Tootsie) has a supporting role in this feature as a political advisor to Scott-Thomas' congresswoman. It's a very sharp & energetic portrayal for Pollack. Not only is Sydney Pollack a gifted director, he is also one of the most believable, natural and charming actors around (see Eyes Wide Shut as well).Kristin Scott-Thomas (The English Patient, The Horse Whisperer) shows that you don't necessarily have to be eccentric or worldly to be considered sexy. This is one of her better films, and she gives a tremendously crafted and mellowed performance that works well opposite Ford's quiet-man toughness.The subplots work wonderfully, especially the subplot involving Ford's character's investigation into police corruption. Look for a chilling & effective turn by Heat actor, Dennis Haysbert, who plays Detective George Beaufort, the obstacle to overcome in Dutch's investigation into police corruption.The rest of the supporting cast is a wonderful delight. Charles S. Dutton (whose long overdue for a film leading role) goes to show that he is one of the best character-actors around, and Bonnie Hunt, who I find extremely solid in this production, steals most of her scenes with that wonderful, charming smile as Wendy Judd.The technical side of Pollack's thriller is top notched. From Dave Grusin's (Pollack's The Firm) perfectly surreal-feeling jazzy score, to Philippe Rousselot (A River Runs Through It) crisp photography, to the sharp editing that keeps the film feeling fresh, despite the film's unfortunate downer premise.I highly recommend this film to anyone who enjoys a good yarn of mystery, well-paced plot, character-driven stories, and romance all rolled into one. This is a terrific story about betrayal & forgiveness. It also features one of the most surprising, yet poignant, and certain to be controversial endings for a Harrison Ford film in recent times. Random Hearts is definitely one of the better films of the year.(***1/2 out of ****) or (8.5 out of 10.0)  "},{"Title":"Good acting, too long","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  There's no doubt that the acting was great.  Both Kristin Scott Thomas and Harrison Ford were superb in their roles as a grieving widow/widower.  They played well together.  However, the movie was too long (2.5 hours!).  It also ran quite slow in many parts, and for being that lengthy, it made audiences quite fidgety in the movie theater.  Go see it if you're a die-hard fan of either actors. Otherwise, wait for it to be released on tape. "},{"Title":"Poignant movie with a built-in Randomizer","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  In more recent movie times, we have come to see several movies with almost parallel story lines released in a cluster (remember -  I still know... & Urban Legends -- Matrix & Thirteenth Floor & Existenz -- Sixth Sense & Stir Of Echoes ad infinitum......) What's that about anyway? No doubt, each cluster had a worthwhile movie in its midst but if you are an unsuspecting movie goer, no doubt you have seen two or even three of these in a row!Random Hearts does not pretend to be a different movie but it certainly is built around an oft-used-but-still-fresh kind of plot. We see above average performances from both Ford and Scott Thomas. Ford's wife and Scott Thomas' husband die at the same time in a plane crash leaving their spouses to discover that each was being cheated by a now-dead wife/husband. Ford plays the intense internal affairs cop who finds that his late wife had been cheating on him -a large part of the movie revolves around his obsession with the details of this affair. Scott Thomas (a congresswoman of all things) has suffered a similar fate, her late husband was the one involved with Ford's wife. So what then? After much obsession, both come to terms with their losses and the infidelity of their spouses! In the process, an uneasy but strong bond develops between the obsessed...Some parts of the story do not come together very well but overall, a good movie in a very random kind of sense. "},{"Title":"Comically bad","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This movie is dreadful. It probably surpasses the Lawnmower Man as the most awful experience I've ever had in a movie theatre. It is ponderous, uninvolving, pointless, and a complete waste of time and money. The only redemption out of wasting my 8.50 is that I have seldom laughed so hard, but that was only when I got to see the other comments on this film here on imdb. Only by suffering through this hideous movie can you grasp how truly awful it is, and then be able to share in the comic group catharsis expressed here by the survivors of this pooch of a film. The only non comical positive thing I can add is that kristen scott whatever her name is, is pretty nice to look at. The distributors of this film should really take the ski masks off and give me back my 2 hours plus and 8.50. "},{"Title":"Slow, but not bad","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I like Harrison Ford as Han Solo and Indian Jones.  I'm not such a big fan of his more dramatic roles.  Although I have liked many of Ford's movies, they all seem to have the same kind of feel to them.  This movie is no exception.  There is a love story, which kind of comes from left field and then goes nowhere fast.  There is the struggle to find out the truth about his wife.  And there is the sub-plot about the crooked cop. As I watched Random Hearts, I found that I could sympathize for Ford's character.  But I just had a hard time getting into the movie.  I would probably recommend this movie for video night.  "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time or money...","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The first half hour was excellent... good energy, concept and potential but then it dies!  A good cast brings a few scenes of fine acting but the plot, or lack thereof, isn't enough to sustain interest.The behavior of the characters was predictable and boring. The subplot played like a novices version of NYPD Blue.  "},{"Title":"Random hearts should have been titled Random Plots","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Random Hearts Losing a significant other is a subject most people would rather not think about.   Now, try to imagine this agony exacerbated by the knowledge that your spouse was headed for an illicit rendezvous when they died the combination of grief and betrayal is simply too overwhelming to comprehend.  This is what confronts Dutch Van Den Broeck (Harrison Ford) a hard-nosed cop with DC Internal Affairs and Kay Chandler (Kristin Scott Thomas) a US Congresswoman, when their cheating spouses are killed in a plane crash.  With heavy hitters Ford and Thomas on the Marquee, and the subject matter in question,  I expected a well crafted, intriguing movie, or at the very least, an entertaining one.  If only it were so.  Hearts suffers from a flat, poorly written script, with corny formulaic dialogue - several touching moments left the audience in hysterics - leaving the actors with little too work with.  The problems don't end there.From its inception this movie was obviously intended as a romantic drama.  I can only assume that the subplot involving an investigation of a duo of dirty cops was added as an afterthought to secure the ever-important 18-35 male demographic. The result is a quixotic mess every time the movie begins to flow and find its legs, it veers off on a tangent, until you longer care what happens. When the credits finally started rolling after 133 minutes I was positively exhausted. Unless you've seen all the movies that are currently out or are desperate for a pseudo date flick, give this a miss.    "},{"Title":"Two characters die at the start - so does the movie.","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I am still amazed that Harrison Ford, a man of excitement and action, could make a movie where five of the six of us that went to see it slept for up to half the running time.  They were lucky, I stayed awake in the belief that there had to be something that was going to happen.  I was wrong.  The most exciting part of the movie is the plane crash at the very beginning - and it's not even shown.  From that point, it's all downhill.  Wooden characters, wooden acting, and BORING.  Don't waste your time. "}{"Title":"Another Miscasting for Harrison Ford","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Harrison Ford is a unique actor in the right movies (see Indiana Jones et al)but in this muddled and unbelieveable movie (actually two movies with a sub-plot more unbelieveable than the main story line) his monosyllabic reading of lines seem weaker than usual.  Add the fact that the director once more subjects us to a demonstration of his conceit as a failed actor(see Tootsie), the unlikely romance of a congresswoman with a police sergeant, the gratuitous scenes of underwater crash victims, a script that has no self-starter (and no brakes!)and the tedious unfolding of a basically simple story that takes forever to tell.  Oh well, go rent an Indiana and enjoy Harrison on his own comfortable turf.  "},{"Title":"How sad...","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I had expected so much better from my favourite actor. This film, while providing an opportunity to gaze at big names, is frightfully boring.Sydney Pollack - a wonderful filmmaker, by the way - failed miserably in this film. Random Hearts is dull. No way around it. The filmmakers apparently decided not to finish with either of the subplots (the plane crash and the bad cop) in favour of the romance (can it be called that?) Then, after aborting any possible interest-catching developments, the film ended with no satisfying conclusion at all! Nice to see you again, we slept together, how about if we go to a film sometime? Honestly, how real is that?If you haven't already, don't go to see this film. It is a BIG dissappointment. "},{"Title":"ENJOYABLE, BUT NOT UP TO HARRISON FORDS STANDARDS","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Went to see this movie with great anticipation, as I like most everything that Harrison Ford does.  The story was a good one, but the side plots got in the way of a smooth flowing story. The acting was very good, and overall I enjoyed it, but as with most movies that come out today, it was slow moving at times, and the over two hours was a bit long. "},{"Title":"ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Its hard to describe just how SSSLOOOOOOOOWWW this movie is. It felt like a 4 hour movie. The only thing that kept me in my chair was my hope that SOMETHING interesting was going to happen, a plot twist...ANYTHING..............nothing happens so wait for the video and rent it as a sleep-aide. "},{"Title":"Well-made but overlong adult drama","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Harrison Ford and Kristen Scott Thomas star in Sidney Pollack's adult drama, `Random Hearts'. This film has had a gestation period of over ten years, as they say in the industry, `in development hell'. The final product is a mixed blessing. Pollack has directed the script by Kurt Luedtke from the novel by Warren  Adler. Many changes have been made from the original, prompting Pollack to say that the resulting film was actually just suggested by the novel. Dutch Van Den Broeck (Ford), a detective, and Kay Chandler (Thomas), a Congressman, are the unwitting spouses of a couple who have been having an affair. The illicit relationship only comes to light when the adulterers are involved in a plane crash and listed on the flight's roster as man and wife. Dutch and Kay eventually meet and their journey of discovery is the meat of the remainder of the tale. The script itself only reveals the simplest of plots. However, the measured, subtle performances of the two leads are what make you care. A subplot involving Dutch's job as police detective seems irrelevant to the main direction of the story, but the two dovetail excitingly, bringing the tale to its only realistic  conclusion. Supporting players, Charles Dutton (Dutch's detective partner), Dennis Haysbert (a cop on the take), Kate Mara (Kay's daughter) and Bonnie Hunt (Kay's close friend) add to the mix with their expert portrayals. Even Pollack himself has given himself a small role. The running time is a bit long for a film of this type, but Ford and Thomas will keep your interest because they both play appealing characters with whom audiences can definitely identify. "},{"Title":"Left a bad taste in my mouth..","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The movie was quite immoral.. and although some immoral movies are provocative and interesting, I didn't think this one was convincing.  It was very distasteful and disturbing.  And I don't think it was meant to be disturbing either, which makes the movie that much more disappointing..  "},{"Title":"Better than expected, but not as good as it could be.","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Random Hearts is a simple story told around a series of enormous events.  If this film had been European, it would have been about simple people in simple surroundings.  Because this is a Hollywood movie, the events surrounding the characters are HUGE a plane crash, a congresswoman, American politics, the media, crime in the city.  The movie could have floundered around so many premises, but instead it works.  It takes its time to tell the story and sometimes that time seems slow, but the events the story tells would take a long time to unveil and so it is understandable that the story would not be over in 90 minutes.Kristin Scott Thomas and Harrison Ford look wonderful in this picture.  It isn't true, as many critics have said, that Ford is plodding in it.  He seems like a man obsessed with unraveling the truth about his dead wife, what made her cheat on him and what the truth about his own life is, and he is very believable in it.  Thomas looks stunning.  When she's on screen, you can hardly look at anything else. The music by Dave Grusin is wonderfully dreamy and sad, like the story.If there is one problem with this picture is that it has no edge.  I know this sounds like a cliche but it is true, and when you see it you'll understand.  Nothing in it feels new or innovative, and it's like it was made for an older audience by an older filmmaker.  Nothing wrong with that, but in the age of so many edgy and inventive films rediscovering the possibilities of movies, Random Hearts is to today's audiences what An Affair to Remember must have been to audiences in the days when Sidney Pollack was a younger filmmaker making edgy things like Three Days of the Condor. "},{"Title":"Why? vs. Forget it!","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I don't think Random Hearts is quite as bad as other reviewers seem to think.  Some excellent scenes deal with the emotional upheavals you feel when you lose a loved one.  Those upheavals bring passions to the surface that are normally controllable, and the way this movie deals with that, I think, is quite intriguing.Basically, he's a cop who needs to know WHY.  She's a politician who wants to FORGET IT and hope nobody finds out about IT.The subplot of Harrison Ford's career (which most seem to be complaining about) shows how your work can be affected by personal matters.  While the details of his police work don't complement the movie's theme, his emotional reactions do make sense.Actually, the most distracting aspects I found in the film were the two shots where the boom mike comes into view.  Don't they have people to watch out for that sort of thing? "},{"Title":"How about one word? GROAN!","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This film was such a waste of good talent and my very precious time that my usual review would be throwing good time after bad. Hence, I'm being as brief as possible in my attempts to keep anyone else from blowing $8.50 on this turkey. I've been to movies where some smartass has made a crack over dialogue thats given the audience titters and some laughs, but Random Hearts didn't even need wannabe comedians for my crowd to laugh continously at the screen. It's that misguided. I would suggest you check out another movie I saw the same day, The Limey, but unfortunately it's only playing in selected cities and will only come to many filmgoers on video. It is a very appropriate comparison for in the latter film the filmmakers decide against giving the main character have a romantic subplot even though they could have. Just think, I could have been saved from watching this major embarrassement to the canon of Harrison Ford if only Sydney Pollack had called Steven Soderbourgh for pointers. I think appearing in Eyes Wide Shut has seriously damaged Pollack's ability to realize when a film veers off course. Take my word for it please, it's almost too bad to watch on video. Unless it's dollar night and even then it might be 75 cents overpriced. "},{"Title":"At almost 2 and 1/2 hours, the movie drags along.","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Was disappointed with the sluggishness of how the story evolved.  And, definitely not one of Harrison Ford's better acting roles.  Overall movie was very predictable; Kept waiting for some action to evolve or at least a plot that could be voiced over to  get some conflict in the film.  Worth renting only. "}{"Title":"Probably the most boring movie I've ever seen.....","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I can't believe how long this dud went on. What were they thinking?  The trailers and promos for this movie showed  some actions scenes that made it look like there was elements of a thriller along with the romantic, psychological angle. There was maybe 30 seconds of this and it seemed like an afterthought. the other nearly two and a half hours was Harrison Ford and Kristin Scott-Thomas looking at each other and they didn't even do that very well. Harrison Ford spent the whole movie looking like he'd been whacked in the head with a croquet mallet. This is probably the most boring movie I've ever seen all the way through. Normally we would have left but we kept thinking, something's going to happen, It can't just be this. It was just that. I did manage to get a few minutes sleep, but the seats weren't comfortable enough for a good snooze. "},{"Title":"cliched and tired","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Does Harrison Ford still think he's a heart-throb?  He has the diamond stud and the short haircut, so I guess that must means he must be cool and young. The problem is, he's not young anymore.  After watching him with Anne Heche in Six Days, Seven Nights, and now the lovely Kristin Scott Thomas in this movie, you feel as if Harrison should move on.  There are more problems with Random Hearts than Harrison Ford, however.  First of all, the movie takes itself too seriously.  Instead of trying to be a good date movie for adults and mature teens, it tries to be both provocative and thrilling at the same time.  The plot holes in this film are big enough to leap through, and you can't help but thinking that so many wonderful talents have been wasted on the film.  It could have been much much better.  This film isn't one that someone would hate, but it's really not one you could confess to liking too much either. "},{"Title":"When Was The Last Time That Harrison Ford Made A Good Movie?","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Okay, MAYBE 'Air Force One'  was a decent movie, but even that is suspect. 'Six Days, Seven Nights' was wretched, and 'Random Hearts' falls in between the two.This movie doesn't really seem to go anywhere, and  Ford does his usual one-note number (he always plays the same person, just thrust into different situations). For the first time, Kirsten Scott strains a little, and is actually awkward in several scenes. The dialogue is stilted, and people were actually laughing during the love scene.I won't bother with the plot, because the producers obviously didn't.  There is an inappropriate side-story concerning a prerequisite bad (and black) cop, whose only purpose is to show that Ford has become distrusting. The ending seems fake, and you leave unfulfilled.This isn't a terrible film, just flat; BUT, when you consider the talent involved (Sydney Pollack, Bonnie Hunt,Peter Coyote, etc.) it seems even worse.Not a  total waste of time, but I want to see Ford make another great  movie (or even a good one).  "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I can honestly say this is the worst movie I've seen in awhile. It was marketed very deceptively, with tag lines such as What's the last thing you know is true?, making it appear as though the film was an interesting conspiracy theory type of plot. It wasn't. It was more like a bad effort at a chick flick. The script was canned, which left Ford and Thomas little room to effectively use their immense talent. Moreover, Ford's character was thoroughly disagreeable, which did not help to involve the audience in the plot which surrounded him. A plot which, I might add, was rather thinly spread between Ford's police work, Thomas' reelection bid, and the relationship between the principal characters, leaving all three woefully underdeveloped--particularly Ford's police case. I did not enter this film anticipating an Oscar-quality movie, but I also did not expect to leave counting all the ways in which I could have better spent $7. Give this one a miss. "},{"Title":"What a disappointment!","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I like Harrison Ford and Kirsten Scott Thomas and expected so much more. Again the whole obsession thing with Harrison Ford had you soon going, Get over it, she's dead. I guess he was such a loser that it seemed unlikely that in any way Kirsten would have been even remotely attracted to him. The whole sub plot with him being a cop totally didn't work. Please give the man another occupation. He's a good actor and there are other interesting occupations besides cop. A very poorly written screenplay didn't help, hope they didn't pay the writer too much. The only redeeming value are shots of Washington and Alexandria as I have visited both and it's always good to see the scenery again. Skip this one and watch Six Nights, Seven Days again or go see The Horse Whisperer. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I looked forward to Random Hearts because I liked the premise but, alas, I really was sad to see where it went, or rather, where it didn't go.I was sad to see that neither character had any remorse for their respective late spouses and even more sad to see that the children responded with the same apathy. What really cooks my noodle with this one is that the film never denounces adultery nor does it go really deep to show why the affairs happened. We can gather information from here or there -- Dutch doesn't know any of his late wife's co-workers, not even her boss; both characters are too involved with their careers to even be bothered by their spouses.Instead of being an example of what not to do, or how not to have an affair, it reads more like, look! it can happen to anyone! "},{"Title":"The director's to blame for this waste of acting talent. Boring!!! Bad!!!","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Whoa! Where to begin? To keep it short-- Kristen Thomas (the chick) is great-- she has developed quite a talent in the past few years since Four Weddings and a Funeral. Harrison Ford (the dood) has an obvious presence and charisma, so one suspects that he is merely obeying the instructions from the director. Thus, his character is a hodge-podge. It is Grumpy, stoic, bold, whimpy, and repressed. Overall, he looks like a mental patient-- the spikey gray hair thing is NOT happening here, on your head, dood!The first half of the movie was decent. A somewhat calm, but intriguing cop show thing, with romance. Then the second half was not just slow-- it was so slow it went backwards. I came out of the theater ten minutes before I went in, and I was in there 2-1/2 hours.Ford's voice-- was it looped or what? All the other actors and ambient sounds were normal, and then his masculine voice (which is fine), continually boomed out in basso profundo, as if they had a microphone stuffed down his throat. At the very beginning, he was eating some food, and you could hear, in booming surround sound, every drop of saliva sloshing and smacking around, from his lips well down into his small intestines. That is WAY too much audio info folks! Throughout the movie his microphone was picking up his every gulp, lip smack, throat clearing, and other slurps and sloshes associated with being too close to another human being with whom you are not making love. What's that about? Does the director think that obnoxious and annoying replay of all things scatological and saliva-related imply closeness? Or realness? Or whatever...?The slowness of the movie in the second half was not the hypnotic, dreamy pace of The Horse Whisperer. Rather, it was the stilted, jerky can't get it right repetitivenss we see with waiters and waitresses working under tremendous stress on their first day on the job. It was maddening! Imagine Laurel and Hardy on Qualudes, and the film played back in slow motion-- and not for laughs, but to be serious and soulful. YIKES! It was torture to sit and squirm through it all. What was really a bummer was how great all the cast is, and how totally wasted they are in this. The director should be spanked-- and not the English way, where he and his spanker would all be into it and enjoying themselves, but in a manner that was punishment, so he'd learn a lesson-- Thou Shalt Not Make Bad Movies.With better ideas, the same script (or one derived from it) could easily have been a good movie. As it is, it's a cumbersome and frighteningly dull piece-o-bleep. I generously gave it a 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The movie that never was","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I don't really agree with the other reviewers that this was a terrible film or that it's slow and somber pace was it's problem.  Of course, it's sad and slow--it's a movie about two people that suffer through a double whammy (loss of a spouse and infidelity).  What did they expect a Grisham thriller?The feeling that I kept getting when I was watching this movie was that this movie could have been so much more.  The premise lends its self to an interesting look at common issues.   And, a film starring Harrison Ford directed by Sydney Pollack--need I say more?  I was intrigued by the initial third of the movie...Harrison Ford finding about his wife and the not so final act that she committed.  Unlike the previous reveiwer, I don't think that he really needed to shed any tears here...because he's just found out that his wife may have been with another man.   That would not be honest with the moment--I wouldn't have shed any tears at that moment  Would you?  I think shell-shocked would be my response as was his...  But, after this initial intrigue, the movie starts falling apart.  First, the subplot with the police corruption--What did that have to do with anything?  Not even thematically did it fit into this movie...I admit that I found it interesting but it was SO UNNECESSARY...that I would put on the writer's and director's shoulders for not cutting that out.  Plus, the length of this movie--I think that's what audiences were really panning this movie for.   There was a clear 30 minutes that they could have easily cut out of this movie 2 hours and 23 minutes...what was this Gone With The Wind?  At least that one was an epic, this one just felt like it.   About half way into the movie, Harrison Ford finds out pretty much what he's looking for of this mystery (I won't reveal the details here, but you'll know what I'm talking about once you see it) and the movie's conflict is pretty much spent, and we're left wondering why they are continuing with this movie... especially with the redundant and drawn out scenes of anguish and bereavement...my God, we get it...  Audience these days are movie savvy...  Trust your audience to get it the first time or three or four times that you hammer away at a point...  Anyhoo, solid acting by Harrison Ford and Kristin Scott Thomas...some good direction in terms of getting the performances out of the actors...but, on the whole, this movie seriously needed another rewrite and a more daring editor that could have easily chopped off 30-45 minutes of this epic. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I didn't think I could ever not like a Harrison Ford movie, but, this one proved me wrong.   Unrealistic story and kind of boring.  Harrison Ford is much better in a light comedy.   "},{"Title":"Liberate the private life of American politicians","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Politics and sex life do not work together very well in the USA as soon it gets off the very straight direct family-oriented lackluster public image politicians are supposed to respect down to the very last dot on the line. A super-cop in Washington DC and a female representative in Congress from the state of New Hampshire get together due to the accident that drowns their spouses in a plane crash. This adultery on the side of the husband of the representative will ruin her life and career and the purely accidental and transient relation between the two survivors will become the only question that will seem important for the press. Something is wrong in this country and it has to be healed fast. The film shows the situation, its contradictions and the passion that will in fact be nothing but solace in a stressful moment with tact and great acting, with delicacy and an apology for the narrow-mindedness of the press and political system of a country which is supposed to be a democracy and does not guarantee the privacy of the private life of its politicians. That kind of wild hunting from some journalists is criminal and ten years ago it cost the life of Princess Diana under a bridge in Paris. That kind of trashy journalism should be outlawed and severely punished by our courts. The film seems clear about it freedom still has a lot of battles to fight and win in our countries. The end of history is far from being close at hand.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne & University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines "}{"Title":"A weak effort, proving that good books don't always make good films","Date":"6 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Dutch (Harrison Ford) is a tough, internal affairs cop in the DC area. Although he is one very determined man at work, investigating a difficult case, away from the job he has a lovely home and an equally beautiful wife. All of that changes on the day a plane crashes in the Miami area. Dutch is startled to learn his wife was on the aircraft and that she was not traveling alone. Meanwhile, congresswoman Kay (Kristin Scott-Thomas), running for re-election, is also handed the difficult news that the husband she thought was headed for New York City was also on the downed Miami plane. Dutch, driven to discover the truth, learns that the man his wife was traveling with was, indeed, the candidate's mate. He makes contact with Kay, hoping the two of them can make sense of the situation. But, Kay wants nothing to do with him. After all, any secret news about her private life will be splashed across the newspapers of America in a flash. Yet, Dutch is hurting mightily. Will Kay hold his hand through a very heartbreaking time? This film is based on a novel by Warren Adler. Although the book was probably successful, the resulting movie is weak and plodding, to say the least. Of course, it is a welcome event when a film features a love story between two middle aged players but, in this case, it is more melodramatic than meaningful. Although they try hard, Ford and Scott Thomas can not rise above the stilted roles they have been given. Kurt Luedtke, who penned the lovely Out of Africa, strikes a false note here with his efforts. Then, too, although the costumes and sets are gorgeous, the direction by the talented Synday Pollack is also misguided, resulting in a wandering and killingly-slow paced flick. Only those die-hard fans of Mr. Ford will probably make it to the film's final hour, and even they will feel let down. "},{"Title":"Random Plot lines","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" So much great chemistry between Kristen Scott-Thomas and Harrison Ford, but every time the story about their relationship began to gather momentum the script cut away and dealt with some irrelevant sub-plot that did nothing to advance the story. Indeed, the subplots had nothing to do with the story at all. They were like commercial breaks in which you watched a trailer for another movie. The writers (or someone who controlled the writers) obviously didn't trust themselves to write compellingly about relationships and the interior lives of their characters. They seemed to be uncomfortable unless they threw in some gun battles and bar fights. Or perhaps they didn't trust the audience to pay attention to a story about a man and a woman trying to understand their relationship under difficult circumstances. After all, we all know how boring Casablanca was. Perhaps if the relationship between Kay and Dutch had been developed more and had been allowed to play out, the writers would have know how to end the story. This film is a disappointment for not doing more with its wonderful actors, who gave good performances but could have done more with a better script. "},{"Title":"You keep looking for a reason why. There is no why.","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" For those of you out there that have completely destroyed this film with your words, I suggest revisiting Random Hearts post-9/11. While I hate to use that dreadful moment in our history as a staple for this review, one cannot help but consider the connections and possibilities between the fictitious story of this film and those unthinkable WTC events. Director Sydney Pollack has done a fabulous job of adapting a story that is both suspenseful, creative, and full of human emotion. He did a superb job of casting both Harrison Ford and Kristin Scott-Thomas who engulf these sinister characters and bring that much-needed emotion to the screen. His music seems cheesy at times, yet draws you into some scenes the next. With all of these great elements coming together for Random Hearts, why is it that so many people have rated this film low? My response to that has to do with seeing this film in a completely different light. There were elements that I thought were brilliant, yet needed to have some thought involved. Harrison Ford was one of these elements, as well as Pollack's use of airports throughout the film. Let me explain.I saw Harrison Ford as this very evil character in this film. Perhaps this was not the tone that Pollack was hoping to create with Random Hearts, but it was what I witnessed when I watched it. When you watch it, see if you see it as well. Throughout the film Ford pushes Thomas into what he wants. He invades her life, rummages through her personal moments, and even seduces her to discover more information. He is the one most hurt by this disaster, and it turns him dark. While most will argue that the event brought these two hearts together, I think Ford's character was weaker than we imagined. He needed that comfort level that his wife provided and found it with Thomas. He wasn't going to stop until he was with her and found out everything he could about his cheating wife. Ford was creepy to me in this film. While I think Kristin Scott-Thomas did an outstanding job countering this insanity that Ford brought with him, it was really Ford that captured the aura of the film. Thomas was like a child being lead throughout the mall by her determined father. Broken, hurt, destroyed, and even paranoid were all elements that were creeping into Ford's life, and he had no clue how to handle them, so he attached himself to Thomas &#133; perhaps more than he should have.Take Ford's powerful character and Thomas' weakened version of Kay and throw in Pollack's mastermind and you honestly have an amazing film. The scenes that really blew my mind in this film were how Pollack continually brought Ford and Thomas back into the airport. It was because of an airport that these two random strangers met, now throughout the film, they have some of their toughest moments back in that same airport. When they return of Miami sparks a new chapter for both of them, the scene where they both are flying, but cannot be seen together was beautifully awkward and dark, then at the end when they meet together for the climax, it felt a bit stalker-ish to me. Ford was spooky, nearly saying that he cannot continue life without Thomas' comfort. His final speech was supposed to be happy, but to me came across as very wimpy and boarding on lunacy. It was amazing.While the background stories seem to mesh well, I honestly could have done with less of Thomas' story of trying to win an election, and pushed more of Ford's story of how the loss of his wife was destroying his career. I thought this was a really interesting segway that should have been explored more. I wanted to see the fall of Ford, and I think he was just about there. I wanted to see him break down and really turn into this Hitchcockian character. I wanted to really see him corrupt his life because his persistence on detail created this flawed marriage. There was so much more that should have been done with Ford's character, that I was continually biting my nails hoping that Pollack would take that Requiem for a Dream direction. Alas, he did not, I am not sure if it was because he was trying to attract a different audience or what, but Pollack had a dark film on his hands, sadly, he just didn't push that envelope that far.Overall, as odd that this may sound, I was impressed with this film. I believe this was one of those rare Hollywood instances where they had the chance to really scare us with some backwards characters, but instead changed to this high road of romance and drama. I saw this film as a very disturbing film thanks to the work of Harrison Ford. I am not sure if this was the direction either he or Pollack saw the film going, but it is what I experienced in my viewing. I really suggest you go back and see this film with its darker undertones. I may be pulling this out of nowhere, but to me Ford was spooky, Thomas was this pushover that Ford manipulated, and Pollack had a masterpiece before his time. Random Hearts was an unexpected film that I cannot wait to watch again! Grade **** out of ***** "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I found this film very interesting. It's about very human reactions to extraordinary events. The director is very good and both Ford and Thomas are excellent. Thomas is very feminine too in a initially reserved way. The influence from Kubric, as some people point out, is definitely a positive factor. I cannot understand why the critics so grossly underrate this fine piece of work. I can understand that some people found it depressive, it deals with tragic and difficult things like mourning, betrayal and so on. Life is unfortunately not always sunshine. The feeling described in the film are very real according to me. The director is a person with talent and integrity and a good actor to boot. I will however admit that some people might find the issues here somewhat boring - until they realize that the issues might concern them as well, in some sense. "},{"Title":"Just plain dull...","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is not beautiful, this is not well-played... this is just... dull... I didn't feel for any of the characters, and I didn't feel except a huge yawn. I have actually enjoyed mr Pollack's work (Tootsie, Out of Africa), but this is not his finest hour.I usually enjoy a slow, downcast kind of movie, but it has to at least move me... this didn't.And another reviewer claimed this was a piece of art. Please... If you want art, see Gadjo Dilo. THAT is ART! This is boring hollywoodish sentimental tripe. "},{"Title":"A waste of time","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I kept waiting for this movie to get good.  Well, let me amend that.  For the first half hour I waited for it to get good.  After that my husband and I began to realize that it was never going to happen, and we began to try to salvage something from the two hours plus committed to this piece of junk by laughing at its idiocy and counting cliches.  We lost track somewhere around the shattered plate on the kitchen floor... or was it the it's me on the answering machine? I don't remember.  Not surprising, since this movie is utterly immemorable.  Was there supposed to be some sexual tension there?  Maybe any chemistry?  I can honestly say that the level of sexual tension is higher between Barney and Baby Bop, and Oompa Loompas have more chemistry than Harrison Ford and Kristin Scott Thomas did in this film.On top of all that, the script and timing were absolutely wretched.  The lines plodded along with no seeming connection to one another.  The plot stank. The writers tried to manipulate us into feeling empathy for the man who lost his wife and his trust in mankind at the same time, but it didn't work. I kept holding out hope that the shocking mystery promised on the back of the DVD case would develop into something more than a depressed-cop-gone-bad subplot combined with a who-slept-with-whom-where story which was scarcely worthy of a Young and the Restless script.  I should have known better.Pass this one up.  Watch Mr. Rogers instead; it's much more exciting. "},{"Title":"A brilliant and elegant movie (9 out of 10)","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is an eleganlty directed, very well acted and has an intelligent dialogue.  It is a slow film, yes.  It last two hours and a few minutes, yes.I have seen Harrison Ford in some really bad movies, like the Indiana Jones movies.  They are all crap.  The later movies with Ford shows he is a very good actor and finally got into quality movies.Kristin Scott Thomas is even more impressive.  They way she is very unwillingly drawn towards 'Dutch' when they leave home from their trip to Miami really an elegant piece of acting.The best part of the movie is the way 'Dutch' slowly catches Kay's interest in their spouses' romantic escapades.I also must say I'm bit shocked by the many commentators who turn this movie down as bad.  Then go see Spiderman and just keep away from real works of art like this one. This movie really gave me a lot and a a fine time, very well spent two hours watching.I will forever love Sydney Pollack for directing it. I want more of this kind. "},{"Title":"Such a real story of tragedy and learning to live, again.","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Of course, I really enjoy Harrison Ford and I am learning to really like Kristin Scott Thomas. This is an exciting story and I love the personal feelings and closeness between people. I imagine most of us have lived a similar situation and learned from it. I own the movie and I watch it often. Thank you for listening. Florence Forrester-Stockton   "},{"Title":"Believable emotional drama that's better than it's rep","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The clerk at the videostore gave me this movie by mistake. But i think i'll give him a break this time. Because truth is i liked it.... I had no expectations going in but was pleasantly surprised along the way.This is a believable emotional drama. It's an adult movie...slowpaced but the pace fits the storyline.The two main characters Harrison Ford and Kristin Scott Thomas lose their spouses in a tragic plane crash. The crash reveals an affair between their two spouses.They now have to struggle to come to terms with the fact that they've been living a lie without knowing it.What do you do when your emotional landscape is suddenly laid waste and you're left with the sorrow betrayal and silence of unanswered questions. Left to wonder what was the nature of what you thought was true.As Ford and Scott find themselves in their lives crisis they're drawn to each other as the other being the only other person who can  understand their situation. "},{"Title":"One of My All Time Favorite Movies","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  In a year which awarded Oscars to a movie with contained adultery, spousal abuse, teen sex, pedophilia and drug use, which gave acting awards to people who played a pedophile, a girl who wants to be a boy, akindly abortionist and a psychotic nymphomaniac, it is no wonder this classy, beautifully acted romantic drama about the devastation wrought by adultery and betrayal was not broadly accepted by either critics or the public.  Pity, because Random Hearts is outstanding, one of the most beautifully wrought dramas I've ever seen.  Predictable, as some as said?  What's predictable about making Harrison's Ford's character so obsessively unsympathetic, and Kristen Scott-Thomas' so unexpectedly playful and passionate?  That this movie balances so delicately drama, romance and mystery is a tribute to all that are involved. Harrison Ford has never been better, though I could have done without his off-putting spiked haircut. Just as his character is so self-pitying and obsessive one wants to slap him silly, Ford flies into a rage orcracks a self-depreciating line with that wry little smile.  He's great, as is everyone involved.  Special note should also go to director Sidney Pollack for his wonderful performance.  All production values are topnotch, including Dave Grusin's jazz score.I guess I have to thank the rest of you.  Because you hated or slandered this movie, I got a DVD copy for $4.99.  Twenty years from now, when Random Hearts finally cracks AFI's top 100 movies, those of us who liked it from the beginning will be smiling. "}{"Title":"I liked it!  Is that OK?","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  MILD SPOILERS!Billed by several of my friends as one of the worst movies ever made, Random Hearts beguiled me!  I can understand why many didn't get it and don't think I'm any better for doing so, but I did get it!Random Hearts is film NOIR.  And, if it isn't, then it's heavily steeped in it.  It's got all the key noir themes deceit, suspicion, obsession, heartache, disillusionment, infidelity...You know the routine.  True the usual trappings were gone fedoras, steaming manhole covers, darkness, etc. And I think that because it was such an original treatment of the genre (even more genre-stretching than Chinatown and L.A. Confidential) that the link wasn't made for most and their response was, (at worst) That sucked and (at best) Huh?  I guess what clued me in was the soundtrack.  It was absolutely drenched (almost comically so) with classic noir motifs sultry saxophone, tinkling piano, and the jazzy moan of fretless bass.  Not that I actually like that stuff but I, at least, recognized it.In its response to Random Hearts the American public has made their message clear to Harrison Ford (whether or not he cares).  DO NOT EXPERIMENT! they clamor.  Don't even think about doing anything even slightly outside our box for you.  Or else...  What they miss, of course, is one damn good performance.  Of course, this isn't the first time Ford has played this type of role.  Rick Deckard in Blade Runner was very similar and Rusty Sabich in Presumed Innocent was nearly identical.  Sure, I love Indy and Han but I gotta admit that it's a bit of a relief to see that classic Ford hubris significantly muted (okay, completely eradicated) for these roles.  As 'Dutch', Ford looks old, tired, and crushed.  He plods through each scene and mutters his lines and, in the process, he makes pain look very real.  He embodies it not so much in its sturm und drang but in its inertia and banality.  In the process, he helps heal those of us who know too well what it's like to feel this kind of pain.Those paying attention can see how well he had become this broken man in the final scene at the airport. Ford shows us (by way of contrast) a man who, having been given a bit of time, has begun to mend, to heal.  Though subdued, we can see his hope returning.  Pay close attention to his face as he watches Kristin Scott Thomas' character walk away.  Amazingly, without really DOING anything, he embodies perfectly this still fragile but sanguine stage of the healing process.  Though he doesn't actually tear up, there is a subtle shift in his face (and especially his eyes) and we know that he may be on the mend but that doesn't mean it doesn't still hurt sometimes.Finally, K.S. Thomas was very believable as the tough but human Kay Chandler.  Her stormy love affair with 'Dutch' was appropriately surreal, fragile and yet still tender and special.  I love the scene in the cabin where (lying in bed together) they banter over politics.  It's one of few light moments in a very humorless movie and works well as do so many other scenes.I thought Random Hearts was classy, electric, and bewitching.  I guess I can understand why others didn't like it but I definitely did! "},{"Title":"Entertainment? No!  Catharsis? Yes! An adult drama for sure.","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is an adult film.  It deals with adult themes such as life, death, love and betrayal.  It is not set forth as light entertainment.Not only is this an adult film dealing with difficult material its possible that it will be totally opaque to anyone who has not lost a mate to the grim reaper.  For such a person I think this film would be rather cathartic. It was for me. (Divorce is for children death is for adults.)This film deals with two people finding how to survive the loss of their mates.  I don't think its any kind of love story. It is a mystery involving betrayed love.  What might appear as romance to a viewer is actually an expression of panic --- a way of denying a great void created by an airplane crash.  The the female lead fortifies herself with denial though occasionally she reaches out. The male lead tries to fill the void through attempting to comprehend all the details, all the secrets that are revealed by the sudden loss. The female lead would rather not know.  There is a subtle but powerful line spoken by Harrison Ford Perhaps you didn't lose that much!.In a way this film is more about class difference and snobbishness separating two people who have a shared, shattering life experience. In this light I found the ending appropriate and very telling. "},{"Title":"Tiresome","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This dragged on and on.  It was no good, it was dull, and it's definitely not worth seeing.  Over 2 hours of a yawnfest, this is the definition of tiresome.Harrison Ford and Kristin Scott Thomas are both good actors.  Quite why they picked up a limp biscuit film such as this I don't know.Her husband and his wife both die in a plane crash, and it turns out that they were having an affair.Let's just say you can fill in the blanks yourself from knowing just this, and you'd be accurate.The meaningful looks, the irritating romantic music and more.  Yuck. "},{"Title":"A Second Opinion","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Following the death of his wife in a plane crash, Ford's character detective Dutch Van Den Broek investigates some pieces that don't fit. His wife was ostensibly going to one appointment, was bound toward another very different one. The habitual investigator uncovers links to another passenger on the ill-fated flight. To learn more, he comes into contact with Kay Chandler (Kristen Scott Thomas). The bond he forms with Kay is not overdone--they're both wrecks set adrift in a black sea. Dutch obsessively treads through the clues despite the emotional devastation and wrenching agony that his discoveries only magnify. This is a welcome variation on the Ford type-cast; he plays the cold hearted cop digging through the detritis to get the facts. No jokes. No light-hearted moments, just the facts, ma'am. Yes, it is possible for him to play another character that doesn't require action, heroics or silliness. Though I like his popular image, I'm only a lukewarm fan of Harrison Ford. He has been more of a pop cultural icon than actor. His range has been severely limited, if he ever had a range. But a film like this and What Lies Beneath show he has some flexibility. For that, I say Bravo! "},{"Title":"A Great Film","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Of course, those people expecting a typical commercial american movie(cars crashing all the time, blood baths, bad names inserted in almost every line of dialogue, special effects, etc.) will be severely disappointed. In fact, this is a great film, conducted with sensibility by one of the world's greatest directors(Sydney Pollack), and Miss Scott-Thomas(gorgeous, charming!) and Mr. Ford are just perfect.Absolutely NOT a demagogic movie, but a dense, adult piece.  "},{"Title":"Very disappointing.","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This movie was extremely disappointing.  The plot was tiresome.  Kristen Scott Thomas & Harrison Ford had no chemistry together.  I was ready to randomly jump off a cliff after watching it.  Not worth my $4.00 or my time. "},{"Title":"Not Even Harrison Ford Could Save This One","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  DISAPPOINTING -- This movie was just bad all around and I don't understand how.  The plot line was great, if a little underdeveloped, the actors first class, the book it originated from was a best seller in my opinion...How could a movie with so much going for it be screwed up??? Yet, it was.  Bad.  Like I said....not even Harrison Ford could save this one.It seemed as though this movie was thrown together just to appease women. If there's a goodlooking guy in it (Harrison Ford), some danger, a bit of romance, and a woman becoming stronger in the face of adversity it should be a guarenteed chick flick.  Sorry fellas, this one didn't cut it.  There was no call for any real action...no chemistry between the primary actors...in short..a total dud.Do yourself a favor and read the book instead.  "},{"Title":"A Cure for Insomnia","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  If you're having trouble sleeping at night, go to your local video store and rent this movie.  If this doesn't put you to sleep, nothing will.I can't believe with all the wonderful people that are involved in this production that it's as bad as it is.  It makes the biggest sin a movie can make &#150; to be bored while watching it.  Never at anytime do you identify or feel for the characters.  I simply watched the film passively and kept wondering when it was going to conclude.  I'm glad I didn't see it in the theatre because I would not have been able to stay through to the ending credits.  At least with video you can read a magazine and occasionally look up at the TV.  This, I'm sorry to say, was what I did while this film was running.  "},{"Title":"6 on a scale of 10","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This movie had the feel of a typical Harrison Ford movie. It was slick and tried hard to be full of tension. However, there were some HUGE differences.To put it simply, it was boring. And, it was too long. Boring + Too Long Bad Experience. Fortunately, I didn't pay a cent for it. Well, it was on HBO and I pay for that, but I had it on while I worked at the computer so at least I didn't waste time on it.The other major problem I had with the movie was that Ford's character was WAY too obsessed with finding out why his wife was having an affair with someone else. Who? When? Why? Give it up. She's dead! His obsession went way overboard as far as stalking the widow of his wife's lover.Now for the bad part. The widow hates him. She never wants to see him again. She threatens to call the cops on him. And, then all of the sudden, she suddenly likes him. Nearly out of the clear blue sky, they are lovers. WEAK, WEAK, WEAK.Don't waste your time even if it is at 200AM in the morning on HBO while your working at the computer! "},{"Title":"Emotionally Charged Character Study","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  	Coping with the loss of a spouse is, of course, a traumatic experience; but what would it be like to have to deal with such grief, only to have it exacerbated by the revelation that your husband / wife was having an affair?  Such is the situation for two people in `Random Hearts,' a drama that explores pain and suffering, despair and obsession, and the sense of isolation and need that overcomes Dutch Van Den Broeck (Harrison Ford) and Kay Chandler (Kristin Scott Thomas) in the wake of a tragic plane crash that claims, respectively, his wife and her husband.  Director Sydney Pollack weaves an intricate story that begins with the hint of the indiscretion, is followed closely by the tragedy, then quickly escalates into the discovery of the affair by Van Den Broeck, who subsequently locates and contacts Chandler. 	In what is essentially a character study of how differently the parties involved respond to their grief, and how the knowledge of the infidelity effects them individually, Pollack very deliberately peals away the layers of emotion until the feelings of each are laid bare and exposed.  Ultimately it becomes the story of their relationship; of the intimate bond formed between these total strangers who share this dark secret foisted upon them in such an unseemly manner.  He is a cop; not only a cop, but an internal affairs cop in Washington, D.C.  It's his job to observe people and to notice situations, to know when something is out of place or just not right.  Yet his own wife was having an affair, and he didn't have a clue; and in dealing with his emotions, in sorting it all out, he becomes obsessed with finding out everything.  Where did they meet, when and how; how long had it been going on?  Who was he, did they have a `place' of their own.  Where were they going on that fateful day?  Adamant, he pushes himself to find the answers, while Kay Chandler, a congresswoman up for reelection, wants nothing to do with it.  Dealing with it in her own way, she opts to pursue a more immediate form of closure on her own, choosing to suppress her feelings while declining Van Den Broeck's attempts to include her in his incessant investigation.  Unlike him, to deal with the pain and confusion, she has to move on.  She doesn't want to know anything about the affair between her husband and his wife, and not because she feels any less than he does; it's simply a matter of doing what she must to cope, just as he is.  The difference  He has to know; she must not.   	Ford does a more than capable job with an emotionally charged, challenging role, using just enough restraint to make the obsession into which he's channeled his feelings effective, keeping the tone subtle rather than overblown and demonstrative.  Scott Thomas is excellent as well, externalizing the predominately internal turmoil she is experiencing with clarity and precision.  She succinctly conveys the depth of her emotions, placing it all just above the surface so that it leaves you with a strong sense of what is really raging just beneath.  There's a definite connection established between Ford and Scott Thomas, but no real chemistry; but then again, this isn't a romantic love story, but a story of two people at loose ends helping one another cope with unique, unfathomable circumstances.  The excellent supporting cast includes Charles Dutton (Alcee), Bonnie Hunt (Wendy), Dennis Haysbert (Beaufort), Sydney Pollack (Carl), Richard Jenkins (Truman), Paul Guilfoyle (Dick), Peter Coyote (Cullen), Susanna Thompson (Peyton) and Dylan Baker (Richard).  `Random Hearts' is a somber film that demonstrates just how vulnerable we all are, and how life as we know it can change in an instant; a solid drama expertly delivered by Pollack and an outstanding cast that leaves the indelible impression that no matter what you think you know, the human heart will forever remain a mystery to us all.  I rate this one 8/10.           	 "}{"Title":"Wake Me Up When it's Over ZZZZZZZ","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Harrison Ford fans who go to this movie expecting to see a re-run of his success in films like &#145;Witness' or &#145;Patriot Games' are in for a big disappointment.Dreary doesn't begin to describe it.   For the first 20 minutes the only thing I found captivating about this movie was the bizarre hairstyle adopted by the hero.  Looking like an ageing toilet brush, HF wandered around with a bemused expression that gave the appearance of someone who wished he were somewhere else.  A feeling shared by most of the audience.Once the novelty of HF's hair wore off there was little to relieve the tedium.  The only bright spot, if it could be called that, is the subplot involving HF's investigation as an internal affairs cop.  But the audience is soon slumping back over their popcorn when the film returns to the slow moving romance which is the films main narrative.Kristin Scott Thomas, star of the relatively pacey &#145;The English Patient', does as well as she can with the material available but even she gets bored long before the end.  I certainly felt relief when the credits started to roll.  Definitely one to miss.  "},{"Title":"Well, never again. No story, no acting... makes u bored.","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Not much to say. Boring and awful. I just don't really understand how Harrison Ford could ever accept this role. Also, I have to tell that in my opinion his act wasn't that great at all. I am sure most of the people got to see this movie because of Harrison Ford. "},{"Title":"Good performance, deep feelings but a few lengths - and mikes!","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  At first, I was thrilled with the tragic story and, of course, with Harrison Ford's performance. He *is* one of the best actors! But later the film had its lengths - a litte bit of the joe black bore. Alas, there was no other secret to reveal than the illegitimate relationship. They searched for what they never could find - the real thoughts and feelings of their deceased partners. And no chance to discover the Why.Overall, I was quite entertained, only the last third of the film could have been told faster. But why did nobody in the cutting room see the microphones at the top of the screen? I did not watch out for them and saw them three times. This is a big blooper that should not happen to a director who has won so many Oscars.Peter Kanzow, Bonn, Germany "},{"Title":"It's a film to make you ponder but not a movie to entertain you.","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Many people say this film is boring, and the story drags on.  The reason is that th lagging time is for people to become the character of Ford or the character of Thomas, and ask yourself how you are going to feel if you are in the same situation after losing your dear spouse, you just learn he or she cheated on you while you thought you had a great marriage.Throughout the movie, Ford investigates how his wife was having an affair with Thomas's husband(why? I guess curiosity is a comman flaw).  He also develops a close relationship with Thomas's character(what kind of relationship?  Two lonely man and woman comes together.  You figure out the rest)I give it a 8 for the psychological turmoil that goes on in characters' minds.  Yet, it's not good enough to make it 10 since the tension is not well built.  Audience has to spend some brain power before making the connections.  If you don't like think about things when you are watching a movie, or wished to be entertained, this is not the movie for you. "},{"Title":"I love Harrison, but this movie...","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I'm a huge Harrison Ford fan. SO when I heard about this movie, I got totally psyched. The trailer looked really good, but unfortunately the movie was extremely boring. Ford and Thomas have good screen chemistry, but that doesn't save the movie. The plot was slow It was almost as if there were vital parts taken out, so there were gaps in the story line. There is a very annoying trumpet playing in the background through out the entire movie, and the ending is throughly disappointing. Harrison Ford delivers a new type of role successfully, but in a boring movie. It was very big let down. "},{"Title":"EXTREME DISCOMFORT","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Let me start off by saying that this is no normal review. I walked out of this so-called film about 1 hour and 40 minutes into it, so no one can blame me for not giving RANDOM HEARTS a fair chance. Yes, this may seem like a chick-flick, but in reality, it's one of those rare unwatchable-flicks. The idea behind RANDOM HEARTS sounds reasonably interesting, but how it's carried out here is horrendous. I never had a single spark of empathy for either of the main characters, and both performances (from what I saw) are lifeless. Someone along the line must have confused understated with terminally bland. WHY OH WHY did Harrison Ford appear in this....thing!? Did he except the part while drunk? Did he get paid a boatload of cash and rare jewels? Did someone zap that part of his brain which helps him make the right decisions? (don't count on me to gain medical info.)Anyway, from the pointless garbage that I watched, I was irritated by the UNBEARABLY SLOW dialouge. Many of those long pauses could've be chopped off to significantly trim the running time, but they must have been there for some compelling reason. Compelling? Yeah they'll compel you to throw rotten fruit at the screen and be ejected from the theater, I'll bet that's the reason. Worse, some dramatic sequences come close to having a daytime TV feel. AAAAARRRRGGGGGHHH!!!! Silly melodrama! It's too much, I can't bear the pain!     Ok, I think I've run out of extreme insults now. Well, the bottom line is, I've reviewed RANDOM HEARTS on the portion I saw, and I'll conclude by saying DO NOT WASTE YOUR TIME AND MONEY! Think of any alternative to seeing this....thing. Don't email me (SlidSnake6@aol.com) and ask for my sympathy if you decide to hurl objects at the screen or burn the projector. Well, there is one way to sit through this, and that's only if you love to be in the multiplex without caring about the quality of the product on screen. Sure, you can laugh and make fun of the movie the entire time, but really, wouldn't you rather do something constructive?  "},{"Title":"Save yourself some money and time","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Harrison Ford may have won a lifetime achievement award but certainly not for this performance.  Boy, what a boring and a very implausible story. This story hasn't got any of the following ingredients humour, excitement,grief, or a gripping storyline. You might wonder what it does have... well, actually nothing. It also was like if half of the dialogues were left out, no sensible thing at all was said.    And why does Sydney Pollack have act in his own movie? He should have focussed on directing, now neither one of them is any good. "},{"Title":"More than it seems","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I have been staggered by the predominantly negative comments about this film. But then, I guess I didn't go along expecting a thriller as many seem to have.  It certainly wasn't marketed as such in Australia.  I guess I went because I like Kristin Scott Thomas's acting; action man Harrison Ford has not been a major drawcard for me in the past.  And I wasn't disappointed.Kristin brings the experience of living through the sadness of her own childhood losses as a gift for all of us to share in her acting - as a doctor I found her stunned response as Kay to her husband's death and subsequently her discovery of his infidelity so absolutely real. I thought from an acting point of view this was one of her best films. Other examples included the way she conveyed her surprise at herself in getting involved with Dutch - both in the car and in the cottage in the woods.  The comments some have made about the indecency of the haste of their relationship seemed to me to miss the point completely.I guess my wife and I also found the detail of the subplot involving Dutch a bit longwinded - until one started to ask the question why it was included. It occurred to me today driving around thinking about it that it was to highlight the incongruity and improbability of a relationship between Kay and Dutch ever occurring under normal circumstances.  Here she was, an upper middle class congressperson about as far removed from the sleazy world of physical violence and betrayal that was Dutch's daily existence as one could imagine.  And then, through death and betrayal, they were brought together into a relationship of mutual need.  It said a  lot about the way in which shared pain can unite even the most improbable partners - and yet this seems to have passed most reviewers by.  The reality of this incongruity, the different way in which it was appreciated by Kay and Dutch in the closing moments of the film was a perceptive insight into differences in male and female psyches.I think you needed to be in mid-life or later to really appreciate this film - and for many in that age group, the theme could have been quite threatening - so as a box office hit it is likely to miss out with both the young and many in their 40s.The sloppy camera work (mike booms appearing on at least 2 occasions) was technically the worst thing about it.As for Kay's accent - well I'm an orstraylian and it seemed near enough to the real thing for me! "},{"Title":"It seems as though I'm going against the tide here, but I liked it!","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Could be due to the fact that I love cerebral films!I actually went into this film with no expectations other than it would be enjoyable to examine the pairing of Kristin Scott Thomas (my favorite actress) and Harrison Ford (one of my favorite actors).  I didn't expect to see a lot of action.  I didn't expect to see a huge mystery.  I didn't expect to see a lot of intrigue.  I believe that this was the right thing to do, because I wasn't raising the bar before I saw what was offered.What I saw was something of an intellectual examination of grief, acceptance and renewal.  The film constantly asked questions that had no set answers - I think this was part of the allure for me.  I was very interested in the characters and the different ways they approached the same loss - although it wasn't the same for them, individually.Kay was content in her marriage.  Not delirious, not ecstatic -- content.  She'd had an inkling that Cullen had possibly had affairs here and there, but her personal background (upper middle class Eastern) and her profession (politics) were such that you just don't discuss things like that, or even admit them to yourself out loud - hence, she was able to recover a bit more quickly than Dutch.  She used this tragedy to re-evaluate her life and re-determine what was important.  I believe she chose happiness.Dutch was happy in his marriage.  As far as he knew, things were great.  He was attentive and he spent time with his wife and he saw no signs of discontent within her.  The added factor to this was his profession.  His job is to know when people are lying to him.  His inability to accept the betrayal was compounded by the fact that also couldn't accept that he didn't know what was going on right under his nose - in his own home.  Therefore, it took him a lot longer to let go.I thought the performances by both actors were wonderful. I thought it was a very nice change of pace for Ford - it sort of reminded me of his Regarding Henry role.  And, I haven't yet seen a bad performance out of Scott Thomas in 13 years of following her career - I think she's very much underrated and I think she achieved much with this performance.  As her character lets go, she just gets more and more radiant throughout the film and her acting is just that much more powerful.I think that, more than anything, the general public wasn't exactly ready for such an introspective film and so it may read as boring.  I think it's a crime, because there are a lot of messages and lessons within the film that are extremely beneficial. "},{"Title":"Slooooooooooowwwwww","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I found Random Hearts to be slow and plodding. Even worse, the relationship between the characters played by Harrison Ford and Kristin Scott Thomas was completely sparkless. My discontent is measured by the fact that every time I thought the movie was being wrapped up, there was more yet to come. "}{"Title":"the worst Harrison Ford movie I have seen!!avoid this movie, it sucks,BORING!!!","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  To begin with , they should of stuck to either the election story or the cop story!!It was too long , boring and I hated it!!I like Ford, he is one of my favorite actors!He was better in movies likeAir Force One,Witness,any Tom Clancy movie,The Star Wars movie, Presummed Innocent to name a few better movies! This movie is very long , boring and even put me to sleep!!It was like the director(who also stars in this boring movie as well!) made the boring !The director should of stuck to one story or the other!Also if both people are grieving over the loss of their loved relatives, where are the emotions involved in this stuggle we all face with death?I will not see this movie again , because it too long , dull and not even worth a matinee!!Avoid this movie!!By judging I 'm willing to bet it flops opening weekend!!! "},{"Title":"Instead, please see another movie that you wached before","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Nonsense story(if there is),boring and finally really bad soundtrack. Although I love Harrison Ford, I coudn't stand any minute of this movie, and what was Dave Grusin doing while he was scoring? To feel better me and my friends sneaked in to Sixth Sense for 20 minutes after this movie. "},{"Title":"Random Hearts/ Dreary Drivel","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This thing should be called, Droopy and Grumpy Go to Florida (and Have an Assy Affair). First off, Droopy is incredibly stupid, for no other reason than she HAS to be to advance this dreary plot. The first clue is that she allows Grumpy, who is also scary and creepy, into her life in the first place, after he inappropriately shows up at her philandering husband's funeral and then turns up again at her home and tries to manipulate her to obsess, like he does, about finding out details of their dead spouse's affair (both of whom just died in a plane crash),. Which he does in a weirdly sinister manner, NEVER offering her a sound reason. At this point anyone else would pack up and move, FAST; no goodbyes or forwarding address. Not Droopy. She joins him in Florida, where the plane went down, to help Grumpy dig for information about the ill-fated pair. Despite the brazen stupidity, here, the movie might have improved 10 fold, if there was some twist in the relationship of the the dead spouses -- espionage, embezzlement ANYTHING, thus making it his keen detective instincts (Did I mention he was a detective?) that is fueling his quest for answers-- or even if Grumpy had just been a deluded psychopath, (which is what he seemed to be) instead of just annoyingly obsessive. In fact the relationship between the two is so idiotic, I thought there HAD to be a twist, so I kept waiting for the punch line. No such luck! This incredulous, painfully dull romance was SUPPOSED to be front and center. Adding to the mess, was the script, which was tortuously (sometimes laughably) repetitive. Anyway I think Pollack does not distinguish well between emotional depth AND scary, creep and dreary. Either that or Ford doesn't. Either way no one should have to suffer this hard for someone else's art. Skip this one. "},{"Title":"What a Waste","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Read all the bad reviews and believe them. This movie is horrible. The sub-plots are irrelevant. The cutting/editing is annoying and poorly done. KST has almost no emotion. Did she not get the memo Honey Your Husband is Dead, Please Cry at Least Once?And it goes out of its way to show that Harrison Ford is a friend to impoverished black people.Sydney Pollack is annoying and actually has the film cut to HIM when KST finds out her husband is dead and he steals the scene. And the daughter figures it all out by herself. How utterly ridiculous.Don't waste your time unless you want to learn from others mistakes.  "},{"Title":"Kept telling myself patient, patient, must be something good there, but...","Date":"7 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Pollack, Ford and Scott Thomas, a guaranteed casting but disastrously, which part has gone wrong? Is it because all the money has gone to the hands of the big stars so little was left for the screenplay writing, plot design and editing? Why? Y x N times.I held high hope when renting this one and only found myself plunging into a bottomless abyss. Long-winded foreplay, predicted storyline, Ford's numb face, (I suspect that he got a problem with his face muscle. Well, I am not a big fan of his, don't follow his news, maybe I am correct. Oh, incidentally, one thing interesting that both Ford's ex-wife got MM initials.) disconnected plots, unrelated small episodes, clumsy entry of new characters, unconvincing romance, absurd sexual closeness, stale weak script lines, yuck. It is a good story telling the feeling of a man (Ford) and a woman (Thomas) whose spouses had affair with each other, and the sinned couple was killed in an air crash together. How Ford pried into the truth of his dead wife's betrayal, how hard Thomas tried to protect her daughter and her career SHOULD HAVE BEEN dealt with subtlety but what I got is only a surface but not 3-D illustration.The director and the editor failed to join, to knit the three lines together, 1) their spouses' affair plus the air crash, 2) Ford's investigation of a cop, 3) Thomas's running for Congress, they are scattered in a random manner! The movie is strenuously shored up by good acting of the small parts and Thomas, Ford's heart was at random when he was doing this project. Don't waste such a good story, a re-make is most desirablei) Keep Thomas as Kay Chandler, Geena Davis or Diane Lane also good ii) Richard Gere, Bruce Willis, Ed Harris, Alan Rickman are also possible and appropriate iii) Kick the director out to the top of Pyramid in Cairo! John McTiernan, Andrew Davis, David Fincher, Jonathan Demme or maybe even John Woo will all do far far far much better!!Anyway, who dare try? "},{"Title":"Full of Feeling but too long","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is not my genre of film I and my wife like. I thought if Harrison Ford plays the main part it could be a good film. In fact he and Kirstin Scott Thomas delivered a great performance. But the story was too long and there was no suspense. I liked the first hour but the last part could have been cut. If you like romantic and sentimental films watch this but if not avoid it. I liked especially the under water shootings from the plane crash. 5/10.  "},{"Title":"Awful, awful, AWFUL!","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  My husband and I rented this movie. We settled down to watch what we thought would be another excellent performance from Harrison Ford.We kept waiting and waiting for some action, and waiting and waiting for a connection of some sort to the characters. It never happened, much to our dismay. The plot was uninteresting, the characters were not likeable, and even the film editing was horrid. During a kissing scene at the cabin Harrison Ford was talking to Kristin Scott Thomas one instant, slightly turning his head, and in the next frame they were in the middle of a heavy kiss. All I can say is that we were terribly disappointed, and very, VERY glad for the movie to end! "},{"Title":"Avanti Revisited","Date":"8 September 2012","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Okay, Billy Wilder got their first with Avanti in which Jack Lemmon and Juliette Mills journey to Ischia to claim the respective bodies of his father and her mother who have been killed in a road accident, only to discover that they have been meeting on the island for years clandestinely. They start out as antagonists and end up in the sack, natch. Here Sydney Pollack puts a little spin on it inasmuch as Ford and Scott Thomas are not on a vacation island thousands of miles from home when - in this case - their spouses rather than parents - fail to survive a plane crash. Pollack also allows us to see both Ford and Scott Thomas at work whereas Lemmon on Mills had left their day jobs behind. Still there are enough similarities for plagiarism to rear its ugly head, so what else is knew. This eluded me on release and I found a Russian version in a Thrift Shop, recognized Scott Thomas on the box, know she always delivers so took it home. I was pleasantly surprised, especially after reading the first few pans here on IMDb. Scott Thomas was good as ever and a tad warmer than she often plays and works well with Ford who probably was, as someone remarked, a touch old for the role. Overall I enjoyed it and may well give it another whirl in a year or so. "},{"Title":"A Movie In Search of a Pulse . . .","Date":"26 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Sometimes when you get a chance to see the previews for a movie, you learn more about the story than the characters even know. Worse, you find yourself so far ahead of them that you grow impatient while waiting for them to catch up. They call this situation 'dramatic irony.' More than 30 minutes elapse in Random Hearts before Harrison Ford and Kristin Scott Thomas realize that their respective spouses have not only died in a tragic plane crash, but that they also were cheating on them. Sadly, Oscar-winning director Sydney Pollack of Out of Africa and his scenarists&#151;Kurt Luedtke and Daryl Ponicsan--belabor the inevitable, trivialize adultery, and pad the action with two obligatory subplots that interfere with the main romance.Although Warren Adler's novel served as the source material for Random Hearts, this contemporary tale of ill-fated, middle-aged lovers draws inspiration from Sir David Lean's classic, 1945, rainy day soaper Brief Encounter. Unlike Lean's legendary weepie, Random Hearts whirls aimlessly in circles but never seems to go anywhere, chiseling its audience out of any kind of emotional closure with its humdrum ending. Ford and Thomas both radiate celestial Hollywood star power, but their combined wattage cannot energize this comatose two-hour and 13-minute tearjerker.Cast as a District of Columbia cop assigned to Internal Affairs, Ford is appropriately tight-lipped and believably gruff as Sergeant Dutch Van Den Broeck. They call me Dutch&#151;it's easier, he likes to tell people. Dutch busts bad cops, but racking up convictions to earn a long overdue promotion to lieutenant is not his style. He is as content as a police sergeant as he is secure in his marriage to his pretty wife Peyton (Susan Thompson of Ghosts of Mississippi), a catalog designer for Saks Fifth Avenue. Sadly, Dutch lives in a fool's paradise, and the revelations from the plane crash shatter him. Ford is credible as the cuckolded cop, but his short, bristly hairstyle and a gold stud in his ear lobe contradict his blue-collar sensibilities.Thomas plays Kay Chandler, a fastidious, New Hampshire, Republican congresswoman running for reelection against a billionaire opponent with few scruples. Married to well-heeled Washington attorney Cullen (Peter Coyote in a cameo role), Kay adores her 15-year old daughter Jessica (Kate Mara). Obviously, a scandal is the last thing that Kay needs during her re-election bid. When she discovers what her philandering husband has been doing, she keeps the truth from her daughter&#151;and tries to deny it herself. If they find out about your wife, it's gossip, Kay tells Dutch. If they find out about my husband, it's in the newspapers.The recurring question that haunts the characters in the Kurt Out of Africa Luedtke & Daryl The Last Detail Ponicsan screenplay is How deeply can we trust our partners as well as ourselves? The drama in Random Hearts grows out of the troubled relationship that evolved when Dutch shows up at her apartment one day with a series of questions about Cullen. Dutch cannot believe that his wife cheated on him. Obsessively, he must turn over every rock in his search for the truth. Dutch figures Kay must be just as curious. They have a fling while he investigates the untimely death of their spouses. Kay fears Dutch because he cannot leave well enough alone, and the sense of betrayal that Dutch feels threatens his sanity.The people that made Random Hearts had the right idea. Like most classic love stories, the characters share little in common except for their grief and betrayal, and they clash when they first collide. Diametrical opposites always attract in this genre, but the coupling of Kay and Dutch seems more like a screenwriter's conceit than a credible liaison. These characters never win our sympathy because they are too self-absorbed to see what is really happening around them. Further, Dutch and Kay aren't as interesting as their adulterous spouses. You know that a movie is in trouble, too, when forty-five minutes pass before its main characters get together. Luedtke and Ponicsan furnish Ford and Thomas with dialogue that verges on the ridiculous.At one point, before they hop into the sack, Kay says to Dutch I'm not going to make small talk so there won't be any junk between us. Later, Kay observes about herself Nobody knows who I am anymore. While Random Hearts refuses to condone adultery, its sentiments about extramarital affairs seems capricious. During a conversation with one of his late wife's colleagues, Dutch listens as the woman explains how she accidentally caught her own erring husband in bed with another woman. Instead of exposing them, she felt discretion was the better part of fidelity and fled. I kept my mouth shut and I never went home again without calling first, she states.Some of the late Stanley Kubrick must have rubbed off on Pollack. Pollack, if you recall, acted in Kubrick's final film Eyes Wide Shut. Kubrick was known for slowly paced epics. Similarly, Pollack takes great pains to draw out Random Hearts with long, dramatic pauses. The two subplots involving a crooked cop that Dutch is investigating and Kay's reelection campaign add nothing other than an obligatory shoot-out and Pollack himself as a spin doctor moderating Kay's election.Random Hearts emerges as a gorgeous looking but glum melodrama that creeps along with agonizing solemnity before it arbitrarily fades out on a hollow note. Despite its gripping premise and its polished craftsmanship, Random Hearts is still a mopey love story in search of a pulse. "},{"Title":"Harrison Ford & Kristin Thomas were Outstanding!","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"                       This film captured my interest from the very beginning to the end, I was spellbound by the shock these two individuals went through after finding out about their spouses AFFAIRS!, which broke their hearts.  Harrison Ford ( Sergeant Van De Broeck,'Dutch'),What Lies Beneath 2000, was an Internal Affairs cop who had to find out just WHY his wife had an affair with another man, after she just made love to him only hours before she visited her other lover.  Kristin Scott Thomas (Kay Chandler),Up At The Villa,2000, was into politics and was shocked by the fact her husband had affairs with several woman, and had a secret love nest apartment.  There is a heated front seat car scene which steams up the windshield with Dutch & Kay trying to comfort each other and at the same time GETTING BACK at their cheating spouses!   If you look close, you will see Paul Guilfoyle(Dick Montoya),CSI TV Las Vegas as a detective, what else!, helping out with the body identifications!   If you love these two actors, this is the film for you! "}{"Title":"Great Actors, Great Movie","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This was a very good movie.  It really nailed the intricacies of betrayal. If you like slow, deep love stories, then this one is for you.  Harrison Ford, as always, gave a complex and stirring performance and I was enthralled by Kristin Scott Thomas, who I had never seen before. "},{"Title":"A low point?","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I can't profess to having seen all of Sydney Pollacks directing ventures, but surely this had to be a low point. This also has to be said of the two principals, Kristin Scott-Thomas and Harrison Ford, both of whom I usually enjoy. I was so tempted to walk out and scream at Ford's Dutch..oh for god sake get over it. This surely has to be the most boring film of 1999. Pollack, whatever possessed you to get involved? Ford, I'm sure you were as keen as I would be to appear opposite Scott-Thomas, but in this? One out of ten points simply for the use of soft focus. They made Ford appear ten years younger !!! and he surely needs it these days. "},{"Title":"Dreadful doesn't say it all","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This was a truly awful film - bad premise, script, acting. A film with uninteresting characters who have nothing to say or do. Why should we care about them? Why are they interested in each other? Are they? The film trudges on senselessly for about 1.5 hours too long. Absolutely everything flopped. I never expected H. Ford to pick such a bomb. Ever since I saw KST in Four Weddings and English Patient I've been waiting for something special from her - in vain. Their last meeting where he suggests they go to a movie someday prompted half the audience to blurt out, as if in chorus - Just be sure not to go to this turkey! My recommendation is to steer clear of this one and, if you had the misfortune of sitting through, watch Star Wars (or Raiders) and English Patient five times each to get the bad taste out of your mouth. Yeeeeccchhh!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Kristin Scott Thomas Looks A Bit Blank -- Can't Blame Her Either!","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Nothing could be more appealing than the idea of a good love story featuring Kristin Scott Thomas and Harrison Ford. The cool, refined English beauty and the warm-blooded American male -- what could possibly be more lovely? Well, this is not that movie. Right away they ruin it by casting Kristin Scott Thomas as an American Congresswoman. That's like casting Hugh Grant as Babe Ruth. Or Colin Firth as Al Capone. Kristin Scott Thomas is exactly the sort of woman you don't picture shaking hands with greasy ex-junkies in filthy slums, or squeezing into smelly crowds and kissing babies. She would have been far better cast as the English born widow of an aristocratic Senator, the kind who belongs to the hunt club and goes to flower shows but has no idea how the other half lives.Then there's Harrison Ford as a regular guy cop. Certainly he's tough enough for the role. But the idea that he's going to romance this stunning high society beauty is a bit hard to swallow. Why couldn't he have been, say, a tough but wealthy reform politician with blue-collar roots who inherits Kristin's late husband's Senate seat? The two of them are initially quite cool to each other, but for duty's sake Kristin is cordial to him, and he in return starts showing her some of the rawer side of life -- things her husband sheltered her from. Her political awakening coincides with the jolting passion of a newer, more blue collar, lover -- one who appreciates her polish and refinement far more than her aristocratic husband. Now that's a love story! Instead of that, though, you get a blank, meaningless thriller where the action drags and nothing happens. Well, there is one ghetto style drive by scene where Harrison almost gets killed, but it's so abrupt and unexplained it's really more like welcome comic relief.The sky is always gray in this movie, and our refined, lovely Kristin always looks a little chilled. When she's supposed to be dreaming of passion, she looks more like she's dreaming of a wool blanket and a cup of tea! She also looks a bit sleepy most of the time, like she'd really rather be napping in the bed than screwing Harrison Ford.All things considered, I'd say you can't blame her. "},{"Title":"Random Clichs.","Date":"1 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Random Hearts (1999) Dir Sydney Pollack / Cast Harrison Ford, Kristen Scott Thomas, Charles S. Dutton, Bonnie Hunt, Dennis Haysbert Advertised as a disaster film, romance, suspense, and drama. It fails on all accounts. It regards the reality of people coming together through circumstances beyond their control. Harrison Ford stars as a cop whose wife died in a plane crash. Kristen Scott Thomas plays a congresswoman whose husband died in the same crash. Could they have been having an affair? Are trees green in summer? It will surprise no one when they become romantically linked. Even their first sexual encounter in a car seems horribly clich. Director Sidney Pollack does his best but the production looks drab. He previously directed Ford in Sabrina but this hardly matches his work in films such as Absence of Malice and Tootsie. Apparently Ford being a major box office draw isn't working for Pollack. Perhaps he should cast him in an action film, since he generally draws in those. Ford and Thomas cannot save this dreary film and seem to be coasting on star power only. Charles S. Dutton and Bonnie Hunt appear in flat supporting roles. Part of the problem is that the marketing doesn't know what the film is. The romance is bland at best and the thriller elements are a blink and miss variety. Cheap film with a cheap payoff only interested in a sigh from the audience. Many will sigh from impatience. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"quite possibly one of the best 15% fresh on rotten tomatoes movies of all time","Date":"6 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Without actually having read any of the reviews (except Ebert's), I think I can understand why it would rate so low - it fails as a movie. Kind of. It makes a half-hearted attempt to have a plot and to have plot mechanics and so on. And just doesn't care at all about any of that stuff, and eventually it all just fades away to nothing. Because the filmmakers don't care at all about the cop's case or his career, any more than they care about the congresswoman's career or her race for re- election, or her relationship with her daughter, or even how each of these people grieves over the loss of their spouses or the betrayal. No, the movie's not about any of that, yet that takes up a good portion of it - so it makes sense that a lot of people would go thumbs down on this.And yet - the movie is really good, if you focus just on what the movie itself cared about in itself, and what it was about at heart. And that is, simply, the two leads, and their relationship. And that's it. The rest of the movie doesn't matter at all to the people making it. But that's OK, because - Ford and Scott Thomas are amazing in this. And have amazing chemistry. And are amazingly written. We love the relationship, we really love the two people in it. We want them to end up together (I won't say if they do or not). Badly. And all the rest is just stuff to justify getting them from point A to point B and having the relationship happen and take the steps it needs to take - and that INCLUDES the entire 'premise' of the film itself, including the plane crash and the situation that opens it. So. As I say, I can see why this would get a fail grade. But it's so involving and the good in it is so good - we care so much about what the filmmakers cared about in the movie - that I can recommend it and could imagine watching it again at some point. Even if only for Kristin Scott Thomas's beautiful face with those big puppy dog eyes that are just - so open and emotional. You can fall in love with her, watching this, much moreso than in The English Patient. Her character here is extremely endearing and adorable - two words I've never used to describe any politician, fictional or otherwise. So perhaps she was miscast. But yea. A lovely woman playing a character you could imagine falling in love with (and do fall in love with, watching the movie), being hurt and having a disaster befall her, being vulnerable, and then meeting and falling for as likable and respectable and endearing a MALE performer as we've ever seen on screen. It's a recipe for success and despite the failed movie surrounding it, I think it was a success.Also of note - film features a young Kate Never Quite Famous Mara in an early role as the congresswoman's daughter. And there's a late scene of plot movement where a subplot crashes hilariously into the main story, in a way that momentarily threatened to be the most ludicrous such subplot intrusion in the history of cinema (narrowly averted, as she didn't take the bullet, thank God).Is the movie plausible, psychologically? No. It's absurd, psychologically. My OnDemand deal had Peter Weir's (brilliant) Fearless as a similar film to this. And superficially, in some plot details, yea I guess they are similar. But the films are nothing at all alike, nor are they about anything similar. The one line towards the end where Scott Thomas tells the press how the cop had been her friend, seen her thru a tough time when she needed it, how they were 'survivors' - all that rings completely hollow and doesn't match the film, which simply depicts a romance. The thing Scott Thomas is talking about at the end there would match the Rosie Perez/Jeff Bridges relationship in Fearless, which was indeed about two survivors of a tragedy using each other's company to cope (or not cope) with a trauma they'd both experienced. But this film isn't about trauma. It sidesteps all of that very quickly and is simply about a romance that, if freed from the requirements of psychological plausibility and the plot, is quite good. So. If you still are interested in seeing a nice and involving romance, despite all those many caveats - check it out. "},{"Title":"no clich","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is not boring, not at all. Normally movies with a romantic note aren't my favourite thing, but actually this one is the first movie that doesn't have the stupid classic clichs you've seen a thousand movies before. This movie really works, the acting is really really great. So what if the sub-plot is less important, it is a sub-plot afterall. The interacting between Ford and Thomas is so good , that I almost felt...I gave it a 10 , and if I could, it would be more.... "},{"Title":"How to turn a movie-of-the-week into a feature film flop","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  'Bad, boring, unnecessary....' No need to repeat other's negative reactions. Here is a perfect example of wasted resources. A miscast and wildly over-budgeted pic which should quite happily have been a made-for-TV movie but a closer look at the people behind the exploitation of the rights of the book will probably reveal a series of interlocking vested interests. Mostly of the agents 'packaging' as many of their clients into one film as they could. Sydney needed a 'people' picture with two 'A-list' actors. Harrison needed anything he could get to boost his box office. The studio screwed up with all the right names in a story with a sub-plot which as pure filler and an extraneous time-wasting distraction. Fortunately everyone got paid in advance and the distributors will cross-collateralise the loss so the bean counters sleep at night. Shannon Tweed would have made a far more exciting go of it - and been re-elected to Congress (in the story) in the process. "},{"Title":"The thing that made me fully realize how not entertaining Random Hearts was, is the fact that an hour after I watched it, I couldn't remember even seeing the film. There was little that was memorable about t","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Harrison Ford plays Dutch, a Washington D.C. Internal Affairs cop. When his wife goes down in a plane crash and he realizes that she had been having an affair, he sets out to find out why. In doing so he crosses the path of New Hampshire Representative Kay Chandler (Kristin Scott Thomas). It was her husband that was having the affair with Dutch's wife. Dutch wants to find out all he can, so he can put his mind at ease. Kay just wants to put it all behind her as quickly as possible to get on with her life. Then the two of them start to fall in love, or lust or something. And as we all know, relationships built on fear, hatred, sadness, and revenge always work out.The biggest problem with Random Hearts is that I didn't care about either of the two main characters. Neither of them were particularly likeable, and I never saw any chemistry between them. Dutch seemed to fall in love because he wanted to get back at his wife. Kay seemed to fall for Dutch, but we don't know why she fell for Dutch. There was nothing that showed why these two would care about each other, except for the fact that their spouses were having an affair. To me, that isn't reason enough to center a whole film around. So, the writer and director threw in a couple of side stories. Dutch with his investigation of another cop, and Kay with her re-election bid. Neither of these secondary stories had anything to do with anything. It was like they were thrown in there just to make the movie longer. Or because the director realized that the relationship between Dutch and Kay couldn't sustain an entire movie. Which, of course, was true. However the secondary story lines were badly done. The re-election campaign and Kay's relationship with her daughter were shown, but not played out. That story line wasn't too bad, especially compared to Dutch's secondary story. He's on the ass of this cop who has been shaking down people for money. So this cop decides to kill Dutch. In broad daylight. In a driveby shooting. In front of other people. Now c'mon. Am we supposed to really believe this would happen? And what purpose did it serve? None that I could see. Random Hearts was an unnecessary movie. The plot line wasn't strong enough to hold together a whole movie. And the secondary stories were illogical and at times just plain stupid. The only thing about this movie that was good was the fact that Harrison Ford and Kristin Scott Thomas were in it. Two fine actors, in two lousy roles. And is it just me, or did some of the music sound like it came straight from the Rocky movies?  "},{"Title":"Well produced - Good acting - but, pointless.","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The movie had been running over seven minutes - beautifully setting itself up with characters and place in time - when I realized I was still seeing the credits. The feeling of time passing but I'm not getting anywhere occurred several times during the movie.  The last time at the end. All of the actors were excellent, especially Kristin Scott Thomas, who plays a Congresswoman.  Her husband dies in an airline crash just as she is launching a new political campaign.  Harrison Ford plays 'Dutch' an underachieving Internal Affairs police officer. He figures out that his wife's life and death in the airline accident is not what he thought. This shakes him up and he becomes crazed and obsessed.  He intrudes into the Congresswoman's life to follow his craving to understand his dead wife's actions with the Congresswoman's husband.  A side line of the movie provides some action as Dutch tries to bust a rotten cop.  People do unbelievable, out of character things in this story. But, it's not really a story - with a beginning, middle and end.  It's just an event in time with no moral or conclusion.  In a word - pointless. "}{"Title":"What a shame...","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Talented actors, a great director, and an interesting premise, but unfortunately, a poorly structured script, slow pacing, and the silly dirty-cop subplot all combine to kill whatever potential this film had. You know it is a bad sign when you are coming up with alternate ways of cutting the movie while watching it!Most importantly, though, what has happened to the formerly amazing, charismatic, and compelling Harrison Ford? I've read interviews where he expresses his general lack of enthusiasm for the art of movie making (the guy admitted he's never seen Casablanca!), and IMHO this lack of enthusiasm has been written all over his work for several years now. He only makes a film every year or so, so you'd think he'd save his energy for truly interesting roles; yet he chooses to stand around in movies like this, Six Days, Seven Nights and Sabrina? He doesn't need the money (he's starred in some of the most profitable movies of all time), so why not just spare us all? I miss his wry smile, and I'd even welcome efforts to play against type. Intense and brooding is one thing, but stony and bored (and boring) is another.What was everyone involved thinking, first, when they saw the daily rushes devoid of any passion or chemistry; then, later, when the whole thing ran for over two hours? This is the kind of going-through-the-motions film making that, unfortunately, Hollywood feels the need to thrust upon us to fill all those billion-a-plexes and take up cable air-time.But it is passable as cable tv diversion, and I do just love the sound of Ford's voice, no matter what silly lines he's forced or chooses to utter!  "},{"Title":"can you say boring?","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Overlength, dull atmosphere, effortless acting, and a large dose of sheer boredom drive this box-office flop. A good premise and good actors(though they don't seem to care in this movie) are wasted on a totally unappealing script. By the finale you really don't care much about anything.  "},{"Title":"Alright","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This movie was ok.  The plot was kind of confusing, but the acting was well done.  Some of it was very boring, other parts of it are ok, and some parts are very interesting.  The films stars Harrison Ford, Kristen Scott Thomas, and David Heline Jr. and they do good jobs as leads.  But still you should only get this if you are a Harrison Ford fan.  If your not, don't even bother. "},{"Title":"bad dialogue; bad acting; - surprisingly disappointed","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Given the quality of movies such as 'Frantic' and 'The English Patient' one wonders why the likes of Harrison Ford and Kristin Scott Thomas decided to opt to make this cheesy flick. It started well enough, with an intriguing first half hour or so, and looked to be on its way to being a sort of typical Harrison Ford in 'Frantic' mode of man who loses wife/gets burned/trouble with police maybe/oh wait he is a cop! scenarios. However the movie not only ripped off one of my favs 'Frantic', (how many times can I mention that movie to make you get up and go and actually watch it) but also suffered from poor acting on the parts of these 2 good actors! As to the English actress Kristin Scott Thomas, her shoddy acting can be overlooked. But Harrison Ford - what was UP with THAT? All lines seemed totally ad-libbed, and after the first hour I found myself wondering which channel I could switch to. For whatever reason, I didn't. Yet by the time the movie was about to finish, I simply got up and left the room. 'nuf said really?  "},{"Title":"She cheated on you.  GET OVER IT!","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Well, there's two hours of my life gone...It was my fault, really.  It was my idea to rent it.  The preview made the movie look like a suspense-thriller when in fact it's just a tepid romance...and I'm simply not a very romantic chick.This movie starts out looking interesting but then quickly devolves into an uninteresting relationship between two uninteresting characters the stereotypical cop's cop and the dishwater wannabe-senator.  Even if you like romance (and I don't), the jarringly random chemistry between these two is about as exciting as tapwater.And if you're expecting action or suspense, forget it.  The thriller aspect alluded to in the preview never emerges, unless you count Dutch being a freaky, freaky little man.  About halfway through I broke and started yelling at the screen Why the hell do you care?  She's DEAD!  What do you expect to find, a diary outlining exactly why she didn't love you any more...?!  His obsession is not interesting -- it's ANNOYING.  Ms. Chandler should get away from this potential stalker as quickly as possible...but doesn't, having all the common sense of a possum on a freeway.And don't get your hopes up for the subplot about the crooked cop, either. If you think you can see where it's going...you're right.To paraphrase MST3K The presence of Harrison Ford will not alleviate the pain in any way.  I give it a four -- not bad enough for the Satellite Of Love, but not worth the tape it's recorded on.  "},{"Title":"Yikes ! Eaten Alive...","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Poor old Kristin Scott Thomas, being gobbled alive by a slobbery Harrison Ford (apparently the worst kisser in Hollywood...)! The total lack of chemistry between these two hapless characters and wooden acting make this a movie to forget.  Harrison even walks as if he has two planks of wood down his pants ! I thought that the story was totally unbelievable and just goes to show that Harrison Ford is incapable of handling non-action movie material.  As for Kristin - didn't you read the script before you said yes to the movie??? One of the most boring and lack-lustre films I've ever had the displeasure to watch....  "},{"Title":"It had Harrison Ford but not much else","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The only reason I sat and watched this movie was because Harrison Ford was in it.  I have been dissapointed with most of his romantic films(although 6 Days 7 Nights was funny).  I mostly am into him because of his action fliks like Star Wars and Indiana Jones, Fugitive, those kinds of films.  The actors were good all around in this movie though.  I like Kristin Scott Thomas.  The story just didn't flow with me though.  I didn't understand why they would hook up after such a terrible accident.  There really didn't seem to be much of a point to the whole thing. I think Sydney Pollack realized towards the end that this movie was way too long, two and a half hours, and he just decided to wrap things up.  I say that cos the story just kinda leaves you hanging wondering what if.  I don't think that's good to do in a movie unless you plan on making a sequel, which I hope they don't.  Writing in Hollywood these days is pretty much crap man, all around. "},{"Title":"Wading through treacle","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Far too long, this movie just seems like it will never end. Good idea, poorly executed, with absolutely no spark between the leading characters at all, this is a true 'put these stars / actors together and SOMETHING is bound to happen' film. Kristen sleepwalks through the film, Harrison struggles to make sense of the terrible dialogue and his character.And I know that other users loved the music, but I thought it was the most obtrusive soundtrack I've ever heard. It never lets up! Every tiny scene is crashed by vaguely jazz piano arpeggios that only serve to disturb your slumbers. "},{"Title":"What have you done, Indy?","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Certainly one of the worst celluloid wastes in the last couple of years. I'll never stop wondering what in the world Harrison Ford had to do in here... If it hadn't been for the delightful music by Dave Grusin, I wouldn't have watched the whole 2 hours of this boring trash... "},{"Title":"Is it supposed to be a thriller?","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I really like Harrison Ford but this one was BAD. On the video box it stands thriller During the whole movie I have wait for something to happen...Nothing. Its a drama a bad one, a long one, and a boring one! "}{"Title":"Don't waste your money!","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  My wife & I recently had a visit from my brother and sister in law.  We decided to have a quiet night in and watch a movie on our new DVD player. A Harrison Ford movie sounded like a good idea - after all, they're usually watchable with plenty of pace and action... aren't they?Well, not this one is appears.  Two and a quarter mind-numbingly boring hours later I was glad to see the credits (for two reasons one was that this meant that the movie was over and two was to find out who was responsible for probably the worst movie I have ever had to sit through).I'm sure that my wife & guests would have been just as pleased to have seen the credits but they had long since fallen asleep!The makers of this movie missed an important factor in producing this one It should have a point!!  How about putting something interesting between the start of the film and the end?Mr. Ford should be ashamed of himself for even taking part in this.  It's not as if he needs the money - Harrison, if you read this, try to be a little more choosy next time!This has to be a 0/10. "},{"Title":"What a disappointment!","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  3 out of 10The previews looked good. What an interesting idea, a plane crashes and two people find out that their spouses were travelling together as lovers.Good idea yes, good movie, NO.If your expecting drama, it's not there, if you're expecting romance, look elsewhere. 45 minutes into this movie, I was really wondering where it was going. I was expecting some plot twist to add some intrigue. After an hour and a half, I was expecting that the two story lines would be brought together somehow. Neither ever came.It's funny, I'm not a movie critic. I don't examine the dialogue to judge a script, but the dialogue just jumps out as really bad. I don't know how many times my wife and I looked at each other at the same time wondering how what a character just said made sense. I never turn off a movie before it's over because you never know how the ending will change or explain things.Movies like this make me think rethink that strategy. "},{"Title":"A Waste Of Film!","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I try to like all films, there's few that I will totally slam. As I have been studying film for nearly 4 years, I understand that both script writing and film making is not an easy task but Random Hearts (for me at least) was a complete and utter waste of a Sunday night on the couch...There is nothing to keep viewers interested in the plot or characters and I constantly found myself asking why this guy cares about the past of his deceased wife?Scenes drag from one to the other, and the only promise the movie did show was a brief gun shooting moment at the end, but that quickly faded.All I can say is I give credit where credit is due...and the crew who edited the preview to this one together, deserve a big round of applause - the preview shows a gripping tale, full of suspense and action, if you want that I suggest you go and see something like Vertical Limit or Arlington Road.Thank goodness for video rental, I'd be so annoyed if a payed Box Office prices for this one! "},{"Title":"I'm glad I didn't pay to see this movie or I'd ask for my money back.","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Do you ever watch a movie and it gets to a point where it's embarrassing to watch? Can the characters be that stupid, I'm thinking to myself? Especially the Congresswoman. In this election year, has she not been taking notice of how media treats personal life issues?  I usually like Harrison Ford, especially when he's playing Harrison Ford. But like in Mosquito Coast, here he plays someone who is just a little out of sync with the rest of us. Don't get me wrong, the acting all around was pretty good. The scenery was good (D.C. points of interest). But the storyline and dialogue! Send them back to film school. Please!    "},{"Title":"The old Hollywood story a great idea turned into a bad film","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" **GRADE D/ 33**You have sex with your wife in the morning and both of you leave the house later for work. You do your job (arrest people, in this case), drink a beer at the bar and decide to call your wife. She left a message on the machine, saying that she had to go into a trip with her agency. The TV is showing a plane crash, and your wife may have taken the plane. Her name is not on the list, but you don't have any idea of what happened to her. You go to her job place, make questions about her trip and find out that she didn't travel for job. You know that she was on that plane, but one idea comes to your mind she was cheating you with another man. You have mixed feelings, of sadness and hate, and finally finds out that she was traveling with another name, with another man sit by her side. The man is the husband of a famous politician, who is on her campaign to the congress. You meet each other and then the situation gets even worse, right? Unfortunately not.RANDOM HEARTS does the impossible turn all those great ideas and an interesting set up into a bad film. Not just bad, but also dull, monotonous, turtle-paced and boring. It lasts 2 hours and 10 minutes, but this running time seems an eternity. I'll compare this with a common situation on the big cities you wait for a bus at the bus stop. You wait, wait, but it never comes. At one moment, you just give up. RANDOM HEARTS is this bus. It's distant, distant, and never shows why it was made. There is not a real climax, unless you consider that Harrison Ford taking a shot and then recovering is a climax. I put the spoiler warning on the beginning, because it is needed on the IMDb and I respect it. But in a film like RANDOM HEARTS telling the end is not spoiling, because nothing happens.Director Sidney Pollack, who has a supporting role on the picture, doesn't show the value of the Oscar he won for OUT OF AFRICA. I never loved that film, but it is certainly much better than RANDOM HEARTS. Here he uses a very slow pace to develop the characters slowly and get into their feelings, but he never succeeds. The film has a big problem it is emotionally distant. The first half is interesting and even a little mysterious and intriguing. But the second half, when we should expect something even better, it is almost unbearable. Sentimental, dull, empty. Maybe this emptiness of the characters is not really an emptiness. I think it's because they are distant and uninteresting, and the leading actors may be the blamed for that. Some critics said that Harrison Ford and Kristin Scott Thomas saved the film, but in my opinion it's just the opposite. Ford has one of his worst performances as Dutch. He doesn't show emotions and has a face of eternal bad mood. Thomas is sometimes irritating as Kay. She is a good actress, but her character is bland. A pity. After a supporting role in the intelligent English comedy FOUR WEDDINGS AND A FUNERAL and an Oscar nod for the 9 Academy Award winner THE English PATIENT, Ms. Thomas took the same way that stars once Oscar nominated or even Oscar winner (Marisa Tomei, Mira Sorvino, Nicolas Cage, just to name a few recent ones) did. The annoying melodrama THE HORSE WHISPERER (with a story similar to RANDOM HEARTS) proved that she took the very wrong way. And this film proves that again. At least she doesn't have the Academy Award at home to increase her decadence.RANDOM HEARTS has more problems, especially a terrible sub-plot about murder, which Ford investigates. Much of this could have been cut at the editing room, so that it would be a shorter film.I do not recommend the show, but give it a 44 out of 100 and a D+, because the beginning was interesting and the film itself is not what I would call unwatchable. But watching it is a waste of time, more than money. "},{"Title":"Random Hearts","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Yesterday I saw the film Random Hearts, I had some great expectations, my favorite actor Harrison Ford had one of the main parts. I have read the book Random Hearts, and I liked it very much. The film was a great disappointment, it did not tell us much about the real story, the only similarity with the book was the name of the characters. I didnt recognise Harrison Ford, hes usually very good and seems to like what hes doing, not in this movie. "},{"Title":"Old-fashioned Sidney Pollack movie","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is a disappointing movie.  A cast with Harrison Ford and Kristin Scott Thomas should offer the spectator much more than this. Director Sidney Pollack sticks to his old style (1)  a description of the relationship (tensions, care) of a man and a woman who get to know each other. (2) Playing a part in his own movie.  It reminded me strongly of his 70ies and 80ies movies.  Harrison Ford makes the same sorrowful faces he has already used in 'Frantic'. Moreover, the film clearly lasts too long.  Superfluous scenes in airports, parks, hotel lobbies, etc. make the central theme of the film (the discovery of the hidden past of their partners) less interesting.This kind of slow cinema may have worked well in the 1970ies but now it seems dated and uninspired. "},{"Title":"Not good...not bad...just a film","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Well, this is interesting I have rarely seen a film that makes such a big fuss about almost nothing. I can understand the point of the film, actually, but it really never manages to explain it. The point is, life is strange, but making a film so predictable just contradicts the whole meaning if it.The acting, well... I suppose it was all right at some points, Harrison Ford is always a pleasure to see (even though he has acted in some really stinking lousy movies of late - Air Force One, Six Days, Seven Nights are really stupid), but Kristin Scott Thomas made me wonder, the entire length of the movie - wouldn't her tongue get really dry and sticky if her mouth was ajar throughout the few weeks of the plot? She always seemed to just stand around, looking confused, mouth open. I don't call that great acting.Anyway it was not quite as boring as some other films I've seen, but WAY to predictable, almost pointless... "},{"Title":"Only good part was that our neighborhood was shown for 2 minutes","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I was very excited when I first heard Harrison Ford and Sydney Pollack were filming a movie in our Queens (New York City) neighborhood. (It is close to where Hitchcock filmed The Wrong Man starring Henry Fonda in 1956.) I saw film crews when they were filming. The bus which I take to work passes in front of a building where filming took place, and therefore was rerouted for the filming. They were there for about a month. I knew it did not receive a good review when it first came out, so I decided to wait for video release.Finally, I rented this video the other day. I figured since they stayed here for a month, I would see some of our familiar neighborhood scenes right away. Nooo. I waited and waited. It was a torture to watch this movie. The script is dull, and unbelievable. I almost gave up to watch this terrible waste of talent. It was only after 95% of the movie was over, they finally showed our neighborhood for only about 2 minutes. What a disappointment. I was so glad I didn't spend 8 bucks for this movie in the theater, but I regret I spent $4 renting this movie. "},{"Title":"PLEASE DELETE","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Please delete my comment on Random Hearts, or at least, the paragraph about Kristen Scott Thomas.  I made a HUGE mistake.  I thought I'd recognized her as the actress who played Katya in Die Hard with a Vengeance, but I was wrong.  Usually I check my sources before opening my big mouth, but I failed this time.  I was so convinced that she must be the same actress that I compared the two roles as I watched the movie.  I usually have my movie guidebooks nearby to check for verification when I am watching a movie at home, but I merely jumped to a stupid conclusion.  Now, what had seemed the high point of the movie for me has now been turned into more nothing.  Oh, well! "}{"Title":"random lungs","Date":"24 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" For years it had seemed - to me, at least - that Sydney Pollack and Harrison Ford might have to collaborate on a movie. It resulted that they collaborated on the somewhat weird Random Hearts. In the movie, Sgt. Dutch Van Den Broeck's (Ford) wife and Kay Chandler's (Kristin Scott Thomas) husband are having an affair and get killed in a plane crash. From there, Ford and Thomas hook up to try and figure out what was going on.Maybe it's just that I don't find anything particularly significant about this sort of idea, or maybe I find it a little jarring to cast men with women half their age, but this is not a movie that I would really recommend. Not a bad movie - bad is the word that I apply to junk like Baryshnya-Krestyanka and Everone Says I Love You; Plan 9 from Outer Space is so bad that it's good - but I think that the movie didn't go anywhere. Pollack (who has a supporting role), Ford and Thomas have all done much better than this.Also starring Charles S. Dutton, Bonnie Hunt, Dennis Haysbert, Richard Jenkins (Nate Sr. on Six Feet Under), Paul Guilfoyle, Susanna Thompson, Peter Coyote, Kate Mara, Dylan Baker, Lynne Thigpen, Reiko Aylesworth, Edie Falco, and even Alex Trebek in a brief appearance. "},{"Title":"Boring as hell!","Date":"16 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The premise of this movie is a police Sargent's wife and a senator's husband have an affair, and die in a plane crash. Then, the widowers fall for each other. And that's pretty much it.As you watch the movie, you'd expect for something exciting to happen. The problem is, nothing really happens. It's just talking, more talking, some transitions scenes with jazzy lounge music, and more talking. The most exciting thing in the whole story would be Harrison Ford getting shot, and that's probably the biggest spoiler I could find.There were scenes where some dialogs didn't actually make sense nor connection with the rest of the script. Sidney Pollack is supposed to make great movies, but I think he swallowed too much of himself while doing this one, so he couldn't see that, even as a thorough and interesting love story, it could work better as a short film.But still, it was quite boring and repetitive. There are better and more exciting movies that deal about affairs. "},{"Title":"Can I have my money back, please?","Date":"6 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Poor pacing and a weak script doom an excellent cast. If Sydney Pollack weren't actually in the film, I'd think someone was trying to smear his name by calling him the director.Good aspects cinematography is enjoyable. Cast is strong. Story points are promising.Bad aspects the script is simply too unrealistic to be believable. Does a man who really loves his wife sleep with someone cold and cranky a mere five days later? Come on! Does a piano twinkling in the high octaves have to grace the soundtrack of every scene? Would these people really have any chemistry at all? Did the movie really require 133 minutes to tell its story? Can I have my money back, please? "},{"Title":"Kristin Scott Thomas ruins this film","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" In every scene that Kristin Thomas appears in she drains energy from the film. Harrison Ford's performance was not up to his abilities either. I think the primary plot of this film was intriguing if not particularly believable, but it was padded with needless secondary plots that became more tedious as the movie extended beyond 90 minutes. The tension that would may have been present is lost because of the subpar performances, and the plot deficiencies. Could this be Pollack's fault?While I cannot blame the movie's failings entirely on Thomas, I would like to know who else was considered for the role of Kay Chandler. The only movie where I truly enjoyed a Kristin Thomas performance was The English Patient. This movie was unable to sustain its energy. As the relationship between Kay and Dutch ran its course and the other mysteries are revealed the movie tends to slow and the absence of a strong ending to the movie was disappointing. Some have said that they enjoyed the Kristin Thomas performance in this movie, so perhaps I was just unable to appreciate its value. But, I agree wholeheartedly with one of the other folks who commented on this movie who stated that Thomas is sometimes irritating as Kay. She can be a good actress, but her character is bland. A pity. After an Oscar nod for the 9 Academy Award winner THE English PATIENT, Ms. Thomas took the same way that stars once Oscar nominated or even Oscar winner (Marisa Tomei, Mira Sorvino, Nicolas Cage, just to name a few recent ones) did. The annoying melodrama THE HORSE WHISPERER (with a story similar to RANDOM HEARTS) proved that she took the very wrong way. "},{"Title":"Mixed-Up Romance","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Random Hearts is Harrison Ford's only romantic movie.  Of course, there is crime and adultery added to the movie.  Mr. Ford's movies always have intrigue in it; romance is never enough.His leading lady (Kristin Scott Thomas) was perfect in the role of the Congresswoman.  This is Ms. Thomas's second best role since The English Patient. Mr. Harrison and Ms. Thomas should work again.The story is interesting  a policeman finds out that his wife (Susanna Thompson), who died in a plane crash, was having an affair with Congresswoman's husband, (Peter Coyote). There are a couple of weak points in the movie  there should have been more scenes with the spouses and less scenes on crime.  However, it is still a good movie.It is fun to watch the director (Sidney Pollack) play a political consultant. This was Mr. Pollack's second best role since Tootsie. The ending of Random Hearts makes sense.     "},{"Title":"I wish I'd got a comedy now.","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  What a dire, uneventful movie this was.  I'll think twice about getting another Harrison Ford film in future.  It was about 45 minutes too long, had few if any highs and lows and almost completely concentrated on two people feeling sorry for themselves. "},{"Title":"In a perfect world...they wouldn't make this movie.","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring.Repeat this to yourself for the running time of 133 minutes and you get the idea. (The UK version is mercifully one minute shorter.)Nothing, nada, nitz, neechevo. Put it back on the shelf at the rental store. If you actually rented it, take it back unseen. Instead, watch 133 minutes of snow on your TV. (132 UK) "},{"Title":"I expected better from Pollack","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Limp and predictable, Random Hearts slogs  purposelessly through two hours of what I call  nullodrama, meaning devoid of drama. I didn't careabout the leads, the subplot was pointless, the resolutionstale. I'm glad I saw this one for free.  "},{"Title":"As slow to start as my 2CV on a cold morning.................................","Date":"14 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Random Hearts took longer to get going than my 2CV on a cold morning. I stayed with it because I like Miss Scott - Thomas,but my fidelity was sorely strained by her Hilary Clinton hairstyle and her accent which was cleverly sustained,but to what purpose?If you're going to employ an English actress why make her speak American?Beats me. The first half - hour was so slow and loaded with so many shots of an air crash that even the dimmest viewer would have cottoned on that something unexpected was on the cards. So I was less than dumbfounded to discover that Miss Scott - Thomas's husband and Mr Ford's wife - passengers on the crashed plane - had a little something going on.Albeit somewhat relieved that at last something was happening in the movie. Presumably to pad the story out there was a sub - plot (completely irrelevant and frankly,uninteresting) about Mr Ford's work as a cop in Internal Affairs.The only possible point was to prove that Mr Ford was not a racist.....but nobody ever said he was in the first place unless I dozed off and missed it. Eventually Mr Ford and Miss Scott - Thomas get it on together and that - you might think - is that,but no,there are a number of false climaxes(if you will pardon the expression)before the movie eventually passes away peacefully in its sleep,leaving,like a hand removed from a bowl of water,nary a trace. "},{"Title":"The impossible has happened, Harry makes a bad movie","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  When Wayne Gretzky got traded from the Edmonton Oilers to the Los Angeles Kings, it taught me one important thing in life, and that was that anything is possible.  You may think this is a terrible analogy, but you have to understand what an icon he was in this country not to mention Edmonton.  For an American to put it into perspective, try thinking of Babe Ruth, for a Brit, think of the queen saying the F-word in public, for a... well you get the point.  It was the same scenario.  So to say it's a shock that Harrison Ford has made a bad film is a bit of an exageration, but it is still somewhat of a surprise.  I have never not enjoyed one of his films.  Even his somewhat mediocre films like Blade Runner and Six Days Seven Nights were pretty darn good and I enjoyed them.  But this film, this Random Hearts is so slow and trite and uncomfortable that I really thought I was going to leave the theater.  Half way through it I actually went to the concession stand to get some nachos and pop ( here in Ontario Famous Players no longer sells M&M's, they are onto other cheap imitations of peanuts and chocolate, and I am not happy about it, so I now eat nachos and salsa, so I'll be going to Cineplex Odeon more than before, just in case you care ) and that is almost sacriligious to leave the theater once it has started but here I didn't mind because not only was I hungry but I was bored.The problems that I had with Random Hearts are numerous, but  let's start with the obvious.  Where was the emotion?  I know Harrison Ford has made a career of being the stoic, somewhat emotionless, poker-faced, virile man that faces danger and despair like John Wayne, but come on, no tears?  His wife just died in a plane crash and she was having an affair that he didn't know about.  That's a lot to deal with, I think the writer could have allotted one scene of emotion.  I would have appreciated one scene where Indy shows that he is human and breaks down in the privacy of his own space and lets it all out.  He did that in Presumed Innocent and that was just for a person that he was having an affair with.  This was his wife!  But all we get is an obsessed man looking for clues as to why it happened.  But for me to care about this character the way I should have requires him to be real and to show me that he really did care for his wife and that her death is hurting him.  There were also way too many scenes drawn out in the film that were done for dramatic effect instead of honesty.  Sometimes when people have important converstations, there isn't a dramatic pause and then we cut to another day and another scene.  Usually when two people are talking about something serious the way Ford and Thomas were they would have a deep conversation with substance and meaning, but instead we are cheated out of any good dramatics and it is substituted with a blank stare and no conversation and then we are left wondering what happened.  And this becomes frustrating. Another big problem with the film is the chemistry  between the two leads.  Harrison and Kristen did not seem to be as into each other as you need to believe they are.  I found more energy and raw sexual tension between Indy and Marion and even Ford and Heche in Six Days..... Their relationship seems more because they are written that way than believing that they are truly in love with each other.  We all know that a film has writers and directors and cameramen and boom people and gaffers and so on, but a film works best you can't detect the presence of the writer and the director and so on.  Random Hearts suffers from that very problem.  The writer seemed very present to me and that takes away from the cinematic experience.  And I'm not even going to mention the subplot of Ford trying to bring down a ruthless and dirty cop ( it really doesn't fit in this film at all ).As I said at the beginning.  Anything is possible.  But there are just a few things in life that seem sacred.  Remember how you felt when you hit that age and you found out that Santa Clause was just.... well you know.  Well that is how I feel right now.  I didn't think it was possible but now that it happened I have to admit that it was probably just a matter of time.  All good things come to an end.  Harrison Ford has been entertaining us for so long that you almost take for granted how great of an actor he is and how much of an asset he is to our film going lives.  He is constantly entertaining us whether it's as a man being chased by Sam Girard, the president of the United States, a space cowboy or as a guy that wears a fedora, hangs out with a guy named Short Round, had an enemy named Belloq and doesn't know how to speak Hovitos, I'd say one terrible movie in 25 years is okay.  I just really hope that the next one does reunite him with Steven and George, until then, avoid this one. "}{"Title":"Surprisingly Great Love Story I Enjoyed It  Quite A Bit, It Plods A Bit, At Times But It's All Worth It In The End!, Harrison Ford And Kristin Scott Thomas Were Amazing!","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This is a surprisingly great love story i enjoyed it quite a bit, it plods a bit at times but it's all worth it in the end!, Harrison Ford and Kristin Scott Thomas were amazing!. All the characters are great, and the story is for the most part very engaging!, plus Harrison Ford and Kristin Scott Thomas are simply amazing in this!. Due to all the bad reviews i read, i was a little skeptical on renting this film, but being a huge fan of Ford, i decided to check it out, and i was pleasantly surprised!, plus i thought Ford and Scott Thomas had wonderful chemistry together!. It has some great plot twists, and the scene where they show Susanna Thompson(Payton Van Den Broeck) and Peter Coyote (Cullen Chandler), dead bodies underwater on the plain that crashed is disturbing!, and while the plot may be preposterous, it's still quite creative and engaging all the same!. I really don't know why so many people found this movie to be boring granted it is a little long (over 2 hours), but if you stick with it you will be rewarded in the end, i enjoyed it quite a bit Harrison Ford and Kristin Scott Thomas were amazing!,i highly recommended! this one!. The Direction is great.Sydney Pollack does a great job here, with awesome camera work, and keeping the film at an engaging pace for the most part in my opinion!. The Acting is amazing!. Harrison Ford is amazing as always, and is amazing here, he is very sympathetic in my opinion, very likable, and while at times i questioned his choices, i stuck with him, as i rooted for him, it also helped that he had wonderful chemistry with Kristin Scott Thomas, was as always very intense, fantastic in the acting department and was just amazing overall! (Ford Rules!!!!!!). Kristin Scott Thomas is also amazing here, she is extremely likable, beautiful, had wonderful chemistry with Ford, is a very charming woman, and i felt sorry for her character, she was amazing! (Kristin Rules!!). Charles S. Dutton does not have much to do here, but did fine in his scenes. Bonnie Hunt is wasted here and has barely anything to do,she is a great actress and deserved a better part!. Kate Mara is extremely cute and did wonderful in her scenes as the daughter i just wished she had more!. Sydney Pollack is great in his role, and proves he can act as well as direct!. Dennis Haysbert(George),Richard Jenkins(Truman Trainor),Paul Guilfoyle(Dick Montoya),Susanna Thompson(Peyton Van Den Broeck),Peter Coyote(Cullen Chandler and Susan Floyd(Molly Roll) all do what they have to do extremely well. Rest of the cast are fine. Overall i highly recommended this one!. ***1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Intriguing premise, a little dull with the execution","Date":"20 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Dubbed as a 'drama' I would categorize it more 'romance' and in saying that I'm not sure how I feel about watching Harrison Ford in a full-on love scene? Uncomfortable is a word that comes to mind.So anyways Harrison plays a tough-minded internal affairs cop (big stretch) whose wife is killed in a plane crash. Kristin Scott Thomas is a congresswoman he develops a relationship with when its discovered that her husband (also killed in plane crash) was having an affair with his wife.Intriguing enough premise, a little dull with the execution. I did find it interesting though how Ford's character Dutch dealt with his grief, by becoming obsessed with learning the details of his wife's affair, treating it as a case. Kay on the other hand just wanted to sweep the whole mess away. The ongoing score of (loud) piano music was very distracting. 06.13 "},{"Title":"What To Do, What To Do?","Date":"8 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" In The Big Heat, detective Glenn Ford's loving wife is blown up by the heavies and he becomes obsessed with nailing the killers. All his colleagues and friends are sympathetic but as Ford pushes beyond the limits of the envelope, they withdraw their support. There's no controlling Ford's morbid determination.In this movie, Harrison Ford discovers that his wife was killed in an airplane crash, seated next to the married man she was having an affair with, both on their way to a secret holiday in Miami. Harrison Ford is in thrall to a grim determination to find out all he can about the affair -- the hotel room they used in Miami, the rendezvous point in Washington, the night clubs they went to, the gifts they gave each other. It makes little sense because we haven't seen Ford and his wife happy together. If Glenn Ford was driven half crazy by grief, enough to lose his job, Harrison Ford lacks that compelling motive, although he too loses his job.Along the way he discovers Kristen Scott Thomas, the betrayed wife of the man who was cuckolding him. She's in Congress and can't afford the publicity of having the affair made public. They're at odds with each other. He wants to know all the details while she's stoic and wants to put the whole ordeal behind her. Of course Ford and Thomas have an affair.Is there anything beneath this sappy love story besides the romantic musical score? It has holes -- major and minor -- in the plot. Minor Thomas' daughter, Jessica, is in Andover, a prep school, described as forty miles from Washington, although Phillips Andover Academy is in Massachusetts, 25 miles north of Boston.Major While Ford and Thomas hardly know one another, and she's been icy towards him, they fall into a desperate and strenuous clinch in a car and he apparently brings her off in ten seconds.Well, that's rather intermediate than major, because it adumbrates the affair that begins soon after. But here's another major flaw The last politician to be actually damaged by a divorce or revelation of a wandering spouse was Nelson Rockefeller in 1964. Granted that the press has turned far more tabloid in its sensibilities since then, the fact that one's father has been shacking up on weekends isn't really enough to make sophisticated, sixteen-year-old Jessica drop a plate on the floor in shock. Now if he'd been a serial killer -- There is a sub-theme that has Ford, in Internal Affairs, trying to nail an errant cop. It belongs in an action movie. It seems to have little to do with the developing romance.The performances are okay. Harrison Ford looks glum throughout, wears a hangdog expression, and when he parts for the last time with Thomas he tries to smile openly for the first time and one hears the creak of long-unused facial muscles. Thomas, on the other hand, is more animated. She's quite pretty, her aquiline schnozz notwithstanding. She's appealing -- pale, fragile, wide-eyed -- and from some angles resembles Marlene Dietrich except for von Sternberg's lighting and that thin but prominent nose.But it's mostly a confusing mess. I had no idea where the movie was headed. That's okay because I sometimes get derailed. What was troubling was that I couldn't be at all sure that the writers knew what they were about either. "},{"Title":"Lifenessness Comes To The Big Screen","Date":"24 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I had never seen a lead actor look as though he has just woken up, in a film, before. What's worse, Harrison Ford, as Van den broeck, appears to be in this somnambulistic state throughout the entire movie. Perhaps the best display of this torpor that Ford walks around in is when he is identifying the body of his wife, for legal purposes, after the crash. Ford shows almost no response, and I, therefore, thought that it was not his wife.Kristen Scott Thomas (as Kay Chandler) exhibits so little emotion that (I think inadvertently), some would wonder if she was behind her husband's death. At her first public appearance after that death (at a political fundraiser), she says Thank you all for your friendship and support and don't leave without letting me talk to each one of you. Very shallow, false, almost like cardboard.Not only is Van den broeck's demeanor stupid (as in a stupor), he actually acts creepy. The first time he visits Chandler, to talk about what he assumes is a tryst between their former spouses, he acts so troubled, psychologically, that when Chandler's 15 year old daughter comes home, and is at the door, if I were she, I would have run with her out the door and called the police (one of which, Van Den Broeck is one).I could have forgiven all of this (some people just don't easily, or ever, display emotion), and given this movie a 7, which to me is a grading of not great, but OK, but I downgraded it to a 6, because of the impertinent scenes regarding Van Den Broeck's investigation of another cop. Note to screenwriter Kurt Luedtke If you are going to write disparate scenes, make two different movies. In summary, it is torture to watch Harrison Ford mumble and amble his way through a performance that could have been either electrifying or heart-rendering. "},{"Title":"What's the point?","Date":"20 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Kay (Kristin Scott Thomas) is a political newbie running for office. Her husband is played by Peter Coyote. Dutch (Harrison Ford) is police IA investigator and he thinks his marriage to Peyton (Susanna Thompson) is fine. However Dutch finds that his wife died in a plane crash suspecting that she's having an affair.Director Sydney Pollack has made a very undramatic movie. It's slow moving. The first half of the movie meanders to the point of meaninglessness. When the mystery of their affair start to surface, Dutch goes into mean investigating machine mode. Dutch investigating was interesting for about 10 minutes, but the affair is never allowed to be in doubt. The question becomes where is the mystery. Kay puts it best. They're gone. There isn't even a possibility of divorce. So what's the point of the movie.I guess the point is for these two leads to work out their anger and their loss together. It is just so slow with the jazzy trumpets and soft piano. Sydney Pollack thinks this is more profound that it actually is. The two leads have no chemistry. Harrison Ford is horribly cold. The romance is nothing more than melodrama. His police investigation is nothing but a sideshow. I would have more respect for the movie if Dutch goes ahead and shoots the suspect. If this movie is about Kay and only about Kay, the story has a little bit of potential. There is a bit more on her side with her daughter and political ramifications. "},{"Title":"Interesting concept, flawed execution","Date":"12 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This film had an interesting premise. It tries to combine a police procedural with an unlikely romance. While Kristin Scott Thomas is alright as a politician trying to run for re-election, the script badly lets her down. Harrison Ford blunders through his role. The role required someone with serious acting chops and he simply isn't right for the part. Their romance is unconvincing and the procedural aspect boring. The film begins well but the pace sags and the film splutters to a halt. Sydney Pollack has an effective cameo. Watchable only if you are bored.Overall 4/10 "},{"Title":"Drifting romance","Date":"27 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" A half-hearted, wandering romance saved in part by two considerable screen presences. As a vehicle for a tragedy-hemmed romance between two striking, middle-aged actors Random Hearts works satisfactorily. Dutch and Kay spend the film trying to deny their partners' infidelity, their own neediness, the actual possibility of romance between them given their previous monogamy; the supression is meant to cook the ardor and often functions in this way.However the film is far too long to sustain this rather simple conceit and the will-they-won't-they, guilt/passion see-sawing of the romance makes one a little frustrated if not seasick. Although this is really Harrison Ford's film as he pursues the truth, be it of his wife in death or his new inamorata in life, once again I find myself in admiration of Scott-Thomas. Her naturally English temper, alluring, inscrutable but liable to crack is carefully tailored to this film and works a treat. As you can tell, it's a film that probably appeals only to fans... 4/10 "},{"Title":"Who writes this stuff??? Ick!","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Okay. I like Harrison Ford - it's the only reason I actually sat through this movie from beginning to end. However, I have a big problem with any movie I'm watching during which I can guess what's going to happen next before it plays out on the screen. That's what happened at every turn and every plot twist of Random Hearts - right up until the end. The storyline was not very clever and completely predictable throughout. The ending is a COMPLETE PIECE OF CRAP! Did they even screen test the movie before they released it?!?! The ending has Ford's character meeting Thomas' character at the airport and after all the romance, all the crying, all the hurt, and all the sex that they've been through - they part with a Maybe I'll see you again ?!?!?! No wonder Harrison Ford won't work with Sydney Pollack ever again! A better ending would have had Ford in Thomas' driveway with a dozen long-stemmed red roses and saying something quippy like You said you wanted to give me your boat, how about we sail around the world for the rest of our lives and she could say How about we start with a Stoli on the rocks and we go from there?.There. I just wrote an ending 6 BILLION TIMES BETTER THAN WHAT WAS SHOT....you're welcome. "},{"Title":"Locale of New Hampshire church memorial service?","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" In the scenes concerning the memorial service for the congress-woman's husband who was killed in the airplane crash, there are a few exterior and interior shots of a church with rock walls supposedly located in New Hampshire. Having rented the DVD several times and watched it on TV too, I believe it is actually Trinity Episcopal Church on Piney Branch Road near Takoma Park Maryland. Trinity is the church that I knew as a child, where I was confirmed, where I was an acolyte for many years, where my mom was a Sunday School teacher and where my mothers funeral was held shortly after this film was made. The color and texture walls, the number and position of the stained glass windows, the altar position and color, the shades on the lights hanging from the ceiling, the color and position of the lectern and other items all seem to be from my child-hood church. Can anyone confirm which church was used in this film? "},{"Title":"Is this, or is this not a Chick Flick?","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This has all the signs of a good guy movie.  Tough sargeant loses wife in airplane accident, meets congresswoman who loses husband on same flight ...  But I think it is a sneak attack from the date movie market.  It makes one wonder what Harrison Ford is up to because this is not the first time I've been snookered into a romance film by Harrison Ford.  Six Days, Seven Nights was another film with Harrison Ford -- and airplanes too -- that was actually in the Action part of the rental store.  Despite the presence of some decent adventure drama ... Chick Flick!But, I digress.  Despite the occasional lapses into romance, there is some excellent drama here in a complicated story.  The story of the airplane accident unfolds slowly and very realistically.  The hardworking Internal Investigations Sargeant begins to make some personal investigations into the strange circumstances of his wife's mishap.  The congresswoman also finds herself additionally stressed by some similar strange circumstances.  But the romantic interest part of the story just doesn't excite me very much. I guess any movie with the word heart in it should arouse Chick Flick suspicions. "}{"Title":"Start of an idea is not enough","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  There's a believability factor in the middle of this film's premise.  If your wife or husband died in their prime in a plane crash, would you go into an investigative mode after you suspected your partner was having an affair?I suppose that would depend on the relationship preceding the accident.  I think I'd be a little more upset about a spouse's death than the infidelity.  It would bother me but my first thought would be that a person I had loved was gone.So there's the starting point and we have a very dour Harrison Ford (who cracks half-a-smile through the whole film) and a very vital Kristin Scott Thomas as the surviving partners.Another approach--rather than Ford's bullish investigative tactics into what happened--might have been the fact that a drug lord that Ford is seeking to put away was on the same plane.  The drug guy was assassinated through a bomb placed on the plane.  In my movie, the bomb explodes over the water so there are no bodies.  Meanwhile, Ford's wife just disappears--no one knows where she is.Through that investigation of the accident, Ford finds some clue that his wife may have been aboard the ill-fated flight.  Similarly, Thomas is trying to track down her husband and has gotten hooked up with Ford somehow.  Some unusual similarities pop up on the two cases--Ford notices that both were in Florida on the same day twice before that year.The two feel an attraction--while searching for their mates.  At film's end, they uncover the affair but, by this time, are able to help each other handle the crisis.  Ford, meanwhile, has been tracking down the drug-crazed bombers.OK--my movie falls into the action grind but it still beats the Random Hearts script. "},{"Title":"This is routine stuff","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The premise of this movie is a good one. Husband loses wife, another wife loses her husband and it turns out the deceased were having an affair. That is disturbing stuff, but executed very poorly. Sydney Pollack, director of some very good movies in the past and cast member in this one, has struck out big time with Random Hearts. There is no discernible passion between the leads, the two substories are badly written and the overall package is just plain dull.Harrison Ford is not even trying to put in the effort to make this movie work. He just acts out his lines and strikes up the cash. Kristin Scott Thomas is supposed to be the love interest in this pic, but there is no chemistry between the two leads. The scene that struck me as very needless was the one in the car after the Miami adventure, what the heck was up with that outburst, that could have been more subtle.The supporting cast wasn't that good either considering the material they were handed. Dutton is barely seen and doesn't make any impression, whatsoever. Pollack himself is acting while directing. The daughter Jessica was the average teenager that can be seen in just about any movie out there.The script was so fragmented that through some conjuring and manipulating the three storylines finally did collide, but the secondary storielines were so insignificant and incomprehensibly stupid that it didn't make any impact. Bad writing all the way.If you think a Harrison Ford movie cannot suck, then you're in for a surprise.5/10 "},{"Title":"could of been alot worse, could have been ALOT better!","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"    I love Harrison Ford, he is one of the most ruthlessly talented, charming and likable people to ever walk the screen, when I first saw The Mosquito Coast I was dumbstruck by his brilliant performance, how much I was led to hate the barstard, yet then I was in stitches after watching Working Girl when he and Sigourney Weaver were so good that they made Melanie Griffith look good. He has always been such a reliable actor, his films, even if not good for any other reason, are always entertaining, always fun, yet Random Hearts, while having a good director and several good performances, bombs out on almost every other level. The whole time I was watching the film I was waiting for it to pick up, for some proper tension to be built, or at least for someone to have a good line, yet instead I get more depressed people getting even more depressed. Hopefully the next time that Harrison Ford works with Sydney Pollack (if there is another time) they will bring something more like Sabrina or Presumed Innocent again. "},{"Title":"One of the most plot-challenged movies of the decade","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I'm sorry that Harrison Ford had to put his efforts into this film.  This is one of the poorest attempts at cinematic drama that I have come across. Incredibly slow moving with very underdeveloped characters.  The only highlight of this movie was recognizing the National Hotel in Miami Beach because I've been there - otherwise a waste! "},{"Title":"Dumb and boring","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I knew i would see this movie because I like the two main characters but I was bored and only stuck with it to see if anything would happen. Unfortunately nothing ever did.  The scenery was beautiful at times and the main characters' acting was intriguing (how will they play against each other?) but ultimately a big zero. "},{"Title":"first against the wall when the revolution comes","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Located in the genre of soap opera, complete with elevator music to remind its drained, elderly audience to emote while nothing is going on, this drab throwaway never leaves the expensive scriptwriter's page. Harrison Ford has been told to allow no visible expression of feeling or character on his face - some american has read that the lecteur will supply what is too patently missing; but no, not the audience for this film. Meanwhile the women are universally as dimensional as cloned cutouts from glossy New England magazines. The genre of soap opera, of artificial drama, leaves plenty of room for emotion; it can if it wishes inherit the grand tradition of melodrama, and tap tragic themes. Not here. Locked in their lonely worlds, scriptwriter, director, and, yes, the spoiled audience whose fantasy lives it inexplicably troubles to portray, all together remind us to be sure to preserve these people harmless where they presently are anaesthetised, in little plastic capsules of vanity. "},{"Title":"Pointless film about obsessive cop and goody two-shoes politician","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This film had potential, in a way.  I usually like almost all of Harrison Ford's stuff, and Kristen Scott Thomas seemed to be a good actress, hey even the supporting cast looked descent (Peter Coyote for a bit part). But as soon as Harrison Ford started obsessing it went downhill.  A movie needs twists, turns, humor, drama, or action.  This had none of the above. It bared closer resemblance to a soap opera then a film, in that it had one point that never changed, and seemed to never end.  A question to ponder; If you found out something that lain a major commitment of yours to waste, why would you try and drag someone else into it.  Just foolish. "},{"Title":"Random plot","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Random Hearts a story of a heated, furtive love triangle (or love quadrangle) enmeshed in a sinister tangle of, um . . . well, nothing.  An adulterous relationship is cut short by tragic disaster, and the bereaved spouses (Ford and Pfeiffer) together--and predictably--piece together the mystery.  Problem is, there's no mystery, so what's the point? "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie!","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This movie was suspenceful, and interesting with wonderful portrayals from Harrison Ford, and Kristin Scott Thomas.  It was basically about betrayal from their spouses who are both killed together in a plane crash, and this comes as a total shock to both our stars, and they try to investigate to find out more of when their spouses love affair began.  I thoroughly enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"I hate to do this to Harry, but...","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" ...this is the worst movie I have seen in a long while.  And Sydney Pollack is responsible for making one of the most blah-blah boring films of all time.  If it weren't for the sub-plot (and just to be mean I won't divulge any of that info) this film would have been a total loss.  If you must watch this film, then do it knowing this -- you will be disappointed, greatly. "}{"Title":"Good acting, bad script","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Sydney Pollack's Random Hearts could be better, but then you've got a genetic defective in the script.  2 couples, one wife and one husband are having an affair and both die in a plane crash together.  The wife's husband (Harrison Ford) and the husband's wife (Kristen Scott Thomas) find each other in the middle of confusion and saddening.  Not a good idea to run with that.  The leads (Ford and Thomas) try their best to do what they can with the script, but it doesn't get far enough.  Sorry Pollack, but It's just OK.  C+ "},{"Title":"Boring movie","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those movies that just doesn't cut it. Partly this is caused by a script which lacks a nerve and something to tie all the pieces together and give us a satisfactory ending. But most importantly, what really makes this movie a crappy one is Harrison Ford. There are two categories of actors; the one that makes a movie and the one that is made by the movie. Ford falls into the latter category. I don't think he's a very good actor, and an over-prized one at that. He has the charm of a lug. The one thing that is positive about this movie is Kristin Scott Thomas, though. She is brilliant, as always. "},{"Title":"well somebody has to write seriously about films like this (contains spoilers)","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  A Boeing 737 bound for Miami, takes off from Washington and promptly crashes into Chesapeake Bay killing all on board. Kay Chandler, a republican congresswoman finds out her husband was on the plane. Sgt. Van Den Broeck, a policeman who's name is so foreign his colleagues call him 'Dutch', discovers his wife Peyton died sitting next to Mr. Chandler, travelling as his wife. The grief of losing his beautiful, loving wife is combined with the dent to his ego from being made a cuckold, posthumously.Obsessed with finding out what drove his wife to infidelity, he tracks down the congresswoman, and seduces her. But their affair is disturbed by the jealous memory of the dead lovers, of the lie that all four had been living before the crash. The byline reads In a perfect world they never would have met. In a perfect world filmmakers would think twice before embarking on adaptations of bad 80s novels, especially when they lack irony. This adaptation has the emotional realism and grittiness common to the NY film scene, but it is weighed down by too much plot, too many chapters and too much character which has to be condensed into 131 minutes. The result is an acceleration of narrative events that makes the relationship between Dutch and Kay improbably intense and unstable.The ground covered by the film means its 131 minutes felt like three hours to the audience, who began laughing at all the wrong things, even groaning in disbelief as the chapters rolled on. But many of them were there because they'd been given free passes, and were seeking entertainment, not an extended exploration of a grief-stricken relationship. The film has some interesting elements, such as the class conflict between Kay, who got elected to Congress because her dad was famous, and Dutch, the paranoid internal affairs policeman who can't believe his wife got bored and fell for a toff who paid for regular first class trips to their Miami lovenest. There is an unusually raw, honest quality to the script, which has some tense exchanges full of wit and wounding unsophistication, but which is also padded out with inane smalltalk. The film relies too heavily on words to entertain its audience, and the only available subplot is Dutch's run-in with a corrupt cop, which proves so distractingly stupid and violent it cripples the entire movie, combining the high concept of the cop drama and airplane disaster, with the interior drama of two confused lovers. There was a palpable draining of interest from the cinema after Dutch and Kay's repressed sexuality erupts in a violent grope-session in the airport carpark. It seems letting a middle-aged couple engage in teenage sex is taking cinema one base too far for Australia's multiplex audiences. From then on, the audience's primary interest seemed to be What time is it?Random Hearts suffers for its complex 'adult' concept - it fails to generate the appropriate audience expectations. It strives for a truthfulness that endangers its place on the romantic comedy shelf, and it attempts an intrusive action-based subplot that confuses the audience by stripping the film of any romance it had. Whilst it makes some bold political and moral statements, overall the film is a weak adaptation that lacks emotional integrity and popular characters. Pollack has honourable intentions, but the best he can do is go down swinging. His movie will translate better on the smallscreen when viewers can walk away from the parts they don't like to make some coffee, relieve themselves, even engage in some nooky themselves, before coming back to catch up with the plot. It's a mixed-up movie about a mixed-up world that should have been serialised and syndicated for the entertainment of bored housewives; not developed into a serious screenplay with multiplexes in mind. "},{"Title":"Deadpan melodrama.","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  People have a right to expect a lot more from such leading lights as Harrison Ford and Kristen Scott Thomas. The script, although fairly original was totally implausible and uninspiring and probably a good twenty minutes too long. A poor effort for Harrison. "},{"Title":"Lost in Lumet Land","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  There are few redeeming features to this plotless, suspenseless, badly written piece of garbage where everyone is a jerk.Two middle aged people (Harrison Ford, Kristin Scott Thomas) are seemingly happily married. Except, their spouses are having an affair with each other. Through some twist of faith, their spouses airplane crashes. And I guess that's it, really. The rest of the movie is spent watching the stars have their little emotional hallmark moments, when he finds out, then she finds out, then her daughter finds out (really). Ford then sets off on some quest to find what really happened, but don't worry, he doesn't find out anything. Because it is already plain as day what happened. They crashed. However, Ford's trek to their better half's little getaway hotel in Miami gives the movie a blunt device to get Ford and Thomas away to Miami too. Watch them look on in shocked bewilderment as Spanish people perform strange mating rituals in the middle of the street, obviously perplexed and in shock at the down and out quality the scriptwriting. By the time they get back, F & T of course are obliged to have their own little encounter. Just because they had an affair, we're supposed to have one too?!?, cries Thomas. She might have been addressing the director. What follows looks like a cross between a kickboxing match and lovemaking in a rather cramped car.  There is also a silly subplot with a corrupt cop (Ford is supposed to be a DC internal affairs detective), but that plot has nothing to do with the main story and doesn't go anywhere. Thomas' congress woman subplot doesn't go anywhere either.The only point of interest in this 1999 movie, is that two of the small characters also appear in the tv series 24.None of the subplots go anywhere. Everyone's a jerk. The writing is abysmal.In short, avoid this piece of gunk like the plague, unless you're a hardcore romance junkie or fan of Harrison Ford or Kristin Scott Thomas. In a perfect world, they would have never met. Truer words, etc. "},{"Title":"There are made-for -TV works much better than this!","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  To think that Sidney Pollack is the director who gave us such works as they shoot horses don't they? Jeremiah Johnson and this property is condemned.But it was a long time ago.Since he slowly but inexorably degenerated into MOR commercial movies.The three days of the Condor Bobby Deerfield and the electric horseman were still commandable even if the slump had begun.Then tootsie which recycled Billy Wilder's ideas (Some like it hot),the overlooong and tedious out of Africa,and the firm a vehicle for Tom Cruise the superhero.Then Random hearts ,the last straw!Nothing more than a soap opera,a bit promising in the very beginning,but there are no more surprises after Harrison/S-Thomas hug.This academic work ,which could have been released in the thirties,drags on and on for two hours.And to top it all,the ending takes place during yuletide,as did the last days of the Condor's one.We are survivors a beaming Scott-T says.The audience is too. "},{"Title":"Feels like a limousine of a film &#150; but is very badly paced and pretty dull","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Sergeant Van Den (Dutch) has an answer-phone message from his wife telling him she's flying to Miami for work.  When the plane crashes he is told that no one of that name was on the plane.  He investigates further and finds that she was on the plane as someone else's wife.  He finds the wife of the man his wife was having an affair with in order to try and find out more &#150; but they end up with a relationship.  Meanwhile Dutch's frustration at the deceit in his life begins to affect his work.The film opens slowly with the crash never seen, but instead we see a calm and cool Dutch catching a dirty cop while his wife and her lover lie die in a plane wreck.  The film takes a worthy plot from then on and follows Dutch as he tries to find out how much of his marriage was a lie.  He does this by seeking out the history of his wife and her lover and meeting with her lover's wife, Kay Chandler.  The affair that blossoms between them is interesting as it comes out of pain but grows into more.  The better element is watching Dutch change into a more aggressive, frustrated man &#150; although the `dirty cop' subplot they use to show this isn't very well inserted into the narrative.  Overall I couldn't say the plot was unworthy or uninteresting at heart.However the delivery kills it.  The film is so very badly paced that at times it feels like time itself has literally stopped and is beginning to turn backwards on itself!  So little happens for whole runs of the film that you wonder if the editors just plain forgot to take it out of the final version.  It's a shame because it's a good plot but the running time and lack of anything to capture my interest on a scene by scene basis made for very dull viewing.The cast give the film a very professional and glossy feel &#150; like having a limousine!  Sadly this limousine only has first gear and doesn't go anywhere.  Ford is strong and changes his character well.  However Thomas has a thankless job of not revealing much of her character and hence appearing dull.  The support cast is full of good actors (or ell know ones anyway), Hunt, Dutton, Haysbert, Coyote, Guilfoyle and Pollack himself.Overall this is a worthy film that feels heavy and serious.  It's not that the plot is boring in itself but really the pacing and lack of anything interesting happening really drags the film down.  This could easily have lost 30 minutes and still delivered the same story with no felling of being rushed. "},{"Title":"Even Harrison makes a mistake now and then","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Like a lot of people out there, Harrison Ford is one of my very favorite actors. It seems as though every movie he touches turns to gold. But even Harrison makes a mistake once in a while. He should never have agreed to take this role.Once Harrison's character figures out the truth about the airplane crash, the plot comes to a screeching halt. There is nowhere else to go. And this happens within...what? 25 minutes? After that, it's just a long, long movie.Oh, how I wish Harrison would have had an ark to find! "},{"Title":"A real snoozer","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Like a 78rpm record played at 33 1/3 speed.  This movie drones on and on. The plot is week enough but then thrown in the mix is the completely irrelevant subplot of his police work. The background music adds to the tedium.  The two main characters are incredibly bland.  A real snoozer. "},{"Title":"Rubbish","Date":"3 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I decided to watch this on cable because it was made by Sydney Pollack and stars Harrison Ford and Kristin Scott-Thomas.I wish I hadn't. Or perhaps I wish I'd known something about who the writers were. Because this was about as bad as a Hollywood movie can get. Every clich you can think of, and all of them put in the most obvious places.I can sort of see how it managed to attract the sort of money that's needed to make a Hollywood movie with that sort of star power, because if you take the elements one by one, all of them would sound OK. It's just that they were put together in a manner that makes no sense whatsoever.It's a waste of 131 minutes. "}]