[{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"49 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A film straight from my dreams, drifting in and out of logical existence into the land of the dead. The story, as much as there is a story, involves an aging poet (played by European film staple Bruno Ganz) who has a terminal disease. He is apparently destined to die tomorrow, and we spend his final day following him, from his waking to midnight. Early in the morning he picks up a young homeless boy, an Albanian refugee, who tries to wash his window at a stoplight. Together they go on silent adventures. At regular intervals the film flashes back to Ganz's interactions with his beautiful wife, who never appears in the present, nor do we find out where she is. Most of the film's power is visual and aural. It is truly a sensual experience, along the lines of a Tarkovsky film. Because of its sensual prominence and lack of a coherent plot, it will surely fade from the surface of my memory. However, it is guaranteed to haunt me for the rest of my life. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Theo Angelopoulos Philosopher / film-maker","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"26 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Review of the film eternity and a day &#150; mia aiwnioteta kai mia mera By Peter ManiatisTHEO ANGELOPOULOS THE PHILOSOPHER / FILM MAKERThe issues that this film addresses are time and logos. The question how long is tomorrow involves the concept of time.Since by the expression of tomorrow we understand both, the day after today and an eternity, we require the force of logos to resolve this chaotic situation. For Alexandros, the use of logos, the accumulation of word-wealth, brings order to his troubled world. It sheds light to his past, present and future.Defining time as A-series and B-series We can look at the concept of time as Past, Present, and Future. Lets call this an A-series, Past    Present     Future. Alexandros' past is when he was young, his wife, his friends, his young family, his job, his present is that he is old, and alone, and his future, his tomorrow, is death.Now let us look at P. P. & F. in relation to each other. The arrival of Captain Cook in Australia is a past event. The destruction of Earth or the Second Coming if you wish, is a Future event. But there was a time that the arrival of Captain Cook was a Future event, and there will be a time that the destruction of the Earth will be a Past event. So we can say that Past Present and Future can be viewed in relative terms, without defined boarders.In the film, we see Alexandros in his present form, with his rain coat and seemingly old, intermingling with people in spaces of his past, in the form of the time that the events took place at a present time.With this perspective, we view past, present, and future, relatively to our position in space that we find ourselves at the time (space time). Alexandros does just that.DEFINING TIME BY WAY OF CHANGEDimension of change in the sense of coming to be and passing away.Alexandros came to be, he was born, he grew old (changed from young to old) and then tomorrow he will pass away. It is the same with everything in nature. The young child is young at the present time, he too will get old and eventually pass away.Changes in space, variations we experience in space. When we say that the road changes from being narrow to become wide we speak metaphorically. Philosophers connected with the theory of relativity do not see that there is a difference in the change of the road becoming wider and in the changes of the person becoming older. Events deemed past in one frame of reference are deemed future in other frames. The difference is only subjective, experiential, rather than reflecting an ontological fact.Events of Alexandros past are viewed from a spatial position in the present, and according to Agelopoulos, those past events are at the same time present events. Alexandros wears the same raincoat and is the same age. Past events are present in his mind. One can say that looking at time, from space time perspective, time is static.Static view of time According to Parmenides and Zeno, appearance of temporal change is an illusion.Dynamic view of time Heracletus and Aristotle, held that future lacks the reality of present and Past. Reality continuously is added to as time passes.The theory of relativity allows that some events are past or future no matter which frame of reference is selected.  The relativity of simultaneity, looking at past present and future at the same time, only requires us to revise our conception of the present.Alexandros, I think, does just that. He revises is conception of his present situation relatively, from space &#150;time perspective.THE THREE BIKE RIDERS DRESSED IN YELLOWThe Fates, Klotho, Atropos and Lachesis, the daughters of Necessity, are the three forms of time out of which human life is woven. In the film, the three bike riders we see in the distance and dressed in yellow represent them.In the ancient Greek myth, there is a cosmic spindle where all strands of human life exist separately. In the film, Alexandros', Ana's, his mother, his daughters', and the child's lives all exist separately.Klotho spins them together at some present time, the wife with the husband, the father with the children in their young years, the old man and the child refugee.Atropos, the future, will unravel them as to give the illusion of freedom. The future of the child seems to be free. He does not go back to his grand mother, he goes of to seemingly freedom, but all the time his life is determined by Lachesis the Aloter.In this chaotic situation, it is only logos that brings order, that gives some sense to seemingly world of fate or chance.LOGOSLogos in its multiple meanings, word, speech, dialogue, language, debate, account, etc. makes the above thoughts possible. It is the uniting force. In the chaotic world of change, logos comes to give some comfort by ordering things, by putting events and actions in their right place.Alexandros, in order to make sense of his life, wants as many words as he can find, to make sense of the time he spend being alive. And in the spirit of Capitalism, he is prepared to buy the words. He is prepared to buy them and gain his freedom, freedom from the tyranny of time, from the tyranny of death. Like his predecessor, Dionysios Solomos who was buying words to write the Ode to Freedom that became the Greek National Anthem.Alexandros, I think gained his freedom. At the end of the day he was making plans. Tomorrow after all, did not seem for Alexandros the end of time. It did not seem the end of his time.A very good film. "},{"Title":"wonderful film","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What a beautiful film. Dreamlike, poetic, wise; also sober, down-to-earth.Delivers home-truths too connecting with another human being gives one hope. Connections are possible across age, country, culture gaps. The images are gorgeous, the slowness fits. You have to sit on your impatience now and then. But thats entirely worth it.Also, I loved listening to the Greek language. But that is because I love Greece.It is a film that reminds me of Antonioni's L'Avventura and La Notte; they bring you into a trance where you can tell the beauty of this universe.  "},{"Title":"No words","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"27 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Since I traveled to Prague in 2003 and bought Eleni Karaidrou's album Eternity and a Day I was wondering when and where could I get this movie.I got it and it was incredible for me. Poetry, photography (I think it is the best photography I've ever seen in a movie) and music in an amazing movie THAT I DID NOT UNDERSTAND because it's in Greek (no English subtitles in the release I've got). You don't need to understand their words to feel it, to cry and to laugh when the moment comes. Angelopoulos has made, in my honest opinion, a master piece of theater-movie.Buy it, keep it, show it to your children, to your parents...  "},{"Title":"A true masterpiece of human emotion","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film was such a pleasurable experience to watch. I was expecting a considerably depressing venture but the end left me filled with a variety of conflicting emotions, including a hint of rapture and a dash of melancholy. There are times where Angelopoulos left me contemplating about the life I have led. To many critics, the pace of this film was too slow, on the other hand I felt that it flowed beautifully, taking its time to arouse the audience's emotions. The music by Eleni Karaindrou touched my soul for it was able to guide the actors to make a truly magnificent tale from the heart.  "},{"Title":"The art of a master","Date":"23 November 1998","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  While not as thoroughly awe-inspiring as Ulysses Gaze, Eternity and a Day is one of the most masterful films I've seen. It is full of beautiful, haunting images that have stayed with me long since seeing it. Like the other Angelopoulos films I've seen, it is a somewhat dense, contemplative film, but it shouldn't be seen as intimidating or unaccessible. The storyline, despite the frequent flashbacks, is easy to follow, the the emotional impact never ceases. An impressive, inspiring film. "},{"Title":"year 98dedicated to dionysios solomos,the national poet of greece","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Thessaloniki this day. A very sick bearded man leaves his seaside house to go to the hospital for the few days remaining. Suddenly he decides to search the area. He rescues a small Albanian boy chased at the traffic lights by the police while cleaning car windows for a living. He saves the same kid when ready to be sold to foreigners. This happens in Greece but it can happen anywhere. He makes a tour with the kid. He visits the frontier looking like a Nazi camp with spectators watching while hanging on the wire fence. He speaks with Dionysios Solomos,the poet of the 'Hymn to liberty' and 'Free begieged'.A poet that used to pay people in Zakynthos to buy a word for poetic exploitation. Theo Angelopoulos plays an important sociophilosophical role as a very talented director in expressing the human relation,the national language and many other concepts. Angelopoulos purports to open a new road for understanding the world,life,death,love,poetry,music,child innocence,a man to die very soon,a wedding with the married couple dancing in circle movements. This movie has a faster mode than previous ones by thesame director. First prize in Cannes in competition with Benigni's 'life is beautiful'. A film with the warm performance of Bruno Ganz. A film with the magnificent music of Eleni Karaindrou. A masterpiece for 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Kolya meets L'Avventura","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Not as heart-warming as Kolya, nor as powerful as L'Avventura, but still a movingly worthwhile experience.  The leaps from one point in the hero's lifetime to another are poignant.  Many of the directorial flourishes are quite memorable; the wedding sequence is not to be missed!Our hero, Alexos, exists in the present urban world in which the weather is gloomy and almost everyone wears black; but his mind wanders to the past, where the sun infallibly shines over the shore and nearly all wear white. Yet when Alexos imagines himself in his past, he's still shrouded in black; he can't even dream that he could be happy, until a street urchin appears to rattle him from his shell.This film does contain elements we've seen before, but arranges them in a fresh way.  It reminded me how precious and fleeting each moment really is, and how wondrous it can be to share our moments with others.  "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The 1998 film by Greek director Theo Angelopoulos, Eternity And A Day (Mia Aioniotita Kai Mia Mera or Μια αιωνιότητα και μια μέρα), is not merely another film about a supposed poet wherein the art of poetry and the act of poesizing are never on display. Yes, it's true that, technically, neither are on screen, but it is a superior film about a supposed poet wherein the art of poetry and the act of poesizing are never on display, for the film does capture the dead cliché of 'a soul of a poet' as well as just about any I've ever seen. It does it with imagery, and Angelopoulos's patented long takes, but it does capture it, and exceedingly well. The film was not only directed by Angelopoulos, but he wrote the screenplay. That it won that year's Cannes Film Festival's coveted Palm D'Or shows that, sometimes, quality still counts.The tale subtly weaves the past, present, and future tenses of a dying man, the bearded poet Alexander (Bruno Ganz, best known for starring in Wim Wenders' Wings Of Desire, and the later Adolf Hitler biopic Downfall, as Hitler), as he muses on life a day before he is to enter a hospital for an unspecified 'test.' In this manner, the film is in the fine tradition of films on dying men trying top come to grips with their lives, such as Akira Kurosawa's Ikiru, and Ingmar Bergman's Wild Strawberries. Yet, where the former film achieves its aims by balancing out the life of the dying man with that of a young woman, then turns the film on its head by dealing with the legacy of the man after his death, and the latter film evokes dread by displaying the subconscious memories of its lead character, Eternity And A Day splits the difference, as Alexander, after leaving his seaside apartment in Thessaloniki, after learning he has a terminal illness and must enter a hospital the next day, muses on a neighbor across the way who mirrors his taste in music, befriends a young unnamed immigrant Albanian boy (Achilleas Skevis) who is being exploited and slips in and out of his and others' pasts by simply walking into them. Angelopoulos does not cut to the past. His characters' pasts are extensions of their presents . Of course, the length of most of the takes, with the shortest being longer than most Hollywood shots, means most speed-addicted American viewers will be bored by the film. Yet, can there be a better recommendation for such a work? And, despite the long takes, the 126 minute long film feels far shorter, and this is because each scene leaves an immense intellectual and emotional impact. It was written by Angelopoulos, longtime Fellini screenwriter Tonino Guerra ,and Petros Markaris. The scoring by Eleni Karaindrou is pitch perfect, as it never overwhelms nor guides the viewer beyond what the scenes' immanent power holds.The acting by Ganz is wonderful, and a textbook display of full body acting. In the modern scenes he moves slowly and with a slump in his bearing, while when he enters the past, he has alacrity and grace. It is stated, in online descriptions of the film, that Ganz's lines were dubbed into Greek, but this presents little problem as there is not much dialogue, Alexander's facial hair partially covers his lips, and many of the speaking scenes are from a distance or the back. Again, the conveyance of his emotional and psychological states is predominantly by bodily acting. The same is not true for the boy, and Achilleas Skevis gives yet another terrific acting performance for a European child actor. His face has hints of the American Culkin acting clan, yet he is far more subtle and expressive, and when he jokes to Alexander that 'buying words' on the docks may be expensive, there is an impishness to his glinting eyes that few American brat actors could capture .Eternity And A Day is another great film by a master of the art who has been sorely neglected in the United States. It asks of its two lead characters, Why am I always a stranger in exile?, and gives no clear answer, save to estrange the two of them from each other and themselves .Alexander's final estrangement is not as cheery, and comes as he enters his old home- the one his daughter has sold for demolition. He looks about, exits out the back door, and into the sunny past where Anna and other friends are singing. They stop, ask him to join them, then they all dance, and soon, there is only the poet and his wife in motion. Then, she slowly pulls away, and he claims his hearing is gone. He also cannot see her, it seems. He calls out and asks how long tomorrow will be, after he has told her he refuses to go into the hospital, as planned. She tells him tomorrow will last eternity and a day. The film ends with Alexander, back to us, mumbling in untranslated Greek (do we really need to know what he is saying at this point, anyway?) watching the waves on the ocean do what they do, for a long time. It is in moments like this that Angelopoulos reveals that, while he is the equal of the best filmmakers in the art's history, such as Fellini or Bergman, he has more seriousness than the former, and a more profound empathy than the latter. Where that ultimately places him on the scale of the cinematic pantheon is to be argued over, but not the fact that he belongs. He and this film are that great. "},{"Title":"A Welcome Surprise","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  An Eternity and a Day, as the title translated in English means, is the answer Alexandros -the film's hero- receives as an epiphany, while pondering on the meaning of Tomorrow.We surmise that he has only a few days left to live, and watch him face a dilemma should he choose to give some meaning to the rest of his life, learn to love, care and express himself to the people he's in close contact with; or wither away, a stranger in his own life only to die a pointless death?Contrary to popular opinion, the film's concept is really this simple.Theo Angelopoulos has managed to win the appraisal of many, at the same time obtaining a hateful opposition. And while there are sequences in the film which will have you rolling your eyes and proclaiming Get on with it!, it's unique pictorial beauty and lyricism will more than make up for the lack of movement.Some of the downsides are the director's constant moulding of the world (and a strange one it is, where an 8 year old boy can debate like an adult and everyone spouts poetry instead of words) to fit his own megalomaniacal impulses - but maybe that's not a sin after all, maybe that's just what Creation is all about...A deserved 7. "}{"Title":"Eternity and a Day","Date":"12 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I consider Eternity and a Day the most successful film of Theo Angelopoulos. There has always been a poetic charm and an assertion for poetic communication in all Angelopoulos films. In Eternity and a Day it was most effectively represented. Though almost all of his films are very rich and filled with delightfully shaped and carried out scenes, but some of them I find far too long  Ulysses' Gaze, The Suspended Step of the Stork and some too sentimental  The Weeping Meadow. Eternity and a Day is very much free from these two traits.Angelopoulos described himself 'a war child'. Born and brought up in a difficult time in Greek history, wars and borders had always been a recurrent theme of his films. His earliest childhood memory was filled up with the sound of air raid sirens and the sight of German troops entering Athens, following the Italian invasion of Greece in 1940's. And like most Greek families of that time, they also had to face serious hardship and hunger. Angelopoulos was further traumatized by the events of 1944, when his father was arrested for not supporting the communist party at the outbreak of civil war, a period known as 'Red December' in Greek history.The events of the film Eternity and a day unfold in a single day, from morning to night, in the life of a famous Greek writer, Alexander. The day is also every now and then hindered by Alexander's past, his recollection of the events associated with his affectionate, dead wife. Alexander is suffering from a serious illness and is going to die very soon. He seems to have a very distant and uncomfortable relationship with his daughter and son in law, who have decided to sell their old house without even consulting him.Alexander encounters a small refugee boy on his way. First time in a traffic halt, he sees a group of boys hurriedly washing the stopped cars, and one of them approaches his. Soon some police men are seen who are running after these boys. Alexander tells the boy who was washing his car, to get inside. He leaves the boy in a different place; the boy goes out without a word. After a while he sees the boy again in some other part of the city, this time he is seen talking to two middle aged men, who forcefully pick him up and put him inside a van. Alexander decides to follow the van, which takes him to a barren part of the city, where these boys are being auctioned. Alexander somehow manages to take the boy out of that place. And after that what follows is almost a silent relationship that grows between the two. Alexander desperately tries to send the boy to his relatives and the boy tries to escape, probably he doesn't have a relative. He initially talks about his grandmother, but when they reach the Albanian border, and a guard is seen approaching, the boy confesses out of fear that previously he lied, he knows no one on the other side of the border. They run away from there. Alexander shouts in anguish that he can't leave him like this. And they both kind of seem helpless about it.Later, Alexander tells the Albanian orphan a story of a Greek poet of the past who lived his life in some other country and did not know his mother-tongue. But during the time of revolution, he felt an urge to come back to Greece and start writing poems in Greek, celebrating the revolution. But he didn't know Greek at all. So he started to study the language and gave money to anyone who gave him a new Greek word. But still his poetry remained incomplete, something that Alexander has been trying to finish for a long time. Stirred by the story, the Albanian boy goes out to search words at the dock. Interestingly Alexander picks up three words from him. One, 'korfulamu', a delicate word for the heart of a flower, a 'literal word of comfort' for his physical suffering, second, 'xenitis', a word that means the feeling of being a stranger everywhere, and the third, 'argathini', meaning very late at night &#x96; all of which echoes angelopoulos' poetic epitome, his sentiment of perpetual separation, his anguish for the death of a culture.Alexander doesn't only try to help out the kid, soon enough he indulges himself to communicate with the kid through words and poetry. And in the process, gets close to the kid and emotionally attached. It would be proper to say that Alexander finds comfort and a greater purpose through these exchanges. They seem to strike the same chord.As for the film, nothing really happens in the end. Their day comes to end after the bus journey. The boy leaves in a ship, and Alexander goes back to his memory of reconciliation or separation, or may be both at the same time.There are number of marvelously crafted scenes and moments that one can talk about, the scene in which Alexander's house maid's daughter is getting married out in the street, the scene in which the Albanian orphan burns the belongings of his long time friend Salim, the scene at the dock, at the Albanian border, at the traffic signal, and especially the bus journey at night.I wonder what the guy was doing with a huge red flag in the bus. Is that some kind of a political association? Well, he had a big flag in his hand no doubt, and that too was red. He even appeared at a crucial juncture of the film. Interestingly, moments after he gets up on the bus, he goes off to sleep and doesn't seem to wake up. Even the beautiful music played by the band inside the bus fails to wake him up. "},{"Title":"Filling the void.....","Date":"1 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If I saw this and Landscape in the Mist a year ago or so, I'm not sure if I would like them or even be able to finish them. Brought to my attention by the tragic passing of this great director, I feel like these films are hitting me at the right time. Because while I can perhaps understand that some may find something like Eternity and a Day to be boring, self- indulgent, or the most notorious pretentious -- on the other hand, it is for me something enchantingly beautiful and unlike few if any movies I have seen before. The angle I'm going to use to approach this one might be far-reaching and/or random, but bear with me and realize I usually tend to mentally tie-in what I have just watched into what I have watched previous. But in this case, it is what I have just read. I couldn't help but think of the character of this film as the Stephen Dedalus character from Joyce's A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man, but now 40 years or so into the future, on his death-bed and in despair. The protagonist here, likewise a poet, has lived a detached isolated existence from his wife and family. It is what Stephen would have wanted, so as to express himself freely as possible, but now in the waning years of his life the detachment has left him with an emptiness, a void he is trying to somehow fill (again, harking back to the oppressive emptiness felt in Landscape in the Mist). Angelopoulos incorporates letters from the characters' wife, narrated by her in poignant fashion, and often seamlessly transitions into flash-backs. This is again something intimate, yet suddenly sprawling. While initially one is enveloped in a natural setting, Angelopoulos then soon drifts into the fantastical and dream-like. Like with Landscape in the Mist, it all shouldn't be taken so literal. I believe to derive the greatest pleasure from this one should just sit back and let Angelopoulos take you where he wishes, for even if some stretches may not fully register, the high-points so totally make up for it. And once again, the visual compositions are just astounding and at the very least continuously interesting, with here the often long takes aren't even as noticeable straight away and once I realized them, I was then amazed in some scenes. There is this purity in the visuals which few directors works have been able to match and none surpass. Purity is probably the best and only way I can describe it. "},{"Title":"Flawed, but moving and beautiful","Date":"20 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The most Bergmanesque of Angolopoulos's films. Simpler and less epic than most of his work, with fewer of his trademark breathtaking images and grand themes. Yet this story of a dying writer spending his last day before entering the hospital -- never to leave -- has a deeply elegiac melancholy, and his attempts to find meaning by saving an Albanian street urchin are often moving, if occasionally sappy. The same is true of Bruno Ganz' (unfortunately dubbed) relationship with his wife and family, told mainly in flashback, Much is moving, some is hokey and forced. But Ageloupolus' use of images to make film a poetic medium is always worth watching, even when flawed. "},{"Title":"Much more than a masterpiece","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Theo Angelopoulus is much more than a genius. His latest film  An Eternity And One Day  is much more than a masterpiece. Angelopoulus is like a magician, everything can become poetry with his mystical touch. Although the film is full of great performances, especially the little kid, and the story is relatively simple though extremely moving, the merit of this movie is its compelling script, and the most elegant and clever camera motion I have ever seen. Everything seems to be in harmony, even the slightest details which are sometimes the most compelling. Memorable speaches, memorable music, memorable performances, memorable silences....Sometimes Angelopoulus doesn't even have to say a word...silence can say everything. I consider Angelopoulus as the real master of todays cinema, the cinema of poetry.  The best film of the decade.I would like to point out that the real measure of quality in todays cinema is the Palme D'Or..... Sex, lies and videotape, Pulp Fiction, An Eternity and One Day, Taste of Cherry . Much more than masterpieces. "},{"Title":"A scene for eternity","Date":"23 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was really a great movie. Against all those who say that Angelopoulos is boring, what I have to say is that the wedding scene in this film was so remarkable that it can be acclaimed as a piece of film history...The problem is that almost nobody in Greece likes Angelopoulos. Unfortunately, although the film received a Palme d' Or at the Cannes Film Festival, this wasn't enough to change the views of the Greek public. "},{"Title":"Eternity and A Day - the title, not meant to refer to the film's length.","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Many of us who viewed Eternity and a Day at January's 1999 Palm Springs International Film Fest, had our fun afterwards, cracking jokes at the length this film (132 minutes) in relationship to its title. There were scenes that seemed quite never ending, the wedding dance scene, to name just one. Nevertheless, take some of it away, and the symmetry of the film might well be broken. Then again, there is an awful lot of symbolism to digest all at one sitting. So go to see it on empty, and come away fully nourished and satisfied.Greek director Angelopoulos has created a spellbinding tour de force. Eternity and a Day is a brilliant film in it's haunting poetic imagery.I highly recommend this prized Greek film, an American Oscar submission. "},{"Title":"An Eternally Long Movie","Date":"4 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I couldn't wait for this movie to finally end. Its ponderously long pans across empty abandoned interiors, its insipid repetitive musical theme that showed no variation through the course of the film, its pretentious philosophizing, and its unsympathetic main character, shown as the same old man even in the flashbacks to his younger married life -- all left me uninspired and tired. I enjoyed the boy's story more than the poet's, but the youngster's acting ability was unfortunately limited in its range. Major set pieces were mannered and overly formal. This film was a major drag. And then I find out that it won the Golden Palm. What were they thinking? "},{"Title":"Eternity and a day  A minor yet powerful film from Theo Angelopoulos about human relationships.","Date":"5 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The first thing which comes to viewers' mind is that Eternity and a day is not an easy film. It requires a good amount of concentration as well as preparation from viewers to have a better idea about its principal theme as well as its narrative progression. For this film, Greek director Theo Angelopoulos has chosen to somewhat abandon Greek history albeit in his own manner in order to concentrate more on universal issues namely the life of an old man who doesn't have much time to live and the plight of a homeless boy. If we compare it to other films made by Greek master, we would find that the pace of the film is a little slow as a lot of sequences have dream like quality in them. One is also required to do a lot of homework as Eternity and a day is tightly structured as a relationship film in which an aged old man is contemplating the different relationships he had with people who have been close to him such as his daughter and his wife. The choice of actor Bruno Ganz as the old man is perfect as he plays his part with utter conviction. One can sense warmth in his gestures. It is as if he wishes to live forever in order to bring happiness in the lives of people who need it the most. Although Eternity and a day is considered a minor work by Theo Angelopoulos, it managed to win prestigious golden palm award at Cannes International Film Festival 1998. As a work of art with purpose, this film is an excellent visual document which is very much needed to understand the life of a poet. "},{"Title":"Masterly Meditation on Life, Literature and Death","Date":"22 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The basic plot of ETERNITY AND A DAY is straightforward enough - an aging writer Alexandre (Bruno Ganz) meets a young illegal Albainian immigrant (Achileas Skevis) and takes his home. As he does so, the writer reflects on his own life; his past; his relationship with his mother and his wife; and what he has achieved in his life. Yet Theodoros Angeloploulos' film is at heart a meditation on the act of writing when we set down words on the page, do they actually record our experiences, or can they only provide an approximation of what we are feeling at any particular moment? Alexandre is perpetually tormented by this thought - although successful in his chosen career, he believes that he has been a failure, simply because of the notion that words can only allude to experience, not record it. The child, in his innocence, believes that words can be found, or bought; but however much one pays for that word (in terms of buying a book, for instance, or when a writer receives royalties for what they have done), those words are still inadequate. They are both allusive - in the sense that their relationships to actions and things are contingent upon circumstances - and elusive (in the sense that such relationships are only approximate). With such uncertainties in his mind, Alexandre comes to understand that there is no final distinction between life and death (after all, they are only words); he has to experience both as a continuum, without the support of anyone. Visually speaking, the film is full of stylistic ironies Angelopoloulos' camera is perpetually tracking forwards; we see cars in the traffic-choked streets driving off to somewhere, or traveling on the freeway; while the characters are seen crossing the frame from left to right. All suggest some kind of forward movement, a desire to go from one place to another. However such movements are not progressive at all, but rather suggest a desire not reflect on life's futility (as Alexandre discovers through his words). In a sense such movements are an evasion rather than an engagement with existence. The same also goes for the narrative of the film Angelopoloulos shows that it is not particularly significant what matters more is for viewers to reflect on the mise-en-scene within individual frames; to listen to the words, focus on the actors' expressions and body movements, and understand Alexandre's state of mind. A long and complex film, ETERNITY AND A DAY befits repeated viewings. "},{"Title":"Tribute to a Master","Date":"29 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The tragic death of Theo Angelopoulos in a street accident early this year deprived us of one of cinema's greatest poets. His was a unique way of looking at the world, so much so that he seemed to attract admirers and detractors in equal number. To love his work, however, is to have succumbed to an adagio tempo that allows us to meditate, as we watch,, on what is being revealed, be it character, history or legend. So strongly is the spirit of place conveyed that the viewer feels he is actually there in those wintry landscapes of northern Greece that Angelopoulos made very much his own.Possibly the single most important DVD issue in recent months has been Artificial Eye's release of all Angelopoulos's feature films in three boxed sets. This has enabled me to fall in love again with the few I previously knew such as Landscape in the Mist, The Beekeeper and Eternity and a Day and to discover other masterworks such as The Travelling Players and The Suspended Step of the Stork. If I concentrate this review on Eternity and a Day it is because it is the most recent I have re-experienced after a gap of several years. In many ways this study of a possibly terminally ill writer meditating on his life whilst at the same time struggling with his present, is the director's most personal film. Certainly it is his most immediate in the way it gets far nearer to its characters than usual, often viewing them in close-up rather than middle distance. The film commences with the boy Alexander responding, as he wakes one summer morning, to the summons of his friends to join them on the beach which faces his family home. Thereafter we only see him as an old man regardless of the time zone into which the film slips. Indeed it is the fluid use of time, often passing from present to past within a single shot, that is a salient and wonderfully satisfying feature of an Angelopoulos film. In his bleak present Alexander often thinks back to a day of perfect happiness, shortly after the birth of his daughter, with his late wife and family on the beach where he played as a child. There is little comfort in a present that prefigures the end. About to admit himself to hospital he visits his daughter hoping to leave his dog with her, only to find that his beloved house by the sea is about to be sold to developers. The big issues of history with which Angelopoulos is usually preoccupied are largely absent apart from the refugee problem resulting from the Balkan conflict. Alexander's accidental encounter with a young Albanian boy whom he rescues first from a police raid on a gang of unsolicited traffic window cleaners and later from child adoption racketeers provides the temporary solace of someone to care for during a period of almost unendurable loneliness. Like many brief and meaningful encounters this is short lived. The boy is about to board a ship for yet another clime. What to do to while away their last hour before departure? A nearby bus operating a circular city route provides an answer that fills the youngster's face with glee. It proves to be a magical ride taken by an assortment of characters, a querulous couple, a tired revolutionary from some demonstration bearing a cumbersome red flag, a trio of conservatoire musicians who perform more for themselves that for those around them and finally the poet from a previous century whom we have met earlier in the film searching for and buying words of an unfamiliar language. Who but Angelopoulos could have conjured up such an imaginative conceit! Moreover, those three cyclists clad in yellow heavy waterproofs who appear in other of his films (I read somewhere that they represent the Fates) take the same journey as the bus. Alexander is sad in the knowledge that he may be approaching death without finishing the book he is writing. Ironically Angelopoulos died before completing the final film of the trilogy he had been working on since Eternity and a Day. Tragic as this was, there is at least the consolation that he left behind him some of the most heartbreakingly beautiful films the cinema has given us. "}{"Title":"True masterpiece","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Beautiful, poetical narration about the last day of a deadly sick man. Seldom one gets to see such unhurried film today. Eternal questions as life, death , love, are addressed. The film makes one's heart cry, and at the same time exulted with joy, from getting to know another big artist.  "},{"Title":"Synchronic Depiction","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Alexandre tries to find the meaning through a whole of his life on his last day simultaneously in the meditative way, how to have had influenced one another, might be his lated beautiful wife, with her recurrent letter. Finally he could cut across the unbroken wholeness in the last scene that Theo Angelopoulos as director could not end to make this film. He or we should know eternity composed with all its parts and a day is just the instant but cyclically over recurring and longer. This film could be the teaching material of literature, what the synchronic linguistics is. We have to watch the sequential scenes in the notes depicting by Theo entirely after then, to consider as he maintained anytime.The tale of Solomos presented obviously Theo's literary stranger thoughts what he has been holding still today and three words that a boy picked out for Alexandre let take Greek climate being set off by it to heart. "},{"Title":"70 word outline of film and what's great about it.","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Shamefully neglected in Britain,Angelopoulos is one of modern cinema's few remaining grand masters.Here he loads his tale- of a terminally ill poet who leaves his family seaside home and befriends a refugee Albanian boy- with not only his usual intellectual rigour and visual majesty,but also massive emotional resonance.A mesmerizing journey seamlessly interchanging sundrenched memories and landscapes in the mist bleakness illuminated with shafts of purest joy,it is a film touched by angels. "},{"Title":"Life is poetry","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  During two hours, I've been watching and understanding the man's whole life. His life is poetry as our lives.Theo Angelopoulos shows us a different way of making cinema. Every scene is full of details, full of beautiful images and poetry. It seems like a Greek poem in our days. Ithink it's the best film I ever seen. Word can't explain it. "},{"Title":"A unbiazed view of Balkan last century history","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Amazing photo, excellent actors, excellent music, summarizing with a calm, easy view a whole era in history of Balkans happenings, one of the most crucial areas of Europe and world affecting. Documentary like, conveying the spirit and truthness of an ever wondering person, seeking the eternal truth. Near and Far simultaneously from the events, a reference film for those wishing to contribute in such subjects.  "},{"Title":"You're smiling, but I know you are sad.","Date":"7 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Theodoros Angelopoulos took a Golden Palm at Cannes for this film by unanimous vote. Of course, it was also a big winner at the Thessaloniki Film Festival, winning several wards, including one for Helene Gerasimidou, who played Urania.The cinematography was extremely beautiful, but it was Eleni Karaindrou's and Mikis Theodorakis' music that ready made this a pleasurable experience. Of course, Angelopoulos is criticized by some for leaving his political film-making now that the dictatorship is over and creating a body of pretty-looking, but increasingly empty and self-indulgent work. Sometimes, self-indulgence is good.As Alexandre (Bruno Ganz) faces his last day, we are taken to the past and see his now dead wife Anna (Isabelle Renauld) as she lived. He visits relatives, but he is increasingly disappointed that life hasn't really worked out the way he wanted.H rescues a little boy from kidnappers who are selling children to rich Greeks. He tries to help the boy, but he is again frustrated. Finally, he takes the boy and joins him on a trip to his native Albania.It is only through our connection to others that we truly experience life and all it's magic. "},{"Title":"Full of subtle nuances -- poetic storytelling of the journey of a man, a child (and a woman)","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I can take Bruno Ganz any day! This one, it's more of a subdued role -- it reminds me of Everybody's Fine, I can picture Marcello Mastroianni in the lead role of this story. Ganz appeared with a beard and delivered a restrained performance.Bruno Ganz exudes a certain strength and energy in the characters he played (Wim Wenders' Wings of Desire 1988, Gillian Armstrong's The Last Days of Chez Nous 1992), with an outward strong physique. This role is sort of different he is portraying a man beset with an illness and is unsettled about his upcoming hospitalization. He's also tormented by his own conscience of past episodes he had with his beloved wife -- her presence recurs in haunting flashbacks at this fragile juncture of his impending life's end.It's his journey and adventure with a little boy whom he by chance (or fate) met. The child became a link to the revived life force and energy in Alexander (Ganz' character). No more brushing off things, no more doesn't have time excuses; he is to re-prioritize the events and things in his life and to make a difference -- to do something meaningful for someone other than himself -- to this little boy (in turn to himself). The child's situation prompted him to take risks -- it's about time for him to do so. He's finally experiencing living! The little boy brought him back to life, living, and caring -- woke him up, freed his self-blaming mind and pulled him out of his doldrums. The realization that action speaks louder than words (literally so when he's a writer all his life) gave him fresh insights. The whole film is poetically put together. Director Angelopoulos has intermixed political, intellectual issues with aspects of life events and levels of emotions. Good performances from Ganz, the little boy,  and Anna, the wife. The story has its episodic twists and turns, reality and flashbacks, chase scenes (yes, there is action) and mindwalks, yet there is a certain steady pace and quietness to the film. Some might find it slow and will need patience to follow the film -- don't go if you're tired, you might miss the nuances of Angelopoulos' poetic storytelling and subtle image hints. It's a beautiful, philosophical, and mind-probing piece -- prompts us to reflect on how we lead our lives. Definitely not Hollywood fare. NFE.   I find an affinity of story structure to the current box office hit, The Sixth Sense, which also revolves around a man, a child, (and a woman) a man finding redemption through the time he spent with a little boy, and trying to resolve his neglectful past relationship with his wife. In this case, The Sixth Sense is more real while Eternity and A Day is more like a dream state. Also brings to mind is Francesco Rosi's Christ Stopped at Eboli 1979 (in Italian with Gian Maria Volonte, Irene Papas), another quiet philosophical journey of a man discovering life, living and himself among simple village folks.   "},{"Title":"Eternity and a Day","Date":"2 November 2005","Score":"13 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A pretty strong sense of deja-vu gripped me as I was watching Eternity and a Day, and it wouldn't let go. The blurred windows and lights, the people with the yellow water-coats, the obligatory walk by the sea, the foggy settings, the usual mix of suburban and rural Greek landscapes, the choreographed wedding etc. It's hopeless, any post Alexander the Great Angelopoulos film feels the same. Eternity and a Day is his version of Fellini's Amarcord, with a few bits of Death in Venice thrown in for good measure (the ending for example).What's worse is having to endure the pseudo-philosophical babble of famous rich directors, who are trying to convince us that they are existentially troubled. Cringe as the protagonist (ie the director's alter ego) wonders why he was unable to love in his life, or how long tomorrow lasts. Blush at the pure melodrama of his ex wife's letters. Elitists will of course say that this is deep art, but I must protest, Angelopoulos made quite a few bucks with this one. You would be well advised to watch Travelling Players or Alexander the Great instead. "},{"Title":"Suprisingly disappointing.","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I guess my fault with this film was going into the cinema with such high expectations. Having read reviews and knowing the film was to be poetical, I was really looking forward to seeing it. It started with an extremely promising sequence with the children on the beach, but all was downhill from there. Suprisingly disappointing. "}]