[{"Title":"A decent spy yarn but falls far short of the true story","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"69 out of 93 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" A couple of years ago PBS aired a 2-hour episode of Nova (the American equivalent of the BBC's Horizon) called 'Decoding Nazi Secrets.' It was a fascinating documentary about the work done at Bletchley Park, as well as some material about its American counterpart, Arlington Hall. I had wished it was even longer, for I suspected that what was left out was as interesting as what was included. Among the many memorable characters in the story, none stood out more than Alan Turing, a painfully shy, socially awkward, utterly brilliant genius. I found myself wishing that someone would make a theatrical film about the Enigma code and a film of Alan Turing's life, or both.Unfortunately, this isn't it. In March of 1943, code-breakers at Bletchley Park discover to their horror that the German navy has changed the code sets used to communicate with U-boats at sea. These were based on the famous and diabolically complex encryption machine known as the Enigma. Authorities enlist the help of a brilliant young man named Tom Jericho (played by Dougray Scott) to help them break the code again. The possibility of a spy within the British code-breakers' ranks is raised, and Tom's love interest, Claire (Saffron Burrows), has disappeared. To solve these mysteries, Tom recruits Claire's best friend, Hester Wallace (Kate Winslet). While investigating Claire's personal life, the pair discovers personal and international betrayals involving the now-infamous Katyn massacre in Poland. Of course, Tom and Hester fall in love.Dougray Scott actually does bear some physical resemblance to Alan Turing, but there the comparison ends. Turing's sorry, shabby reward for the instrumental role he played in winning the war for Britain was to be persecuted during the Cold War because his homosexuality was viewed as a security risk, to the point that he committed suicide. While 'Enigma' looks good and plays fairly well as a decent espionage film, the viewer who knows the factual background of this piece of fiction will probably be disappointed. The best part for me was the recreation of the physical setting at wartime Bletchley Park, especially the Enigma machines themselves and the famous Bombes, which were invented by Turing (Jericho in the film). These were among the world's first computing machines; they were a stroke of brilliance by Turing Instead of looking for what a coded message WAS, they operated according to the principle of eliminating what it was NOT. This cut the number of possibilities by better than 90% and greatly simplified the work of the human code-breakers. It is somewhat surprising that this rather wan film is the work of Tom Stoppard and Michael Apted; they have done better. "},{"Title":"Not a war movie for the masses","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"41 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" 'Enigma' is the kind of war movie that may not be loved by many people, mostly because there isn't much of action to be seen in it. At least, not the kind of action they would like to see no heroically fighting soldiers, no breathtaking dogfights between the RAF and the Luftwaffe... But people like me, who are deeply interested in every aspect of the Second World War and who can appreciate a good story, certainly will love it.It's March 1943 and the crypto-analysts at Britain's code-breaking center have discovered that the German U-boats have changed their Enigma Code. At first the English were able to read all their messages, but now they are back where they first started ... nowhere. Their only hope is the brilliant young man named Tom Jericho, who was able to crack the first code and who'll now have to do the same with the new one. In the meantime Tom's girlfriend Claire has disappeared and at the same time it is believed that there is a spy in the ranks of the code-breakers. When looking for his lost girlfriend and investigating her personal life, he uncovers some personal and international betrayals...However it is clear that the main story of this movie is fictional, the entire movie is certainly interesting to watch. I mean, I have never had the chance to see how this enigma machines really worked, so I really appreciated the fact that it was shown so well in this movie. What I also liked in this movie was the love story that certainly wasn't too corny or overwhelming. It was an interesting part of the story that never bothered me, it just made the movie even better. As I already said, this may not be the kind of war movie for the masses, but I liked it and that's why I give it at least a 7.5/10, perhaps even an 8/10. "},{"Title":"Nutritious whole brain entertainment for the mind","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"43 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Enigma blends fact with fiction as it tells a carefully crafted story about the unseen and unsung heros of British WWII code-cracking who decrypted the infamous Enigma code which Germany used to command it's U-boat armada in the North Atlantic putting allied convoys in peril. With plenty of history and super-secret code cracking to feed the left brain and a dramatic tale of a top code-cracker and his surreptitious affairs of heart and mind for the right brain, Enigma has something to offer everyone. The film manages it's intricate plot well, offers solid performances, blends intrigues with lots of WWII crypto-speak, and moves along swiftly while staying real and avoiding the usual excesses of filmdom. A smart flick for smart minds. (B+) "},{"Title":"History without histrionics","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"36 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is a rare pleasure of a film - one that is prepared to treat its viewers intelligently and tell a war-time story without explosives and histrionics and without falsifying history to glorify the Americans. It is based on the best-selling novel by Robert Harris whose previous work `Fatherland' suffered so badly when translated to the screen. Here he has a decent screenplay from Tom Stoppard, assured direction from Michael Apsted, and three fine performances by British actors.Dougray Scott, in a very different role from his `Mission Impossible 2' outing, has lost weight to portray brilliant, but tortured, code-breaker Tom Jericho at Britain's war-time Bletchley Park; Kate Winslet put on weight (she was pregnant at the time) for a performance far removed from `Titantic' as the frumpy, but clever, Hester; and Jeremy Northam is excellent as the sardonic secret service agent Wigram who knows far more than he is prepared to reveal.  "},{"Title":"I must like this or I wouldn't own a DVD copy.","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"25 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I first viewed this film the way its makers would want me to - on the big screen, and with friends. It commanded my attention and concentration, which, I believe, is the way good movies should. The post-viewing dinner and analysis made me want to go back and see it again, in spite of the fact I thought my absorption was total. In the event I waited until I was able to rent, then purchase, the DVD. So my opinion is based on multiple viewings, which says much about the complexity and detail ENIGMA provides.I am not surprised to read comments from others who believe it was too complex after just one viewing. But I am surprised by the diversity of opinion of its direction, acting, scripting, design and cinematography - all of which I found to be of the highest standard.This is one of those rare films that does not require an audience to suspend dis-belief. It is primarily fact-based, and while, like most fact-based movies, some events are concatenated, characters combined or dramatized, the presentation oozes credibility. Is it entertaining? Absolutely. Do the romantic plots and themes detract? Not at all. Is the code-breaking boring? No, but, like most who viewed it with some knowledge of the German encryption machine from which the movie takes its title, it may have left stuff out that would be nice to know about. Other reviewers have referenced web sites and publications that contain the detail and I have sourced material that has satisfied my curiosity.It is not a documentary, in spite of the fact that director, Apted, is an eminent documentary maker. It is a human drama set amongst the surreal environment of the code-breaking complex of Bletchley Park. I can't comment on how faithful Stoppard's screenplay is to Harris' book, not having read it. And it is specious for anyone to make comparisons in any case.Does the film downplay the Polish contribution to the Ultra activities? I don't think so. They captured an early 3-rotor Enigma machine and copied it and successfully cracked the codes then in use. What the English operatives captured was the later 3-rotor machine with the front patch panel, which was a quantum leap ahead of the pre-war machines. Turing and his associates then created the 'bombes' - reproduced in exquisite detail for the movie with assistance of the curator of the Bletchley Park Museum. Incidentally, Britain built a number of these bombes for US intelligence, which the US still have. But that's the sort of detail that is not essential to the execution of the plot or the enjoyment of its portrayal.I have now enjoyed viewing ENIGMA so often I have lost count. And it has done nothing but whet my appetite for further, while less frequent viewings. I can add nothing to the erudite comments of the more discerning reviewers regarding the performances of Scott, Winslett, Northam, Burrows and their superb supporting cast members. They have crafted one of the finest wartime movies I have had the pleasure to experience. An absorbing and fascinating movie. I rate it 10 out of 10.Postscript - added 30/07/2011.Incidentally, at my first viewing of the movie, I was impressed by the performance of a rather portly, bespectacled young actress. It was not until the post-viewing dinner my curiosity was sated, somewhat ashamedly (but in Ms Winslett's favour), for failing to recognise this talented lady. I later discovered - and it is obvious in the final scene of the film - Kate was, in fact, pregnant at the time. Carefully disguised during shooting, her condition simply made her character all the more believable. "},{"Title":"An overload of elements - and it's clear which element should have gone","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"29 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Firstly no, it's NOT a scandal that Alan Turing isn't mentioned.  He couldn't be mentioned without being made into a character and given a role in the story - which would mean, among other things, placing him on the list of suspected traitors, at least temporarily, which would either be a slur, or (assuming it wasn't a slur because we'd immediately know him to be innocent) a constraint on the mystery.  Throwing in a clearly fictitious genius was the right thing to do.  (Turing was the most important, but not the only, genius involved.)The main problem with Enigma is that emphasis is badly misplaced.  I was interested in (a) how the war effort was going, (b) whether Bletchley Park would come up with solutions in time, (c) HOW the process of breaking codes was actually carried out, and (d) when Tom would get over his idiotic infatuation with that annoying blonde chick and fall, as any sensible person would, for the dynamic and twenty-times-more-attractive Hester (Kate Winslet).  I won't swear that I was interested in these things in that order, but I WAS interested in them to the exclusion of everything else; the mystery subplot involving Claire that for some reason becomes THE plot, was a distraction.  Its twists and turns (they come along like clockwork every fifteen minutes) are of the kind you don't even bother trying to follow.  You just wait for the next confrontation between Dougray Scott and Jeremy Northam, of which Stoppard's (or Harris's) mechanical sleight-of-hand is just a means of providing.  A pity he couldn't have found some other means - or moved Northam's character to a different movie altogether, where he wouldn't take time away from Enigma, Winslet's character, etc.The film - and the script, too, all things considered - is well put together (intelligent writing, excellent acting and photography), so the Claire subplot makes it a real missed opportunity. "},{"Title":"Good suspense war film","Date":"29 July 2004","Score":"20 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The movie concerns upon an investigation team in the Bletchley Park mansion with the aim to decipher communication keys of German submarines during second world war.In the squad there are a wise nut-head (Dougray Scott) , an ugly and outcast girl (Kate Winslet) and another rush and beautiful (Saffron Burrows), and yet a clever investigator (Jeremy Norton).The movie mingles mystery , action , a love story , thriller and it's quite amusing.The flick is paced to nick of time , as they ought to figure out the clues by means of the Enigma , a mechanical device before that an Allied fleet was found by German subs .One of the motivations behind shooting this picture was the indignation of many British World War 2 veterans over the movie U-571 , in which the capture of the Enigma was shown to be done by American navy soldiers . Michael Apted direction is nice , he creates enough suspense , we're very interested in the events , besides being based on real deeds.Final feature film with a full music score composed by John Barry , his music is fascinating likeness to Dancing with wolves and a lot of hits during his long career thirty years ago .It was such a thrilling movie that had a great success in box office.The film will appeal to emotions enthusiasts and suspense fans.Rating 7/10 above average . "},{"Title":"Falsified history.","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"15 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Once again, the history of cracking the Enigma's code is falsified. Not so long ago we had U-591 and now there's this movie. Let's then make this thing clear once and for all the people responsible for cracking the Enigma's code were the group of Polish mathematicians, among them M. Rejewski, J. Rozycki and H. Zygalski. They made a replica of Enigma in 1933 and in August, 1939, Poland presented France and Great Britain with cracked Enigma specimens, which helped the allies to know the orders and plans of Third Reich. Too bad that the nations who had received such an important gift forgot about it so easily. "},{"Title":"short","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"22 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  And this Movie is definitely worth seeing.  It's so nice to go to these cinema factories and be treated with a good film, rather than the tripe which always comes out of Hollywood. Enigma is a quirky, happy go lucky film about codebreakers during the war, with a bit of espionage and a bit of romance, in just the right proportions. Go and see it, it is not too taxing on the brain really as someone else here said, it is certainly not mind numbingly boring Hollywood  fodder. "},{"Title":"Not very fair, is it?","Date":"3 December 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Nice and sentimental, but perhaps, in the light of the fact that it was Polish cryptographers Marian Rejewski, Jerzy Rózycki and Henryk Zygalski who in 1932 deciphered Enigma, the present plotting is not very fair, is it? Further, the justification of the plot is not very convincing, not to speak about the resolution. Perhaps crucial historical events, always ambiguous and open to conflicting interpretations, are not the best material for nice and sentimental movies? It so happened, though, that only yesterday I watched Jeremy Northam in Possession (2002). There, the whole point is to remember Northam in various Austen BBC productions. Here, one delightful point was to see him in a very different role. What is more, the day before yesterday I re-watched Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind (2004). What a different Kate Winslett there! It is a great pleasure to watch the actors who, unlike others who always play the same role &#150; themselves &#150; can incarnate so many different characters! Oh well, they are British... "}{"Title":"Repeat after me; Tom Jericho is not supposed to be Alan Turing...","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Some mild spoilers follow...Enigma was a film destined to upset some people.  Those who didn't read the book would moan that the Brits were trying to take all the glory away from the Poles (glory and war...how terribly 19th century...), and that Turing was replaced with Jericho because Turing was gay.  Those who had read the book would complain about all the layering and depth that was sliced off the plot in order to pander to a supposedly intellectually impaired audience. Both camps are of course missing the point.The film is a fictional tale of intrigue set against a backdrop of momentous historical events.  The Enigma of the title refers not only to the German code but also to several of the characters. Claire Rommily is an Enigma that Jericho fails to break until the very end of the film, Puck is an Enigma made all the more un-breakable by the fact that no-one recognises him as such.  Jericho too is an Enigma, even to the audience who is privy to some of his inner thoughts, as he hides as much as he discloses and is capable of more than appearances suggest.So the story is as much about the codes that people use with each other in everyday life as it is about military code-breaking.  Which is not to say that the use of Bletchley Park as a frame for the story is arbitrary; the two kinds of code breaking are bound up in each other, and that is the art of the piece.  The artfulness of the film must be accepted before any kind of criticism is undertaken.The historical criticisms that are nevertheless levelled at Enigma seem churlish to say the least.  Firstly, the Poles are an integral part of the plot, and in the book significant time is given over to their crucial part in the very existence of Bletchley.  That this aspect is less apparent in the film has more to do with the limits of the medium than any British propaganda; Fasson and Grazier's role is similarly pared down to a mere line.  As for Jericho as a sanitised form of Turing, such criticisms show a level of historical ignorance in the critic that is thankfully never shared by the film-makers.  Turing was in a far more senior, technical position than Jericho, and in the book it is made clear that Jericho is one of Turing's students from Cambridge.  Anyone wanting a film all about Turing should get hold of the excellent Breaking The Code, starring Derek Jacobi.What is important about the history in Enigma is that it never alters anything that really happened, merely weaves it's plot within the established facts.  Unlike, say, Pearl Harbour...Of course, there are other potential problems with the film, but they rest pretty much exclusively within the purview of personal taste.  It isn't a fast-paced actioner; at no point does Dougray Scott battle Tom Cruise on a pair of powerful motorbikes, but then Marmite doesn't taste of chocolate, yet I like them both the same.  Some concessions to the visual nature of films are made (the re-framed ending being an obvious example), but readers of the book should either accept these changes or stop watching films altogether.Whilst slow paced at times Enigma remains intellectually stimulating and the plot never seems to drag or become bloated.  As an example of a well-made, intriguing, and, dare I say it, entertaining film, this is one for the DVD collection.  "},{"Title":"Poor screenplay, poor scenography, naive action.","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Probably for the first time a mass production, english speaking movie, with an explicit statement, that England was unable to win the Battle of Britain without the decoding of the Enigma machine. It explains, why the Enigma secret was kept in a secret for the next 30 years after the WWII. What the movie does not explain is, that before WWII the French and the English counterintelligence did receive the fully operational Enigma machines (with the appropriate decoding info) from the Polish Army. The machines were Made in Poland and were the perfect copies of the German originals. The English counterintelligence did show zero interest in the machine. And the english copy landed in a store room in England.The screenplay shows a Polish guy trying to join Germans. Obvious nonsens.At the same time the English counterintelligence was full of Russian spies (see later escapes of English top officers to Russia).  "},{"Title":"Dismal soap that shamelessly exploits wartime tragedy and heroism","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The dramatic story behind the World War 2 code breakers at Bletchley Park, apparently capable of shifting thousands of copies of books at airports around the world, is apparently not dramatic enough for Mick Jagger and the other hip dudes behind this tribute.In this movie, geniuses accomplishing extraordinary technical feats under great pressure are merely there to provide backdrop for a couple of childish romantic themes and a spy chase. In similar vein, Nazis are far too abstract and distant to be the real antagonist in this movie - instead our heroes must contend with being tailed by a ludicrous Bond-style secret service man, complete with dumb Scotland Yard sidekick.Yet if this movie were merely anachronistic (it's a bitch, get fresh, improbable and regular use of F-word), or historically irrelevant, we could dismiss it as so much popcorn accompaniment. What makes it actively offensive, as Poles have noted elsewhere, is its brazen exploitation of the Katyn massacre. Truly we are scraping the bottom of the barrel when silly car chases through picturesque countryside have to be given substance from tragically real events.Not that those whose heroic deeds at Bletchley Park were so belatedly recognised have much less to complain about. Either the depiction of thousands of conscientious and totally loyal workers at Bletchley Park was considered too dull to make a good movie, or the writers are genuinely unable to comprehend the society of sixty years ago. Whatever the excuse, we are asked to imagine our codebreaking heroes as unstable teenage rebels. Yes, these top mathematicians are no slouches when it comes to vulgar abuse and fisticuffs, and it's clearly going to be a close-run thing whether Enigma will crack before they do. Curiously, this script was not created by a coke-addled Generation Xer with no knowledge of life before 1975, but by Tom Stoppard, who based it on the book by Robert Harris. The mistake seems to have been to take a lightweight fantasy and try to lend it substance by making the depiction as authentic as possible. The result is that we get all-too-real scenes of WWII exhumed bodies segueing into the next mini adventure of our bumbling romantic duo in their cute period vehicle.If, as reported, Jagger intended this as recognition of some neglected members of the greatest generation, one suspects that many of them will feel that this is the kind of recognition they could do without. "},{"Title":"Worthwhile","Date":"17 October 2004","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Should be seen if only because it presents a great deal of finely done workaday detail of the most closely guarded secret of WWII. The breaking of the German military codes by the world's first electronic computer was probably the single most important advantage of the Allies in the war. There is the overlay of a suspenseful enough spy tale, but the main thrill is to see a recreation of the legendary super secret country estate, Bletchley Park, where Alan Turing and other highly gifted young mathematicians and scientists gave the decisive blow to Nazi Germany. Tom Stoppard's script does a neat job of simplifying the complexities and putting forth a sense of the atmosphere of exhausting hard work and fate which must have constantly hung in the air. "},{"Title":"Good actors and story - too many subplots","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"15 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I stumbled across this movie one day when my huge list of digital cable movies didn't seem to offer me much (what else is new!). I like Kate Winslet & Jeremy Northam so it caught my eye. I liked the movie very much, mostly because I am a history buff and didn't have much knowledge about the whole enigma machine and how it was used by Germany during the war. So from that perspective it was certainly acceptable enough to keep my attention. However, the script did move rather slowly at times and they perhaps threw in too many subplots. I feel it is better to hone in on one subplot and expand it than to have too many and feel like you walk away from the movie not understanding ENOUGH. They could have done a better job, but overall, anyone with an interest in learning a bit about the Enigma would find this movie worth watching. I'd give it a 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Read the book","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"33 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" ... it is a faithful and gripping account of the activities of Alan Turing and the Bletchley Park codebreakers. The film is a soggy, anachronistic, fictionalised mess.  The truth is far stranger and more compelling. A waste of an opportunity to redress the imbalance created by U-5 "},{"Title":"Not enigmatic","Date":"15 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Enigma is based on the fictional Robert Harris novel which is a part wartime thriller and part love story based on code breakers in Bletchley Park. It mixes fiction with some real characters and events. The book is gives a grim depictions of a war torn Britain which I am afraid endured for several decades after the war.Dougray Scott is a mathematician recovering from a breakdown after a doomed love affair. He returns to Bletchley to find out his ex lover, Claire has gone missing and there is pressure to crack the Enigma code and with intelligence officers crawling about, there might also be a mole in his team.Scott (with a variable accent) teams up with a dowdy Kate Winslet to investigate what happened to Claire and discover something more sinister.The film was adapted by Oscar winner Tom Stoppard. He introduces some new scenes and different climax from the book. He does well in keeping the grimness of domestic life and fashions of the time but its not a successful screenplay. Director Michael Apted struggles to give flair and spark to the film as it remains dour, dull and lifeless. Despite a few extravagant scenes it does look like a glorified television film.Scott and Winslet work well together but the film is too uneven, there are some good shots of the code breaking machines whirring around and some humorous scenes of the women working in Bletchley with the lecherous supervisor. The thriller element despite a good start fails to work and in this adaptation seems flawed.Jeremy Northam's acting is provided by his hat and his supercilious character has a habit of speaking lines that sound out of period.A disappointment especially as I enjoyed reading the novel. "},{"Title":"rather boring","Date":"26 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Thomas Jericho (Dougray Scott) is brought back to Bletchley Park to decrypt the new version of the Enigma machine specially made for U-boats. He's been away after a mental breakdown. There is a large convoy coming across the Atlantic and the Allies are newly blind. There is a suspected spy as the Nazis seems to be changing their ways. Tom is searching for his missing girlfriend Claire Romilly (Saffron Burrows) along with her flatmate Hester Wallace (Kate Winslet). Meanwhile Wigram (Jeremy Northam) is searching for the mole.Dougray Scott gives a tiresome performance especially at the beginning when his character is world weary. Kate Winslet is playing a mousy character. All the flashbacks are pretty boring. Saffron Burrows is doing supermodel level of acting. Their great love never seem so great. The movie is a bore when this should be a thrilling spy story. In the end, I don't care about Jericho. That would be workable if Jericho actually turns out to be the mole. That would be quite a nice noir touch. Also the act of code breaking is not done that well. Although doing code breaking well has never been easy. "},{"Title":"3 out of 10","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I didn't enjoy this film!A dull, foppish, daft central character who achieves nothing worthwhile during the film except drag us through a mundane plot and get it together with chubbily pregnant Kate Winslet. Doug Ray Scott, sleepwalks through the film and manages to make us laugh at his antics (unintentionally, of course), at every turn. Kate Winslet does well with her role, and is creditable at managing to be more attractive than pouting femme fatale Saffron Burrows. The rest of the cast are allowed to fulfil their stereotypes with cardboard cut-out gusto.To sum it up, no suspense, no surprise, a main character with no character, silly errors and daft direction all conspire effectively to keep an intriguing premise thoroughly well encrypted. "},{"Title":"This film is far from historics facts...","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Hello Every children in Poland knows that Enigma codes has cracked by Polish scientists from Poznan University ( M. Rejewski, J. Rozycki, H. Zygalski). This is in ours History Books in elementary school. Well... that film has falsified history... Grets "}{"Title":"Above all, badly executed","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I watched this with a dim knowledge of what went on at Bletchley in the second world war. I thought the film coped well with putting the complexity of codebreaking in a viewer-friendly way and accurately portrayed the dynamic of the communication challenges inherent when suits talk to geeks. That's about the limit of the good things I can say about the way this film delivers its message. It doesn't seem to be able to decide what the important things are and it doesn't help you get behind any of the protagonists' causes. Maybe that was the intent - the plot itself is a bit of an enigma - but I would have preferred a clearer indication of what the protagonists wanted for themselves. You could tell simply from the formula that he would get together with the dowdy female geek, but there was no clear turning point where he overcame his obsessive devotion to his missing ex. A few good moments, but does little to educate and little to really entertain. "},{"Title":"This movie distorts the facts much in the spirit of totalitarian (Soviet, Nazi) propaganda. Thumbs down.","Date":"10 January 2009","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Bad plot a Pole working in Bletchley learns from one of intercepted German reports about Katyn massacre on Polish officers by Soviet NKVD. He is so upset that he betrays the fact that Allies decode Enigma, nearly bringing disaster on his host country UK... This is a movie worthy of Soviet, or worse, German propaganda, showing heroes as villains.Good plot and movie material I am sending everyone interested to Wikipedia information about professors Rejewski, Zygalski, and Rozycki, men who broke Enigma and created first computing bombs. This is a better material for a very exciting war movie, although not a happy Hollywood end is available here Poles are betrayed by Churchill and Rosevelt in Yalta despite their contribution to the Allied war effort, they are depicted as unwanted troublemakers in the pro Soviet British press ... to appease the lesser evil Uncle Joe. Especially oblivion of the three heroes who broke Enigma and created systems to read German communication on a production scale is deplorable. "},{"Title":"Cracking codes *contains spoilers*","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This movie is not a documentary. Or a docudrama. Or a war movie. Or a romance. It is a movie about code-breaking, about solving mysteries - every single character is involved in that activity in some way or other.Jericho and the other codebreakers, obviously, are trying to break the German secret code. Jericho is also involved in a private quest to solve the mystery of his ex-lover Claire, who has disappeared. In this he is joined by Claire's friend Hester. Meanwhile Wigram is trying to figure out who has been leaking information from Bletchley Park to the Germans - also a code-breaking activity in a way, but on a psychological rather than a mathematical level. And Puck has, all along, been trying to solve the mystery of what happened to his younger brother.These three main storylines eventually build up to a climax - the night of the battle, when the codebreakers at Bletchley are frantically striving to find their way back into the German U-boat code before their fleet gets attacked, while Hester is fighting a  lonely battle in her cottage, uncoding the messages that Claire stole, hoping that they will offer a clue to where she is.But the real mystery lies not in numbers, but in human emotions and relationships. Jericho is hot on the trail of the real traitor only to find that Wigram is always one step ahead of him. But in the end it turns out that even Wigram has a secret to hide - or perhaps it could be said that for all his proficiency at reading people's deepest secrets, the one person that Wigram failed to read was himself - which makes him somewhat of a tragical character really.The acting in this movie is superb - Dougray Scott and Kate Winslet both do a fantastic job, and so does everyone else, down to the smallest parts. One of my favorite bits is a small cameo, of one of the women employed in taking down the morse code without ever knowing what any of this is about, asking Jericho if what they are doing is at all important - brings me to tears.The most outstanding performance, in my opinion, comes from Jeremy Northam as the ultra-smooth and ultimately tainted spy chief Wigram - not a pleasant character at all, although he can't be said to be evil, but Northam manages to imbue this character with so much hidden pain that I find myself relating to him more than any of the more obvious characters.Wigram is a voyeur - he very obviously gets a kick out of spying out other people's most private moments. Witness the scene in Jericho's bedroom where Wigram basically gets his kicks from making Jericho relate his relationship with Claire - someone that, as we learn later, Wigram has a much more personal interest in than we at first would assume. Or study the series of face expressions when Wigram is preparing and then watching the bombing of the German U-Boot that comes to pick up Puck - from utter voyeuristic fascination with the prospect to the horrible moment of what have I done when the bomb has gone off.  I do not know if any of that is in the original book, or in Stoppard's screenplay, or if it is Apted's direction, but it sure does take an extremely intelligent actor to embue a character that could easily have become a clichee (and unfortunately the costume doesn't help!) with so many subtleties and layers of emotion that he turns into the most interesting character study in the entire plot.The movie does improve on repeated viewings, as there is a certain amount of plot overload going on that one has to find one's way through. But hey - it's a movie about code breaking, isn't it? "},{"Title":"Falsification of history","Date":"13 January 2009","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This movie is huge falsification of history. First of all - Polish mathematicians and cryptologists decrypted Enigma several years before WWII. Decrypting machines were already built. You may read about it here http//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cryptanalysis_of_the_Enigma But Polish contribution to the story in this movie is mentioned in this movie in one single phrase. But there is even worse point. The only bad character of the movie is a Pole! Author of this stupid scenario invented Polish guy who would be able to betray allies and become a German spy. What an absurd ! This 'author' probably knows nothing about polish attitude to Nazis during WWII. Poland during WWII had two occupants and two enemies - Nazi Germany and Soviet Union. But no one would join one enemy against the other. It was impossible. But not for makers of this movie. If Pukowski were a real man, after revealing the truth about Katyn, he would probably commit suicide. "},{"Title":"Dougray Scott and Kate Winslet breaking codes and hunting for a spy mole","Date":"9 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Enigma (2001) has a troubled neo-noir hero in mathematically-gifted Dougray Scott. He's working at the British decoding operation during World War 2 where he has met and lost Saffron Burrows. That's caused a breakdown of sorts and a month-long absence. He's needed again because a mole has revealed to the Germans their code-breaking and they've altered the Enigma machine codes.Scott can't get over Burrows easily but intelligent Kate Winslet, who made herself look frumpy for the part, aids that effort. A devious and callous internal security MI5 type, Jeremy Northam, is on hand because Burrows has gone missing and a mole is apparently revealing secrets to the Germans. He keeps pressuring Scott.For a change we have a troubled-genius hero who uses his mind rather than his fists or a gun, assisted by the spunky Winslet as they become detectives looking for Burrows and wondering why certain German transmitted messages have been sidetracked. We get to see rows upon rows of mechanical gears turning inside an early calculating machine. There are tense moments as a submarine wolf pack converges on an unprotected convoy.This turns out to be a cracking good spy story, not meant to be an historically-accurate document. "},{"Title":"Disappointing if you know the real story","Date":"28 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" In 1995 the British declassified Station X, the ultra-secret WWII Government Code and Cipher School at Bletchley Park, 50 miles from London. In 1999, the BBC aired a 4-part documentary about Station X. I first learned about Alan Turing when Nova (the American equivalent of the BBC's Horizon) aired a version of Station X cut down to a single 2-hour episode. Enigma was released in 2001, well before the present surge of general interest in Bletchley Park and Turing's extraordinary life that has given us The Imitation Game (December 2014). Back then it must have been easier to create a fictitious character (Tom Jericho) based on Turing, the eccentric, painfully socially awkward mathematical genius who was one of the stars of Station X. Unfortunately, Enigma isn't spectacular even if you don't know anything about Alan Turing. The plot In March of 1943, codebreakers at Station X discover to their horror that the German navy has changed the code sets used to communicate with U-boats at sea. These were based on the famous and diabolically complex encryption machine known as the Enigma. (That actually happened.) Authorities enlist the help of a brilliant young mathematician, one Tom Jericho (Dougray Scott) to help them, as they put it, find their way back into the code. The possibility of a spy in Station X uis raised, and Tom's love interest, Claire (the 6-foot-tall Saffron Burrows), has disappeared. To solve these mysteries, Tom recruits Claire's best friend, Hester Wallace (based on the historical person Joan Clarke and played by Kate Winslet). While investigating Claire's personal life, the pair discover personal and international betrayals involving the now-infamous Katyn massacre in Poland. Of course, Tom and Hester fall in love. Dougray Scott actually looks more like Alan Turing than does Benedict Cumberbatch (The Imitation Game), but there the resemblance to Turing mostly ends. Turing's sorry, shabby reward for the instrumental role he played in winning the war for Britain was to be persecuted during the Cold War because his homosexuality was viewed as a security risk. He committed suicide at the age of 41. Tom Jericho is most assuredly NOT homosexual, nor is he borderline autistic, which is how Turing is played by Cumberbatch.The film does well something that had not been done before, namely to recreate the physical setting at wartime Bletchley Park, especially the Enigma machines themselves and the now-famous decrypting machines Turing invented, the Bombes.While Enigma looks good and plays fairly well as an espionage yarn, the viewer who knows the factual background of this piece of fiction will be dissatisfied. It is surprising that this rather wan film is the work of Tom Stoppard and Michael Apted; they have done better. "},{"Title":"Leaves you wanting too much more","Date":"25 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Enigma is a decent little WWII movie that tries to blend historic and fictional drama. There are moments when both the real and the pretend are quite thrilling, but they end up detracting from each other so much the film is left flatfooted at its conclusion. Based on a novel by Richard Harris, too many essential details of the book are awkwardly crammed in during the last half hour. Watching Enigma is like taking an enjoyable car ride but then realizing you're late and rushing the final few miles to your destination.The historical aspect of the tale concerns the small group of British geniuses enlisted to crack the Nazi's infamous Enigma code. As the movie begins, the Germans have changed the code and left the British completely in the dark just as three huge supply convoys set out from the U.S. to Britain. The codebreakers have 4 days to crack Enigma to prevent U-boats from destroying one or all of those convoys.The fictional element of the story is Thomas Jericho (Dougray Scott), the leading genius among the codebreakers who's returned to work after a stint in an asylum. The intense but halting Jericho fell in love with the beautiful and mysterious Claire (Saffron Burrows), who drove him to a nervous breakdown when she sought out and then spurned his advances. Jericho is still obsessed with Claire, but finds she's disappeared without a trace or explanation. In his efforts to discover what happens to Clarie, Jericho is ably assisted by the almost irresistibly cute and spunky Hester Wallace (Kate Winslet), a secretary at the codebreakers' military base. Jericho is also confounded and harassed by Wigram (Jeremy Northram), a smilingly hard British intelligence agent who has multiple agendas.Both parts of Enigma are fairly good on their own merits, though the struggle to solve the Nazi code and win the war is understandably more compelling than the mystery of a missing woman, no matter how involved it may be. The difficulty is that by splitting its attention, the movie is never able to fully commit to either piece of itself. Though Enigma admirably tries to weave the two together and have them mirror each other, the on screen time spent with each dilemma inevitably gives short shrift to the other. As a viewer, you want to spend more time with the codebreakers AND you want to spend more time with the slowing budding romance of Jericho and Hester AND you want to spend more time on the conflicts between the intellectual men of science and the practical men of war AND you want to spend more time with the subtly blunt confrontations of Jericho and Wigram AND you want to spend more time with Jericho's memories of Claire. This is a case where you're left wanting more, but it's not a pleasant sensation.And as Enigma winds to a finish and the story starts throwing new things at you to set up and explain its big ending, it confirms the imbalance you've been feeling is the real product of a script that needed some things cut out and other things expanded to take their place.While legitimate, that complaint should not distract from the reality that this is a pretty good and entertaining production. It's well acted, well directed and the individual scenes are well written. While not a modern classic of the WWI genre, it's well worth it to spend a couple hours wrapped up in this Enigma. "},{"Title":"Budget remake of 39 Steps!!","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Enigma was absolutely decisive to the European front, how do you think we defeated Rommel? The Harris Enigma book was a fascinating novel as well as a historical document.The true story had The real Tom Jericho ,Alan Turing (A Genius) who was persecuted by the British Authorities after the war because he was homosexual, and eventually killed himself. Would he have been a British Bill Gates?, we'll never know?The computer used at Bletchley was revolutionary, CHURCHILL had it destroyed after the war, and AFAIK it's inventors never worked again (Why? read Enigma) Bletchley Park was kept secret for FORTY YEARSDO YOU GET THE IDEA THAT THERE WAS AN INTERESTING FILM HERE??But what  we get is a lame love-story, an uninteresting spy intrigue, silly action bits.AFAICT the film wasn't even filmed at the still intact Bletchley Park.I must admit that the film does make an effort to explain how Enigma worked.Instead read the book, visit Bletchley Park it is now run by the old boys & girls who originally worked there!!!  "},{"Title":"Dreary revisionist drivel","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Is Tom Jericho a sanitised, straightened Alan Turing? To make a movie about Bletchley Park, and replace the complex, brilliant character of Turing with a pale shadow of himself, an imitation lacking a key part of Turing's personality, his sexuality, is preposterous. Why I wasted the money on renting this one is the only enigma I'm left pondering. "},{"Title":"Boring and uninvolving","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Well, the book wasn´t very good and the movie isn´t any better. Both were boring and predictable. You don´t care for Tom Jericho and his colleague, played by the fine Kate Winslet, who is the only delight of the whole movie. Composer John Barry deserves a special mention for recycling his scores to other movies again and again. This one is another example, where you can tell after 3 notes, that Barry was the composer. For all the big time talent involved, from director Apted to writer Stoppard....shame on you for this one.  "}{"Title":"Quel fromage!","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  My usually beloved Tom Stoppard clearly needed to make some car payments. What I thought would be an interesting story about code-breaking turned out to be little more than a tedious and illogical love story, with some Cool Spy Stuff thrown in for decorative accent.I'm sure the actors did their best, but the dialogue was hammy and the few good scenes involving the code breakers at work were as thin slices of luncheon meat sandwiched between doughy slices of white bread. And this isn't even touching on the multitude of glaring historical inaccuracies (in the real world these are called 'lies'), which I'd be prepared to forgive if the chosen fiction were at least interesting.And what can one say about a film that so obviously believes its audience to be drooling morons, that it shows you a scene of Trafalgar square and announces 1946 London after the war?Produced by Lorne Michaels and Mick Jagger. Jesus. That makes you think, don't it. Well, it was a rainy day, and at least the theater was dry.  "},{"Title":"Laughable","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I won't bother trying to list all of this movie's ridiculous elements, since they are too many. Suffice to say that the whole damn thing is idiotic.Perhaps the worst thing of all is how anybody who calls themselves a filmmaker could lose the one genuinely interesting part of this movie - the whole Bletchley Park code-breaking operation - amidst what is basically a 3rd-rate Harlequin romance novel.To take one of humanity's greatest thinkers, Alan Turing, and give us Dougray Scott's Tom Jericho character goes far beyond a mere insult - both to Turing and the viewer.Kate Winslett does a cheap Rachel Weisz impression (a la The Mummy), while everybody else appears to believe they're standing upon a stage in the West End. When I want to see this much ham, I'll visit a pig farm, thanks.The ludicrous action sequences were about as thrilling and suspenseful as a school play. Why couldn't the makers of this film see that the pivotal work of the cryptanalysts was far more interesting than any amount of hunted-men-leaping-from-trains type foolishness?Avoid. At all costs. "},{"Title":"Nice myth, vague history, still ok. movie","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Well, well. Those second world war movies keep on coming. Of course you cannot expect historical accuracy in a popcorn blockbuster. To find such a movie good because it is more historical than U-I-forgot-the-number-now movie is not a compliment either. Who took this sorry excuse of a movie serious anyway??But to hate it because it is not accurate is also maybe exaggerated. It is not a documentary. It is a fictional story. Not only was the ENIGMA decrypted by three Polish mathematicians, Alan Turing was not really like the hero in the movie either. He was homosexual, arrested after the war for his homosexuality, which was illegal in the U.K., prescribed a hormonal therapy and then committed suicide. A tragic story of an unloved hero. Clearly unsuited for a blockbuster. Like most of real life actually.However the filmmakers made this clear. The fact that the movie is a German (yes, look at imdb main details) produced movie is not entirely unamusing while watching the movie either. I watched an interview with Mick Jagger who had a big laugh with the German blokes financing his movie. If you take it that way the movie has good suspense and action. If you want to learn about history look in the books. "},{"Title":"Revisionist history","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I was expecting to see a movie about Alan Turing. The man who built the prototype computer that cracked the enigma code and conceived the idea of the modern PC.  Instead we were treated to a hero who never existed, lacked personal charisma and who we cared nothing about.  The plot was slow and uninteresting.  I would have walked out but fell asleep. "},{"Title":"Feels like a good Sunday evening drama","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  'Enigma' is based on Robert Harris' novel of the same title and is a competent if unadventurous reworking of the book. The story revolves around the top-secret British code-breaking operation at Bletchley Park. One of the great secrets of World War II, it only became known to the World in the late 1970s and it has taken until now for a film to be made of the story.This is a fictional account and whilst the details are correct, the characters and plot were created for the story. Tom Jericho is a mathematician who broke into the German Naval 'Shark' cipher. With the ciphers broken, the British had been able to route convoys away from U-boats and continue the war. On a personal note, he became involved (on a very creaky bed) with the beautiful Claire and suffered a nervous breakdown from overwork. Jericho returns to Bletchley Park to find that Shark has changed. The British convoys cannot be protected from the U-Boats and the future of the War is at stake unless the codes can be broken. On a personal note, Claire is missing and the suspicion of murder points at Tom... then he discovers some mysterious ciphers from Eastern Europe.With a gently plodding pace, quiet score and long lingering shots of the English countryside 'Enigma' looks and feels like an ITV drama on a Sunday evening. Only the smell of greasy popcorn and rancid hotdogs told me I wasn't in the comfort of my own living room and I should behave with some decorum.A film that doesn't feel like a film isn't a bad thing, but at certain times 'Enigma' really did need to pick up the pace and run with the plot. Even the chases feel slow!The movie does fumble its two main climaxes by revealing them too early and one straight after the other. The scenes in which the Shark cipher is broken and the mysterious codes cracked *should* have been exciting, but they were nothing more than interesting. A shame because the preceding scenes of the gathering U-boats were filled with tension. And after these revelations the last 15 minutes feels a little superfluous, even though it should be leading to a point of high drama.Script wise Tom Stoppard does a good job of condensing the book into a movie and manages to avoid the common problem of movies requiring detailed knowledge that needs to be explained to the audience. All too often these movies drop into neutral, you get an information dump, and then the movie picks up again. Here most of the knowledge is imparted in the dialogue, with one exception - unless you know how codes were broken, the cracking of Shark is going to make no sense whatsoever.The dialogue feels right for the period and Stoppard has great fun with the reptilian Wigram (played with oily menace by Jeremy Northam), giving him most of the choice dialogue.Acting, its a mixed bunch. Three great central perfomances by Dougray Scott, Kate Winslet and Northam are almost wiped out by the sheer badness of Saffron Burrows. If it hadn't been for Estella Warren's non-performance in 'Planet of the Apes', Ms. Burrows would walk away with the award for 'Most annoying female character in a motion picture'. A one note performance that will grate on your nerves and raise the question 'does she honestly think she can act?' The film feels right, (although I doubt if Britain had fields of oil seed rape in the 1940s) and the drabness of the country comes across well. The coarse fabric, the terrible food and the backwardness of the country in comparison to America of the same period are all well produced and it is a big contrast to the gloss of U571 (which is not *that* bad a movie).Plus points for a film that has Germans speaking German and not in zee very heavily aczented English. Ja?A couple of minor problems that could have been resolved with some thought. It is hard to believe that security was quite so lax at Bletchley Park, if the movie is to be believed it is possible to borrow Britain's only Enigma machine from a secure room and no one will comment on it, likewise you can go to secure listening stations no one asks for authorisation? And in a country stricken with fuel rationing, where did they get all the petrol from? Still, compared to the plot holes in many movies these are small problems.'Enigma' is a perfectly competent movie and should be on your list of films to watch. It's good to see a British film telling the story of Enigma (sorry America, but we did do it), but 'Enigma' isn't as good as it could have been. Still a British film that doesn't feature East End gangsters and/or Vinnie Jones? Definitely a plus. "},{"Title":"about the historical true in Enigma","Date":"20 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I'm absolutely shocked by the story. Indeed, one fact trouble me. The story of Bukowski who lost his brother in Katyń. Then, he started to work with Germans. It is such a pity that the director or maybe the scenarist is a such a big ignorant in history. How he can imagine that a brother of polish officer could be a traitor? Because, if he really worked with Germans he would be automatically condemmned to the dead by the polish government which resided in England. The authority of this government was very strong during the Second War and it is imaginable that a brother of the hero could became a traitor. Because, in this times each collaborator was a traitor and the most of them were judged and condemmned to the dead, even women. And people in Poland was very aware of the Nazi. So, the personality of Bukowski was it's very offensive for Katyń's families. If he wanted a person of polish traitor he could search among the folksdeutchs, but not among a Polish subordinate to the polish temporary government in London. But, maybe it it would be to match for his limited mind. "},{"Title":"Just mad about Saffron...","Date":"20 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Not being familiar with the source novel but obviously aware of the involvement of industry heavy-weights like Tom Stoppard and Michael Apted, it was reasonable to expect that the satisfaction from this particular movie would be more cerebral rather than visceral. And what's wrong with that, to paraphrase Mr McCartney? That said, the movie has a density at its core which is hard to penetrate and is promulgated by a too-complicated plot and probably just too much dialogue.There's much to admire though, particularly in the cinematography and acting stakes. For the former, period is convincingly recreated, not least with some wonderful old cars running around country roads and especially with the massive code-breaking construct inside Bletchley, a juggernaut of dozens of clicking dials. I liked the acting too and even if Dougray Scott's accent sometimes drifts north from its supposed Yorkshire moorings, he displays no little range in depicting the damaged genius of the piece, this in the movie immediately following his pumped up appearance as a super-criminal in MI2. Kate Winslet is also good, no air-brushing or Titanic ball-gowns here as she frumps up effectively as the don't fancy yours much friend of the captivatingly pretty Saffron Burrows' Clare who ensnares Scott's Tom Jericho in her machinations. Jeremy Northam is also fine as the smooth, double-talking investigator at Scott and Winslet's heels.On the debit side, the plot really is quite impenetrable with more convolutions than a convolution machine and which had my head spinning pretty well as much as the dials on the tracking equipment at Bletchley, but then it's well known that Mr Stoppard likes a puzzle or two. I'm all for keeping the audience hanging on every word but there are so many of them here that it's difficult to properly weigh up their significance in the context of the narrative. The few action set-pieces on board seem too detached from their surroundings to really engage and often seem like drop-ins, while the Scott/Winslet relationship seems to blossom unconvincingly from nowhere at all.However, it's fair to say, in conclusion, that this period thriller, while successfully recalling the depth and feel of British war-movies of the 50's, doesn't quite transcend that achievement and seems to lack fulfilment as a cinematic entertainment. That said, just how do you successfully dramatise as mundane and unglamorous a profession as code-breaking, so that overall, I'm bound to say this was a noble attempt and more than likely a film that will repay repeat viewings, to more satisfyingly uncover the myriad layers at its centre. "},{"Title":"A great set, wasted","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The people who made this movie did an incredible job recreating the world of British intelligence during World War II. The settings are completely believable, every prop seems right, and the historical tidbits they show are fascinating (e.g., the women who spend their days transcribing endless codes, never knowing if what they're doing is valuable or not). The actors are quite good, and create interesting characters (though Saffron Burrows is way too skinny and tall to have been thought a beauty in the 40's). The first half of the movie chugs along nicely, telling its tale, and explaining the historical context without seeming pedantic. So why did the screenwriter (OMG, it was Tom Stoppard?!) have to muck it up by making the second half of the film a ridiculously unconvincing spy-thriller-type tale? I was so disappointed by this; it seemed like a complete betrayal of all the researchers' and decorators' hard work. The real story of the codebreakers is entertaining enough; we don't need action-movie clichés to make us stay with it. "},{"Title":"Stop the carnage if you can","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" It was on TV and you can't really pick your time to watch it. So as it was I was rather tired and had some problem to concentrate or want to concentrate enough to stay with the plot. All the same I enjoyed the acting and the pace of the story. I think I'll give it another go ! MM Oh no, I have to write another 6 lines to be acceptable! So here we go. I had some more problems with the flash back but again this could be related to my previous explanation. I also guess who was the spy on the actor's first appearance which may say something for the casting (once a bad guy always a bad guy unless of course I'm gifted with ESP! Finally I also enjoyed a trip down memory line although I would have barely been born when this happened - but in 2001 it must be hard work to recreate what was on 3/4 of a century ego, still it is special for those who somehow recognize familiar sights of their early life. MB "},{"Title":"Who was listening to whom?","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Purely as a film I give ENIGMA 6 out of 10; as an historical document &#150; zero. Generally I do not necessarily expect a film with an historical content to be a piece of cinematic non-fiction but merely a source of entertainment, so I score it on this basis. If the distributors claim it as a true historical record then that is another matter. Enigma has a fairly good plot but suffers from poor direction and frequently indistinct dialogue. It centres around a young man and a young girl working at the Government's code deciphering establishment at Bletchley Park and their involvement in the breaking of the German U-boat cipher SHARK (or TRITON to give it its original German name). As the mechanics of the breaking of SHARK has little story value a sub-plot involving a femme-fatale as German spy is introduced. During 1941 our Atlantic convoy losses were becoming unsustainable so the ability to read SHARK was imperative. The film has a section in which the code breakers are shown helping a naval lieutenant to pinpoint the position of U-boats in the Atlantic based on wireless direction finding information. This was not the work of Bletchley Park so is historically wrong. In fact,convoys and U boats were tracked by the Admiralty in London. The film also purports that breaking SHARK was the sole factor in helping to bring down convoy losses. The truth is somewhat more ironic. Whilst we could not read TRITON/SHARK the Germans could read the Royal Navy Cipher No. 3! However it took us a year to find out. It was this cipher which was used to transmit the rendez-vous points for departing convoys to RN escort vessels in the North Atlantic. The Germans picked this up at their listening stations and promptly re-transmitted it to their U-boat wolf packs who were then able to proceed to the rendez-vous ready to pick off their prey. This information was sent in SHARK so once it was broken we knew that RN Cipher No.3 was being compromised and had to be changed. As a result convoy losses decreased. The reason for the weakness in Cipher No.3 was that when WWII started the Royal Navy was essentially still using code book methods from the Great War and were very slow to adopt mechanical encipherment, similar to Enigma. On the other hand the RAF introduced it in the 1930s for use on the Defence Teleprinter Network run by the GPO. For this the Type-X machine was developed and was featured in the film for reading German enigma code. The German Enigma machine itself features prominently in the opening sequences of the film with several close-ups and supporting dialogue explaining how it worked.Did the Germans know that we could read their enigma messages? This is a moot point as officially they did not but both Rommel and Doenitz, the U-boat commander, were highly suspicious; Rommel because convoys from Italy to North Africa were frequently sunk and Doenitz because U-boat code changes only gave him a short term advantage against convoys. In both cases the leakage was blamed on spies, although it has been suggested that Doenitz's staff were very possibly convinced but dare not tell Hitler that Enigma was compromised, so they just contented themselves with improving the system. Unlike the British centralised Intelligence centre at Bletchley Park the Germans had separate intelligence staffs for each of the three services with the inevitable rivalry between them. This weakened their counter intelligence operations which, coupled with the extreme secrecy surrounding Ultra, meant that our success against Enigma went undetected.The film is well worth seeing for its entertainment value and just a wee peek at the work of Bletchley Park but for anyone interested in learning the truth about this fascinating story I suggest that they read the official history entitled British Intelligence in WWII by Professor Sir F. H. (Harry) Hinsley (himself an alumnus of BP), or just Google Bletchley Park. "}{"Title":"Disappointing film of an interesting subject","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  When I read the book I found it rather disappointing also. The story of the Enigma machine and the people of Bletchley Park who worked to crack the German codes is one full of suspense and interesting, eccentric characters drawn from a wide spectrum of society to work on the riddle. The book and the film , I feel, rather trivialises their efforts by turning it into a rather second rate detective story with the Enigma machine as a bit player. To be fair the film is well made, capturing the period well. The actors give good performances although the intelligence officer's is rather melodramatic.   "},{"Title":"Two Films For The Price (and detriment!) Of One","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  If only we knew how to crack Germany's wartime communication codes - we could knock years off the war!  Well, we did it once (the bloody Brits at Bletchley Park that is!!!) so, despite the Jerries changing their code unexpectedly just when we were sussing them out, let's jolly well see if we can't do it again.  What ho!  Mathematician, Tom Jericho (Scott) is our Ace card, but then - they're are bloody geniuses up at Bletchley!  And this is a true story.  And it's a rivetingly fascinating one.  God forbid it should be sullied and muddied with an errant sexy-spy sub-plot...  DOH!Michael Apted capably directs two films here.  The drama about code-breaking at Bletchley Park replete with it's cast of absurd British eccentrics (within which Scott provides a surprisingly underplayed and likeable genius) is both exciting and of huge historical interest.  Sadly, it also has to share screen-time with a second, less satisfactory film Namely a lame spy-thriller trying to be a 39 Steps (without investing either the necessary story time, character development or taut, intelligent dialogue) in which Jeremy Northam (surely the real successor to Donat and Moore) slides his way through each scene as the bad guy confusing underplaying for doing bugger all!!Still.  There's enough here of interest; and just enough about Bletchley to lift this above average.  Winslett is as competent as ever and the photography and production design hit a satisfactory wartime note.  However, despite being based on Harris's novel, the denoument of the 'spy at Bletchley' story is facile at worst - uninvolving at best.   "},{"Title":"Very Fictionalized, But Tense Math Spy Story","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I went to see Enigma because the History Channel is on a lot in my house, so I've heard all about about Ultra and the Enigma code-breaking machine and the brains who secretly won WWII for the good guys so by osmosis I know quite a bit about it. But I'm sure history buffs will not appreciate the inaccuracies in a fictional story overlaid on the true background let alone objections to intellectual hothouse Bletchley Park being portrayed as a lot hotter for other things than first generation computers. So while I assume the stuttering mathematician tertiary character is supposed to be Alan Turing, there's no mention of what he really contributed to the effort let alone how he was hounded out of the intelligence service for being homosexual. Rather here it's the opposite, with a twisty spy suspense story (Tom Stoppard's screenplay from a novel) about a broken-hearted, broken-down straight mathematician trying to break code while breaking secrets about the woman he's obsessed with (and either I missed something or I didn't quite get his moral outrage against secret agent Jeremy Northram or he was representing a less cynical age with less exposure to agents being out in the cold).Dougray Scott is haggardly good, looking so much like Tom Courtenay (while playing a character named Tom) that it helped me place him in the period; he should have played Tom's son in Last Orders) and Kate Winslet makes good use of her then pregnancy towards being almost dumpy looking. (originally written 4/28/2002) "},{"Title":"Tedious war drama","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  What a ridiculous movie.Enigma is the story of one man trying to break a German code during WW2.  He is also obsessed with a missing woman from his military base, and becomes involved with her room mate.What? I hear you say - exactly.This movie is terrible, for several reasonsThe code-breaking scenes are unitelligible, and badly explained.The acting on all parts is awful.  Dougray Scott does a terrible job of disguising his Scottish accent - he flits between Yorkshire and Edinburgh with confusing regularity.  Kate Winslet acts like a 15 year old in a school play, pushing her glasses up her nose and presenting a character who seems as deep as a puddle in Nevada.  Saffron Burrows is useless as Claire, whose only redeeming feature is her immaculate lipstick.  Quite why Jericho would have fallen in love with such a person is not explained.The general ambience of the movie is one of a bizarre party, no one seems in the least perturbed that the country is at war.  They are more taken up with issues in their personal lives than the fact that they are supposed to be protecting the integrity of their country.  And when we do see them trying to break the code as convoy's are lured into the U-boat trap, they don't even break a sweat.On the whole, this movie is poorly written, directed and acted.I rented this from the video store as I wanted to see it, when I got it home I realised that I HAD seen it before on television, only the first 15 minutes had been so disappointing I's turned it off... what a waste of money. "},{"Title":"Plain Text","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Gosh, I waited for this eagerly. Tom Stoppard is the best screenwriting weaver of self-referential work. Kate Winslet is one of our finest actors who knows how to play multiple layers simultaneously and who also understands how to cross time shifts.Northam is less brilliant, but has been snappy with some Wilde material that plays with text. Saffron is queen of the musky images. The story is (even minus Alan Turing) one of the richest in all the history of the world in terms of the thing and the representation of the thing.What went wrong?In fact, the script is great. The problem is Apted, who is oblivious to the possibilities for manifolding studded into the script. Watch Kate struggle with an inept bureaucracy of the film while she does the same in character. Watch as they both (the Bletchley and Jagger crowds) make provision for genius without understanding it.I am into pairing films for viewing. This one goes with `A Bridge Too Far,' in terms of the poles of British competence in the War.Despite the clumsy filmmaking, and the thuggish score, and the laconic editing this is still worth seeing. But you must decode it to see the gem of a film that is hidden in there.My one fault with the decoded film is that it lacks a visual mapping of the mathematical/geometric vision some of these guys had. `Beautiful Mind' tried and botched it bigtime. What we need is Greenaway and Nyman.Ted's evaluation 3 of 4 -- Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Why tell the story of a great achievement and leave out the main hero?","Date":"31 August 2009","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I think this movie is a disservice to Alan Turing. He was the undisputed leader of the team that took the initial Polish work to break the Enigma Code, broke subsequent variations (such as for the naval Enigma machines) and automated the whole thing by creating one of the world's first computers called BOMBE. His work thus directly brought World War II to an early end and saving hundreds of thousands of lives in the process. He was also the founder of modern day computers and artificial intelligence (just Google 'Turing Test'). Why create a fictional story? In telling the story truthfully, they would have to touch on the fact that Alan Turing was gay. In 1952 he was arrested for being gay, was chemically castrated, and had all security clearance stripped. He committed suicide in 1954. Was it so unpalatable to tell the truth that the main character in this story was gay (as were thousands of soldiers who fought in WWII)? I think that story is more compelling. Are we so sanitized that he had to be replaced with a team of straight matinée idols? Alan Turing was one of the most important figures of the 20th century, and one of the most slighted. I wish someone would make a decent movie telling his story. You can sign a petition asking the British Government to apologize for the prosecution and castration of this war hero here http//petitions.number10.gov.uk/turing/ "},{"Title":"Not a bad film, but completely inaccurate","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Alan Turing is the man who broke the enigma code & in the words of Hunter S Thompson saved all of us from spending our Saturday nights @ Circus-Circus.  Alan Turing was a fag.  He was so poorly treated by the English establishment that he killed himself.  That would have been a very interesting story.  The story that actually made it to the screen was useless.  Oh, Alan Turing is also considered the founder of computer science -- but f*** that let's just make a piece of mindless spooge. "},{"Title":"a lot of fiction..","Date":"18 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" German military messages enciphered on the Enigma machine were first broken by the Polish Cipher Bureau, beginning in December 1932. This success was a result of efforts by three Polish cryptologist's, Marian Rejewski, Jerzy Różycki and Henryk Zygalski, working for Polish military intelligence. Rejewski reverse-engineered the device, using theoretical mathematics and material supplied by French military intelligence. Subsequently the three mathematicians designed mechanical devices for breaking Enigma ciphers, including the cryptologic bomb. From 1938 onwards, additional complexity was repeatedly added to the Enigma machines, making decryption more difficult and requiring further equipment and personnel&#x97;more than the Poles could readily produce.On 26 and 27 July 1939,3 in Pyry near Warsaw, the Poles initiated French and British military intelligence representatives into their Enigma-decryption techniques and equipment, including Zygalski sheets and the cryptologic bomb, and promised each delegation a Polish-reconstructed Enigma. The demonstration represented a vital basis for the later British continuation and effort.4 During the war, British cryptologists decrypted a vast number of messages enciphered on Enigma. The intelligence gleaned from this source, codenamed Ultra by the British, was a substantial aid to the Allied war effort.Marian Rejewski was responsible for the initial analysis that enabled exploitation of the German ENIGMA cryptographic machine. Without his breakthroughs, which he provided to the French and British in 1939, the U.K. and U.S. may have never been able to exploit ENIGMA. Mr. Rejewski's genius was that he recognized traditional attacks as useless against ENIGMA. He became the first to employ a higher-algebraic attack against any cryptographic system. His insight produced a solution that had evaded his French and British peers for a decade, and thanks to his contributions, ENIGMA-derived intelligence enabled U.S. and British efforts to defeat Germany. "},{"Title":"Solid, intelligent, if flawed WWII thinking person's thriller","Date":"8 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Enjoyable, smart WWII thriller about code breaking, based on a true story, and notable for being a war film more about human intelligence then daring action. The script by Tom Stoppard is strong. It's very good film, but some irritating flaws keep it from being great. With the exception of Kate Winslet, a lot of the acting is over the top. Also, the film wimps out on the true story, and misses some fascinating complexity, since in real life the lead character was gay, at a time where that alone was enough to win everyone's distrust. Further, the whole style of the film feels old-fashioned in a way that goes back and forth between charming and forced. Last, at least the US version is a really bad DVD transfer. Lots of soft spots, etc. And yet, I'd still urge people to see it. "},{"Title":"Good  Movie,  but could have been so much better","Date":"20 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I am very familiar with this story, as my mother-in-law worked at Bletchley Park as a cypher assistant during WW2. A fact she never revealed to us until 1990, as she respected the Official Secrets Act to the letter. I read Harris book about 2 years ago, and finally watched the movie this week. The real story of Alan Touring, and his colleagues at Bletchley, the building of the bombes and the critical role they played is a very compelling story in itself, and had the writers of this movie confined themselves to that, this movie would have been superb. Instead we got a load of the usual Hollywood claptrap of romantic sub-plots with Claire, and dead spy chasing rubbish. We are to believe that during the most critical stage of the U-boat war, and the massive effort to re-establish Shark, that the key man Jericho/Touring went chasing all over Scotland , to track down a traitorous ex-girlfriend. Lots of spare petrol in those days ( NOT). This undermined great performances from Dougray Scott who played the brooding , sullen and exhausted Touring, to perfection, and Kate Winslett, also Jeremy Northam . Still worth watching for their performances alone. "}{"Title":"i found the book riveting,the movie--not so much","Date":"7 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" after watching this movie,i was a bit disappointed.i mean,the movie was OK,but it doesn't compare to the book,which i found riveting.the movie is set During WWII,and is basically about the British code breakers who were continually trying to break the code of the Enigma machine,which is how the Germans communicated with each other.there is some fine acting here,by Dougray Scott,Kate Winslet,Saffron Burrows and Jeremy Northam,and many others.there a few moments of tension and suspense,but mostly the movie is all about the drama.there is also a love story angle here.this is not some big Hollywood blockbuster version of events.this is a small,independent film.it is based on true events,and i believe it is probably fairly accurate.it's taken from the book by Robert Harris.i highly recommend the book,but if you read it first you,will likely be disappointed in the movie.my vote for Enigma5/10 "},{"Title":"Thumbs up!","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I guess I could write a lot about this movie... I could write about the interesting, semi-historical-but-not-boring plot and about how gorgeous Jeremy Northam is... I could mention some great performances and how sexy Jeremy Northam looks like in that hat of his... I could even talk about Mick Jagger's cameo or Jeremy Northam's sly smile but what I really, really want to do is to set the record straight about Kate Winslet being fat! She was pregnant for Heaven's sake! And even if she had put on a few extra pounds, she looked normal! Besides, anorexic/bulimic bodies do not mean elegance, they mean sickness! (I guess I turned my comment into a manifesto!) "},{"Title":"Dry But Fun Little Movie With Good Actors in Good Hats","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Tom Stoppard is a brilliant man and a very good writer who gets more excited by ideas than people, so while I always find his plays and films challenging to the mind (and that's always a nice feeling), I rarely find them humanly/emotionally satisfying. The big exception has always been his beautiful stageplay ARCADIA, which does a good job of being both brainy as hell and deeply evocative at the same time. ENIGMA has the same problems that TRAVESTIES and ROSENCRANTZ AND GUILDENSTERN ARE DEAD have, namely that I spend a lot of time marvelling at the cleverness of it all but end up walking away with a mind full of word games and historical/literary revisions to muddle over, but very little sense that anything of vital importance has happened either to the characters or to myself in the audience- and considering this movie is basically about how the Allies won WW2, that's really saying something. Dryness aside, this is a good movie, small but charming, funny and with just enough action to keep you invested in the central plotline even if the characters are a little flat (albeit, very amiable) and there seem to be a few too many spy movie cliches for it all to be taken seriously in places. Kate Winslet is very good, I'm always happy to see such a talented and healthy looking (can you believe they called her fat in a review in my home town- hello, women are *supposed* to have curves and breasts and such) actress getting good roles and plenty of work. Saffron Burrows was fairly flat but her character had little to do or say, so no small loss there (still, I bet Kristin Scott Thomas would have found a way to fly with that role). Jeremy Northam was simply incredible, very sly and very sexy and making even his most oh boy, this is the part where the sly and sexy detective does/says this moments so much fun I just couldn't help thinking Hey, despite that huge nasty war and all the genocide, I wish I lived in the 40's so I could be a sly and sexy detective with good hats. All in all a good film, worth seeing if you like your movies heavy on the thinking side, though maybe a little deficient in the heart & soul.       "},{"Title":"And the story was about?","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Enigma is a bit of an enigma in itself.  Don't take me wrong, this is pretty good film, and was enjoyable to watch.  There seems, however, that transforming a complex novel into about 2 hour film was done without a clear direction.  Is this a love story, and if so between who?  Or is this indeed a story about the Enigma machine?  Difficult to tell. This leaves us, the audience, a bit unsure throughout the film as to what is the main storyline.  The film in itself is both beautifully taken, and pretty good acting (though effortless). Terrible downside was the blowing up of freighters in the Atlantic Ocean.  It seems that one of the camera men had gone home and put his model ship in the bathtub, thrown some firecrackers at it, and filmed it.  In our time of CGI etc, this just shouldn't be allowed (at least not in a big budget mainstream film like this one).Enigma could have been so much more, either as a better love story, or more interesting war-thriller.  I give it 5/10.  "},{"Title":"A valiant effort","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This film is good, but not very, as it tries to both be historically correct about the Enigma machine and how the Brits broke the German codes, and to be a thriller, and a love story at the same time.Acting by all is just perfect, as Kate Winslet is as good as ever and Dougray Scott is a very impressive new actor for me, plus an excellent supporting staff, as almost always when it comes to British films.So the film wants to be too much, and the images of ships being sunk by U-boats are simply dreadful - reminds me of similar films I've seen made in the 40's! And when did a U-boat surface to pick up a guy, with no one on deck to help the poor sod trying to clamber on board? I guess the Germans were camera shy ...I guess the production went broke, even with Mick Jagger supporting it financially, so they had to hire the cheapest guys there was ???With a bit of more effective editing - there is so much totally irrelevant material in this film and better animations, like the excellent computer graphics in The Perfect Storm, and this could have been a perfect WWII thriller, like The Eye of the Needle...Alas, it isn't, but not a total waste of time, not least if you are interested in Enigmas! "},{"Title":"Romance, intrigue, loyalty!  Oh, and something about Enigma, I think.","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Uf, maybe I was the only one disappointed. An incredibly simplistic, scattered story. What frustrated me the most was that, at first glance (and in all of it's promotion) it's a movie about the Enigma codebreakers. Look a little deeper, however, and it's a movie with three simultaneous plotlines. Here they are, in order of importance 1. Frustrated lover, in anguish over a lost girl who has disappeared.2. WWII mystery story what sort of intrigue and double-crossing might have happened? Who was spying on who? Where do you draw the lines of loyalty and duty? 3. Oh yes, and superficial details about the Enigma machine, used as an excuse to draw the hero and Kate Winslett together onto a bench in a dilapidated barn. Maybe I was naive thinking I was going to see a movie ABOUT Enigma, or at least the people involved in it, or at LEAST the nightmare of round-the-clock code-breaking. Instead, the film could have taken place anytime or anywhere in WWII Britain, and the Enigma was only a plot device to get the romance and mystery started. The only time it REALLY means anything is during the greatest convoy battle of all time, which is 100% tangential but -- for me -- the movie's one redeeming moment.  This movie could have just as well been about industrial espionage on a dairy farm in WWII Britain, and the essential parts of the plot would have been exactly the same.If you're like me, and you've long been fascinated with Enigma, expect very little. If you like a good mystery, you might still want to expect very little (90 minutes of sparse details, and then 10 minutes of rapid-fire revelations and epiphanies that the audience -- or at least me -- didn't have a hope in hell of ever deducing). If you love the 50's fashions, though, and you think Winslett is pretty cool, then it's probably worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This movie is pretty disappointing. Maybe it's because I just expected too much, but I thought the story behind Enigma would somehow convey a bit more suspense to the movie. And then that love romance that lacked any imagination. Not worth watching in a movie theater unless you are a big big Kate Winslet fan.04/10 "},{"Title":"A haunting, expertly crafted, intelligent film.  I loved it.","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Excellent direction. Complex and intelligent script.  Superb acting and cinematography.  The film is haunting and has stayed with me for days. I must see it again soon to recapture details too complex at a first screening and easy missed.  "},{"Title":"Impressive","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This film unfortunately has gotten limited release.  I think it is a true diamond in the rough.  It is a mystery based on WWII code breaking by the British.  In particular Tom Jericho (Dougray Scott) and his journey from heartbreak and back; if he is allowed.  The acting by Scott and Kate Winslet is phenomenal.  Winslet never lets her audience down.  One day Oscar will find her mantle and it won't be too soon. The director does an exceptional job in telling this detailed story and uses colors and settings to express the protagonists emotions. A must see. "},{"Title":"Tough call...","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  One of the most difficult things to do is produce an entertaining film about a subject which is - for the most part - mind numbing...i.e. cryptography. Most folks don't sit around the dinner table enthusiastically discussing algorithms, and this endeavor was not to put together a pseduo-documentary regarding the effort at Bletchley. The last thing you want to do is create a niche film that would go straight from production to The History Channel.I think this is one of the best intel films I've seen. While it's true that there was considerable artistic license and those with an interest in the Bletchley endevor can pick it apart to no end, I think the film does an excellent job of telling a good story and making it palatable to the non-crypto afficionado (yes, federal law mandates that 99.99% of all films produced must contain some measure of romance in order to adhere to the Title IX standards of cinematography).If you're looking for a history lesson...read a book. If you want an entertaining story about someting that happened 60 years ago, see this movie. "}{"Title":"Interesting World War II period piece.  A few glaring flaws that detract (and distract) but do not totally spoil a well crafted film.","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Worth seeing.  Period piece well done.  Would have been better without the intrusiveness intrinsic in Jeremy Northam's role.  Whether he, the writer, or the director is to blame for it, I don't know.  Other than that, it's a very good film, interesting, entertaining and worthwhile. "},{"Title":"A Bunch of Nonsense","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is a pretty bad movie.  The only thing remotely interesting, or believable for that matter, is the logistics behind the code-breaking processes.  The story seems tremendously contrived, and is just completely unbelievable.  Every event that is supposed to generate a feeling of suspense is very easily picked apart by the critical eye for its lack of substance and thought.  After about twenty minutes I realized I was going to have to make an attempt to somewhat lower my standards if I was going to enjoy the movie at all.  I tried, but it just got worse and worse.  I can forgive some historical inaccuracies but a story that is based on World War II should be at least imaginable with some effort if it is not outright realistic.  This is neither.The direction is spiritless and confused, and Dougray Scott's acting is completely lacking in any confidence, courage or skill.   "},{"Title":"It's just that romance doesn't amount to a hill of beans compared to decoding the German plans for U-boat operations, but Apted plays the romance as central.","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  My favorite Michael-Apted directed work is `Thunderheart,' the tragic tale about struggles between the FBI and Indians in the Dakotas in the &#145;70's.  His recent `Enigma' again treats history, this time the British breaking of the Nazi secret code in WWII at Bletchley, the busy estate of British decrypters.In `Thunderheart' romance was a small subplot because the plight of Indians like the Sioux was too powerful to subsume. In `Enigma' Apted has allowed a shallow relationship between the brainy decrypter Tom Jericho (Dougray Scott) and  gorgeous Bletchley colleague Claire Romilly (Saffron Burrows).  Her mysterious disappearance brings in her plain roommate, Hester Wallace (Kate Winslet), to help Jericho find Romilly while German submarines are threatening the largest supply convoy in history in the North Atlantic.It's just that romance doesn't amount to a hill of beans compared to decoding the German plans for U-boat operations, but Apted plays the romance as central. Add the roommate as a new love for the troubled `Beautiful-Mind' like hero, and the `enigma' becomes possible betrayal of love and country rather than the fascinating process of breaking the code by using the Germans' captured enigma machine.The film, however, has some delights Jeremy Northam as British intelligence operative Wigram is superb, reminding us that the current craze for Rupert Everett, Colin Firth, and Hugh Grant is misdirected-Northam is a superior cad.The wit of a Carol Reed's thriller like `Night Train to Munich' or any Graham Greene spy story is my taste in intrigue, but super-star writer Tom Stoppard does have a moment or two here, as when the hero's previous breakdown is described Went off his trolley, didn't he -- about some girl? I just wish there were more of that and less madness over the girl.By the way, if you see `U-571'(2000) about Americans capturing the enigma machine, don't believe it. The Brits got the first one  back in 1941.  Let's stick to the facts and jettison the fancy-reality in WWII is far more interesting. When `Enigma' is real, it's good intrigue.  "},{"Title":"Why shouldn't we get our history lessons from the film industry?","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Whatever happened to PBS's 'Mystery' series? 'Enigma' made me nostalgic for the dramatic pre-pyrotechnic spy thrillers when the emphasis was scripting, scenery and acting and not dazzle, titillation and explosion.You will see enigmas in several layers. Saffron Burrows portrays Claire Romilly, the enigma wrapped in a chiffon dress.  Is she one of the many loyal women toiling in menial data collection, an intelligence agent for the British or a counter spy for the Germans?Literally, Enigma is a scrambling device used by Germany in WWII to keep the enemy confused. German code changed daily and without the machine, messages were a total jumble. The plot involves the cryptologists at Bletchley Park and their race with death to crack the code. The third enigma is the controversy surrounding the actual code-breakers was it the British, the Poles or the missing Alan Turing who may have been instrumental in cracking the code? This film shows the British bias so you'll have to wait for the other interests to weigh in or do the research yourself.Dougray Scott portrays Tom Jericho, a mathematician driven over the edge by love and cryptology. With numbers truth and beauty are the same thing. Too much of a good thing? For him, perhaps. Kate Winslett in her Harry Potter spectacles gives us a strong argument against that era keeping women in menial roles. And she does it so convincingly. And we meet one of the films producers with a fleeting shot of Mick Jagger in a crowded restaurant disguised as a British officer.Pardon the redundancy, but this enigma is a puzzle. At the end, there's an unnecessary exposition making this film look like it's groping for a conclusion. I would rather that Director Michael Apted left this film a real enigma. Bowing to the focus group mentality, he spoiled the illusion.  "},{"Title":"Hardly gripping, but Kate & England's green hills are a sight.","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  First, Kate was the outstanding asset of this movie. Well, of course I've been a dedicated fan of hers before, so this didn't really come as a big surprise to me. Again, she's heart-warming, affectionate, vivid and giving a clear direction to every scene she's in. Take the short scene right at the beginning, where Tom and Hester happen to meet at lunch Kate plays a woman, firmly set between what happened in the past (of which the audience has no indication yet) and an old acquaintance, who's likely to stir up things a little, possibly including herself. Rather common, really, but the circumstances are not,  nevertheless she brings these points across very convincingly without making a fuss. Kate was in her fifth month of pregnancy then, which is easily dealt with by the frumpy character she's playing. Those were strenuous days for the hard working employees, and Kate looks quite like it. Still she's sweet enough, though! Secondly, I liked the positively British ring to this movie. Some dialogues include a nice understatement (Tom's Well spotted when they are heading to the old barn), some are really funny (Hester's Nor do you when keeping her distance from her filthy boss), everything seems to be in proportion. Even very common scenes become charming in that  sense, like Hester arriving at home by bike, parking it at some bushes in the tiny front yard and entering the house via one of these old, beautiful doors with a big brass knob in the center that are so common to England.  Beautiful landscapes and old period cars, by the way. On the downside, the story is not only complicated, but slow paced. The whole espionage scenario adds up rather to a treasure-hunt than to a gripping thriller, even it is historically accurate concerning the outstanding role of the British defense system at that time. Dougray Scott is hardly given a chance to get off the wearily-fighting-the-conspiracy track. Let's face it this decoding stuff just isn't spectacular enough for making a movie from. Do you recall computer-nerds' sweaty faces behind screens, about to prevent nuclear desaster, and some beautiful, female love interest peeking over his shoulder? It never works! It's by far not so bad in Enigma, but still, it's computer stuff - just in hardware - and it's perfectly  sufficient to have it at my workplace all day. But, as I said Kate is again worth the while. Go and see!  "},{"Title":"A film full of intelligent characters - for once!","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I found this film very comfy to watch.  Good story, interesting subject matter, and having read the book, found it was faithful to the author's style. I most enjoyed the rare and refreshing collection of really intelligent people making intelligent decisions, comments and quips.  It's often the case in films where the viewer is compelled to squirm and think, Why did she/he not realize that..., or He would have seen that one coming from a mile away.The viewer is too often these days, forced to uphold the suspension of disbelief and to concede that onscreen plot blindness is 'for the good of the film'.Nice to think that there are opportunities where super intelligent people can be put together and no one's brain fails them.However... there was that woman who saw him go into the storeroom but soon vanished from the situation like an apparition... hmmm. "},{"Title":"All the makings of a good film, but fails to deliver on every level","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I thought 'Enigma' was a great disappointment. The plot seemed muddled and didn't work either as a wartime thriller or a love story and certainly not as a marriage of the two. It felt more like a television drama (and probably would have been more suited to the medium) and not a particularly good one at that. To say the pacing was leaden is an over-exaggeration.Any saving graces? Although the script wasn't too bad, the acting performances were mixed to say the least. Kate Winslet and Jeremy Northam both emerged relatively unscathed although I thought Winslet seemed underused in the final quarter of the film (leaving the supposed romance between Winslet and Scott totally unconvincing).  Much of the remainder of the ensemble were either hamstrung playing ludicrous stereotypes (code-breaking geeks, pompous English officers or obnoxious American ones) or were hopelessly miscast.  Meanwhile, Dougray Scott couldn't seem to decide whether his character was from Yorkshire, the Home Counties or Fife if his ever-changing accent was anything to go by.On paper this film has a good cast, a very good writer, a more than capable director and by most accounts a riveting novel as it's source material, so what happened? "},{"Title":"Off the Rails","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  It is a pity that the care taken to re-create the 1940's did not extend to the sequences filmed on the railway.The opportunity to use coaches from the period was neglected in favour of 1950's rolling stock. Cars from the correct era are usually a feature of period dramas.The attitude to other transport often shows a lack of research.I'm sure those who look for mistakes will enjoy this movie,but then anyone who is prepared to concentrate will too. "},{"Title":"Awsome think film","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This film is increadable - Not only does it explain a lot about the events at blechly park, but it also has a good plot (or three) plot one is a secret service thriller, plot two is a murder mystery and plot three is a romance. Somehow the director has managed to pack all of these plots in and not make the film seem over crowded. "},{"Title":"All this and World War II...","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Some of the British critics have been a bit sniffy about Enigma, but in truth, while it has something of the mood of a Sunday teatime drama and is hardly likely to wow hordes of US audiences, it's nevertheless a perfectly competent and enjoyable adaptation of Robert Harris's decent World War Two thriller. It's wartime setting also seems unexpectedly timely in the light of the current international crisis.SPOILER PARAGRAPH Particular criticism has focused on the ending. Some have charged that it is offensive that the ultimate villain is revealed to be a traitorous Pole, when in reality, the Polish played an invaluable role in the codebreaking at Bletchley Park. Possibly more should have been made of the Polish contribution to this aspect of the British war effort, but if so, this is the fault of Harris's novel, not this film. One also should remember this is only intended to be a story. The traitor's nationality provides a clever motive for his actions; namely, that he is motivated by animosity to Britain's wartime ally Stalinist Russia rather than Germany, the massive and crucial wartime contribution of the USSR always an uncomfortable truth of the Allies supposed &#145;war of democracy'. The book and film also exploit the true story of the Enigma machine, far more tactfully than the recent U571 did.Performance-wise, the wondrous Kate Winslet, though deliberately dowdier than usual, is still far more beautiful than the blond skeleton playing Claire Romilly and gives a typically excellent performance. Dougray Scott is also decent as upper-lower-middle-class hero Tom Jericho. Ultimate acting honours must, however, go to Jeremy Northam for his superb performance as the villainous Wigram. His performance is superlative in whichever scene he's in. He's also camper than a field of boy scouts.   "}{"Title":"At last,some wrongs put right","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  What can I say about this film,atmospheric,cerebral and above all else historically correct!! This,in my humble,non-movie making opinion is a credit to the UK film industry.I have never and probably never ever will make a film in my entire life,but if I was to,I would be as proud as parent of the smartest kid in school,if this were the only film I ever made.Of course,some of our cousins across the pond may not understand exactly whats going on,as they would have probably seen that foul mess of lies,U-571 first,but any fan of technology will love this,it balances the right amount of information,with the lives of the characters just right.Well done all of those who were involved in this captivating film,lets hope this film is as much of a turning point for the UK film industry,as the code breakers of the Enigma were for intelligence during World War 2.  "},{"Title":"Hardly Boring.","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Enigma is one of those films that restores my faith in the ability of producers, writers and directors to not underestimate the mental agility of 21st Century audiences. For too long we have been spoon fed Hollywood thrillers which fail to thrill, dramas which fail to engage, and epics with the feel of tinpot 1950's B-Movies. Enigma is a thriller in the tradition of films like The 39 Steps, The Third Man, and The Secret Agent - movies that do not assume those in the theatre will have their hands full ordering from the candy bar let alone deciphering a straight forward plot structure. It isn't convoluted, just intriguing, and grabs your attention before building the suspense gradually, inevitably drawing you into its power before bringing the story together in a satisfying and telling climax. Hitchcock would have been proud. "},{"Title":"A good blend of everything","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The quick cuts between flashback and present day footage in the first 2 minutes of &#145;Enigma' throw the audience off the track right from the beginning and they never really recover until the film edges towards tying up it's loose ends &#150; and if you don't concentrate, then you probably will never catch up.Yes folks, it's a bit of a thinking man and historians movie, but with the additive of romance thrown in just to give it a touch of popular value.  However, there is neither too much or too little sappiness to take away from the rest of the film because, make no mistake about it, this is a very good movie.A combination of a choice selection of suspense filmmaking techniques by Michael Apted and 3 very good performances from Dougray Scott (who is superb as the moody yet complex Thomas Jericho), Jeremy Northam and Kate Winslet all blend together to form a fine finished product.   Apted uses variable speed cutting techniques not just to build suspense, but also to accent Jericho's mood swings and strokes of genius.  As should be the case in any Hitchcock inspired movie, the music, although remaining in the background primarily, accents the visuals very well.Suspense fans should enjoy this, historians should find it reassuringly accurate and casual moviegoers will probably enjoy the brain strain.  This is a high quality, and probably highly unappreciated, piece of work.8/10  "},{"Title":"National treasure Kate Winslet saves British film industry...","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I don't know if our film industry did need saving. It's usually reported as being in the doldrums, but, if it did need a boost, then 'Enigma' is a huge help. I've heard moans that it's slow and old-fashioned. Well, it's not slow, it's just that movie-goers want too many crash, bang, wallops. I personally like movies to vary a bit, and if it is old-fashioned, all I can say is that what do you expect from a film set during the war? It certainly evoked the right atmosphere. I was impressed by the accuracy of all departments. Whilst I knew that Kate would be excellent and that John Barry's score would be sympathetic, I didn't realise that the rest of the cast would be so good as well. Dougray Scott was a good lead. (He reminded me of John Gregson, of 'Genevieve' fame). Jeremy Northam's character was magnificent, whilst even Saffron Burrows, who doesn't normally have anything in common with acting, found a role which suited her well. All in all, I was surprised that movies like this could still be made. Very good. "},{"Title":"A BBC series crammed into 2 hours","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Enigma seemed like it was trying too hard. It didn't know whether it wanted to concentrate on code-breaking, a failed love-affair and nervous breakdown or that there was a traitor in the ranks of the code-breakers at Bletchley Park. Unfortunately it failed to cover any of these three strands adequately. Scott and Winslet put in okay performances but are overshadowed by Jeremy Northam's secret serviceman. He camps it up and is excellent all the way through. Oh and Mick Jagger makes you cringe with a particularly unsubtle cameo appearance too. If this film had been 4 hours then maybe it could have covered off what it was trying to fit in, but it was too ambitious to do this in around 2 hours which is why it'd probably been better if it had been allowed to mature as a BBC series. However it fails to deliver any sustained suspense where there should have been heaps. This story had a lot of potential but fails to live up to it - I am certain that a few details were added after U-571 was released too - just to balance the historical fact side!!! In summary this was okay but skims over areas that could have pushed the suspense ratings right up to become a disappointing halfway-house. "},{"Title":"Sheer class in all departments","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Hard to imagine how this could fail, really.  Script by Tom Stoppard, direction by Michael Apted, a great cast - what more do you want?This is a gripping and intelligent film which tells a complex and potentially very dull story with economy, subtlety and style.  Yes, all those things so regularly missing from Hollywood output are here in spades, along with superb (and sparingly-used) special effects, intelligence and wit. The cast is uniformly excellent, the film looks magnificent (though one shot right at the end shows the new Parliament building, which certainly wasn't around in the forties) and it's a gripping tale from start to finish.  "},{"Title":"A good old fashioned romantic thriller ... and British to boot","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  At last a British movie with a complex plot and complex characters scripted superbly by Tom Stoppard, a marvellous score by the God-like John Barry and damn fine direction by Michael Apted.I remember reading Robert Harris's FATHERLAND way back when and being stunned by it.  So obviously when ENIGMA came out I bought it immediately. I tried reading it and for whatever reason only got a quarter of the way into it.  To be frank I'm glad I didn't finish it, for if I had I think I wouldn't have enjoyed this movie half as much.Dougray Scott is excellent in  his role as a codebreaker who's had a nervous breakdown and Jeremy Northam is totally mysterious as a spy who you are never quite sure about. Kate Winslett could almost be there for show as the romantic interest but makes the most of her part and ends up solving the mystery and proving her worth.All in all a damn fine movie from start to finish which makes me want to finish the source material.  Now where did I leave my copy of the book...? "},{"Title":"Exact format and feel as a 1940's espionage film boring.","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I'm not a history buff, so a lot of this movie did not make sense.  There was very little suspense.  The hero found his answers and leaped hurdles too easily.  Most of all, trying to combine the love story/mystery with the code-breaking story ended up making a jumbled, boring mess.  I didn't care about the characters or the war.Visually lovely, though, and superb acting by Kate Winslet, the only asset to this film, in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Unreal but really fun","Date":"19 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Enigma is not for the war buffs who want historical accuracy. Although the historical setting at the headquarters for code breaking during world war 2 is solid enough the characters we meet are fictional.The main character Thomas Jericho clearly has some connections to Alan Turing, but the differences are equally apparent to those who know the historical accounts, so anyone searching for a story about Turing should look elsewhere.If you can let go of this there is a good spy story to be had. Kate Winslet, Saffron Burrows and Dougray Scott are all excellent in the leading roles, but the supporting cast is equally good. Jeremy Northam's spy master is one of many highly entertaining portrayals.The intertwined stories along the way are perhaps more captivating than the main plot, but the ride we are taken on is well worth it. "},{"Title":"See 'Breaking the Code' Instead","Date":"19 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Despite the assembled talents (Kate Winslet, Michael Apted as director, and Tom Stoppard as the scriptwriter), Enigma is far less interesting than Breaking the Code, which featured Derek Jacobi as the real Alan Turing, and told the extraordinary story of how the British broke the German code in World War II with much closer adherence to the facts There's really no need for fictional romances to enhance this amazing tale, and Turing is a far more interesting character than his fictional counterpart.If you're looking for Stoppard's humorous touch, there's absolutely none of it here. Kate Winslet is a marvelous actress but she's given an extraneous role, and the real drama of the Enigma Machine is subordinated to a hokey plot. Here's a case where reality definitely trumps fiction. "}{"Title":"Fear, Paranoia and Patriotism","Date":"21 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The British cinema produced so many war films in the forties, fifties and sixties that one might have thought that the supply of suitable subjects would have dried up, and indeed such films have, since around 1970, not been as popular as they once were. Film-makers do, however, occasionally succeed in finding new wartime subjects, and Enigma is one such example. It is a fictitious account of the work of the British code-breakers based at Bletchley Park. The story is set in March 1943 when the Battle of the Atlantic was at its height and the key priority for the code-breakers was to crack the shark cipher used by the German Navy to communicate with its U-Boats. (The title derives from the Enigma machines used by the Nazis to encode messages).The main character is cryptanalyst Tom Jericho, a brilliant but eccentric Cambridge mathematician loosely based on Alan Turing. As the film opens, Jericho is returning to Bletchley Park after recovering from a nervous breakdown caused by overwork and an unhappy love affair. Jericho's former lover Claire has mysteriously gone missing, and he enlists the help of her housemate Hester to try and track her down. In the course of their search they discover that she was responsible for the theft of classified documents and begin to suspect that she might have been working for the Germans.The film has been criticised on two counts. One is that it does not mention Turing's vital work in cracking the code, replacing him with the fictional Jericho. This may have been down to financial considerations; Turing was gay whereas Jericho is heterosexual, and the filmmakers may have felt that a film with a gay hero would not do well at the box-office. On the other hand, they may simply have wanted to remain faithful to Robert Harris' source novel. The other commonly voiced criticism was of the storyline in which the real traitor turns out to be a Pole who is betraying Allied military secrets to the Nazis because of anger over the Katyn massacre in which his brother died. This also struck me as an unlikely development; the German occupation of Poland was so brutal that no Pole, however great his resentment of Stalin, would have been likely to have collaborated with the Nazis. In actual fact, there were no known German agents working at Bletchley Park; the only spy there was the notorious John Cairncross, one of the Cambridge spy ring, who was working for the Soviet Union, not Germany.Dougray Scott is good as Jericho, a seedy, slightly unbalanced genius, and Jeremy Northam is also good as the suave but sinister upper-class MI5 agent Wigram. This is not, however, really one of Kate Winslet's better films, and she seems miscast as the plain, dowdy bluestocking Hester. She may have taken the role under the influence of the belief, common in the early 2000s, that a physically attractive actress will not be taken seriously in her profession unless she has made at least one film in which she plays a physically unattractive character. (See also Charlize Theron in Monster or Nicole Kidman in The Hours).The plot, as is usual with spy thrillers, is a highly complex one, and at times difficult to follow. Tom Stoppard, who wrote the screenplay, may be one of Britain's greatest playwrights, but I find that his talents often work better in the theatre than in the cinema. Enigma does, however, succeed in conveying a good sense of the atmosphere of wartime Britain, a mixture of fear, paranoia about the enemy and patriotic enthusiasm. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Unfortunately, only average...","Date":"7 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Well, I am at a disadvantage on this one I have read the book... The book is so much better than what was produced for the big screen that it screams revenge. This mainly because this story cannot be told in only 120 minutes. It is far too complex for that. The movie however attempted to do so, and in my opinion, failed. Consequently, it lacks detail, it feels rushed, at certain points it seems that entire parts of the story are missing and last but not least, it ends up being underdeveloped and impossible to understand for the viewer. If the movie had concentrated on only one of the two subplots (the code-breaking), it probably would have been much better, it would have had the necessary screen time to tackle all the details of this enormously complex and important WWII operation.On the other hand, I have to say that some of the acting in this film was very good, especially Dougray Scott as Thomas Jericho, the genius mathematician and Kate Winslet was also quite good as Hester Wallace. But that is about it, there are not many more positive aspects of this movie worthy of mention. The cinematography and sound are average to below average and the screenplay... well, see above.All in all, an average film, that could and should have been much, much better. "},{"Title":"Superfluous Comment","Date":"13 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Most of the previous viewers posting here have got it right, so I will be brief.  This is a well-made film, worth watching more for its workmanlike homage to its own premises rather than any supposed relationship to the real Enigma story.  It fails ultimately not because of egregious flaws, but because it simply does not go far enough into that story, one that anyone who has read about Alan Turing and his machine will recognize as worthy of a better film version than this.  The same may be said of the novel.Is it fair to make this comment, not on what the film is but instead on what it is not?  I think so.  Moreover, as one commentator has written, this is not Hitchcock.  Entertaining but implausible films must contain unusual dramatic power in order to succeed, absent impeccable verisimilitude, on their own merits.  This one does not. "},{"Title":"Adequate Film on Neglected Topic","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Code breaking is hard work.  Though picks and shovels aren't required, the hours are long and the frustrations constant.  The code breaking process is complex, relying heavily on logic, mathematics, and the assistance of computers.  Code breakers themselves often are very weird people who make the common nerd seem comparatively normal.  Given all this, it's understandable that hardly any films, aside from documentaries, have been made about the lives and loves of code breakers. Until Enigma, the one exception was Breaking the Code, the story of Alan Turing, the mathematician perhaps most responsible for cracking the Enigma.  But Turing's story, though psychologically fascinating, has its limitations for conventional film makers, the most obvious being the difficulty in creating dramatic tension and the absence of any female love interest. Michael Apted's `Enigma' is the first real attempt to tell the story of the Bletchley Park code breakers within the framework of both a thriller and a heterosexual romance.  As might be expected given the historical circumstances, the thriller aspects come off as rather subdued and the romance, such as it is, as rather restrained. Set in the dreary England of 1943, where stiff upper lips were bearing the weight of four years of war, `Enigma' centers on mathematician Tom Jericho (Dougray Scott).  His day and night job is code cracking, but Jericho spends much of the film attempting to solve the mystery of the disappearance of his former lover, Claire Romilly (Saffron Burrows).   Jericho is assisted by the suitably frumpy Hester Wallace (Kate Winslet), but harassed by an elegant MI-5 officer named Wigram (Jermey Northam), who suspects him of both murder and treason. The disheveled Mr. Jericho and the dowdy Miss Wallace spend much of the film on a last-name basis as they poke through files and try to decode intercepts Claire had in her possession.  This leads them off into what seems a blind alley but eventually turns out to be the key to much of the mystery.  In the midst of all this, Tom manages to tear himself away long enough to return to work, make a breakthrough, and help his mates recover the keys to a code the Germans had altered, thus changing the course of a critical convoy battle in the North Atlantic. Slow paced and sometimes dense, `Enigma' is enlivened by Northam's portrayal of  Wigram, who has a habit of turning up at inopportune moments and making matters difficult for Jericho.  Northam has a lot of fun with this role and he looks great in his suits, providing a sharp sartorial contrast to the drab Jericho-Wallace line of wartime apparel. Although some critics have compared `Enigma' favorably to works of Hitchcock, Hitch's touch was always lighter and his pacing livelier.  And Dougray Scott is not Cary Grant any more than Kate Winslett is Grace Kelly, which is all well and good as this dark, serious film clearly benefits from the use of less glamorous performers. Historically `Enigma' is reasonably accurate, though only so far as it goes.  Alan Turing isn't even given a cameo and the original Polish contribution to the code breaking is barely acknowledged.  Unfortunately, the film was not shot at Bletchley Park, some of which still survives, but at various other sites in England and Holland. Recommended to those interested in code breaking and in World War Two. Others probably will find Enigma just that.  "},{"Title":"Really good film, but may be too complex for the casual viewer.","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I rate this film, Enigma, highly, but first I will state my gripes.  I saw it on DVD, and the picture is one of the poorer I have seen in a current release DVD. It looks like they used either a poorly-focused camera, or bad lenses. It is like the throw-away fixed-focus still camera compared to a modern auto-focus, 35-mm camera. Also, the story is obviously fictional, based around a real code-breaking operation during WW II, but the DVD has not one extra. It would have been a great addition to spend a few minutes reviewing some of the actual history of the German enigma machines and the allied success in breaking codes, along with some entertaining making of material. It is almost a crime to issue a DVD of a current film without at least a few interesting extras. However, the story contained in the 115 minute film was told very well. It involved allied convoys of supplies from New York to Europe with German U-boats moving in for the kill, and the Germans changing the decoding guidelines suddenly. The task was to break the code and preserve the safety of such shipments. The story, set in England, included lost love, new love, spies, espionage, and just plain hard work. Very absorbing film.  Too bad the picture was 1970s quality. "},{"Title":"Based on historic events, yet without historic value.","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Is there any substance in making a movie based on world's history, where the real history is taken out of context? This movie should be credited only for its romance plot.  The historical events tainted by typical British self-centered point of view.  The real facts about heroes of the Enigma have been hidden for years behind the iron curtain of communist block which allowed others to claim the prize.  Nevertheless, the move would have been a great opportunity to put some light into it.  For all interested in the Enigma and Mr. Marian Rejewski, I suggest reading the 1998 (2001) corrected edition of `Seizing the Enigma' by David Kahn.  I rate the movie as OK as a romance type of movie. "},{"Title":"Something went wrong here","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I really looked forward to seeing this because of all the people who worked on it.  But as I watched it I kept thinking that something must have gone terribly wrong.  The script - by the incredible Tom Stoppard, of all people -- was awkwardly constructed!  Characters did things that were so breath-takingly stupid that I had to wonder if they were doing these things just to keep the plot moving along, or whether Stoppard was really trying to show that these brilliant characters were also complete idiots.I can't much fault the actors because they have to follow Stoppard's script and Apted's direction.  And why there should have been problems with those two men is baffling.  Like this whole film.  I always expect a puzzle of some kind from Stoppard, but the only puzzle for the first three-quarters of this film was how these characters could be behaving so foolishly.  All the flashback scenes to Claire were infuriating in the way they undermined the main character without ever offering us any insight into WHY he was behaving in this way.  I have a strange feeling the director decided to try to goose the story up and messed up more character development than he could finally correct.  SOMETHING important got sacrificed.I really liked Dougray Scott in this role because he looked a mess, giving himself over completely to expressing his character's fragile state.  Kate Winslet was very solid -- and refreshing as the only character who didn't seem be (foolishly) hiding something she shouldn't be.The last quarter of the film really picks up the pace and becomes another film entirely.  Unfortunately in the process everyone steps even more out of character.  Hard to believe, but at least not boring. "},{"Title":"History made in England","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Nice movie but as of historical value it carries none. I'd like the book author and the script writer to take a look at historical events surrounding the Enigma machine and notice a list of Polish names before any Englishman even heard of the code. "},{"Title":"The British film ENIGMA is another stark example of the way the history of World War II is twisted and misrepresented.","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The British film ENIGMA is another stark example of the way the history of World War II is twisted and misrepresented.  Rather than just state the facts and show how much Poland contributed to deciphering Nazi Germany?s secret code even before the war began, it fictionalized the story and created a character who was a traitor and gave him a Polish identity.  When the movie was first shown in English theaters, historian Norman Davies issued a public statement pointing out its outrageous manipulation of truth. The ENIGMA machine was the instrument Nazi Germany used to transmit communications in a secret code. It was Polish cryptologists who were first to solve the mystery of the ENIGMA code and pass it on to the British for further development. In the movie, however, it is a Pole who is depicted as the villain of the entire story. Not only is Poland's important contribution to the ultimate Allied victory over Hitler completely obscured but the audience is misled to conclude that the honor of this loyal and heroic nation was compromised. "},{"Title":"ridiculous, non-sensical tripe","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I love films about World War II, especially those involving spies.  Because of this, I am usually quite willing to forgive historical inaccuracies and plot holes for the sake of the excitement to be found in such films.  But sadly Enigma, as well as being riddled with inaccuracies, is also lacking any of the drama or excitement I usually expect in a film about something as seemingly interesting as code-breaking.   The truth is, code-breaking is treated as a throw-away background theme for the film.  Only once do we see any code-breaking being done, and it's done in such a dopey, cliched fashion, it's really impossible to care.  The majority of the film focuses on the silly misadventures of Scott and Winslet, who for no believable reason decide to hide important information about treason from the authorities and investigate it themselves, which they of course face no repercussions for.  I have never been so disappointed in the great writer Tom Stoppard.   The plot itself makes very little sense if you actually stop to think about it, so I've been trying not to.If you're a big Winslet fan, you might find this amusing to see her running around solving puzzles and spouting tired lines about how smart women are overlooked by sexist men, but in general there is just nothing in this film that isn't easily predictable and tired. "}{"Title":"A beautifully crafted film reminiscent of classic spy yarns.","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Michael Apted's Enigma is not a film for today's movie market. The story and atmosphere, the characters and their development, all unfortunately don't easily find a place in the world of 21st century mainstream cinema. There isn't an abundance of CG, there aren't a bevy of fresh young faces bound for the covers of People and Entertainment Weekly, and the film's pacing is rather methodical and delicate.It is for these reasons that Enigma is nothing short of exquisite.Sitting in a darkened theater, Enigma's prospects for viewers shunned by box-office blockbusters, those who often prefer novels to popcorn fare, are daunting. From the start, the haunting beauty of John Barry's score transports the viewer directly into Apted's vision, a stunningly directed piece which inspires the eye as much as the ear.The cast is brilliant in their portrayals, particularly Dougray Scott and Jeremy Northam. Scott's persona gives the character of Tom Jericho precisely the foundation it needs dark, brooding, and utterly tragic. Northam, on the other hand, provides a great foil to Scott in his very intelligent and pointed rendering of Wigram.In the end, Enigma is reminiscent of classic spy thrillers, comparable to the likes of Alister MacLean and John Higgins. For many, it will be a return to classic filmmaking long overdue.We've all sat in our homes over the years, watching classics from the golden era of Hollywood, wondering endlessly Why don't they make films like this anymore? Finally, we have a reply. "},{"Title":"A beautiful and compelling thriller","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Thriller, for me, probably means something different to what most people describe as a thriller. Ronin, for example, is not a thriller. It's an action film, which works on car chases and gunfights, not on plot twists, shady characters or (more crucially) high stakes. It's a wonderful action film, far better than most, but it's not a thriller.By contrast, Enigma is most definitely a thriller. At its true climax, only a single shot is fired on screen, and it is nowhere near any character of name. Barely ever is any characters life in danger. Yet the stakes are so high and the consequences of failure are so real that the film achieves a sense of worry and nervousness that a million car chases cannot accomplish.Performances are excellent, Jeremy Northam stands out as the driven Wigram, and the two leads (Scott and Winslet) also are in fine form, I've never liked a Winslet performance as much as I've enjoyed this one.Much has been made of the films pacing, which is best described as patient. All critics who have declared it slow are impatient and weren't paying attention. They should be fatally shot and then fired from their position. In that order.The film is not perfect, one leap of logic seems dubious at best, and whilst I appreciated the flashbacks that helped us understand the characters logic, they're still distracting.But they don't get in the way enough to stop Enigma being a fine example of film in the morass of film blandness pre-Potter. "},{"Title":"Take that, U-571!","Date":"25 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Take that, U-571! Oh, the irony! Enigma was made as a British counter to the supposed historical inaccuracies of the American U-571, and what happens? The Poles are in a lather at the Brits for historical inaccuracies.Look, you twits, they are both fictional! That means they are not supposed to be historically accurate. And no viewer with half a brain would think any the worse of the Poles based on this movie, because it is FICTION.How do we know it is fiction? Because there were no such persons as Thomas Jericho, Puck, et al. Some of them were based on real people, they say Hester Wallace on Mavis Batey, who died at 92 this month (and the reason I watched this). However, the real Batey seems to have played a far more key role in breaking Enigma than portrayed. (The movie never makes clear what exactly she does (after all it's secret) or how she has time to go gallivanting around the countryside.)On the other hand, when you make a movie saying a Polish traitor and spy almost cost the war for the Allies, you shouldn't be surprised that Poles might be a bit miffed at you, even if you do give credit to Poland in the beginning of the movie for providing England with an enigma machine, and instructions on how to crack the codes. (Enigma machines had been in use commercially since the 1920s, patented in 1918, so they weren't exactly secret.) Referencing the greatest convoy battle of all time and the historical Katyn Massacre in text at the end of the movie, without saying there is no historical connection between the two, also would lead to misunderstandings. (The movie never says what is fiction and what is true.) Here's what is true in the movie There were Enigma machines, there was a Bletchley Park, there was a Katyn Massacre, there were convoys crossing the Atlantic, there was a Shark code, there was a World War II. Everything and everyone else, as far as I can tell, is made up. Did England actually sink a German U-boat off Scotland and get its Enigma machine (actually, they didn't need the machines, they needed the code books)?The movie wallows in flashbacks for the first half, (sometimes to things that happened just minutes earlier (I think -- it is hard to tell when they happened)). Frankly, I don't think I was intelligent enough to follow them. (Heck, I didn't even understand the beginning of the movie, like why Jericho was persona non grata from the project -- the movie never says what was so terrible that he had done. (I decided to take notes as I watched, but I was still lost.)) And the explanations at the end just made it all the more confusing. Yes, I got the basic plot, but the details looked like a fast sleight of hand game of follow the peanut. I never really cared. Sure, Claire was a red herring (any suspect so early on has to be). But why not just let the internal investigator handle the evidence, rather than risk jail? (Because then there wouldn't be much of a movie.) And where did that nice shiny car come from that they were driving all over the place, like Scotland, (not to mention the tightly rationed gas (which they call petrol))? Frankly, there were far too many totally implausible components to the story.Enigma is supposed to be Britain's revenge on Universal Pictures for making a fictional movie about Americans capturing a fictional Enigma machine from a fictional German sub. So they make a movie about the brilliant work done at Bletchley Park. (Except that in Enigma, the British intelligence agents can't find their own missing Enigma machine hidden hurriedly in a motionless car sitting right in front of them. I'm not sure I would brag about this..).But was this actually made by a British movie studio? It was made by Broadway Video and Jagged Films (as in Mick Jagger), and distributed by Buena Vista (i.e., Disney). (Looks British to me.)Bottom line There sure was a lot of confusing running around and flashbacks (plus some all too skimpy gratuitous sex in a boardinghouse where visitors were prohibited (so the landlady must have been pretty stupid (or drunk)) for what turned out to be a fairly simple maguffin. (I haven't seen such a pointless mess since The English Patient.) If the point of the movie was to show the brilliant work done at Bletchley Park, it didn't come close to doing them justice. They looked like a bunch of lopsided frat boys. (Meanwhile, the Yanks were making Sigsaly encrypted AD-DA transceivers (loaning one to Churchill so he and FDR could talk on the radio (look it up) (Not to mention Mrs. Minniver)).Spoiler alert They never come right out and say what the point of the movie was, and why the sinking of the sub was so important (where did that sub come from in the plot, again?). But I guess anyone who could stick with the movie to the end was likely smart enough to figure that out A British movie studio wanted to capture an Enigma machine from a fictional German sub, to top the American movie studio that captured an Enigma machine from the fictional U-571.(Congratulations.) "},{"Title":"enjoyable but disappointing","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I stumbled on this film by accident and I did enjoyed it. Not only the plot kept me watching, more were the good acting and Kate Winslet ,of course. Afterwords, I look up wikipedia and read all about ' Enigma' and 'Bletchley Park', and realized the real history about cryptanalysis and cryptologists in WW II were much more fascinating than what the movie had shown. So it is no surprise that people who have knowledge about this part of history will find the movie disappointing, even I do after some reading. Nevertheless, I am glad this segment of history was made into a movie and by chance had me seen it. Still, I could not help but wondering how exciting the movie may be if produced by a more capable team. "},{"Title":"Just Brilliant!","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This movies was certainly not what I was expecting, however I was more than intrigued with what I saw.If you can forget history for a minute and focus on the screenplay, you will see that this is an entertaining movie full of quality acting and a story that always keeps you guessing. The actors set the scene perfectly for what Bletchley Park must have been like back in wartime.I was also fascinated by the love story, especially the myriad of emotions displayed by Tom as he battled a heavy heart.Definitely one to watch when you're in the mood for watching a movie that makes you think. "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"24 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" EnigmaThe key to an unbreakable coded message is to kill the only guy who knows what the code is.However, the code-breaker in this drama doesn't need the code's creator to crack it.Back at Bletchley Park to help British military recover their ability to decipher German U-Boat's intercepts, cryptanalyst Tom (Dougray Scott) is distracted by the disappearance of his girlfriend.To help locate her, Tom teams with her roommate (Kate Winslet) and together they uncover their country's concealment of wartime atrocities to sway US forces to their side.But their snooping soon attracts the attention of an MI-5 operative (Jeremy Northam).Loosely based on the true story of the Bletchley Park code-breakers, Enigma omits much of the facts and characters, including Alan Turing, in order to give this account a more cat-and-mouse vibe, which it has in spades.Incidentally, most intercepted U-Boat messages were just fan letters to Hitler.Yellow Lightvidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie but not a thriller it could have been","Date":"10 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Recently came across this movie when it was being shown in sony pix. Got hooked immediately. The lead couple played by Kate Winslet and Dougray Scott provide excellent acting in a well written movie honoring the code breakers of Enigma. The setting is of Bletchley and the scenery in the movie is quite beautiful. Dougray as the mathematician plays the role perfectly as the genius gone crazy over a blonde. Kate Winslet (wears glasses, which is funny) provides excellent support. The security officer also provides good support and rest of the cast reflects the English of 1940's. Although the movie is great on acting and other fronts,the thrill in the story is little less. A more of a thinking based movie rather than pure thriller. "},{"Title":"You need a code-breaking machine to decipher this plot.","Date":"22 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" There should have been an attempt to simplify the way the plot unfolds, instead of throwing at us bundles of sub-plots and details that served to confuse rather than help.I suppose a second viewing would clarify certain aspects of the story, but although a very solid film, this is nothing I'll be rushing to see within the next ten years.Considering Apted directed it, I'm surprised it wasn't a weak movie, because it's this man who gave us such classics as Nell, The World Is Not Enough, or Gorillas In The Mist. (Yawn...) The film's greatest strength is that it's never dull, plus the good cast, especially some female eye-candy in Winslet and Burrows. The attempt to make Winslet look like a blah librarian next to Burrows did not work, though glasses or no glasses she looks great. Maybe they should have give her a nose like they did with Nicole Kidman in that dumb women drama...Speaking of which...Drowning herself was the best thing Virginia Woolf ever did for British literature. The best line in the movie. "},{"Title":"What would the British have done without WWII?","Date":"21 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" One has to wonder what the British would have done if there had not been a second world war. From the number of books, films and TV shows about the war, one would think that for many it appears to have been the happiest time of their lives. I have listened many times to my parents and their friends reminiscing with nostalgia about gas masks, rationing, the blackout, the servicemen billeted in their homes, petrol and food shortages, and the fun they had in those days! Not only is Enigma another of those films which lovingly recreates the atmosphere of the war, but it has a cracking good script. I loved the scenes of the code breakers and assistants working cheek by jowl inside Bletchly Park. It brought to mind endless cups of strong sweet tea, although there did not seem to be too many Woodbines being smoked! Jeremy Northam is excellent as the snobbish upper crust investigator, insulting the far more intelligent misfits who have been gathered from various countries and walks of life for their brilliant ability with code breaking. One of my favorite scenes was when the rather disrespectful misfits were being given a pep talk by a superior and having heard it all before, were making sarcastic asides during the speech.Overall, the film is intelligent and absorbing and awards the credit where it is due - to the unseen back room brains whose contribution may well have won the war, but who received little or no recognition or glory. It is also a reminder that wars are not won by armed combat alone. Many of the men at Bletchley Park would have have faced suspicion for not being in uniform and unable to talk about their work, would have no doubt had to bear the sharp tongues of people whose family members were in the armed forces. "},{"Title":"Neat, often engaging little thriller","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Michael Apted's Enigma is set at the fiery midst of War World II, but zooms past the frontiers and into the quiet but hectic codebreaking centre in Bletchley Park, England. Here we meet the true mathematical geniuses and machinery behind the war, working around the clock to unlock new Enigma codes that the Nazi U-boats have set to communicate at sea with their navy. Working himself fiercely and into a breakdown, crypto-analyst Tom Jericho (a gaunt-looking Dougray Scott) is the focus of the film--as well as the same-titled novel by Robert Harris on which the film is based--and, with the help of colleague Hester Wallace (Kate Winslet), he is soon on his way to unlock both enigmas and conspiracies within the authorities.I watched Engima for the gorgeous Dougray Scott, but it is not he who shines in his role (in fact, he is very understated as Tom), but Kate Winslet who is just so lovely and pleasantly quirky as fellow code-breaker at Bletchley Park that you can't take her eyes off her. The film is facilitated by her charismatic performance, as well as a pace that starts slow but begins to escalate appropriately and turns into a real fast-paced ride about halfway through. Enigma seems to be constantly on the edge of new revelations and there was a point when I was thoroughly engrossed in every scene, nervously twirling my hair (and I don't do that much). Yet, there is a lot to keep track of in the plot and this is definitely not a war movie for the masses as it demands extra attention and certain commitment. Nevertheless, I found it quite enjoyable.7/10 "}{"Title":"I may not know art, but I know what I like","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I found ENIGMA to be a thoroughly entertaining film. It has a wonderful soundtrack, a magnificent English background setting, an intriguing story of WW-II espionage with decent plot twists and some terrific actors I truly enjoy watching. Personally, I thought Jeremy Northam nailed his character as a British Secret Service agent, and Kate Winslet was refreshingly real in her non-Hollywood role as an earthy working gal just doing her part to help the Allies win the war. I was not familiar with Dougray Scott, but I very much enjoyed his performance in the lead role of Tom Jericho. And while I did not understand all of the intricacies of the code breaking process, it did not get in the way of my overall enjoyment. Score this film 8 of 10. "},{"Title":"Saffron Burrows is a real star!","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The movie is worth watching for the outstanding performance of the beautiful Saffron Burrows. It is rare the co-star that can make Kate Winslet look plain but Ms. Burrows manages to do that in addition to delivering a first class performance. Kate Winslet and Dougray Scott also deliver fine performances but one wishes there was more of Ms. Burrows. It is not clear to me why she is still to make the leap to being the big star that she deserves to be. The story is also fascinating as it exposes a part of the war effort that for the most part has gone unnoticed and uncelebrated. The supporting actors do an admirable job. "},{"Title":"A War movie without all the explosive drama!","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Kate Winslet (in plain Jane mode) and Saffron Burrows (in typical 40s vixen/supermodel mood) play roommates Hester and Claire in WWII time England, one day Claire an enigmatic beauty herself mysteriously disappears and her boyfriend at the time of disappearance (played by Dougray Scott) enlists Hester (Winslet) to help in the search for her. All this occurs in the backdrop of the war and in light of the lives of the code-breakers who helped England decipher the secret codes to the enigma, Hester being one of those brainy code-breakers, hence the plain Jane mode for Winslet. All is not what it seems as one plot twist leads to another, and Hester finds herself falling in love with Claire's boyfriend. Who was the mysterious Claire Romley and where did she disappear to? Find out the secrets in Enigma. Jeremy Northam completes the solid cast and the film was produced by Mick Jagger of the rolling stones. "},{"Title":"What secret?","Date":"20 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The whole premise of the movie is that they are covering up something that Churchill and the rest of the government don't want revealed. Those familiar with the history of the Second World War will know all about the Katan massacre and if was, in fact, widely reported after the bodies were found. Having said that, it was an extremely enjoyable movie, even if the identity of the spy is easily deduced early on. One other thing, the German's never found out that their codes were broken and every major battle since the breaking of Enigma was decided mainly because of the code breaking. Which leaves us with a number of questions. First, if they had all this information about the German plans why did it take so long to defeat the Germans? Another is that if they were translating every message why wasn't something done about the Holocaust? Then there is the question as to whether the British knew about the attack on Pearl Harbour from German intercepts? "},{"Title":"Nice Atmosphere!","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This is one of the few films actually addressing the matter of cryptanalysis, or even just crypotology. Cipher Bureau and the serial, The Secret Code, are the only ones that spring to mind (Mercury Rising just uses a cipher scheme as a Maguffin, and A Beautiful Mind ... please!).Seeing that beautiful Enigma machine and the bombes at Blechtly Park were enough for me, but there was a kind of story.Spoiler Alert! Part of the deal was obtaining the solution to an encrypted message, and Hester borrows the facility's Enigma to help solve it, but wasn't the message encrypted on a machine with one more rotor than she had on the one she was using? Good luck on that solution! From the previous entries, some reviewers complained about historical nits. Yes, the Poles provided the British and French with Enigma material at the beginning of World War II. Yes, the British made very important decrypts, but often were stymied because they had no access to the newer rotor setting publications. These were captured from submarines and a lighthouse. The actual decrypts were ULTRA; the machines were Enigmas, FWIW.Trying to present cryptology and cryptanalysis interestingly to a general audience, and this film has made a good step in that direction. I picked it up on DVD, which is my vote of confidence for the film. "},{"Title":"tough sledding","Date":"25 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Okay, call me stupid. Or whatever. But I kept watching this twisting writhing thing I would a sick snake, simply because it did not make much sense. But these spy things are always a bit like that, tough to make because they are kind of cheap magician tricks, what do you show and what do you hide and if you hide too much its boring or confusing and you show too much and there is not a mystery. The first and foremostest was all the jabberwocky about codes. It would take a cryptologist to follow three quarters of the dialog, my head kept spinning, the pestle with the mestle has the brew that is true, et cetera et cetera et cetera, as the King of Siam would say. But it was kind of fun, and without being confused I suppose I would not have believed these characters. But then the business with the drive in the country, winding up in the barn, and all that, the movie really started to unravel. In the end I felt I was on some carnival midway hustled into a sideshow, and had to keep both hands over my pockets with just one wallet, so paranoid they were somehow gonna use the back pockets maybe to get to it, these tricky guys. In udder words, was not taken in, just paranoid. If this is a Tom Stoppard excursion into Pinterland, shrug. Double shrug. Also you always have to be careful about flashbacks piled upon flashbacks, the way this baby kept stacking them up another movie that revolves around a disappearance, though without a single flashback, and gets it effects a lot more successfully , LAventura, in fact there are certain parallels that are fairly striking, even down to the girl friend and boy friend of the gone one winding up in each others arms, though one is a masterpiece, mostly, and this one a mismash. Kate Winslet however turns in her usual striking performance. Without her I would have shut it down after fifteen minutes. But anytime she is on screen, it's worth watching. "},{"Title":"quite enjoyable","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Very interesting movie combining code breaking with more conventional mystery solving. The movie is reminiscent of early Hitchcock films in structure, although it was really John Barry's excellent symphonic score that made me realize that. I was a little confused by the story at times, but to be fair I watched the first half of the movie and then didn't see the second half for a couple of days. Also I always have trouble making out British accents, so often I just wasn't quite sure what was being said. So I wound up rating this movie a 7 while suspecting that if I'd watched it in one sitting and had been able to understand every word that I would have given it an 8. One of the better movies I've seen recently. "},{"Title":"Good thriller","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The story is quite clever and contains some interesting elements. The acting is flawless and the characters seem real. Don't know about the historical correctness, but it's interesting to see the Enigma machine in action. The movie is a bit slow in the middle, it would be even better if they cut some 15 minutes.Overall a good movie. I give this movie 7/10 and it's worth seeing again because of all the details and plot twists that one might miss the first time.  "},{"Title":"Intelligent thriller","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The title refers to a code used by the Germans in WWII to direct their submarine convoys in the North Atlantic. Thought to be unbreakable, the British, working at a facility called Bletchley Park, cracked it not once, but twice. This is the story of a team of code-breakers lead by the brilliant but unstable Tom Jericho (Dougray Scott). He had recently suffered a nervous break-down after the collapse of his relationship with Claire Romilly (Saffron Burrows), but he is the only person clever enough to break the code and is brought back into service. At work he befriends Claire's roommate Hester Wallace (Kate Winslet), and learns that there is more to his ex-lover than meets the eye. Enigma is a nicely crafted, intelligent thriller that builds slowly and delivers a surprising payoff. Kate Winslett has never been better, transforming herself from mousey to sex-kitten, and Saffron Burrows burns up the screen with her sex appeal.  "},{"Title":"Everything you'd want in a crack the secret code movie plus a bit you might not have thought of.","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Cleverly made and backed by a novel, we see a tale of mystery, romance, espionage,  action (fascinating car chase sequence) and of course several explosions (that didn't  quite reach the sub woofer travelling all the way from the North Atlantic Tub). Done on a  shoestring budget (and one would expect no less with Superaccountant Man as  producer)  the movie doesn't need any more but delivers a most entertaining blend of  truth and fiction with a rather almost conceivable plot which was probably true anyway,  truth being the way it is.Here's a plot. You have to crack a code that took you ten months last time only this time  the probability factor has moved from a few million to one, to a few billion to one and  oh by the way, you've got four days this time otherwise we lose a convoy of around 140  ships. Slot in a budding romance a missing glamour spy a little mental disorder and a  super smooth MI5 type operative's subversive tactics and you've got yourself a winner. This probably didn't match some other box office sales records but I guess that's  because you actually have to watch this one to understand it.My rating 8/10  (Outstanding) "}{"Title":"A Pleasant Film for a Lazy Sunny Afternoon","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This film is mainly a mystery drama with mild romance. Some action about the middle and end pick it up a bit, with fairly well sustained suspense from the middle to the end. Light violence but nothing graphic. Plot twists keep interest. Some beautiful scenery. Fine performances by the players. Set in the early 1940s it gives an old-time feeling. Don't get hung up on the accuracy of the technical and this can be a very pleasant film to enjoy. "},{"Title":"What a disappointment!","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Perhaps it was the fact I'd read the book or that I'd waited for ages to see this movie, but nothing prepared me for the poor overall quality of this film. The last viewer's comments are bang on - the acting is fairly mediocre, and you get this strange feeling that the film was rushed in every way to be put together. If I didn't know better, one would think it was made by a bunch of amateur filmmakers trying to emulate a good picture. I might add that the cinematography was awful - compared to a film like Charlotte Grey, (which had stunning cinematography), and the resolution and quality embarrassingly bad.  Some characters were even out of focus when they weren't supposed to be, heavily shadowed at the wrong times, and the scenes sometimes too dark.  The scenes were rushed, blah, and as the previous reviewer said, the acting was ho-hum, yawn, and once in a while you'd be thrown a bone to pique your interest for a few seconds. In retrospect, the actors appeared as if they were trying to copy characters in old British war films, but just couldn't pull it off.  The best line in the entire film was ...they were seeing each other.  Seeing each other's brains out.  That was the most original line in the picture. One to miss, unfortunately. "},{"Title":"Brilliant acting","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  In this movie I highly enjoyed the brilliant acting of Kate Winslet, who proves here that she is up to much more than Titanic. She plays her part so very natural. The rest of the cast is good also, but Kate really stole the show for me. I found the plot, brilliant as it may be, a bit too difficult to follow the first time one sees the movie, and for that reason not really satisfying.The setting is great and the atmosphere is very British and very much wartime.  I gave this movie an 8 out of 10. It could have been as low as 6 out of 10 without Kate Winslet. Again, she steals the show and as soon as she appears there is no weak moment or difficult plot to worry about. "},{"Title":"Excellent, evocative, exceptional","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a delicious surprise from start to finish, from the weary and haunted Jericho played by Dougray Scott to the absolutely captivating performance of Jeremy Northam. The whole film has the feel of another era, it certainly has captured the dialogue of times long past. Saffron Burrows was riveting as the elusive Claire who ensnares the hearts of all men who meet her before moving on to the next one and makes it so believable in the the film. Costumes and cinematography were also excellent. And the plot, though difficult to grasp when it revolved around decyphering the German broadcasts, worked very well over all and sustains interest as it shifts and changes. At times I felt I was watching one of those British For King and Country efforts of the forties as it rang so true of that era. Kate Winslet is nearly unrecognisable, playing the heroine's dowdy plump best friend type and is totally believable. Recommended. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Interesting and complex movie","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Interesting movie in which the story was laid out, revealing little by little on what happened to our missing character and what motives she had for the things she did.The plot was very intricate and complicated, with its weaving in and out of the characters, along with simultaneous revelations of their past and secrets, either through flashbacks, code-cracking or face to face confrontations.  This made it things fun to follow, but sometimes you will have to stop for a second and think along the line of if A=X, B~Y, B>X, how did Y<A?  It is not a high paced or high tensioned suspense, therefore the movie plays out as one is doing a crossword puzzle.  Thought provoking, if not on the edge of your seat.I don't think the film is trying to explain any aspect of the code cracking part, since the finer aspects of it are thrown at the listener so fast that its purpose is to give us a view of the complexity of their work.  But this works against the film because later on, we cannot judge how close they are cracking the code, know where they are deadlocked on, or even guess ourselves what could be the problem.  So we basically see a lot of shuffling of paper, getting undeciphered code from somewhere else, transposing letter, etc, and all of a sudden, we see them either solve it or say it can't be done.  Beautiful mind tries to simplify what the code cracker sees for the audience, at the same time show the abstractness of his thought by displaying the complexities of his work, all without telling us one bit how his mind work.  But that movie is not about mathematics or code-breaking, so it worked better.Overall, a decent film to watch.  Maybe on second viewing, one could pick up what they are talking about with all the code cracking explanation and actually follow them throughout those parts of the film.  "},{"Title":"Finally, A Breather From The Schlock","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I know there was not much of audience when it was released in the U.S. but hopefully now out on DVD and video, it will find an audience. This is a really good film with a smart sensibility and witty repartee that makes it stand above the daily dreck for the masses. If we are to get more films of this caliber, we as a public have to consume it, so please pass along this little gem to your friends, family, neighbors, acquaintances, and colleagues. Maybe we all can make this better place for film lovers.   "},{"Title":"Solid Film Making","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  An example of classic film making. An even, gradual, pace peaking at the proper place for supreme climatic effect. With a nice slow complex story building up to an action filled ending. The acting was good not great or bad. As the film overall is. The traditional Hollywood romance took away from the film. But that only kept it from being great. This is just a solid film. Nothing extraordinary but done by the book therefore classic.7/10  "},{"Title":"Terrific","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This movie is very well done, in every way. The acting is great, the writing is superb, the direction is very well done and I really like the way the director of photography made this film look and feel.A somewhat crazy scientist is brought in to solve the new Enigma code (Enigma was the coding system that the German sub-marines used in the second world war) and he finds himself in his old hometown where his old love mysteriously disappeared a while ago. Part of the movie deals with his searching for his lost love and the other part with the breaking of the Enigma machine. This movie is very clever, and in the last quarter of the films both of the plots crash into one.I recommend this movie to anyone who even has the slightest interest in World War 2 history, or just World War 2 films. "},{"Title":"Unremarkable","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  A lot of British film goers complain when American filmmakers twist plots of big film to make out that they were the heroes and not the British such as the change of victors in U-571 but sometimes you have to sacrifice the truth to make a film more interesting and i wish Hollywood would have got hold of this movie if only to spark some life into it . Dont get me wrong , I'm British and i love a lot of our homemade films but we dont do this type of film very well.  Enigma ambles along , only very occasionaly sparking any interest for the watcher sometimes confusing them with the plot and sometimes rousing them from their slumber. The acting is average in fact the actors are made to look like nerds , especially Kate Winslitt.  If you have an interest in the Enigma machine or WWII then maybe you will like this but it didnt do anything for me. 6 out 10.  "},{"Title":"WWII A Different Battlefield","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Over all, this movie really agreed with me, since it didn't show the same battles.  The battles in this film were in the mind and in secret.  Showing that in war just as many, if not more, are killed from the actions of one -- without a gun -- as from whole platoons with guns.  Spies, communications, riddles, codes and secrets.  Many not having to do with the war, at all.  And, somewhere in all that espionage... love.  Watch this film and be prepared to think.  Don't try to figure it out before the end, either... just let it happen.What worked  Ironically, the section of my review that I could write the most about will end up being the shortest.  One, I think the viewer should decide what he/she like most.  Also, it can be summed up in one word  Everything.  I really cannot think of an aspect of this film - direction - plot - acting - or atmosphere that didn't score very high with me.  It had a lot without over-doing it.  There was little action, since it wasn't needed.  And I liked how the director includes the audience in the solving of the puzzles (both in the lives of the characters, as well as, the communications that they intercepted).  If you can get through the lack of action in this film I highly recommend it... definitely not the one if you're in an action mood.What didn't work  That one's a bit harder.  I do, however, think that some of the scenes were a tad luck-oriented.  There were times when things fell right into place...  I would name them, however, they have integral aspects of the mystery around them, so I'll just say that it in no way reduced my enjoyment in the film.  In fact, I'm only writing this because I don't want to sell this film as perfection.  Though, few have come so close.MODEST SPOILER, HERE.  I'LL TRY NOT TO GIVE AWAY TOO MUCH, THOUGH. Finally, I think there should have been an element of more physical romance between a couple of the characters.  Again, it didn't detract from the movie's quality, but I would have liked it for the romantic part of me.  Or whatever part that likes to see a lot of passion in a film like this one.  Still, it was an awesome film.9/10 - A great brain-teaser.thank you "}{"Title":"WW2 drama with a certain degree of historical realism","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  If you like WW2 movies this is a pretty good film. It does, however, deal more with human interactions than the war itself. A few surprises show up along the road, but most of them seem predictable to me. As you probably know, the Enigma was a code used by the Germans during WW2. It was a brilliant system compared to that time's standard. The invention of the computer has pretty much made the system obsolete. None the less hearing about the mystery of this dreadfull and very cunning way of encrypting is entertaining. Especially if you pep it up with a little love story along the way. The casting is of average quality; in other words some actors fit their characters very vell, while others do not. The music is atmospheric and delivers part of the good experience. It is not too neutral and not like most of the music played during that era; so do not expect to be taken back in time in every little detail. It is not that realistic!In my subjective opinion it is worth seing and worth forgetting again, once you have seen it. It is not brilliant in any way, but rather entertaining if you do not know what else to do. "},{"Title":"Good...but not great","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie last night for the first time after devouring the book and loving it.  I have to say I was quite disappointed with the movie.  I didn't feel that the characters were developed enough and they lacked the depth to make one identify with them.  Crucial parts of the book were overlooked and while I understand the difficulties in making a book into a screenplay, this just didn't make the grade.If someone was to watch the movie before reading the book, they might be satisified (although I doubt it).  I would not recommend reading the book before seeing the movie as I just don't think it lived up to is potential.While the subject matter is fascinating, the movie left me feeling flat. The movie jacket calls Enigma a romantic thriller.  I have to say, I didn't see too much romance and while the book had me on edge to the very last page, the movie didn't thrill me too much. "},{"Title":"Much better than I expected","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  There were enough twists in the tale to keep all the audience glued for the entire 2 hours in this one. The WWII angle, was not used to the best though, while the question that I was more intrigued about was Where was Claire ? and what had happened to her ?.The cast did an admirable job with everyone putting in good performances, Burrows was very good in her small-ish role and I wish we had got the chance to see more of her.A film that will definetly stand head and shoulders above my expectations. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A film for the thinking, literate audience","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  A fine, intelligent screenplay by Tom Stoppard lends subtlety and sparkle to an interesting plot based on real incidents during WWII.  Tightly drawn characterizations, sketched with a superb economy of language and realized in exacting performances. The period is so well realized you can almost smell the wet wool tweed. The plot moves along smartly, with just the right amount of suspense and a twist at the end.  Too slow for the car chases and things that go boom crowd, despite the wartime setting, but just right for those of us who like to savor the words. "},{"Title":"A movie for grownups.  Smart grownups.","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Clever, handsome, gripping, and a lot more satisfying than most of the histrionic **** that passes for movies these days.  Tom Jericho looked a little too much like a honking madman for anybody's comfort.  He must have relatives in the bin to learn from.  The undercurrent of sexism reminds me of me early days.  Sigh. And Kate Winslet turns in a deeply intelligent sneaky performance, although she doesn't need the glasses.  it's like the old joke, girl breaks glasses, her bun comes undone, and it's Why,  Miss Winslet!!  You're...beautiful!   "},{"Title":"A great film that never underestimates its audience","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Though it was driven with exposition and talking heads, the pacing kept the audience alert and manically keeping up with the genius lead character. The fast development and out of breath dialogue kept you going, non stop, for 2 hours.  I was impressed.  The lead was fantastic.I also felt like the way it developed the crossing roads of past and future romance was artistically crafted.  There was a feeling created, quite effectively, of the ghost of a past romance, the short lived flame that can haunt a romantic.  The flashbacks contribute to the struggle of the main character, rather than setting the story back as they often do.  And how subtle the romantic connection from one overshadowed and bored genius to another, more unwilling successor.  The two women created the ultimate female identity.  One, being feminine and glorified in every appearance women have been in myth and culture- and the other working to compete with men's ever-changing schools and business while suffering from a clumsiness to integrate the former qualities within that evolution.One of the better films of this year! "},{"Title":"A+ Movie","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  One of the best things about Enigma for me was the way in which it had appeal to my generation whilst still having a sense of what Bletchley Park was like during WW2.  Many people my age wouldn't usually go to a 'historical' movie and so the romance and (bit of) action was an encouragement.  I thought that the acting was fantastic, and I loved the glimpses into the bombe sheds where each 'menu' was checked through by the massive computers.  A note however, those of you who have read the book will know that this is only loosely based on what happened, and that the characters are fictional, but those who haven't may be mislead. "},{"Title":"cerebral, intriguing, but puzzling in more ways than one.","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  It's great that someone decided to make a movie about the WWII codebreakers in Bletchley Park. The mystery draws us in, the acting is good, and the period character is intelligently treated no teen mannerisms from Kate Winslett; correct furnishings and makeup; and an accurate rendition of the codebreaking devices. It is also nice to see recognition of the work of thousands of poorly paid women who formed the living computers that made codebreaking and the Manhattan Project possible; at Bletchley Park, some of them spent all day recording incoming Morse code messages at the rate of 90 characters a minute. (If you are as fascinated by the tech history in this movie as I was, I recommend the PBS-Nova website that explains it all very clearly.) What is odd about the movie is the complete absence of Alan Turing, the mathematical genius who was responsible for the breakthroughs in codebreaking at Bletchley Park--where's Alan? Why is he missing? Is his absence a coded reference to his gayness and the way he was destroyed after the war? And why would the Germans use their precious resources--only a limited amount of information could be sent each day on an Enigma machine--to send out--well, I don't want to spoil it for you, but it seemed pretty implausible that they would use it for this purpose. So the movie was itself a bit of an enigma... "},{"Title":"The Mind, Not a Techno-Device, as the Most Powerful Weapon","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  For those  weaned on an endless succession of cinematic war and espionage thrillers where the directors can not function without ordnance advisers to insure that the latest weaponry is repetitively employed, Enigma may be a slowdown and a disappointment.  Based on a novel of the same name, and fairly well following its plot, Enigma both tells the story of Britain's Bletchley Park cryptologists, mostly math geniuses recruited from Oxford and Cambridge, while spinning a complementary fictional adventure.Sir Winston Churchill once said with telling insight that In war-time, truth is so precious she should always be attended by a bodyguard of lies. In an age not so long ago when men and women honored without second thought their legal and moral obligation to keep state secrets safe the story of the extraordinarily successful codebreaking by Bletchley Park civilians and military personnel long remained unknown. Wizards (mostly men but with a sprinkling of women) who had broken codes and many young women who had engaged in endless and often boring small tasks whose importance was barely sensed went on with their postwar lives with nary a word about their wartime experiences.  For the codebreakers there were no medals, no citations.A book decades after the war gave the first inkling of the Government Code and Cypher School housed at the converted estate not very far from London. Sir Winston went to his grave keeping the secret of wartime codebreaking and garnering lavish praise for his six-volume history of the conflict (in part an autobiography) which virtually denies to intelligence units and operations any credit for the military triumph.  In retrospect, he authored somewhat potted history which insured that the bodyguard of lies would be at full strength for a long time (the emerging Cold War had much to do with the continued secrecy about Bletchley Park).In Enigma the viewer, more likely than not knowing relatively little or nothing about cryptology, gets a quick lesson in the science of codebreaking as it then existed.  The German Enigma machine was the cryptology marvel of its day and its capture by Polish soldiers without the Germans being aware of the loss truly gave British and then American top commanders much valuable data.  In the movie the codebreaking centers on the ongoing and crucial Battle of the Atlantic where Ultra intercepts (as the products of Enigma codebreaking were called) made a significant difference (with the invasion of Europe Enigma intercepts were less important as the Wehrmacht depended more on non-interceptible landline transmissions rather than radioed messages).Douglas Scott is very good as Tom Jericho, a brilliant cryptoanalyst recovering from one nervous breakdown and teetering, so it seems, on its successor.  He battles wits with a counterintelligence agent named Wigram, Jeremy Northram, who seems a bit too sarcastic to be effective in rooting out possible treason at Bletchley.  Heather, played by Kate Winslet, Tom's at first reluctant ally and then serious love interest, is indispensable to the story and Ms. Winslet acts with quiet depth.  She's very effective, quite different from her flamboyant and intellectual screen presence recently as the young Iris Murdoch.There is action here but the most interesting battle is that fought by brilliant minds with little time and under almost unbelievable pressures. The world of Bletchley may best be realized by reading some of the excellent books about codebreaking in World War II (although not about Bletchley per se Leo Marks's Between Silk and Cyanide is one of the very best and most informative memoirs of the world of codes and cyphers). Enigma fills an important gap in the cinematic treatment of the war. And it's beautifully filmed adding to the excellent portrayals. "},{"Title":"Riveting and Realistic","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Most people who are familiar with WWII know about the Enigma machine and how important it was to winning the war and saving lives.  The film, Enigma, takes the viewer to a deeper level of understanding with regards to code breaking and weaves all this into a love story thriller.The acting by the British actors is suburb and the story line seems very faithful to the events that happened.  The surprises in store for the viewer are really fantastic and the final scenes of the film have the viewer riveted to his or her seat.There is not much sugar coating in Enigma. It portrays people of the 1940s in a very human way.  The modern viewer can very much identify with the characters as opposed to all those boring war movies made in the 1950s and 1960s that portrayed the Allies under an ideal light with no swearing or other human weaknesses.If you like period pieces with lots of substance this is a film for you. "}{"Title":"Only enigma in this mystery - why is Dougray Scott a babe-magnet?","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I happened to see `Enigma' on video the day after seeing `A Beautiful Mind' in the theatre, and it's interesting to compare the two. Both feature mathematical geniuses who suffer mental breakdowns, both are involved in code-breaking, one in the real second world war, the other in the cold war, and both have the remarkable ability to attract beautiful and personable young women. Actually, I suspect the latter is a conceit of casting directors, but Jennifer Connely in `A Beautiful Mind' and Saffron Burrows and Kate Winslett (albeit made to look a little dowdy) in `Enigma' all make you wonder whether all the money spent on aftershave, expensive clothes and cars and gym memberships is worthwhile &#150; perhaps Rasputin had the perfect formula for attracting bodacious babes after all.While `A Beautiful Mind' is a sanitised biopic, `Enigma,' as directed by the eclectic Michael Apted, is an old-fashioned English thriller reminiscent of Hitchcock and Buchan  (eg `The 39 Steps'). The story is taken from a novel by Robert Harris set against the background of the real code-breaking activities at Bletchley Park, 60 miles north of London, where at least 12,000 people were employed in strict secrecy during the war.  The hunky but dishevelled and mentally fragile hero Tom Jericho (Dougray Scott), who earlier, with the aid of a captured German coding machine (the &#145;enigma', a huge primitive computer and thousands of assistants, cracked the German armed forces radio code, is thrown the challenge of repeating his triumph after the Germans change their codebook. Time is short &#150; a huge convoy is steaming towards a force of U-Boats somewhere in the North Atlantic and the British have lost their ability to monitor enemy submarine radio traffic. But he is unsettled by the disappearance of the beautiful Claire (Saffron Burrows) and the investigations of a smooth, superior secret service operative Wigram (Jeremy Northam).Oddly, it is the earlier scenes at Bletchley which are the most absorbing; the spy-chase action stuff later on seems a bit unnecessary, though it's nice to see all those old police Rovers and Wolseleys being put though their paces. The showdown in Scotland is reasonably satisfactory but must have been done dozens of times before. Dougray Scott as Tom looks right but is a bit of a mumbler and his shifting accent didn't help much. Saffron Burrows doesn't have to do much except look gorgeous in the sunny flashback sequences but Kate Winslet turns in a fine performance as the dowdy but determined Hester, who helps Tom crack the case, if not the code. Jeremy Northam is smoothly sardonic as Wigram. I enjoyed Robert Pugh as the blimpish Skynner &#150; you wonder, with guys like him in charge, how the English ever win anything, let alone World War 2. Disrespect for incompetent authority, it seems, was vital for the war effort.Despite the histrionics, Apted manages to convey very effectively what the war really was like for many people involved in the radio intelligence operation who spent their time listening to apparently meaningless morse messages and who had no idea what it was all about. One of them asks Tom whether it's all worthwhile; all he can say is `it's important.' The success of Bletchley Park led to the huge post-war communication interception operations at GCHQ, Cheltenham, and our very own Australian Defence Signals unit. It encouraged the parallel US operation run by the National Security Agency (see `Enemy of the State' for a run-down on what that body is capable of). In fact, these operations have proved to be of limited use and more of a threat to civil liberties than to enemies of the democracies, as recent events have shown. The September 11 terrorists were not impeded by the electronic eavesdroppers, nor, it seems, are the operations of Saddam Hussein. "},{"Title":"Location error","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The location shots of the car going to the barn depict bright yellow fields of oilseed rape.  It should be noted that, although it looks very pretty, oilseed was not grown on English farms during the Second World War.  The farmers at that time would have been growing wheat, barley, oats, sugar beet or potatoes.  Also, the fields would not have been so big.  Thousands of miles of hedgerows have been grubbed out in the last sixty years. The familiar bright yellow of the countryside when the oilseed is in flower only began to appear in the late 1950s and 1960s. "},{"Title":"A wonderfully crafted thriller","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I have not seen a film this intelligent in a long time.  It's attention to detail and historical accuracy was amazing.  Michael Apted has once again proven that he is an exceptional director.  His use of panoramic cinematography and editing added to the suspense.   "},{"Title":"Slow Paced but thoroughly enjoyable","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Enigma was a relatively slow paced but enjoyable film. I am slightly worried by the current need for fast paced films, and have heard many complaints about both this and The Score on that count. Although there were flaws within this film the pace of it I did not see as one of them. Enigma dealt very well with the subject matter, and was true to life in the facts about how the code was broken. Admittedly the characters were not the real people who cracked the code, but it was a movie and not a documentary so can be forgiven for this. The setting was beautiful and the acting of Winslet in particular was impressive. Jeremy Northam was very good if a little stereotypical in his portrayal of the MI5 agent. I was also impressed by Dougray Scott's performance as the tortured genius, and although I felt little empathy with his character I did not view this as a problem as a `hero' in the Hollywood sense of the word would not have fit this film.Now to the flaws I mentioned before. The biggest problem with this film was the ease with which Scott and Winslet overcame their obstacles. (*Minor Spoilers*) I am not referring to the breaking of the code, but the fact that everything seemed to fall just a little to neatly into their lap the enigma machine not being found in the barn, the ease with which Winslet was able to steal highly confidential information, when Scott was seen emerging from the copies room in the interception building no-one said anything to stop him.I also felt the film as a whole could have been greatly improved by two very minor changes. (*MAJOR SPOILERS*) Firstly, the idea that a German U-boat would stray that far into enemy territory to rescue their spy after they had obtained all the information they required from him seemed completely unbelievable. Secondly, the final seen where Scott sees Burrows but does not talk to her and then is joined by a pregnant Winslet was an unnecessary addition that added nothing to the film - except perhaps made it more distributor friendly as it now had the current ubiquitous trend of overly happy endings. I would have been far happier if the film had finished with Scott and Northam surveying the lake, both knowing it is empty. If you enjoy your films fast paced or full of action then this is not for you. Slow paced, but well developed, an enjoyable 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Thoroughly enjoyable and perennially poignant","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  For those who are not history buffs, this is a film that explains why we possess and enjoy the freedoms we do today the cracking of the Nazi military codes in WWII. It also provides insights into the efficacy--the power--of academic research, of the pursuit of pure intellect so disparaged by modern education which prefers us to repeat and not to think. The plot is straightforward, but the implications more important without the 'boffins' or 'nerds' beavering away at Bletchley, thousands more would have died, the UK would have fallen to the German U-boat threat, and the US would have been left idling in a totalitarian world. The film captures the most intense freedom that we in the west enjoy--the freedom to think; it celebrates the maverick thinker--the entrepreneur and innovator that underpins our western achievements, and for that it should be seen. This is of course a more philosophical review of the film--it is art, and art dallies with reality, it imposes a fictional plot on historical events--and in Enigma, it works. Romance and mystery, suspense and grave moral choices. The props dept. must be congratulated too, for their thoroughly historical rendition! "},{"Title":"Leisurely pace espionage drama.","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  A WW2 espionage drama, set against the backdrop of Bletchley Manor, the top-secret facility established by Britain for the purpose of breaking the Enigma code.  Enigma was the name given to the unbreakable code used by the German forces, for deployment of units in the European theatre of war.Tom Jericho (Dougray Scott) is a crack code-breaker who is returning to Bletchley after leave.  We soon find out that he is psychologically on the edge, because of an unrequited love affair with the mysterious Claire. (Saphron Burrows.)   When he arrives back at Bletchley Manor, Claire, an erstwhile low-level employee, has disappeared.   Tom enlists the help of her former house-mate, Hester, (Kate Winslet) to solve the mystery of her disappearance.    As some questions are answered, many more arise.The screenplay is based on a book of the same name by Thomas Harris. (Fatherland.)   Although it is some time since I read the book, I think the film was pretty faithful to the original story.I really enjoyed the appearance of the film - particularly the depiction of war-time England.  I presume the original Bletchley Manor was the setting. I found the performances a little patchy.   Dougray Scott was OK as the tortured code-breaker, but I found it difficult to warm to the character and was not able to develop much empathy.  Saphron Burrows was vague and vapid (as is usually the case), but Winslet was outstanding as the plucky and resourceful Hester.   Most of the time she looked as plain as a pudding, but at other times she was positively alluring.The other performance of note was Jeremy Northam as the MI5 operative - slightly sleazy, slightly decadent - always entertaining, and his scenes were a pleasure.  (I think he might have potential as a James Bond.)This is a leisurely paced movie - a pleasing anodyne to the usual frenetic Hollywood fare we have been subjected to of late - though in the concluding scenes there is action a-plenty with a dash to Scotland, reminiscent of John Buchan's 39 Steps.Overall, highly recommended.   Be prepared to engage with the movie.  Don't expect non-stop action, savour the performances, and I am sure you will enjoy it.(Mick Jagger, one of the producers, apparently has a cameo.  I couldn't spot him.  Did you?)  "},{"Title":"The film felt undemanding but I couldn't take my eyes off it!","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Interesting the film felt undemanding but I couldn't take my eyes off it! (SPOILERS AHEAD) I must confess there were good reasons why I wanted to see this film (see below), but thought it would be more boring than it was. It felt undemanding to watch (perhaps because we know how the war turned out!) and yet somehow the characters draw you in and you realise that the real Enigma is a woman not a machine. Refreshingly free of glamour, made on a small budget, this is actually a little gem. I hope it's not over-hyped when it comes to tv because it would disappoint. It's one of those films that if you stumble upon it, then you find it to be a real joy. My main frustration is that it wasn't filmed at the real Bletchley Park. I used to be a clergyman at the church next door, St Mary's, - which isn't used in the film either- and know the park still exists as a museum and could have been used. Now people who see the film will go there and be disappointed. Shame.... "},{"Title":"absolutely fantastic!","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  for those who love WW2 history this is a must see after the bias shown in U571. told from the english point of view, it gives a very good account of what it was like at Bletchley Park, including the famous swans! from a cinematic view...i thought the plot was great. i was in desperate need to see a film which would grab me but didnt include all of the violence and sex that so many seem to think they need. excellent romantic suspense between Kate Winslet and Dougray Scott. some parts of the film were a bit obvious...but what film doesnt have that? the costumes in the film where brilliant and the beginning scene is set in london in 1946 and everyone as far as the eye can see is in period dress. all in all i thought it was money and time well spent...definately one i'll be looking forward to on DVD )  "},{"Title":"Honest film that stimulates","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This film is a fair attempt to replicate history.  Whilst not looking for inaccuracies, none were big enough to grate on me, the worst that I noticed being two tiny letters on a railway coach that post dated the war - no I am not a trainspotter!  I am put off recent big budget films embroidering the US involvement in this conflict for the home market, the film of recent years recording the recovery of the Enigma machine from a German submarine played down the role of the Norwegians and British whilst creating one for the US.  Enigma the film here however does mention the important involvement of none-anglophones in the code breaking although the love interest was inevitable.  A few gentle seat edge moments, yes the scenary is fine and good to see the lead star in dowdy clothing and glasses and perhaps a little chubby - a great cameo of a real person instead of some sop on a sinking liner. "},{"Title":"Good film, & sets the record straight","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Although not up to the normal Miramax visual standards, this is still a very good movie. The 4 lead players get into their roles very well, but, as in any well made film the secondary players make the movie.The subject is a little involved as it is based around fact, but never difficult to understand. The screenwriters and Mr Apted (director) see to that. However, as a fully jingoistic citizen of the United Kingdom (Britain). It was great to see Mr Apted stressed that the Enigma code machine was in fact captured by, and exploited effectively by the British.I was appalled when the Hollywood 'U-571' claimed this particular honour for the USA. You and yours did many great things during WW2, but there was others there too. This probably explains why the 'U-571' DVD sells in the cheap sections of British stores for £5.99 ($9).I recommend this movie to everyone, especially Americans   8/10. "}{"Title":"Brilliant tour de force","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Kate Winslet gets a nice serious (if rather mumsy and bespectacled) role in this wartime psychological thriller about cracking the `enigma' code that was used by the Nazis. Apparently Mick Jagger owns an original four-rotor Enigma encoding machine and he loaned it to the film for historical accuracy in constructing props. The whole film reeks not only of accuracy but of fine performances, a brilliant script by Tom Stoppard, and seat-edge excitement. It's an intellectually challenging film, not only because of the need to keep up with the logic of how they tackle the breaking of the code (which is the central plot) but also in the subplot which is an engaging love story that questions face-values and reality and illusions in different types of loving. "},{"Title":"A triumph for the British film industry","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This film shows you everything that is right with the British film industry and everything that is wrong with the Hollywood conveyer belt. For a start the film is jam-packed with the likes of Kate Winslet, Jeremy Northam and the excellent Dougray Scott - all of whom act their socks off to make you believe in their characters. But then again, you would expect nothing less of them. What stands this film apart is the plot. It twists and turns, runs down dead-ends, backtracks, and leaves you guessing till pretty much the end. The parallels between these personal mysteries and the attempts to break the enigma code work well and help handle the rather unwieldy topic of code-breaking. Overall you're left with the impression of a real war. Not all Hollywood-heroics and action, but strategy, suspense and sacrifice.A must-see film for anyone who wants their films to work their brains (just wee bit) as well as entertain them (hugely). "},{"Title":"Truly Hitchcockian!","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I saw Enigma at the 2001 Sundance Film Festival and the whole time I thought, Hitchcock could have directed this! Many movies are called Hitchcockian but most of them don't deserve that description. However, this one does.It is very suspenseful and has incredible and totally unexpected twists and turns in the plot. There is a beautiful blonde like the Hitchcock blondes, there is intrigue, suspicion, sabotage, and a saboteur and even a brief cameo by one of the producers (Mick Jagger, no less). The ending is very fitting a Hitchcock film. It is about the Nazi code-breakers in England during WWII. I was blown away by this movie. Watch for it to come out in general release.  "},{"Title":"Give it your time and attention - this enigma is worth it","Date":"8 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" March, 1943. The Shark code is the way Nazi submarines communicate with each other. British cryptoanalysts have broken it. Unfortunately... it was just changed. Mere days are left before a massive, and sorely needed, shipment of resources for allied forces, go into dangerous waters. It's up to a team of eccentric geniuses to crack the new configuration. Among them is Tom(Scott, determined, brilliant), whose ex Claire(Burrows, seductive while dignified) has recently disappeared. He and her friend Hester(Winslet, smart and tired of being overlooked) must try to find her, and uncover the truth behind both events.I haven't read the novel, but based on this, I might. My exposure to the director and screenwriter has been hit-and-miss. This is a quite compelling spy mystery. While it starts out as a slow burn, the last half increases in tension and suspense until it almost causes physical pain. Granted, the end has a *lot* of big revelations, and there certainly are some exposition dumps along the way. This does play fair; nothing is truly hidden from the viewer, everything falls into place once you know everything, and there are hints dropped - disguised well as things that don't seem like they'll be important.The structure is notable; I understand some dislike it, and it does take getting used to. Right from the start, this starts a habit of, every so often, cutting from our protagonists to a different situation, or showing flashbacks(that's where we see the earlier-mentioned missing girl). if you're put off by it early, be warned that it does keep going. Speaking only for myself, it is a choice that makes sense, and everything does eventually pay off. Acting is great for all concerned. Characterization(no bad guys here), dialog(with the inimitable dry wit), filming, all solid.This is tremendously detailed and authentic. Cars, clothes, social norms, etc. Of course the personal story told here is fiction, still, it's weaved almost exclusively from the fabric of history. This is the rare blockbuster that treats our knowledge of the past not as something to manipulate into something mainstream, or, *ugh*, a source for conspiracy theories. No, instead, it treats it as what it is... genuinely engaging, and satisfying to come to understand. It's also entirely credible; with today's thrillers, you find yourself missing the plausible, complex-not-convoluted(and not requiring the planner to be omniscient) plot.There is some strong language(one of the only gratuitous and, as far as the terms used goes, anachronistic, aspects), disturbing and/or violent content, and a little nudity and sexuality in this. I recommend this to any fan of drama, puzzle-solving, and fact-based films. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A Confederation of Swots..They also serve who sit at desks.......................","Date":"1 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Ask a sailor on the Atlantic Convoys whether he would rather be sitting in a warm,dry and safe office crunching numbers and doing crosswords back in England and I imagine the answer,if printable at all,would be resoundingly positive.My sympathy for the poor beleaguered mathmoes and misfits,weirdoes and space cadets who made up the battalions of Codebreakers is strictly limited.I'm not saying they didn't do an essential job,I'm just saying they should have got on with it without any prima donna - type whingeing and flouncing in and out of doors in a huff.There are people dying out there - get a grip. Our hero codebreaker Tom Jericho(Mr Dougray Scott) is a typical unworldly Cambridge Man who can't take rejection and is slaughtered when posh totty Claire( Miss Saffron Burrows)dumps him.Recalled from the Funny Farm when the German Navy changes it's Code,he has red eyes,stubble and downturned lips,just so you know he is really upset.To add to his woes,Claire has gone missing and the Secret Service(Mr Jeremy Northam,smooth as a young Nigel Patrick)suspects she may be a spy,therefore he is tainted with guilt by association. The Germans uncover the Katyn Forest atrocity - perpetrated by our gallant allies the Russians during their occupation of Poland - and the Codebreakers pass the information on but the Government keeps it under wraps for fear of upsetting good old Uncle Joe Stalin.(In reality,the Russians had done everything they could do frame the Germans for the massacre,including using German firearms.It wasn't until 45 years after the war ended that the enlightened President Gorbachev admitted his country's guilt,by which time their grip on Eastern Europe had loosened). With Miss Kate Winslet - done up like a plump Lettice Leaf - as Claire's erstwhile chum,Mr Scott sets off to find her and crack the new German Code in one single bound. There is amusing Old Sea Dog nonsense from Mr Corin Redgrave who has some of the best Tom Stoppard dialogue. But generally,Enigma is a pretty routine 1950s British World War Two movie brought up to date with a smidgen of sex and a smattering of bad language.The romance between Mr Scott and Miss Winslet must have developed while I blinked an eye and his change from wimpish drama queen to testosterone - fuelled hero at the end is just a tad unconvincing. Fifty years earlier,Mr Dirk Bogarde and Miss Virginia Mckenna would have made a much better job of it. "},{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"11 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This is an enjoyable movie with great twists and turns. Dougray Scott's performance as a mentally unstable, yet brilliant government top dog takes the cake. Winslet also shines as his partner in crime, trying to find out the whereabouts of the woman whom broke his heart, yet also may be more than whom initially seems as a playful government bureaucrat. It is definitely a different twist for her, as she she did this post Titanic, and demonstrates that she will not be typecast a young beautiful woman. The film slows in some areas, yet by the end, we get a clear picture of how the various pieces fit together and form a unified piece. I would definitely recommend that those who have the opportunity see this film! "},{"Title":"Solid little thriller","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I can't say how accurate this film is, after all its based on a novel and not history, but this tale of undoing the German Enigma code during the Second World War is a good way to spend a couple of hours.I had read mixed reviews of this film, but its recently showed up on cable and having run across it a couple of times I've found that I'm stopping to watch it each time I do so. Its much better than the poor reviews I read made it out to be.The cast is great without a bad performance in the bunch.I recommend this film. Its not something that you need search out, but should you stumble upon it, as I have been doing so, I do suggest that you stop and watch.  "},{"Title":"Interesting fictionalization of the Bletchley Park story","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" (Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon.)This is a story loosely, very loosely, based on British intelligence's efforts to crack the Nazi encryption codes used during World War II. The screenplay was adapted from the novel by Robert Harris by playwright Tom Stoppard whose cinematic credits include Brazil (1985) and Shakespeare in Love (1998). Dougray Scott stars as Tom Jericho who is decidedly not Alan Turing, the troubled genius who spearheaded the amazingly successful effort that allowed the Allies to know in advance what the Nazis were up to. The true story is one of the most fascinating to come out of WWII.This fictionalization is also a very good story. Michael Apted's direction gives us a nice feel for the era and for the type of people involved, intellectual and somewhat nerdish, creative people who were as valuable to the war effort, or even more so, than the soldiers in the field. Dougray Scott does a nice job of depicting a mathematician who has gone a little crazy because of an abortive love affair with a beautiful intelligence clerk, Claire Romilly (Saffron Burrows). He is sent away after cracking the Nazi code, but when the Nazis institute a new code he is returned from the nut house and pressed back into service. Still haunted by the memory of Claire, it is not clear that he is of any use. When he discovers that Claire is missing, the subplot begins with Jericho and Hester Wallace (Kate Winslet), once Claire's roommate, sleuthing through top secret intelligence files looking for clues to determine what happened to Claire and whether she was a spy or not. What they discover along the way of course is each other.Watching them is Wigram, a rakish secret service agent with a heart of pure darkness, played with mystery and an arrogant ruthlessness by Jeremy Northam.Billed as a thinking man's thriller, it is that. However, the plot suffers from two main problems Claire can only be seen in flashback (I would like to have seen more of the woman who said, Poor you. I really got under your skin, didn't I?), and the action of the film must take place within a few days time, which means that Jericho must simultaneously crack the new code, find out what happened to Claire, and romance Hester. I don't think Apted's direction successfully solved these problems. His concentration on a realistic feel to the movie merely masked them.Nonetheless, one can appreciate the action and remain fully immersed even while not following all of the plot's intricacies. The juxtaposition of the tall, blonde player of men in the person of the beautiful Saffron Burrows with the short, full-figured, Nancy Drew-like Hester in the person of the beautiful and gifted Kate Winslet was a stroke of casting genius. They are fascinating to watch. The contrast between the sensitive and vulnerable Jericho and the worldly and immoral Wigram provided an interesting balance. All four of the leads were excellent.But see this for Tom Stoppard, who might be called a thinking man's screenwriter. His gift for writing witty and authentic dialogue based on research and a finely trained ear is part of what makes this an interesting film well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"A senseless spy film.","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Normally I do not go to the cinema to see what I call a blind movie, means without knowing anything about the film, in this case I really went, perhaps attracted by Kate Winslet and the director Michael Apted which I thought,after having liked Extreme Measures could shot a good relaxing film, but I was wrong.In the film you get the impression that the director wanted to fill up just the time with the standard length of a film with senseless scenes and with a sort of cryptographic plot that does not help in the action of the film. I am quite surprised about Kate Winslet who normally plays very good, see the Jane Champion film, but here plays as a secondary role actress. The only interesting thing of the film could be part of the plot when you relaize that the British wanted to hide a major Polish genocide done by the Russian in the 2nd World War.Rating 3/10    "},{"Title":"An enjoyable movie - caution minor spoiler","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Having read other reviews I was a bit apprehensive with this movie, but having read the book I went anyway. I thoroughly enjoyed it! It was refreshing to see that care had been taken over the historical accuracy (as did the book) and was well acted. The techo-Enigma bits made sense (my partner didn't know anything about Engima or cryptography and she could follow it!) - I would have liked to have seen this dealt with in more detail but I can see that this is a movie not a documentary. My only gripe is over the bit near the ending. Surely this would have been a perfect oppotunity to get their hands on a 4-rotor enigma machine and books? "}{"Title":"It's no longer an Official Secret - It's a Great film","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The film is very good - not quite a classic but good nonetheless. The plot is complicated and shown in flashback (a la English Patient) and you are fed just enough information to keep your curiosity fueled without making it frustrating. It's not until near the end that all the parts begin to make sense so pay attention!The flashback method works well in maintaining the fog of uncertainty and the layers are slowly peeled back as the plot plays out. Instead of Almasy in bandages, this time you get a sad, dishevelled, bleary eyed and unshaven Jericho as the present time character in contrast to the happy, shaven and head-over-heels-in-love flashback alter ego.Do you need a degree in higher maths or cryptography to understand the film. No. I had already explained to my wife over dinner how the Enigma machine worked so we had that aspect covered. However, my attempt to explain how they then went on to break the code it created was abandonded when her eyes glazed over. Not that it is in any way important to enjoyment and understanding of the film but it does make one part of the plot easier to understand if you know how it was done. The film doesn't quite reveal the full complexity of the Enigma machine or the simply brilliant methods of breaking it but shows enough to ably demonstrate that our codebreakers are up against something rather more tricky than a particularly cryptic Times crossword clue.So what are the best bits? I love the 1940's 'feel' which they managed to recreate so well - clothes - mannerisms - relationships - cars - house with bossy landlady. Whilst it was not shot on location at Blechley Park, the film recreates well the atmosphere in the huts. From the constant passage of 'flimsies', the endless clanking of the bombes even to the opening of the security shutters every morning. I wanted the motley assembly of eccentrics and chess playing, crossword crunching weirdos to have a bigger role as they were more than entertaining in their brief appearances.The characters bear up well and like most good films you slowly end up caring what they think and do. The male characters play off each other well. The dashing, public-school-accented, ice-cold Mr.Wigram who at first you have to both dislike and admire with his sharp-suited pseudo-Brosnan-Bond know-it-all ahead-of-the-game ruthlessness. Then we have the northern-working-class-accented Jericho who at first I wanted to slap and say pull yourself together man - there are plenty more fish in the sea - your country needs you etc. However, it took me a full five minutes to understand his solution to the crossword clue on the train so we are obviously dealing with something more than a Hovis delivery boy. I was however, reward with the fact that, Wigram and Jericho seem to exchange roles as the end nears and as Wigram appears not so confident and in control, Jericho looks more like Sean Bean as an SOE instructor.Kate Winslet is very good but overcast in her role as the frumpy Hester which she plays too perfectly. It's odd but as Winslet is so good, I expected something more which I can't really put my finger on. Nice to see Saffron Burrows finally appear in a quality film instead of the trashy rubbish she normally stars in - see Wing Commander (dire) and Deep Blue Sea (even worse) if you disagree with this. She plays the happy-go-lucky tart to a tee - no wonder she had poor Jericho under such a spell. Also, any film with Saffron Burrows dancing around in her slip and silk stockings gets my vote any day.I love the fact that in contrast to today's usual movie tripe there are no huge implausible contrivances and co-incidences which audiences gullibly accept without question and seem such a trait of thrillers these days. However, I wish that the climax of the film hadn't taken place as it was a halfway house between leaving the audience guessing what happened and having a huge elabourate explosive climax. For me, I would prefer the former. For instance, without giving too much away, it would be operational suicide for the rendevous to take place in daylight and where it did with no prior search or air watch in place.Finally, it's so obviously a British film in every respect. It politely but firmly sticks up two fingers at the blatant American we cracked Enigma and won the War without any help from you Limeys ie. U-571 rubbish by making the only American appear a bloody fool in the first ten minutes. Makes a nice change from the clipped-British-accent characters always being the bad guys - see Star Wars if you don't agree. I say you chaps - Tally Ho! - After that jolly old rotten Rebel cruiser there!. Can't say too much more without spoiling it entirely and breaking the Official Secrets Act. I give it 9/10 - go see it. "},{"Title":"absurd","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  How is it possible to have an entire movie about the enigma, and HAVE NO (ZIP, ZERO) mention of Alan Turing, who was more responsible then anyone else in God's creation for breaking the German code, almost single-handedly? This film is a mockery of of a genius. It is like making a movie about the bible and leaving God out of it. Shame. "},{"Title":"Excellent throwback to spy films of the forties","Date":"25 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" An excellent period piece out of England. It is well into the war (WW 2 for those that don't know), and all is not going well. There is a fragile coalition of countries fighting the Nazi regime. But there is something sinister; a secret so damning, that the release of such information will spell disaster for the allied forces. Out in the countryside of Northern Britan, a young brainiac seeks to recover from a summer romance, but his mental disorder from the disastrous end to that fling threatens to ruin him once again, as he desperately seeks the woman that loved and left him. A nice little mystery, with a tinge of historical fact thrown in as a nice backdrop. The cast is wonderful in how they play their roles to period. Not just costumed and modern, but giving a real feel for the mannerisms of the time. This is a nice throwback to the films of the forties, the serious ones mind you, dealing with Nazi spies, propaganda, and the brink of disaster for the Allied forces. Why can't more movies be made like this. "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review great & historically important","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" It's nice to see the codebreaking aspect of WWII highlighted with such an interesting film. I wasn't close to tears and the various romantic chemistries didn't move me... but it's such an important topic I was totally captivated.The acting is good, although Kate Winslet is not given as much screen time. All her solo adventures are cut short. The film does a good job of explaining the mathematical mumbo-jumbo without getting bogged down in details. There are plenty of plot twists.Who should see this film-- Anyone interested in WWII, especially if you don't like the blood in typical war films-- Computer geeks of all sorts. I found this drama quite accessible, not at all melodramatic. And read the book Cryptonomicon.-- Kate Winslet fans, although you may be disappointed. She is more of a supporting character.I'll give Enigma a fantastic 9 out of 10, sort of a bonus 8 for being on such an important topic. "},{"Title":"Film has a lot on its plate","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This was a story that had to be made into a film but I don't think that it needed to have so many other plot elements going on. This is the true story about the code-breakers in Bletchley Park in Britain who broke the German code called Enigma and this was crucial to the convoys that were crossing the North Atlantic. Film is about a cryptographer named Tom Jericho (Dougray Scott) who after experiencing a nervous breakdown goes back to Bletchley Park and resumes his job there. He tries to locate an old girlfriend named Claire (Saffron Burrows) who was an agent and suspected of passing information to the Germans. Tom is unable to find her but he finds some coded letters hidden under the floorboards and then runs into her roommate Hester Wallace (Kate Winslet). Hester tells him that she has disappeared and others have been looking for her as well. An Intelligence Operative named Wigram (Jeremy Northam) starts to hound Tom as he searches for Claire and it turns out that she has been sleeping with many others to get information.*****SPOILER ALERT*****Hester helps out Tom decipher the notes with his decoding machine and it turns out that Claire had found out about how the Soviet Union had murdered many Polish Army Officers at the beginning of the war and they think that she may have been murdered for knowing this. This film was directed by the great Michael Apted who gives us a chance to see what it was like for code-breakers during the second world war. At least twice in this film they try and explain how that machine works in deciphering messages and I was lost both times. I still have no idea how that damned thing works! But there is something totally intriguing about watching these men and woman break codes and try to break the German code Enigma. The flaw in this film is its overly intricate script that seems to go on a little too long. Not only do we watch Tom and Hester slowly start a romance but the script has us watch bit by bit the mystery of Claire. First she is Tom's girlfriend, them she's an agent who obviously has been using him. Later we are to believe that she has been murdered but there is no body and then Tom figures out that she may be hiding out in Scotland waiting for another agent. I was more than sufficed with the story of the code-breakers and how they use they're mathematician skills to help warn convoys but this script has so many other things going on that you had to wonder if the war was getting in the way. But this is a very interesting film with good performances and the historical standpoint is more than enough reason to see it. Also, Mick Jagger is one of the producers of this film and he can be glimpsed in a bar as a soldier.  "},{"Title":"Well crafted, evocative drama.","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Enigma is an enjoyable film populated with interesting characters and set in the intriguing world of the codebreakers at Bletchley Park in WW2. Anyone expecting an action packed war thriller will be very disappointed, but as an absorbing and evocative mystery it works very well.Beautifully filmed, Enigma draws you in to its world of secrets slowly. The impeccable recreation of the time and the slow-burning story are a real pleasure, and make a change from the over-edited, breathless pace of many films nowadays. In general, the acting is good, with Kate Winslet excellent as the resourceful Hester, and Jeremy Northam's ambiguous, threatening Wigram is a joy to watch. Enigma also benefits from a wonderful score from John Barry, which really enhances the film.The only downside is the somewhat rushed ending out of keeping with the rest of the film, but otherwise this is a classy piece of cinema, and thoroughly recommended.4/5 "},{"Title":"Good Movie, Should Have Gotten More Attention","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I don't remember this movie coming out and I would suspect that it opened quietly and most people missed it.The story involves the code breakers at Bletchly Park during WWII in England. There is a mystery as the main character's (Tom Jerico) former girlfriend has disappeared and seems to have been stealing code.  He and her former roommate (Hester, played by Kate Winslet) apparently don't believe that she really did it--so they break a number of rules and dodge security to find out what really happened; they put themselves in danger of being apprehended as spies. Some unexpected revelations (which I'm not going to give away) take place as they dig deeper into the mystery.This was a well-made film and the acting is consistently first rate.  The historical backdrop is fascinating and the main characters are engaging and I cared about what happened to them to some extent.  A number of scenes set me on edge as Tom and Hester are nearly discovered.  This isn't an action movie, and what excitement there is comes from intrigue, imagination of what might happen, and a bit of mental work.  If you want a thin plot and lots of explosions, go rent a Jerry Bruckheimer movie, instead.Having said many good things about this movie, I'd also like to point out some of the flaws which prevent it from being a better movie and make it seem a little implausible. Despite the script being written by Tom Stoppard, the overall story seems to have some minor problems.One flaw is that Tom is supposed to have had a mental breakdown because of his former girlfriend.  It just isn't all that believable since you never get very involved in the story with his former girlfriend (it's all told in flashbacks) and Kate Winslet's character just seems much more appealing.  Kate Winslet is still beautiful even though they've done the typical Hollywood trick of putting her in glasses to make her an ugly girl.  You wonder why he was so attracted to this girl when Kate Winslet was always lurking by as her roommate.  There isn't much chemistry between Tom and his former girlfriend.I kept expecting the intrigue/espionage plot to have some bearing on the code-cracking plotline.  The plots eventually tied together--sort-of--but not in the way I was expecting or in a very satisfying way.  The plot lines just didn't mesh in the ways that would've been more emotionally satisfying.  Some of the revelations didn't seem to have much emotional resonance, either.  It operated on an intellectual level--which really was the main flaw that made this just a good movie and not a much better one.This is still a well-made enough movie to be mostly appealing.  I'd recommend it--especially if you're interested in WWII, code breaking, or a bit of a mystery. It's not a great movie--but a good one that's worth seeing if you have a few hours you want to spend on something interesting. "},{"Title":"You mean there are some people who don't LIKE this film??","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Now of course I could go on about Michael Apted's crisp direction, but what's really t'riffic about this film, besides Dougray Scott's engagingly batty turn as the hero, the splendid script (by Tom Stoppard, no less) and the captivatingly glamorous Saffron Burrows, is Kate Winslet playing against type as bespectacled nerd Heather Wallace. Don't even bother reading the reviews, just watch the movie and enjoy!My only gripe is that the final scene opens with the caption London, 1946 After the war. Like, who doesn't know the war ended in 1945? Doh!  "},{"Title":"Fine entertainment- well worth renting.","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Very well done story of code-breaking and romance.  Based on a page-turner of the same title by Robert Harris, it's setting, personalities, tradecraft, and historical framework are almost totally factual.Good acting (except for too many stereotypes in the minor characters), good settings and costumes and well paced.  The atrocity cover-up which is the key to the mystery part of the story should have been emphasized more as a  moral and political dilemma.I was very pleasantly surprised at the quality of the script, since I hadn't noticed that Tom Stoppard wrote it.  "},{"Title":"Thinking person's drama","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is not a James Bond espionage story, so if that's what you want, it's not for you.  Enigma was a thought provoking movie about code breakers during WWII.  IT's based on a true story (although I do understand they didn't stick strictly to the real life events) and is a fascinating account of espionage.  Dougray Scott and Kate Winslett were excellent.  Recommended for those who are tired of action movies. "}{"Title":"Untold story from WWII","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I am fed up with american WWII films showing their heroes and twisted history, so this film is a must see. Romance and plot is not true, but all background action is superb, the houses, cars, clothes, even the Enigma and all decoders replica.The film is not probably a master piece, but it shows what should had been the 40's in Bletchley Park, where the genius Alan Turing among many other matematicians and engineers were decoding german messages while inventing the foundations of modern computers mathematics.Even the computer invent, normally credit to americans, was greatly developed in Station X (Bletchley Park code name). Unfortunately all was destroyed and no copies were made after the war. So most of that work was unknown until a few years when many archives were de-classified after 50 years of the events.Bletchley Park has now a museum a edited a documentary available in VHS (I had the fortune of viewing it) highly recomended, both the film and a visit.This Enigma movie is a soft plot worth by the historical set.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Fantastic film showing a different side of war","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film. It shows a different side to war, highlighting the intrigue of the British codebreakers. There is a constant air of suspense throughout, amplified by an excellent score,  and Dougray Scott and Kate Winslet produce fine performances. This film blows the Hollywoodised and pack of lies U-571 out of the water and gives a real insight into the capture of enigma machines and code books and the largely uncredited work done at Bletchley Park.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant Film","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  How anyone could give this less than a 9 is beyond me. This film is chock full of mystery, intrigue, beautiful cinematography, and superb acting. I was thoroughly enthralled. This is not Gosford Park boring, and it's far better done than U571, even though I liked that one. The only better WWII movie is, in my opinion, Das Boot. Enigma is highly recommended. A 10 out of 10 through and through. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsCertainly superior to it's predecessor U-571,and a great deal more historically accurate,Michael Apted's Enigma is a very watchable WW2 thriller.It may drag a bit in parts,but the lively,spirited performances from Dougray Scott and Kate Winslet are effective antidotes to this.*** "},{"Title":"A Plot With Many Characters in an Environment Surrounded by Suspicion and Stress","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" During the Second World War, a team of genius is put together near to London to study means of breaking the German code used in the communication. Tom Jericho (Dougray Scott) broke this code in the past and had a break-down. Now his passion Claire Romilly (Saffron Burrows) is missing and the British counter-espionage system believes she was a German spy. Tom becomes closer the Claire's best girl-friend Hester Wallace (the fantastic Kate Winslet) and together they will try to resolve the mystery of the disappearance of Claire in an war environment surrounded by suspicion and stress. The plot of Enigma is not easy to be followed and understood and the viewer must pay attention in all the details. It is a great story, with thriller, action and romance. There are many characters and you must recall their names and what they have done. But it a good movie and watching it is worthwhile. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Enigma "},{"Title":"How I came to find and love this movie.","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I had never heard of this movie until last night. I was channel surfing on cable and came across the announcement of it just before it began on CBC (Canadian Broadcast Corporation). I stayed around long enough to see if it would interest me and ended up so engrossed by it, I watched the whole movie!I loved the movie and the various subplots in it. In fact, I loved the movie so much I added it to my favorite movies list on my website in the what is, in effect, the political thrillers section which previously had only contained The Third Man, The Manchurian Candidate (first version), and The Parallax View.In Enigma(2001) the tension and serious infighting between the various genius people in the team assembled to fight the Nazis and try to stop, or lessen the effect, of the wolf pack attack was enthralling.I really lucked out on CBC last night!! Enigma(2001) was followed by The Pelican Brief which is also now in the list previously mentioned. "},{"Title":"Just not interesting","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I like movies about WWII, but this one was just plain dull.  Not much action and I really didn't care about these code breakers.  They just didn't seem interesting.  And the whole mess with Claire seemed really confusing.  And of course they had to have our main guy fall in love with the main girl.  Can movies not be so stereo-typical!FINAL VERDICT  Overly long. Boring. Avoid. "},{"Title":"BEATING THE HUN","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  A strange old-fashioned film, that seems very out of place in the 21st century. It takes one of the most remarkable WWII stories, and produces a dull, tepid affair. Hard to believe Stoppard penned this?Scott is always awful, but Winslet and Burrows have been much better elsewhere.  "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  We just turned this on because it was on cable, and were pleasantly surprised!  Dougray Scott is excellent in this movie.  Not only is it a great historical lesson, but it's suspenseful and a nice love story as well. "},{"Title":"Enigma","Date":"5 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I was quite interested in the theme of this film, involving one of the biggest parts of World War II, and the actors in it, and the result wasn't too bad. Basically during this war many Nazi U-boats used Enigma Codes to send secret messages, possibly their plans and stuff, and Britain's code-breaking centre didn't have long to crack it. The authorities enlist the help of a brilliant young man, Thomas Jericho (Dougray Scott), who is a genius in the field of puzzle solving, or whatever he normally does. With this code-breaking job, Tom also has the trouble of tracking down the woman he had quite a thing for, Claire (Saffron Burrows), who has disappeared, and he suspects of being allied with the enemy. To help him with the mysteries, he recruits Claire's best friend, Hester Wallace (Kate Winslet), and together they discover quite a few betrayals, more importantly from Wigram (Jeremy Northam). Also starring Nikolaj Coaster-Waldau as Puck Pukowski, Tom Hollander as Logie, Donald Sumpter as Leveret, Matthew Macfadyen as Cave and Corin Redgrave as Admiral Trowbridge. You really need to pay attention to this film to understand what is going on, but what I did wasn't too bad. It was number 66 on The 100 Greatest War Films. Okay! "}{"Title":"Good Books Don`t Make For Good Movies","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I`ve never read Robert Harris`s book ENIGMA so I don`t know how it compares to the very highly regarded FATHERLAND , and also having never read the book I obviously have no idea how it compares to this film version but I cant help thinking the book is being close to unfilmable . No doubt Harris burnt a very large amount of midnight oil meticulously researching the history of Bletchley park and of the enigma codes ( I think you`ll find Harris`s account of the enigma codes differs somewhat from what we saw in the Hollywood movie U-571 ) , the screenplay here features lots of subplots involving trying to break a Nazi code within four days , a man recovering from a breakdown , a failed relationship , another relationship , and the possible existance of a Nazi spy but the subplots don`t really gel enough to make an interesting story . Mind you the sense of time and place is , I imagine , superlative  "}]