[{"Title":"Platinum belt.  With an unlimited line of credit.","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The Muppet franchise has mellowed a bit with age.  MUPPETS FROM SPACE doesn't have the level of frenetic insanity that occasionally marked the original syndicated MUPPET SHOW, and it's neither as edgy as, say, the latest Mike Meyers movie nor as fast-paced as an Indiana Jones yarn.But even if it's a little on the laid-back side, its heart is very much in the right place.  In some ways, this is a direct spiritual sequel to the original MUPPET MOVIE, focusing this time on Gonzo's origin story rather than Kermit's.  Where the first film spoofed the road comedies and Westerns, this one spoofs CE3K and MiB (but not, as the title might suggest, the Star Trek or Star Wars franchises).It's lighter on the zingy one-liners than MUPPET MOVIE, and longtime Muppet fans will probably be a bit frustrated at the soundtrack, which relies almost entirely on borrowed and guested songs rather than musical performances by the Muppets themselves.  (Note if you peeked at the soundtrack album listings first, be advised that I'm Going to Go Back There Someday is NOT in the film.  Should be, darnit, but isn't.)  But there's some inspired silliness involving lab rats and a wonderfully zany infiltration of a Secret Government Installation.All in all, what's here is a very warm and watchable comedy of a kind that's increasingly hard to find in theaters these days.  And Miss Piggy's karate is still as dangerous as ever. I'm looking forward to the next Muppet film already.  (How about a spy spoof, guys?  My name is Frog, Kermit the Frog.)  "},{"Title":"Tough To Beat Gonzo & Rizzo","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"15 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Good special-effects, funny and likable characters and an interesting story all made this 1999 'Muppets In Space' movie much better than I anticipated.This one featured more of Gonzo and Rizzo, my two favorite characters. The movie, in fact, centers around Gonzo. Miss Piggy played a lesser role than normal, which also pleased me. A tiny bit too secular-liberal in parts but overall, not offensive and definitely entertaining. It looks great and sounds good on DVD, too.Some have said this was the best of the Muppet films and perhaps that's true. I wouldn't argue. "},{"Title":"That Noise You Hear","Date":"27 April 2008","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" That noise you hear is Jim Henson turning in his grave. I agree with the other comments that this film is nothing like you expect a Muppets movie to be. Many more adult references than any other Muppet movie and a lot of scary stuff that I would not take a child to see. There are a lot more things that a child could misinterpret (including the very beginning of the movie which shows Noah of the Bible as a cruel man who leaves Gonzo to die because he's different. Although it's a dream sequence that Gonzo may have misinterpreted, a child would not make that distinction but would rather associate Noah and the Bible with cruelty to a beloved friend.Even the soundtrack (Brick House, etc.) are not songs that seem appropriate for the age group for most Muppet audiences (or the children parents would bring).The film may bring some chuckles to some adults, but I would never bring a child to see it.All in all it is a very sad reminder that the original genius and charm of the Muppets is gone. "},{"Title":"Lacking Muppet movie.","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" There is not enough story but nevertheless the movie is enjoyable but it simply is also far from great.I don't know why but for some reason the movie doesn't seem so much fun as the other Muppet movies. Maybe and probably it's because of the empty script that focuses too much on Gonzo and not enough on the fun feeling of the movie that all other Muppet movies do have.Still the movie is highly enjoyable and it has some great comical moments that will at least put a smile on you face. And how could you not laugh at a Muppet movie with so many great, fun and weird characters. The ones that really steal the show in this movie are Pepe and Rentro but of course all the other Muppet characters are also more than funny and great.Worth watching simply and only because of the Muppet characters and if you want to have some fun 84 minutes, otherwise you will end up only disappointed by this lacking movie.5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Lack that Muppets feeling","Date":"16 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Gonzo is seeing mysterious messages from his alien family. He is kidnapped by government agents, and the gang has to rescue him.It's a little dark for a Muppets movie. Jeffrey Tambor is overplaying the evil agent. The whole tone of Gonzo's incarceration is too evil. It gets way too serious no matter how much silliness is going on. The animal testing on Rizzo has some funny moments. Like always, there are a lot of cameos. I love Miss Piggy fighting Josh Charles. I always love an angry Miss Piggy. Besides the serious tone, this Muppets movie sorely misses the traditional song and dance routines. At least, they end with Celebration, but there are no original songs. It just doesn't feel like a Muppets movie. I love the gang, and that's all I have to recommend about this movie. "},{"Title":"Make it, and they will watch, okaaaay...","Date":"4 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The best two things I can say about Muppets From Space are it's nice to get back to an original Muppet story and&#x85;Pepe!! Unfortunately, the original story part of my praise wasn't a great story and was really over-bloated with mostly failed attempts to give everyone, and I mean every Muppet, their 15 minutes. It's only 87 minutes and that's a lot of Muppet ground to cover. That said, the film did the best it could do. You're just best off knowing the decades-old characters beforehand.The other pleasantry was Pepe. He quickly became one of my favorites of all time, and he was brand new. This shrimp, sorry, King Prawn, okaaaay, stole every scene and rightfully so. He was deliciously &#x96; no pun &#x96; funny and had immediate taglines, such as ending practically every sentence with okaaaay. The rest of the usual suspects were funny, but seemed like they kept falling over each other in both setting &#x96; a hundred or so live in the same house &#x96; and story. The other newcomer, Bobo the Bear, didn't live in the house and thank goodness for him. He was hilarious and a refreshing new character that didn't get bogged down like the rest of the cast.Gonzo's getting messages from outer space and barely anyone is free from their enormously busy schedules to believe him. Who knew being a Muppet was so time consuming? Not that they would've believed him anyways; his cereal is one such portal.The messages are from his own kind, his species that he's been searching for his whole life, not to mention a feeling of not being one of a kind anymore. Like most space movies, the government gets involved, this time with comedic overtones &#x96; it's the Muppets, after all.The gang goes on the mission of saving Gonzo, from what they think is himself and/or the big-bad government and instead gets caught up with helping him find true family and awareness.That's the text-book synopsis. The truth and root of the story does involve family and belonging but what adults like me go for is the humor and warmth we get from watching, once again, our beloved Muppets from our childhood. You won't be let down on the humor, the slapstick humor and Miss Piggy's karate chop.It's recommended for fans, but not necessarily for Muppet virgins. You should begin with the first three, skipping the Christmas Carol and Treasure Island &#x96; two you can watch later, no rush &#x96; and then watch this. "},{"Title":"Aside from a super-cool 70s R&B soundtrack, not much to recommend this one...","Date":"20 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Muppets From Space is not a very good film, though at least it's not as boring as The Muppets Take Manhattan! I know this isn't a glowing endorsement...but the film is definitely among the least of the Muppet films.The plot is all about Gonzo and how no one, including him, knows exactly WHAT he is or where he came from in the first place! The film has a really cute prologue with Noah and Gonzo...but after that, it's a rather inconsequential film about Gonzo being sought by some stupid (and very clichéd) government agency that thinks he's an alien. It's rather poorly written--with very few jokes and very little heart. Additionally, many of the familiar Muppets are absent and in their place are some very unappealing and poorly designed puppets (a few of which look really creepy). All in all, a film ONLY for die-hard Muppet fans--others would best see one of the GOOD Muppet films, such as The Muppet Movie, The Muppets or The Muppet Christmas Carol. You know it's bad when the best thing about this one is the cool 70s R&B soundtrack! "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, if not the Muppets best!","Date":"13 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I love Muppets Treasure Island and Muppets Christmas Carol, mainly because I love Tim Curry, and Michael Caine was amazing as Scrooge, and I have always loved the Muppet Movie and Muppets Take Manhatton. In fact the only Muppet movie I don't really like is Muppets Wizard of Oz. Muppets From Space, while not as good as the older Muppet movies, is certainly enjoyable. One thing I didn't particularly like though was the soundtrack, a bit too 1970s style, and because of this, I was never too sure what time period the film was supposed to be. The plot of the film is very original, though you would assume the Muppets went to space without having read the plot line, and the jokes are funny, if less inspired than something from the Muppet Movie. It isn't quite true to the style of the older Muppet movies, but the film does try to and almost succeeds. The story focuses on Gonzo, and his story was very heartwarming. Any scene with Miss Piggy who I love is priceless, and Jeffrey Tambor makes the most of his role as Ed, the paranoid operative. I also liked the contributions from F.Murray Abraham, Andie McDowell, The Sweedish Chef and The Bear Sidekick.Nice also to see Kermit, Rizzo and Fozzie, not to mention Sam the Eagle, in short all your favourite Muppets, though the best scene is the beginning, not to mention the sandwich scene. Overall, enjoyable, not their best, but I do like it. 7/10 Bethany Cox. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Muppet Films","Date":"8 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" To date, I think Muppets From Space has been the best of the Muppet films since the first two, The Great Muppet Caper and The Muppet Movie. I believe it's the only one where they don't sing (or maybe they sing very briefly) which is a welcome change of pace. Jeffrey Tambor is hilarious in this movie, as is his sidekick bear. The shrimp is kind of annoying, but he gets some good lines every once in awhile. All the classic Muppets are used to great effect, as usual.Although some of the magic was lost after Jim Henson died, I prefer this film over his last theatrical Muppet feature, Muppets Take Manhattan. Muppets From Space is the only post-Henson project they've done as yet that recaptures the zany magic of the early films and the TV show. A must-see for the Muppet-curious of all ages. "},{"Title":"Great beginning but the rest belongs in space.","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Gonzo is tired of being a whatever. But when his breakfast cereal tells him to WATCH THE SKY, then asks him R U THERE, his Muppet friends start to worry about his mental state. Meanwhile, the message also catches the eye of Ed, the head of a government intelligence agency looking for aliens. Cute movie has an excellent beginning song (they all live in a house now?) and goes nowhere but down in boredom. Cute parodies of CLOSE ENCOUNTERS OF THE THIRD KIND and INDEPENDENCE DAY can't avoid the annoying 70s sound track that IS NOT SUNG BY THE MUPPETS!! Two thumbs up for Animal and Pepe, two thumbs down for not making a more creative movie. "}{"Title":"The lack of laughs is certainly not this Muppet movie's only problem!","Date":"17 November 2008","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Like so many other people, I can say the Muppets were a major part of my childhood. I saw episodes of the original Muppet Show when I was little, and later saw The Muppet Movie and The Great Muppet Caper (didn't see The Muppets Take Manhattan until last year), as well as some post-Jim Henson material; The Muppet Christmas Carol, Muppet Treasure Island, and the remake of The Muppet Show, Muppets Tonight. None of these disappointed me. By the time Muppets from Space came out, I was seeing the first signs of adolescence, and didn't end up seeing the movie that year, though I do recall seeing the trailer for it on TV. Nine years later, having finally seen this movie, I am not impressed! Lately, Gonzo has been feeling lonely in the world, being a whatever, not knowing where he came from, and has been having nightmares about it. One morning, however, he sees messages in his breakfast cereal, ones which appear to be from aliens from another planet! While Gonzo is on the rooftop, watching the sky (following one of the messages), he is struck by lightning! He then meets two cosmic fish, and learns from them that he is an extraterrestrial! The other Muppets think he has gone crazy when he tells them about this, but he still attempts to contact his relatives. Meanwhile, government agent K. Edgar Singer is searching for extraterrestrial life on Earth, and has detected the messages Gonzo has been seeing! After Gonzo appears on TV, Singer manages to lure him, along with Rizzo, into captivity, and the other Muppets must try and rescue them and see if Gonzo can finally meet his family! I knew Muppets from Space wasn't the most popular Muppet movie, and it didn't surprise me when I found that one problem with this movie is that while I did smile/snicker sometimes, it's not usually that funny. In fact, it's sometimes quite lame, such as the female armed guard played by Kathy Griffin in love with Animal. However, that's not its only problem. Another major problem is that it's a tad too dark for the Muppets! It's often too cruel, especially when Gonzo and Rizzo are in captivity, with the conditions they face there. That building is a rather dreary place, not the kind one would probably want to see the Muppets in. Those scenes, as well as a number of others, including a hoof to the groin, make me wonder why this movie is rated G! Also, the story is a bit bland, and there are no memorable songs. Basically, the magic that made previous Muppet material so good seems so far away in this flick! I was disappointed by this movie, even with low expectations. There are those who think everything that has been done with the Muppets since Jim Henson's premature death in 1990 is lame, and I'm definitely going to have to disagree with them. However, I'm going to have to agree with those who think this particular movie defiles the Muppets, and I've never been able to describe anything else I've seen featuring the Muppets that way before! When I see the Muppets, I expect good, lighthearted family entertainment, with plenty for kids and adults alike. It seems that some people describe this movie that way, but I honestly don't get it, and sincerely doubt I ever will! That's certainly not what I got with Muppets from Space! What happened?! Yes, this movie is rated G, which one would probably expect from a Muppet movie, but unlike the previous ones, I really don't think it should be! The point I'm trying to make with this review is that this is NOT the Muppets! "},{"Title":"Cute and adorable!!!","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I have been a Muppets fan all my life and was not disappointed with Muppets From Space! I liked the story and thought Jeffrey Tambor was a hoot as the likeable villain. The other human cameos were hilarious, too. My one complaint is that we didn't see much of the Swedish Chef, Rowlf, Stadler and Waldorf, the Electric Mayhem, and others. Hopefully the next Muppet Movie will be better than ever!!! "},{"Title":"Muppets Spaced Out.","Date":"30 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Muppets From Space (1999) Dir Timothy Hill / Cast Jeffrey Tambor, F. Murray Abraham, David Arquette, Andie MacDowell, Rob Schneider Perhaps the worst of the Muppet films and a definite disgrace to the Jim Henson name. Story opens with a dream where Gonzo is rejected from Noah's ark. He sets out to find out who or what he is. His breakfast cereal indicates that he is from outer space. Too bad it didn't inform him that he was involved in a stupid family film. Jeffrey Tambor plays the villain and he has radar sightings of alien activity and he looks to kidnap Gonzo for tests. While Gonzo and Rizzo the rat chew as much scenery as possible, other Muppets are given little to do. Miss Piggy is featured as a talk show host, and Kermit the frog is given nothing to work with. Horribly directed by Timothy Hill who just doesn't seem to be with the spirit of the Muppets. Tambor is amusing in an otherwise thankless role of a cardboard villain. Other live actors overact to the extremes including F. Murray Abraham, David Arquette, Rob Schneider, and Andie MacDowell. All have done better work in much better films but here they are easily upstaged by the puppets. Sure, the Muppets are the film but the celebrity appearances should count for something other than what they are reduced to here. The whole idea surrounding Gonzo's existence had potential but unfortunately it is reduced to idiocy. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"I Like the Music in This Movie!","Date":"7 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Muppets From Space was one of the first movies I ever saw in theaters. When my family and I saw it, I fell in love with it. Again, it's the Muppets, and I was a kid. Now that I view it as an adult, I must say it's one of their weaker movies. Now it's not bad, let me say that - believe me, there are many worse things the Muppets can do! There are actually a lot of things I like about this movie; but for what it is, I can only see why a lot of people don't like it, but I have to agree with them as well.So what's bad about this movie? Well, there are a few things. First of all, this movie fails in the same way Muppets Tonight fails it doesn't have the usual Muppet brand of entertainment. It doesn't have that Jim Henson spirit or that Muppet spirit that you see in other Muppet productions. In that sense, this doesn't seem like a Muppet movie; it seems like the Muppets are trying to do another type of movie. I have no problem with them telling a different type of story, but they're not telling it how they would normally tell stories, in that Muppet-like style. Secondly, I think this story is a bit immature. It sets up a really good plot and conflict Gonzo wants to know who he is. There are so many cool, mature things you could do with this? What's the end result? He's an alien. They could have allowed so many mature, nice moments here. Instead, there's a costume made of foil, an evil man working for the government agency, and an epic spaceship landing that leads to a not-as-epic group of aliens.Also, big shock, I don't like a lot of these characters that fill the screen. I'm glad that we actually see more of our favorite, classic characters here, but we still see some of those other characters. Johnny and Sal? Dr. Van Neuter? Pepe? PEPE?!?! I am blown away that he became a main character for the Muppets!! He's annoying!! OK, he's not THAT annoying in this movie (he gets much annoying later - just wait), but why did he get so much love and attention? What about Clifford?! In my mind, Clifford should have received that fame and popularity! I say that mainly because Clifford is actually an older character; he existed while Jim Henson was alive - that annoying shrimp came later. Bump him out of here!...But I digress.Finally, I think the movie is kind of sloppy. I don't think the producers put enough thought into how they could make this movie work. It goes back to the creativity and genius and feeling the earlier Muppet projects had. They were simple, they had thoughts behind everything that took place, and they flowed very well. Here, it's kind of complex, we feel as if there weren't any reasons certain moments took place, and there's a lack of flow here.This is neither good or bad, but rather something I noticed. Am I the only who's confused how the Muppets live? In Muppet Babies, they lived in the nursery; in The Muppets Take Manhattan, they go to college together; in The Muppet Movie they met each other for the first time; in The Great Muppet Caper, they met in England; and here, they all live in the same house together. I always wondered this after I saw this movie as a kid. I've gotten over it sense, but I couldn't have been the only one confused by this.OK, so what's good about the movie? Well, some of these jokes work. When they're funny, they're really funny. When I'm not looking at the characters I don't like, I get to see the ones I do enjoy, like Kermit, Piggy, Fozzie, Gonzo, Rizzo, Robin, Statler and Waldorf, Clifford, Bunsen and Beaker, and cameos by Scooter, Rowlf, Swedish Chef, and the Electric Mayhem...though, am I the only one who thinks it's weird that Animal has a lot of scenes away from the band? Why isn't he with them? When did his popularity grow that much? I like the music in this movie! It's movie that my parents grew up on, and it's really cool, groovy music! Though, I must admit that's a personal preference. There's another review of this movie on this website that confirmed what I thought, that some people aren't too fond of the music of this movie. And while I do like the music, I have to say it's weird the Muppets hardly sing here and that there aren't any original songs here. But, even so, I still love these songs and the music.The movie is entertaining to watch every now and then, but it doesn't offer any of the charm or likability that any of the earlier productions have. I know a number of people who really love this movie, and maybe you will too. Again, this isn't that bad, and there are worse things they've produced (trust me, we'll get to those later!). But I would be lying if I said this is up there with The Muppet Show, The Muppet Movie, or The Great Muppet Caper. I'd still suggest this movie, but don't expect to see these characters in their traditional form. BOOYIKA! "},{"Title":"Not The Muppet's At Their Finest,But A Good Family Movie,","Date":"2 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Muppets From Space is a good movie with a nice storyline and some great characters,nothing you wouldn't expect from the classic Muppets.It definitely isn't the Muppets finest movie,its actually one of the worst,but the Muppets never fail,anyone who likes the Muppets should still get a good laugh out of this and really enjoy it.Its definitely a great movie to watch with your family,as there are a lot of funny scenes that everyone will get,Rotten Tomatoes said it's,funny and clever enough to make for better than average family entertainment.Fans of the Muppets should enjoy Muppets From Space,and I would highly recommend this as a movie to watch with your family.When Gonzo starts getting mysterious messages,he starts to believe that he is an alien.After he is kidnapped by a group trying to put a stop to extra terrestrial activity,its up to Kermit and the gang to save him. "},{"Title":"A Fun Muppet Movie!","Date":"15 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The Muppets have a film about Gonzo's search for his roots. It turns out that he is extra-terrestrial and his family is coming for him on Earth. The film is your standard Muppets flick with all of the major characters especially Kermit the Frog and the lovable Miss Piggy who seeks stardom at a television station where she gets coffee for the star (Andie McDowell). There is of course it's run of cameos and performances with Jeffrey Tambor as the alien seeking government director who wants to examine Gonzo. Gonzo's friendship with the rat, Rizzo, is tested when they're kidnapped by the government agency. Kathy Griffin has a cameo as a female guard. Ray Liotta is the guard at the gate. I love Miss Piggy as she does what she wants with the agent to protect alien life. Rob Schneider has a small role as a television producer and director. This film is short and it's light-hearted like it should be. It's a family film even for adult muppet fans. "},{"Title":"Got the classics, a good story... still lacking something!","Date":"24 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I love the Kermit the Frog stories, movie, films, etc. And I figured that Muppets from Space would be great. And it was, it really was! I loved how the characters interacted, the intense story, the fact that they had to save their friend, they way they presented the conflict, etc.The thing that was lacking, I'm not sure. I felt the ending was a bit pushy. Like they were starting to rush to get it over with. I mean, Gonzo has a chance to get back to his parents, yet he chooses to stay with his friends. Which is nice, but I felt that it was a powerful moment that was lacking the right emotions.But anyway, I cannot diss a series of classics that everyone likes. Kermit the Frog was and always will be a favorite of mine. The Muppets are great! "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I saw Muppets from Space when it first came out and thought it was a lot of fun. It's silly, good-natured and has some clever adult humor that kids won't pick up on - as well as featuring zany stuff that the kids will love.Since then I've seen it numerous times on TV and it always entertains. The story is fairly original for being a Muppet movie Gonzo begins to wonder what he is, and if there are any more of his species out there in the vast beyond - and suddenly one day he's abducted by aliens who reveal themselves as his distant relatives.Placed back on earth, Gonzo is unable to convince anyone - but is sure that his family will soon arrive on earth to take him home.As far as the Muppet movies go this isn't the best one - my favorite is still The Great Muppet Caper with Charles Grodin followed by Muppets in Manhattan - but if you're in the right mood you'll find this is an amiable little family comedy that isn't insulting or boring. The cameos are great fun for any film buffs out there and the basic juvenile humor will appeal to children. "},{"Title":"Yet another Muppet hit!","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I've loved Muppets all my life, their movies are phenomenal. This is no exception. Gonzo, tired of being classified as a whatever, receives a double-message through his cereal - Watch the Sky R U there? He then learns through the Cosmic Fish that his family, now becoming successful in their search for him, are aliens. Even Kermit has trouble accepting this. So he delivers his response - I am here of course - on UFO Mania, the TV show where Piggy's the would-be reporter. COVNET, the secret government system searching to prove alien existence, sees it & K. Edgar Singer, their leader, is determined to drag him in for questioning - forcefully. Kermit & the gang have to rescue him & Rizzo, who's tagged along & has now wound up with lab rats. This a hilarious movie - I like the focus on Gonzo, who's never had this much attention in a movie before. Rizzo, Animal, Fozzie, Gonzo are all funny but the 1 who takes the cake is Pepe the Prawn! I get a kick every time I watch this, & the action is super! This definitely fits in w/the Muppets' great reputation. "},{"Title":"Gonzo discovers he's not of this world or is he?","Date":"5 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  It's nice to know that after watching the Muppets growing up that they still make me laugh.  This movie is a family classic.  The magic of the muppets will hopefully live on for generations to come.  Now that I am an adult, I appreciate all the hard work and effort that went into bringing Kermit, Ms. Piggy, Gonzo, Rizzo, and Fozzie to life.  The Hensen legacy lives on.This film explores Gonzo's origins.  It has many laughs and gags in the classic Muppet style.  If you like the Muppets then you should like this movie.  I rate it a 10 because not too many movies these days can take you back in time when things seemed simpler and less complicated. "}{"Title":"good cheesy fun!","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  although this movie is very silly it was a lot of fun to watch i liked the gonzo origin story it was very fitting! it was good to see all the muppets back in action, although its not as good as the muppet movie.i do really like pepe the praun. and all the cameo's of both humans and muppets alike was funny but it was funny to see ray liotta in this and anything with kaktie holmes is a good movieb- good effort not the best muppet movie, but a good one none the less "},{"Title":"What can I say? Wocka Wocka, Funny!!!!!","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I think this movie is very funny. My favorite part of the movie i when you find Pepe, the little shrimp with the big mouth, loses his invisseble nes and you'll see him dancing around in a tutu (ballet thingie) This movie is one of my favorites. I got the Muppet freak nes of my mom. Who adores (very very very very very very much) Jim Henson ) As I said, funny movie. A must-see for Muppet fans!!!!!! "},{"Title":"really fun","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  this muppet movie is one that anyone can enjoy, fan or not a fan of the muppets. With  its groovy 1970s soundtrack and laughable humour all the way through, it should appeal  to the masses. It may not be as good as the early one, but it is one of  the better ones made after Jim Henson' death. "},{"Title":"a overlooked muppet movie that is really funny!","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Muppets from Space is a really funny movie. When I first saw it in the theater I was some what unhappy that the muppets didn't have to many original songs. After seeing this movie a few years later I found it to be much funnier then I had remembered. I disagree with others who say this movie doesn't have all the funny elements of past Muppet movies. This one has just as many and more and I enjoyed the route they went with in this film by using a lot of classic songs that are fun and full of energy because thats what the muppets are all about, a lot of zany energy. All in all this movie is like the fourth movie in the muppet movies I don't count a Muppet Christmas carol or  Muppet Treasure Island those were theme movies that didnt have the muppets really playing themselves as they did in the muppet movie, the great muppet caper and muppets take Manhattan. Well I think I have just over analyzed the muppet franchise so I'm going to stop writing. "},{"Title":"A Good Time Out!","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  A great film? No, but a very enjoyable film that probably gets better as the group you are watching it with gets larger.  Muppets in Space isn't as good as the Muppet Movies of old, but Kermit and the gang still manage to bring a smile to your face.  Also if you do rent it, try to find the DVD and watch it with the Audio Commentary.  Gonzo and Rizo go MST3000 style and it can be funnier than the movie at times.   "},{"Title":"First quality FUN!","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I just love this movie (just bought it on DVD) and I've seen it a couple of times.It starts with Gonzo just barely reaches Noahs big boat, but Noah won't let him in because he's only one of his species. Then the boat shuts the door and Gonzo screams that he don't wanna be alone. The next morning, his cereals tells him to look at the sky...As always, this is a really cool Muppet-film. What I also really like, is that there's no songs in this one. Well, not to say that their songs are usually bad, but I can easily live without them!If you like the muppets, you'll LOVE this one for sure! "},{"Title":"It grew on me ....","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I am a die hard Muppet fan.  I grew up on the antics of these guys not quite getting all of their humor but laughing nonetheless.  Within the past year I have experienced sort of a Muppet resurgence; I bought several old tapes off of ebay, viewed the original three Muppet movies, and ordered the Muppet Show set.  I finally realized the full extent of Muppet humor, that it is not quite for kids, but not quite for adults either.At first, this movie disappointed me.  I won't include spoilers but I missed my old favorite Muppet, Rowlf the Dog.  I know he was a Henson-voiced character, but I don't understand why no one was drafted to replace him. Rowlf actually predates Kermit the Frog, as he was used by Henson and Frank Oz in commercials before everyone's favorite frog came about.  The Electric Mayhem were gone as well, and we barely saw the Swedish Chef.  Anywho, enough about that.There are no original Muppet songs in this film.  They are all recycled 70's tunes.  I am of two minds about this, because I loved the songs from the first three Muppet Movies, but loathed Muppet Treasure Island and Muppet Christmas Carol.  After multiple viewings I decided that I liked the 70's music after all.  I especially liked the songs used in the cannonball scene and the cosmic fish scene.Kermit wasn't given enough screen time. I know this was a picture about Gonzo, but I missed the inclusion of Kermit as the Muppet's unofficial leader.  He just seems to be confused for the duration of the movie. Luckily, the Kermit/Piggy romance isn't rehashed.  On the original Muppet Show, Kermit avoided Piggy by any means necessary; I'm not sure why they are a romantic item in most of the films.  I find Piggy to be very, very annoying, despite my love of most things Muppet.  Have her eyes moved closer together or what?The obligatory celebrity cameos were pretty good.  I hated the inclusion of Hulk Hogan.  The Kathy Griffin/Animal moment disturbed me.  Ray Liotta was likeable.  Rob Schneider was just too frantic.  BTW, is the Dr. VanNeuter Muppet supposed to be Andy Dick?  They look very alike to me.Anywho, this is a funny film, just not as funny as the first three.  If you want to see the Muppets at their best, rent The Muppet Movie or go to the Disney MGM Studios and see Muppet Vision 3D.  If you are simply interested in having fun, rent this one.  Try to get the DVD, since it has some nifty special features like commentary and bloopers. "},{"Title":"Best since The Muppet Movie?","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Although no Muppet movie will ever touch the original, Muppets From Space is a great introduction of the next generation Muppets to the original Muppet fans of my generation.  The new Muppets Tonight characters are a wonderful addition to the old gang, especially Clifford and Pepe, who bring a more adult sensibility without compromising the juvenile appeal that makes the Muppets so timeless.Drawing heavily from movies like Men in Black, Independence Day and other recent alien encounter movies (as well as a great nod to Close Encounters), much of the parody is sharp enough to keep the older audience laughing, with enough silliness to satisfy younger viewers.Good to see that Jim Henson's legacy is alive and well, with good and (dare I say) wholesome entertainment for everyone. "},{"Title":"Finally, the Muppets are themselves again!","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  For the first time since Jim Henson's passing, the Muppets are in their true characters in their very own movie...The Good Sweetums gets ample screen time! The Swedish Chef is as good as ever.  Writing was great.  Electric Mayhem band is finally back, and Doctor Teeth actually has one line (Shalom!) in this movie - which is pretty good given his post-Jim Henson track record!  Animal is still a star character, almost moreso now than ever. Jeff Tambor is one of the greatest Muppet villians yet.  Look close & quickly and youll even see the Dy-no-mite! guy, the fish throwing guy, the old Janitor from the Muppet show, and Rowlf the Dog.The Kinda Not-so-Good It's not a musical. Hulk Hogan - really necessary? Two former star-muppets, Skooter & Rowlf, seem to have faded far into the background.  The new Kermit voice is getting better, but its still just not Kermit.  Speaking of new voices, how about Statler & Waldorf??  Waaaaay off. Oh, and could have done without Dawson's Creek.Overall A Great Muppet Movie!  "},{"Title":"great music","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I love the Muppets (discounting that pig)- I love Jim Henson.  The best thing about this movie is the soundtrack.  The opening scene with the muppets getting down to Brickhouse is hysterical!  Its all 60's and 70's funk music, and really promotes the fun and lively mood of the movie. While this is no Great Muppet Caper, its funny and amusing.  If you aren't a muppet fan, this probably won't make you one.  If you already are, its a must see.  The addition of Pepe to the cast is genius.  He's the Cosmo Kramer of the muppets, adding tons of comic relief and spice.  I would have given it an 8 if not for a cameo by a professional wrestler that almost made me walk out.  Luckily, it was over shortly and quickly forgotten.  "}{"Title":"Excellent start to ample entertainment","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  After the opening sequence, I thought this movie was going to top A Muppet Christmas Carol. It had plenty of entertaining moments, however don't expect the same level of pure belly laughs after the opening. Some great parodies on sci-fi movies including a great send up of Independence Day.Good entertainment and wonderful for kids.  "},{"Title":"Best Muppets film since The Muppet Movie!","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I was thrilled to see how great this movie was, and how much fun it was too! I took my nephew and niece, (ages 8 and 11) and they loved it too!  This is written for kids, sure, but it is also very much for adults.  I think I probably laughed as hard, if not harder, than the kids!Especially nice is the fact that Kermit actually sounds like Kermit again. Once or twice I heard the voice not sound right, but overall I didn't notice, unlike something like Muppet Treasure Island where the voice bothered me the whole time.All I can say is that this is the best Muppets movie in ages, and GO SEE IT! "},{"Title":"Laughed like an idiot","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I started watching this expecting a cutesy kids movie, but I giggled like a goofball through the whole thing.  I imagine that kids would be amused by the Muppets running around, but I don't know if they'd get some of the humor.  It was so off-the-wall at times that it reminded me of Monty Python. A bunch of wacky, clever situations with some silly old gags slipped in. Very goofy and funny.Hmm...no nostrils...how do you smell?  "},{"Title":"Instant Classic","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I have always loved the Muppets clear back to their Muppet Babies show. Did anyone else worship that cartoon?  Anyways, this film is one of the best they have ever done.  They do the most amazing things with those Muppets and they are always surprising you with what they can do.  The clever story line and dialogue keeps you wanting to watch it again and again.  Plus there is an appearence from a new Muppet.  This of course being Pepe the King Prawn. He is hilarious!!  I fell in love with him and demand to see more of him. I suggest that if you are a parent to get your kids hooked on the Muppets! They will turn out to be great grown-ups!! "},{"Title":"The tradition continues","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Although I am an adult now, I still remember the Muppet Show and all the zany characters.  It is good to see that the magic is still alive.  Kids these day may not appreciate all the human energy and effort that go into a muppet presentation in today's techno computer age.  My generation that grew up with Sesame Street knows better.  This movie is great for kids of all ages.  Well done Mr. Henson. "},{"Title":"Rizzo for Best Supporting Actor","Date":"23 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  What a great, light-hearted, funny movie.  There haven't been too many movies that i have found really fun to watch from beginning to end but this is one of them.  Rizzo has taken a step out from behind the big stars and emerged as a key component in the muppet team.  Though it may not be as good as some of the earlier stuff, i loved it.  I mean you can't compare individual movies in a series.  Which Star Wars was the best, (the original) which Godfather was the best (the original) which of the Duke cousins were best (Bo and Luke), which James Bond was the best (Connerey) etc.  If you're gonna watch this movie watch it as an individual film and don't weigh it compared to the others.  Enjoy it for what it is, a great movie. "},{"Title":"One of the best...","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I was so thrilled to see the Muppets back where they belong, and not living in Disney's recycled world.  This is a colorful romp of classic Muppet style, and humor.  I'm sure Jim Hensen would be proud of this film.  I love the new characters that have been brought into the mix, and I gladly welcome back the classic.  It is also a super treat to learn what Gonzo is, and where he came from.  I recommend this film to every Muppet fan, and adult's can enjoy this film as much as children. "},{"Title":"Not the best, but still, authentic Muppets!","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Anyone born in North America after the second war, with access to a television, must have some childhood recollection of the Muppets.  Whether it be through early appearances on Ed Sullivan, growing up with Sesame Street, or even those stupid Muppet Babies, we all have a fond connection with Jim Henson.I love the Muppets, and for the most part, I think the movies are great.  Their corny humor and their catchy songs are fun for children and adults.  I was particularly impressed with the fact that their last two films were based on classic novels.  Their adaptations were not necessarily faithful, yet they were better than some of the Hollywood versions I have seen.  I was hopeful that this would become a continuing theme.  For that reason I was disappointed when I saw the trailer for Muppets in Space (?).In this film, Gonzo has a yearning for one of his own kind, (whatever that is).  Somewhere near the beginning he finds out that he comes from outer space and that his species is coming back to meet with him.  Kermit thinks poor Gonzo is cracked.  Miss Piggy is conveniantly hosting a talk show about UFO's and suddenly jumps on the bandwagon.  As you can imagine, hijinks ensue.  The Muppets must rescue Gonzo when he is kidnapped by some evil government types.  Miss Piggy gets into yet another karate match, this time with an expert in black belt.  All the Muppet stuff we have come to know and love is there.  I was most entertained by Rizzo the Rat.  The more I see of him the more I learn to like him.  This time he is imprisoned in a test lab where they test -- uh oh -- RATS!  The scene is probably the funniest bit in the film.  I was confused by the soundtrack.  It was an eclectic mix of old R&B tunes which seemed somewhat 'adult' for a Muppet movie, but none the less, I went with it.  All in all this is not one of the better Muppet Movies.  It lacks the heart of the original, and it lacks the depth of the last two.  I saw this one on video and I'm glad of that.  In fact I think this might have served better as a straight to video flick.  I would have been more disappointed if I spent $8.    "},{"Title":"My faith in Muppets has been restored.","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Briefly  This movie is hilarious.  I went in expecting another mediocre Muppet Movie like the last two and ended up loving just about every minute of it.  If you're a die-hard Muppet fan who wants every single character to have a major part and all the musical numbers to be original Muppet-performed pieces, you'll probably be disappointed by the slim cast and the lack or original songs.  Personally, I feel the songs were major drawbacks of the last two movies and that if the writers don't have a use for a character, there's no reason to put him in.  As long as they make an entertaining movie, they've done their jobs.  And oh, did they do a good job. "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I've been a Muppet fan my whole life, and I think this is the worst Muppet Movie yet.  Not nearly as good as the original Muppet movie or Muppets take Manhattan.  Those classics have been entertaining for audiences of all ages. This one was aimed at an audience in the 4-6 year old range.  I took my 9 year old sister to see this one, and I think even she was bored by it.  I don't think Jim Henson would have approved of this one.  It was too dumb to be good, but not dumb enough to be funny.  Hopefully the next one will be better.  "}{"Title":"Merely Average","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  As a die-hard Muppet fan, I'd been waiting for this one forever. To see the Muppets playing themselves, as they did in the first 3 movies before Jim Henson passed away, instead of some adaptation of a classic story, excited me. Unfortunately, when Jim Henson died, the heart of the Muppets went with him. While he tried to draw more adults to The Muppet Show, even going so far as titling the pilot Sex and Violence, this one caters a bit more to the younger bunch, with some awfully misused '70s music and an ex-Nickelodeon director. Why Jerry Juhl and co. were apparently afraid that the movie wouldn't attract enough kids is a mystery to me, but here we have an opening scene set to Brick House. Unfortunately, the bottom line is that this movie is just not that funny. Bordering on brilliance at times with a hilarious scene borrowed from Independence Day and a cameo by Katie Holmes and Joshua Jackson (I wish Dawson was here), the rest of the movie just chugs along with too many unfunny jokes. Yes, Steve Whitmire finally has Kermit down to an art, and all the Muppeteers do fantastic jobs, and Jeffrey Tambor does a great job with the material, but once again I stress, NOT FUNNY. So sorry. I'll go back to The Great Muppet Caper now. "},{"Title":"Muppets in Space didn't disappoint...","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Muppets in Space was a great movie for all.  I was pleased to see familiar faces in this movie and I am always happy to see the swedish chef.  Every muppet I saw reminded me of somebody I knew, which made this movie even more hilarious.  I always believed that Gonzo would find his family, and now that he did, I can die a happy man.   "},{"Title":"A review from a teenager's perspective","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I saw the movie with a bunch of my friends. We all thought the movie was awesome. You could tell it was going to be awesome right from the opening Jim Henson productions scene with Kermit on the camera, he looks at the audience and laughs. Genius. Pure genius. Overall I loved the movie, and found it completely entertaining. If you go into the movie with a, Woo hoo, entertain me attitude, you'll love this movie. "},{"Title":"The last innocent movie","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Muppets from Space is one of the last innocent films of the 90s. Amidst a sea of raunchy comedies like South Park, Austin Powers 2 and screamfests like The Blair Witch Project, the muppets have remained untouched. It is refreshing to see that some things never change, as Robin reminded us in a Muppet Family Christmas. This latest installment of the muppet adventures is an almost simplistic journey of a hero. Gonzo must overcome obstacles, such as mowing the lawn, building a jacuzzi (he he), escaping from a secret government hideaway, in order to reach his final goal meeting his family. Everyone can relate to Gonzo's feelings of loneliness and isolation, and his final realization that Kermit, Piggy and the rest of the gang ARE his family. Schmaltzy perhaps, but it is what the Muppets do best. Several clever touches in the film included the references to Men in Black, Independence Day, and Star Wars, with the Cosmic Fish. I also enjoyed Gonzo in the wind tunnel calling for Auntie Em. And who could forget the Ambassador to Gonzo's people, who was given his dream while the theme to Star Trek played in the background? This is truly classic Muppets fare. Do not watch it as an adult, but let your mind become childlike again, and you will love it.   "},{"Title":"A Great Family Summer Movie!","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Kermit the Frog Rules! Gonzo Rules! Fozzie the Bear Rules! Rizzo the Rat Rules! Miss Piggy Rules! The Muppets Rule! It is that simple! Muppets From Space is the sixth Muppet movie and it is one of their best! This movie is non-stop laughs! Only The Muppet Christmas Carol is better! F. Murray Abraham is absolutely wonderful as Noah, who won't allow Gonzo on to the Ark because he is one of a kind. Ray Liotta and David Arquette also have humourous roles. The soundtrack to this movie is great. It is the perfect family film to see this summer. I give it 10/10 "},{"Title":"Muppet fan likes it","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  After reading numerous lukewarm (at best) reviews, I was a bit concerned about seeing this movie, but I'm a die-hard Muppet fan, so I went.The basic idea is that Gonzo feels alone, because while the other Muppets have families and know where they came from, Gonzo is alone. Rizzo is a rat; Kermit is a frog; but Gonzo is a whatever. Through a series a misadventures (of course), Gonzo learns who (and what) he really is.The movie is better than the reviewers say, at least if you're a Muppet fan. It does help if you're familiar with the other Muppet movies, The Muppet Show, and Muppets Tonight. Some of the humor is based on the characters, and requires knowledge a casual observer won't know. There is the usual Muppet zaniness, which I'll admit you've got to be a bit weird to appreciate.On the downside, the plot is, well, at times agonizingly slow-moving, and there's not quite enough zaniness, but it's still a fun movie.My take See it if you're a die-hard Muppet fan. If not, wait for it on your favorite home video format. "},{"Title":"Another Muppet classic.","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Yet another classic Muppet movie, with the great on-screen presence of Gonzo, Rizzo and Pepe.Great for the young, and for the young at heart.  Plenty of good slapstick humor for kids and adults alike.  To date, this is my favorite Muppet movie (but then, I love the three I mentioned above, and they steal almost all of the scenes). "},{"Title":"Gonzo steps up as the lead in the newest installment of the Muppet franchise.","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The Muppet films have always been great family entertainment, and with the release of this latest feature that trend continues. Gonzo, the long misunderstood member of the muppet gang, is the focus of this film which opens with a wonderful dream sequence where we learn that Gonzo is troubled by his apparent outsider status. It seems that he has never met anyone like him, and that troubles him. Then, Gonzo starts receiving strange messages from outer space. Can it be? Is Gonzo an alien? And if so, what will the government do when they find this out? All of the regular characters are here Kermit, Miss Piggy, Animal,Fozzy Bear, as well as Rizzo the Rat and Pepe who really steal the show. This movie was quite funny and had a ton of jokes for the kids, as well as some stuff that older viewers will appreciate. Of course in the end Gonzo discovers the truth about himself and is forced to decide if he should go live with his own kind, or stay with the group that he has been with all along. All in all this was another great installment in the Muppet saga, and as always it is appropriate for the whole family. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly EXCELLENT!!!!!","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Great movie! I thought it would be stupid but its not. Its funny and has a good story tell. I can't make this review go on forever but I'll just say See it! "},{"Title":"Children's Movie? HA!  Leave the kids at home . . .","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" . . . and enjoy Muppets From Space in peace and quiet with an all-adult audience!  It's terribly funny -- why have your pleasure ruined by some crying baby or irritating rugrat who is running up and down the aisles?  Theaters should have special midnight showings of this for adults only so that WE can enjoy it!  Leave the brats at home with a baby-sitter and a Barney video  -- THEY'LL never know the difference! "}{"Title":"Hilarious for Kids to Adults","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The new movie from Jim Henson studios is much more than I expected.  I expected to see a movie where I'd only chuckle a few times because most jokes would be aimed at younger audiences.  Also somethings that I expected to find were annoying sing-along songs that only small children could enjoy like in Muppet Treasure Island.  I was pleasantly surprised to laugh harder at this movie than I did at the new South Park movie.  None of the jokes had any foul language or sexual inferences, but still poked fun at society just as much if not more than South Park did.  Of course the obvious message was there for younger children to soak up, but there were many more throughout the film that only the smarter older kids and adults could point out.  Also, an added bonus are the numerous inferences to media from NWO wrestling to the high school drama Dawson's Creek with the help of lots of its stars and other stars to help carry out the jokes.  All in all, Muppets in Space is a very well thought out movie in gaining the attention of almost any age group.  And with no songs sung by the Muppets it was even more appealing to see dance numbers to old soul songs from the 70's with even more jokes. "},{"Title":"Not the best muppet film, but still good family fun!","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Although not a classic like the Great Muppet Caper and a Muppet Christmas Carol this movie still provides it's audience with occasional laughs, which most of the one liners come from some of the newer characters from the recent Muppets Tonight tv series.  Pepe is a riot!  The creators of the movie tried to squeaze too many of the muppets into this movie that some of the classic characters aren't but shown but once or twice.  The gang broke the usual G rating for a PG due to mild aggression and silliness. "},{"Title":"The 2nd best Muppet movie ever.","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  With the exception of one scene, I feel that _The Muppet Christmas Carol_ is outstanding, so Muppets from Space coming in second to it is hardly a drawback. This is a solidly funny movie.  Much of the humor is geared toward kids, but still very amusing to my wife and me.  You'll be a little confused by some of the characters if you've never seen Muppets Tonight, as they appear here (Clifford, Bobo, etc.)  If you're a Sci-fi fan, you'll see a lot of scenes that will remind you of other sci-fi films. Take the kids, but you'll enjoy it too. "},{"Title":"Hilarious w/ Sub-text","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Besides being openly hilarious with cosmic fish,talking sandwiches,and messages in breakfast cereal,there is a vast array of sub-text in the new Muppet film.Boasting a G-rating,the film is rich with instances where the human mind cannot help see something other than what's happening.Adults who get drug along may find themselves enjoying the movie as much as their children.It all starts with a bible-bashing dream sequence depicting Gonzo being barred from Noah and his fancy pants ark just because Gonzo was a one of a kind. That introduces the theme of the movie which is acceptance and unconditional love. Blah blah blah.....who cares? The dialogue is hilarious, the cameo appearances by such celebrities as Hollywood Hulk Hogan, Kathy Griffin, David Arquette, and Dawson's Creek stars' Katie Holmes and Joshua Jackson, are fun pop culture references, and hidden beneath situational irony and mature sub-text lies a moral. If you want to know that moral you gotta go see it. And get the sound track too. "},{"Title":"The Muppets come through!  For everyone.","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  When it comes to doing an entertaining show for everyone to enjoy, no-one's more dependable than the Muppets.  While Gonzo is given the spotlight, there's room enough for everyone's favorite Muppets, including new favorites like Pepe The Prawn and Bobo Bear.  It's kind of strange to see Kermit and Piggy in supporting roles, rather than leads, but it's still amazing how easily the audience starts seeing the Muppets as characters as opposed to props.This movie is G-rated, but that should be taken literally - it's for everyone, not just the ankle-biters.  There are jokes that flew right over the heads of the four-year-olds in the audience, but they flew completely over  No coyly circumvented swearwords, and the double entendres are so well-disguised as to be a marvel.  Good clean fun for both children and adults who can handle an imaginative tale. "},{"Title":"Some clever bits, but not quite enough","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The plot of this echoes Close Encounters of the Third Kind, as Gonzo get messages from his people in outer space, who are searching for him and will be coming to get him. There's a very funny sequence early in the film that shows the daily life of all the Muppet characters, who happen to live together in one big house--sharing a bathroom, etc.  But the villains turn out to be the government (what kind of message is being given to the sizeable toddler segment of the audience?) and the younger members of the audience were bored. Not the best choice for preschoolers. We adults were a bit disappointed because we had been led to believe that the action would take place in space, but it does not. "},{"Title":"The Muppets are back to their old selves.","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  After a two film departure from the traditional Muppet movie formula, the Muppets are back to playing themselves in a real world situation. Muppets From Space is much more enjoyable to watch than Muppet Treasure Island and Muppet Christmas Carol due to improved writing, a Muppet-styled plot, and its general wackiness. Unfortunately it lacks the original musical numbers seen in all five previous films (although there are three music-prominent segments, including the hilarious opening sequence). This film also introduces a new major character to the muppet fold, Pepe the King Prawn, and he fits in perfectly with Kermit, Gonzo, Piggy, and the rest. The Muppets are back to their old selves. "},{"Title":"Nothing to Offend, Funny for everyone","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is a cute movie.  There are a few laughs for adults and lots of them for the kids.  This is the first Muppet movie to come out in a long time that is just funny and the characters are themselves again and not some silly historic figures.  Keep an eye out for lots of background people that you should recognize and several movie themes that are attached to the film. "},{"Title":"An entertaining film","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  With big summer blockbusters and special effects all around, how could the muppets fit in? The answer is Very well! In this entertaining film, Gonzo believes that he is a space alien after he receives messages from outer space. This prompts government agent K. Edgar Singer (Jeffrey Tambor) to go after him. What follows is a funny and wild muppet movie that I think little kids will enjoy.And for you old Muppet alumni, see this film ASAP. I believe it is one you will enjoy. WALDORF AND STATLER RULE! "},{"Title":"Extremely enjoyable, great original script.","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is another reason that the Muppets are ageless.  There was enough in this movie to keep the show enjoyable for my children and more than enough to keep my wife and I interested as well.  The use of vague references to other movies was played very well. The cinematography was was exceptional and the few special effects were subtle enough not to take away from the story.  The story itself may be lost on the youngest viewers because as simple as it was, it may be too complex a moral for children under 5 or so. I am not saying young children won't enjoy it, heck my one year old was transfixed (the only other thing to do this is Pepsi commercials).  I give this film very high marks on its story, dialogue, effects, puppeteering, and its talking prawn.  Rating A. "}{"Title":"It Is A Cute And Funny Movie!!!","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Hi Im 13 Years Old  And I Love Muppets In Space Its Funny!! Muppets In Space Is About Gonzo Trying To Find His Relatives! But When This Guy See's Gozo On Tv He Gets These Two Guys To Come And Get Him. He Wants His Brain And Rizzo Gets Thrown Down A Rat Hole Into A Rat Prison By Wrestler HollyWood Hulk Hogan!! Will The Muppets Kermet, Mrs Piggy, Fozzie, Animal, And The Others Get There In Time Driving There 60s Style Bus To Save Gonzo And Rizzo! And Will Gonzo Ever Find His Ralitives.. Enough Said!! With Special Guest Apperances By HollyWood Hulk Hogan, And Others!! With A 60s And 70s Soundtrack To The Movie! With Songs Like Get Up Off That Thing,Celebrate And Lots Lots Others!! If You Like The Other Muppet Movies Then You Will Like This One!! Or If You Like The Muppets You Will Like It!!!  "},{"Title":"It's not Pigs In Space but it is a lot of fun.","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" While Muppets in Space may not have the panache of A Muppet Christmas Carol it is easily on a par with The Muppet Movie. Somehow, the folks at Henson films have managed to simultaneously create a film that young children will love (action, adventure and universal themes of belonging), and that adults will also enjoy. Muppets in Space is a return to the classic Muppet movies in that it is brimming with references that will sail over kids' heads but will keep parents and adult viewers in stitches. Indeed, many of the adults at the screening I attended had to stifle their laughter in order to avoid missing the next lines.It is the audience's ability to identify with the film's central characters and their plight  that will determine a film's ultimate success or failure. One of the secret weapons of all of the Muppet films (and the television show), has always been the likeability of the Muppets themselves.  Muppet films are never better than when they rely on  Muppets and not people or special effects to carry the story. In this case, that is precisely what they do.  It is impossible not to relate to Gonzo's desire to find out about his past  you can see it in his eyes and hear it in his voice. This is generally true of all of the film's central Muppet characters.  It never ceases to amaze me that Muppets frequently convey more feeling than many live movie stars.The core of the film revolves around Gonzo's search for his family but relies on such universal themes as friendship and loyalty.  And, while Gonzo may lack the star power of Kermit or Ms. Piggy,  the Henson folks do manage to bring out the pathos that is inherent in this timid lonely character. Children will undoubtedly relate to Gonzo's feelings of isolation and his longing to feel a part of something bigger than himself (as will many adults).  It is a testament to the screenwriters and the cast that the film can focus on these issues while not becoming maudlin or cloying.The film is populated by virtually all of the Muppet regulars.   Gonzo is, of course, the star of this film having earned his stripes in his break through role as Charles Dickens in The Muppet Christmas Carol.  He is accompanied by the redoubtable Rizzo the Rat whose dry wit sparked much of the humor in  The Muppet Christmas Carol.   Miss Piggy  makes a glamorous appearance, albeit in a small part as a corporate climbing news caster who starts out as a coffee pig.  Once again,  it is Kermit the Frog who provides the film's emotional anchor.  Yes, there are a few Kermit moments when the tender green wonder points out what is really important in life, such as family and friends and listening to what other people are really saying. The film also incorporates numerous guest shots by famous and not so famous actors.  Dawson's Creek fans won't want to miss a cameo appearance by two of the show's regulars,  not to mention a reference to Dawson and his infamous science fiction plots.All of this is reason enough to go see the film, but when coupled with some fiendishly clever references to such classic science fiction institutions as Star Trek and such notable films as ID4,  Close Encounters, and the ubiquitous Star Wars,  it  all makes Muppets in Space more than worth the price of admission.  If only they had  incorporated Pigs In Space  - but you can't have everything.  "},{"Title":"3 laughs, not nearly enough","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Although charming, and sometimes amusing, Muppets From Space failed to make me laugh, or appreciate it's takes on other Sci-Fi movies.  Although some good riffs on Independence Day, Men In Black, and an admittedly hilarious Dawsons Creek cameo by Katie Dawson and that guy who plays Pacey, but not nearly enough laughs.4 "},{"Title":"Muppets from Space isn't as good as some others but good enough","Date":"13 December 2012","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" After a year on my DVR, I finally watched Muppets from Space just now. It's not as good as their first two movies or even the recent The Muppets but it was good enough for me to be reasonably entertained. Gonzo believes he's a space alien when he receives a message in his food. I'll stop there and just say that there were some good cameos from the likes of Ray Liotta and Kathy Griffin and a couple of players from a popular TV show of the time I won't mention here. Oh, and this was the last time Frank Oz voiced Fozzie and Miss Piggy who is used to fine effect here as an aspiring reporter of space aliens. So on that note, I recommend Muppets from Space. "},{"Title":"Muppets From Space","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I've been a Muppets fan all my life. I thought that Muppets From Space was a great movie. Its in a tie for my favorite Muppet Movie with Muppet Caper. I think Treasue Island is the Worst of the bunch. but in the main 4 ( Muppet Movie,Caper, Manhattan and Space) the worst was Muppets Take Manhattan. i think that Electric Mayhem should have at least had one song in the movie. but thats all that i would change about it. A+++++ "},{"Title":"I loved this movie!","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I had alot of fun with Muppets From Space.  I liked the basic plot of trying to explain Gonzo's origins.  And the friendship between the Muppets is still warm and cozy.  I even liked Rizzo the Rat's supportive role.  I really enjoyed the musical numbers, too.  I did feel that the ending was a bit short and would have liked to have actually seen alot more space scenes. But I really had fun and that's what a Muppet movie is supposed to do, be fun.  This movie will make a great addition to any Muppet collector.  If you just want a silly, fun movie, see Muppets From Space.  "},{"Title":"the best of the muppet movies","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" this falls in my top ten movies of all time, and i know my films. this particular muppet piece transcends simple muppet silliness and commands a level of comedy reserved for an all human cast. easily the funniest and best thought out muppet movie of all time. watch for peppe the king prawn, my new favorite muppet. i used to think the Swedish chef was the best muppet, but man, he's hilarious. my favorites aren't usually comedies, but this was so well done that i can not imagine not including it in my collection. watch it through all the way, and frequently.gonzo is supposed to be the central character of the film, so if you like a good gonzo romp, enjoy. but i think the best part of the movie is the stuff that happens around the central story. thankfully, the miss piggie story is actually funny, as she is usually the muppet that kills muppet movies. and don't worry, fozzie and the Swedish chef have their moments, as do some of the lesser known muppets. do it up man. "},{"Title":"Celebrate Good Times, Come On!","Date":"30 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Director Tim Hill gives us the sixth Muppet Movie with Muppets From Space. The film follows Gonzo who has always been classified as a whatever and wishes to find out what he truly is. When he gets kidnapped by Edgar K. Singer played by Jeffrey Tambor for a top secret government agency to find aliens. Even though this is this is most often called the runt of The Muppet movies I personally found it to be funny, entertaining, and a lot of fun to watch. I really Recommend it for a really good time.Rated G.1hr 28min/88min.****/**** "},{"Title":"Gonzo's Wants To Go Home","Date":"18 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" ...and the Muppets are back! Having grown up watching the Muppets, I couldn't resist watching anything with them in it. 'Muppets in Space' is another fun adventure. While many have stated that this movie isn't as much fun as other Muppet movies, I have to disagree. This is just as enjoyable as any. The slapstick and satirical comedy blend together effectively. The lines had me laughing out loud.The story mostly focuses on Gonzo (who's one of my favourites) in search of a relative as he believes he's being contacted by aliens. But he is trapped by the ambassador of Earth who thinks Gonzo is conspiring with the aliens. While Gonzo and his loyal buddy Rizzy are imprisoned, the rest of the Muppets are off to the rescue their friends.'Muppets from Space' has plenty of energy. Splendid cameos by Josh Charles, Ray Liotta, Andie McDowell, Pat Hingle, Rob Schneider, F. Murray Abraham are delightful and Jeffrey Tambor is great as the funny semi-villain.This is a must-see for us Muppet lovers but I think there is even something for those not familiar with the Muppets. It's a tribute to many popular science fiction films. Energetic, Colourful, Funny as Hell and Delightfully Loud is what 'Muppets from Space' is ). "},{"Title":"Not appropriate for young children","Date":"21 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I DO like this movie; I appreciate the wry humor and off beat references, but this is NOT a movie for young children...there are too many confusing adult references and the opening salvo of having Noah reject Gonzo for being different really upset my 3 year old granddaughter..And Miss Piggy getting repeatedly hit in the face was the final moment before we turned it off... however my 8 year old grandson really likes this movie..This is not your typical early issue Muppet Movie.. More appropriate for pre-teen and up.Pass this one by for the young members of your family!! "}{"Title":"Muppets From Space (Tim Hill, 1999) **1/2","Date":"7 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is not up to previous big-screen adventures of the Muppets (in fact, it was the last) but still quite good &#150; apart from the modernized score (which is barely there to begin with) and dubious star cast (David Arquette, Hollywood Hulk Hogan, Kathie Holmes, Ray Liotta, Andie MacDowell, etc). The idea to explore the origins of Gonzo was nice (indeed inevitable, ditto the excursion into sci-fi) &#150; even if the limelight is ultimately stolen by Rizzo The Rat (as ever, Gonzo's closest pal) and Pepe The Prawn (whose tendency to end his dialogue with Okay? recalls the teacher from SOUTH PARK, then at its peak). The emphasis on 'new' characters pretty much undermines the contribution of established Muppets like Kermit The Frog and Fozzie Bear&#133;and, while Miss Piggy herself gets a fairly sizeable role, she basically retreads her paces from THE GREAT MUPPET CAPER (1981). The script (and look of the film) clearly draws on recent genre blockbusters like INDEPENDENCE DAY and MARS ATTACKS! (both 1996); that said, its funnier moments typically involve throwaway bits of business, such as the resident pop group (which has Animal for a drummer) dressing up for the occasion when they replace Gonzo at a Bar Mitzvah and Pepe subconsciously convincing Gonzo to build a Jacuzzi in the spirit of FIELD OF DREAMS (1989)! Also notable, though, are the interrogation scenes with Gonzo at the secret military/scientific base and Rizzo's simultaneous tenure there as a guinea pig. Unsurprisingly, the climax sees the arrival of a mother ship on Earth &#150; with a human eventually filling in for Gonzo, since the latter cannot bring himself to be separated from the other Muppets after all. "},{"Title":"A funny metaphysical journey from space to earth","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Lacking the rather esoteric seriousness of Science fiction movies like 2001 - A Space Odyssey this Muppet-movie avoids the big question for the destination of humankind. Instead Gonzos rather touching search for his identity looks firmly at the Conditio Muppetaine. We all have moments when we feel alien like Gonzo, when we don't know where we belong and who we are. But space is not as deep as you think! This film tells us an important message We don't have to look into the endless and cold voids of the universe! The firm ground of our lives are rooted deeply in the people we live with. When Gonzo is in need of help and reconciliation, his friends stand by! This movie is entertaining and funny for children and grown-ups alike, last but not least because of its hilarious and likable Muppet cast. I also enjoyed (and highly recommend) the excellent funky soundtrack! "},{"Title":"What's the fuss?","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" A lot of people complain about the fact that in Muppets from Space, the muppets do not do their own singing. Who cares? A lot of college friends and I love the muppets but all agree that no-one likes the singing that the movies usually put you through. It is one thing to have a musical number that demands music (like The Electric Mayhem) and it is totally another to drag through five minutes of having Kermit and Ms. Piggy singing Love Led Us Here (reference to Muppet Treasure Island).The funk music they use suits the story well, and more importantly, it suits the main character who is obviously Gonzo.The humor is the great vaudeville-like humor that the muppets are known for having.The movie is phenomenal but if I had any complaints it would be how Rowlf, Scooter, and the Electric Mayhem don't get much screen time.This is the last time we got to see the muppets in action before the horrid evil control they got from Disney. Want proof Disney ruined the Muppets, watch Muppet Wizard of Oz. "},{"Title":"Good enough Muppet movie,which seems kinda rare lately","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The post-Jim Henson era of the Muppets seems to be reduced to uninspired movie rehashes(A Muppet Christmas Carol,MUppet Treasure ISland,It's a Wonderful Muppet Life),under-promoted t.v. efforts(The Muppet Hour on ABC,1996)and Pizza hut commercials with Jessica Simpson. Not exactly a wondrous track record of late,really.So that's where this offering from 1999 is such a breath of cool air! The story is inspiredGonzo,the ring-nosed daredevil who has a stable of hens as his gals,who has never really known of a family or anyone who was like himself,yearns to discover his true identity as a being. At the low point of his own wonderment to his place in the world(nay,the Universe),he get messages in his breakfast cereal telling him that he is not alone. He becomes obsessed with messages that point him toward aliens who are leaving cryptic clues as to their existence. NAturally,most of the public--including a majority of his friends--believe he is wacko,and his mission becomes even lonelier.HOwever,there are a few people who believe him,one of them being a lightly regarded government chief(Jeffrey TAmbor,who is great in just about anything!),who believes that,when he comes upon Gonzo,that he can lead him and the government to first contact with extraterrestrial life.Cut,non-threatening and lightning quick of a film,director Tim Hill employs nearly all of the usual characters from previous Muppet incarnations,and Frank Oz returns as a voice of such characters as Miss Piggy and Fozzie Bear(along with the capable help of other Muppet vets DAve Goelz and Jerry Nelson and relative newcomers Steve Whitmire and Bill Bareta) to give heft to the full-bodied puppets. A rollicking,70s R&B soundtrack fueled by(Among others)George Clinton,added to a slough of cameos(KAtie Holmes,Hulk Hogan,Andie MacDowell,Robert Downey Jr.,David Arquette among them),and you have a typical Muppet movie only a little better than recent efforts. A good family film for the not-too-discriminating who have a soft spot for Jim Henson's now half-century old creations. "},{"Title":"Pretty good!  Finally another actual Muppet sequel.","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" stars Jeffrey Tambor, Ray Liotta, Kathy Griffin, David Arquette, Hulk Hogan, F. Murray Abraham and others.muppet performers Dave Goelz as Gonzo, Dr.Hunnydew, Waldorf and Zoot the sax player.Steve Whitemire as Kermit, Rizzo the Rat, Beaker and others.Frank Oz as Fozzie Bear, Miss Piggy, Animal and Sam the Eagle.Bill Baretta as Pepe the prawn, Dr.Teeth, Rowlf the dog and others.Jerry Nelson as Robin, Statler, Floyd the guitarist, Janice, Lew Zealand, Crazy Harry and others.Kevin Clash as Clifford.Adam Hunt as Scooter.After two theatrical and one made for video Muppet movie that are based on books, we finally have a legitimate sequel. It deals with Gonzo trying to find out where he's from, only to have the F.B.I. after him. It's different than Jim's version, but it's still very fun. This is the start of returning the original Muppets, like Rowlf, who has a cameo in this hasn't spoken since Muppet's Take Manhatten. Also Scooter, Dr.Teeth, Janice, Floyd, Zoot, Lew Zealand, Sweetums, Crazy Harry and several others make appearances. A complaint I have is that annoying little Pepe the prawn...he bugs me. Other than that, it's good. Fun for all! my rating-B plus. 86 mins. G. Also noted-Former Muppeteer Richard Hunt's brother performs Scooter briefly in the film. "},{"Title":"Muppet Evolution","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The Muppets we loved so much, have changed. Is it for the better, or the worse? You decide.While this movie was more like the sequel to the original The Muppet Movie, in that it tries to explain Gonzo's origins, as the first did Kermit's, there is a definitive difference between Brian Henson's Muppets and those of his father it's not as zany. The plot is wonderfully written, and acted well by the human actors and lovingly portrayed by the muppeteers. However, the Muppets have lost their edge; the crisp delivery of the zany but witty one-liners is gone. Forever? Gods, I hope not. I hope Brian is just warming up to those incredible shoes he has to fill, and isn't planning on changing the magic his father created all those years ago with a simple sock puppet and the creativity of a genius.The soundtrack, while not usual Muppet fare, is excellent '70's giants like Hot Chocolate, James Brown, etc. Wonderful music. I loved that change! Don't worry, the Muppets sing along and dance, as usual and the adult innuendo is properly guarded and camouflaged, in classic Jim Henson style.*-MAJOR SPOILER!!-*I had one problem with this movie. Even after you go through the whole ordeal with Gonzo, you never know WTF he is! They don't tell you! Okay, he's not from this planet, but what IS he? WHY leave that out? It exasperates me to no END. Good Movie. I own it.It gets a solid 8/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Not a classic, but still very funny","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I've been a huge Muppet fanatic since I was very young. But over the past couple years my love for the Muppets has had a huge comeback. The first three movies are fantastic, and while 'Muppets From Space' is very enjoyable, it's missing the classic Muppet charm that's been fading since 1990.I loved seeing Gonzo (a brilliant character) as the star role, but what about his chicken girlfriend Camilla? I don't think they were even seen together here! Instead Rizzo is Gonzo's main companion, and while he's very funny, I miss Camilla...Also missed is the Kermit/Piggy romance. And while as mentioned this is pretty much Gonzo's movie, we just didn't see enough Kermit, and there were no moments between him and Piggy which dominated the first three movies and were wonderful. But the Muppets I've really been missing for a long time are The Electric Mayhem. Only Animal's been sticking around. They're still there in the background, but I miss Janice's sharp and hilarious remarks, and Dr. Teeth's general wacky disposition. I hope they realize how much they're missed and really bring them back someday.But Bunsen and Beaker were fantastic! Even though they were secondary characters (as almost always), they had some of the funniest parts of the movie. Beaker's too adorable.Anyhow, it turns out that Gonzo's an alien, which isn't surprising, but it was funny when he was just regarded as a whatever. Part of Gonzo's charm was that you had no idea what he was or where he came from. But I loved the beginning scene in the Muppet house to Brick House, and there were many other great parts. I was at first let down when there were no original songs, but I think the great '70s music really suits the feel of this movie.Granted, 'Muppets From Space' doesn't compare to the original Muppet movies, but it's still very good. (I give it a B+) "},{"Title":"Muppets fails on all levels","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I have always enjoyed the Muppet films for a few reasonsthey arevery funny,clever and they are just a fun time,something missingfrom most movies. However this latest addition to the Muppet movie collection fails toeven evoke a single clever,funny,or slightly amusing scene.I recallseeing Muppet Treasure Island in theaters and simply laughingmy head off.I still watch some of the older ones and they aresimply classic comedies. But not once did I laugh,smile,or even feel remotely entertainedwhen watching this movie.I kept waiting for it to become funny orremotely interesting at the very least,but it failed to even do that. The spoof jokes were not pulled off well at all,they ruined thewhole Gonzo ordeal ( everyone who is a muppet fan knows he is awhatever,not an alien.Why didn't they come up with a morecreative explanation for his origins?) But fear not,for I discovered this film,while it obviously had thesame muppet performers,was not done Brian Henson,who did avery good job with the last two laugh-fests.So let's hope they canget enough money to put on at least one more good  show,because this is not a flick I would want to end my franchiseon. So,in conclusion,what is my point? I go to a Muppet film tolaugh,not come out annoyed and angry, grumbling about thecheapness of Hollywood again.If I wanted to feel like that,I wouldgo see Scooby -Doo or Austin Powers 3. "},{"Title":"A Good Time Out!","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  A great film? No, but a very enjoyable film that probably gets better as the group you are watching it with gets larger.  Muppets in Space isn't as good as the Muppet Movies of old, but Kermit and the gang still manage to bring a smile to your face.  Also if you do rent it, try to find the DVD and watch it with the Audio Commentary.  Gonzo and Rizo go MST3000 style and it can be funnier than the movie at times.   "},{"Title":"Pepe is KING!","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I must confess that my brother and sister and I, found this movie side splitting. I was glad that is didn't rely on the usual needless soppy songs that most of the other films included. This time they let the story do the majority of the entertaining and included a funky sound track at the same time.I think that it was about time the Muppet films evolved and started to explore different avenues. What also made it refreshing was that there was no over reliance on Kermit and Piggy. The plot itself was great and there were some classic moments. As always the voices were spot on, and using the newer Muppets was a good idea.I give this film 10/10 and it is my favourite Muppet movie, and I've watched them all countless times. A special mention should go to Pepe the King Prawn however, as he stole the whole film.  "}{"Title":"Eh, it's alright.","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Well, for older Muppet fans, this one's going to be a downer for the most part.  I know it seems like Gonzo and company are the focus here, but the fact is they mostly take second place to a bunch of new characters.  At times, it felt like the older characters were getting phased out in favor of the new ones.  Furthermore, instead of any memorable original songs (indeed, any original songs at all) we get a soundtrack off of the Greatest Hits of the 70's It's Too Funky in Here! compilation album.  Not a very comforting thought.Don't get me wrong, this isn't as bad as the two recent incomprehensible the Muppets Take Classic Literature Disney-produced movies.  It's about on par with the Muppets Take Manhatten, it's okay but it could have been much more imaginative.The kids, of course, won't care much.  But I say do them a favor and stick with the first two original Muppet Movies.  There's a reason why they're classics. "},{"Title":"It's not half bad...","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Okay, it's way out of The Muppet Movie league, but Muppets from Space is certainly enjoyable, especially if you are a die-hard fan of the Muppets.  They didn't include any original music in the film, which I think hurt it somewhat.   The great thing about Muppet movies was they're catchy tunes that increased the repeat-viewing value ten fold!  Here, the closest it comes to musical is when they sing along with old 70's funk tunes.  Somewhat of a shame.Aside from the missing music, the film itself is, well, not the greatest thing to come from these fleece & foam film legends.  This was probably best suited to be a television special of some sort.  Still, if your a fan, it's very nice. "},{"Title":"Good, but the magic is gone","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Thanks to the evolution of visual effects and other things, the muppets have become as relevant as Bob Dylan's tuning fork.  Which is unfair, because I grew up loving the muppets like how kids love pokemon.  And I still admire every muppet film and show ever released since the creation by Jim Henson.  But now, we are left with this film, about the muppet Gonzo (my favorite) who feels isolation, but finds out he is a alien left on this planet.  And while this story, film and characters pull through an OK effort, something feels missing.  I guess it's that at the peak of the muppet-ness, we looked to them as regular people look at the president, with respect and awe that he can get the job done.  But now, we have this, something that had me leaving the theater saying I wonder, how did this get made after Babe was successfull?  I guess I just don't know.  B- "},{"Title":"A cute piece of fluff, an overlong TV show.","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I felt guilty because I didn't take up my 60-yr-old friend Frank's invitation to see Muppets From Space when it was in theaters. So I watched it on TV last night. I kept waiting for something interesting to happen ... I'm still waiting!  -)I cannot fathom how anyone could rate this movie 10, 9, or 8. My personal rating is 4 of 10. Not that there's anything particularly wrong with it. There just anything particularly interesting.The plot -- wierd-looking Gonzo begins to suspect he is really an alien from space, and the movie takes off from there. A really forgettable movie. "},{"Title":"I just don't know","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I went to this movie at the request of my younger brother and my grandmother when it first came out. Now, ten months later, I still do not know quite what to make of it. It is certainly better than quite a few of the movies I have seen recently, but at the same time, it is not quite Muppet caliber. I don't like this one nearly as much as I did The Muppet Movie and The Muppet Christmas Carol. It is still very funny, though, even though there should have been more original songs.  "},{"Title":"Not Great.","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I can't really say I was disappointed with this, because I wasn't expecting much of a movie. I am not really a fan of the Muppets and the only reason I saw it is because there was nothing else on.Anyway, it stars Gonzo (a muppet if you didn't know) and this time he thinks he is an alien. He's goddamn right, too cos he has got his alien family looking for him in outer space! This film manages to be funny enough, it has great characters and excellent actors but unfortunately we have seen the story all before, it is sort of boring and is directed badly. Sorry.But still, I suppose Muppets From Space is a good movie to watch on a rainy day when your bored!My rating  6 and a half/10 "},{"Title":"Fun in space","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Muppets From Space is a fun ride. The movie lacks the humor and cleverness previous Muppet films, like The Great Muppet Caper. But it's still a funny movie. What I like about this movie most of all is the focus on Gonzo. While I didn't like Kermit's reduced role in this movie, I liked seeing more of Gonzo. What I didn't like, was the almost complete lack of Fozzie, Scooter and other familiar Muppets. Other than that, I found the film very enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Great glorious fun...","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  While not up to the other Muppet movies this one is still lots of fun.As always, there is a message -- in this case it would appear to be Believe in your friends.Most of the music is not original -- lots of songs are covered by the Muppets and quite often they are by the original artists.Since this is Muppets from Space they do manage to reference many Sci-Fi films; among them are  Close Encounters of the Third Kind, the Star Trek television series, Independence Day and even manage to get in a bit of Indiana Jones.Strangely enough the entire audience the day that I saw this movie was adults -- which is just as well because most of the humour was definitely more adult oriented.Which is not to say that kids wouldn't enjoy it too.  The colour, the action and the excitement would have lots of kids on the edge of their seats.A somewhat pudgy Jeffry Tambor makes a very likeable antagonist with a bear as a mole in his society to prevent alien aggression.This was a very wholesome movie, but like all the Muppet movies there really isn't a whole lot there. "},{"Title":"Little Space and Flat Plot","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I am a muppet fan and was looking forward to the film.  Unfortunately, the plot is flat and there is little space adventure in this film.Children will likely enjoy this film, however, the adults will find it less entertaining.Not a movie I will see again! "},{"Title":"Not on the same standards as some previous muppet films. **1/2 out of ****","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  MUPPETS FROM SPACE (1999) **1/2Starring The Muppets, Jeffrey Tambor, F. Murray Abraham, Rob Schneider, Ray Liotta, David Arquette, Kathy Griffin, Andie MacDowell, and Hulk Hogan Director Tim Hill   88 minutes    Rated GBy Blake FrenchThe quality of Muppets From Space doesn't compare to the quality of muppet movies that I watched while growing up. Those films I still enjoy today. The series of children's stories that this sega is coming to is gradually lowering their standards. It used to be that every film was a different adventure into a different atmosphere. Those were full of creativity and imagination. What were they thinking when making Muppets From Space? Maybe the filmmakers are running out of ideas? Or perhaps they think that it is time to start looking into the Muppet family history? Whatever it was, this film is a disappointment in the highest.The film, of course, contains all those lovable Muppets including Kermit the Frog, Rizzo the Rat, Gonzo, Waldorf, Dr. Bunsen, Beaker, Sam the Eagle, Miss Piggy, Fozzie Bear, Animal and many more. What little story there is centers on not an upcoming event or an imaginative adventure, but a single muppet; Gonzo. Where did he come from? Are there any more of his kind? What species is he? Why are there no others in his family history? What is his family history? Those are the questions he keeps asking himself throughout the film, ones that just don't hold the audience's interest.The movie's plot ends up being about a rescue mission for the muppets who must save Gonzo from a top secret government facility where a madman named Edgar plans to suck out Gonzo's brains. The rescue scenes are some of the film's funniest. Most of the hilarious moments have to do with Miss Piggy and her toughness. One of them has a protective gadget that looks like a spray bottle with a mist inside that makes the victim do what ever the sprayer commands. A perfect Ray Liotta as a security guard is the first casualty, who turns from screaming at the muppets to leave the plant's property to a welcoming invitation who smiles and waves to the muppets as they enter the facility. Another has Andie MacDowell as a news reporter handing Miss Piggy her job and offering a cup of coffee, when before the spray Piggy was on the verge of being laid off.There are surprisingly some very big names in this minor production. Among them is an evil looking Jeffrey Tambor, a joyfully cruel David Arquette, a hyper Rob Schneider, and finishing off the list are brief cameos by  Hulk Hogan, F. Murray Abraham and Kathy Griffin.The problem with the movie is the uncertainty between the funny moments and adventurous happenings. The filmmakers do not take advantage of having the muppets as the stars. There are no cute romantic comments between Kermit and Piggy. The traditional characteristics of the muppets are missing. I left the theater feeling cheated, not encouraged. And while I realize the film's target audience is between ages' 4-6, I get the sense that even they will be more pleased if their parents stick with older muppet movies for them to watch. Try The Muppet Christmas Carol, or if I am a little off season, how about the much more appetizing Muppet Treasure Island. "}{"Title":"Please, God, let this be the last Muppet film!","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The sixth -- and, hopefully last -- in the Muppet franchise is boring and very short on originality.  When Gonzo discovers that he's an alien from outer space, he gets abducted by government agents and it's up to Kermit and the rest of the Muppet gang to rescue him.  Kids under six are likely to enjoy this outing, but they deserve better than this.  My evaluation *1/2 out of ****. "},{"Title":"Not what it could have been","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie somewhat, but thought it could have been much better. The Muppets themselves, one of the longest-enduring comedy ensembles in TV and film history, retain their appeal to both kids and grownups, mixing deliberately bad jokes with touches of the absurd (take a look at the bathroom in the Muppets house toward the beginning) and exquisitely timed set pieces such as the poker game with Rizzo the Rat and Pepe the Prawn. Most of my favorite parts of the movie were bits of Muppet business that had nothing to do with the plot, and the filmmakers might have done better to keep going in this vein with a day in the life of the Muppets movie.  I bet it would have been fabulous.However, someone had a brilliant idea for a plot, centered on the question, Just what kind of creature IS Gonzo, anyway?  Muppets from Space starts off promisingly with this question, evoking a certain amount of pathos in the process.  Then Gonzo begins getting messages that he believes to be from his kinfolk, and from outer space!From there the plot takes over, and though Kermit, Miss Piggy, Animal, Rizzo, Pepe, and Bobo the Bear (as an oddball receptionist at the E.T.-watching bureau who serve as the bad guys) get some good bits of business, they're swallowed up in the necessity of moving the plot along. Worse, the action moves so quickly (presumably to keep the movie length down within the average little kid's attention span) that any depth the story might have is utterly lost.  Sure, it's a kids movie, and maybe kids are more tolerant of shallow but fast plots.  The best kids movies, however, aren't just functional, they're magical.  A few extra minutes, maybe as few as 5 or 10 if done right, could have added some much-needed magic to this movie.The human roles are stripped down past the point of iconicity to the cardboard level.  The most effective have little screen time; a man in black who goes mano a mano with Miss Piggy, a female guard who falls for Animal's, uh, animalistic ways, and a scientist who sounds like he'd rather be a prison guard and treats his lab rats accordingly.  The humans with more screen time, such as the main villain (the head of the E.T.-watching bureau), don't come off as well.  When the humans are less believable than the Muppets, something's wrong.(Of course the filmmakers might have stripped down the human roles on purpose, precisely to make the Muppets more believable as characters.  If so, I think they were mistaken.  They should have aimed for parity of believability, as with Bob Hoskins and the toons in Who Framed Roger Rabbit, or the best episodes of the original Muppet Show.)Finally, though the music (a selection of '70s funk oldies) was very good, there was too much of it; the fimmakers should have kept the space-related items (Shining Star, Outa-Space, and Flash Light rewritten as Space Flight) and the set-piece toward the end where all the funk pays off, and jettisoned the rest.Next time, I hope the people behind the Muppets either pay more serious attention to their plot, or else keep the plot as far out of the way as possible. "},{"Title":"Unbearably touching, almost to a fault","Date":"21 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is probably the saddest movie that I have ever seen. It deals in themes of identity and loneliness with more beautied and wrenching sincerity than I've ever seen in any other piece. The fact they are muppets make it all the more touching, because the muppets are so charmingly real. It's about Gonzo coming to terms with his place in the world, and Gonzo was always my favorite character and the one I identified with most, especially, this film just got me. Maybe it isn't the single greatest puppet film, but it is the most dramatic and emotional. Times, it was almost too much and watching the film was such a devastatingly sad experience. In fact, at times it almost seems like there is too much overarching poignancy and emotional core but it's probably just that it's so well-done that it's strikes chords so large. This isdefinitely different in tone than the other ones, but it's a fine andpowerful experience and a superb entry in Muppet Movie-dom. "},{"Title":"The Muppets Lose Their Touch Completely.","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Simply terrible Muppet installment has the gang trying to help Gonzo get into outer space to find his rightful place in the universe. Finally, by the late-1990s, the Muppets are losing their mass audience appeal and becoming much more annoying than entertaining. Cameos and would-be comical situations do nothing to help out a film that seems lost in a black hole of irritation. Very few youngsters will care about Muppets From Space and many fewer adults will be able to make it through this snoozer. Turkey (0 stars out of 5). "},{"Title":"Goes Against Every One Of Jim Henson's Philosophies","Date":"26 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" If we can understand anything about The Muppets, it's that they are kind, true to their characters, enjoy fun, are self-deprecating, mean well even if they do wrong, and ultimately are about the positives that live in the souls of everyone.All of that is one hundred and eighty degrees from Muppets From Space, a film that bears absolutely no resemblance to any of the elements that defined the Muppets while Jim Henson was alive. This film is filled with insult humor, gratuitous violent behavior and scary images, most of which are inappropriate for children to see, and all of which are completely out of character for The Muppets.As an example, in the very first moments of the film, Gonzo is trapped in the storm that will flood the earth. Noah doesn't permit him to enter the ark because he doesn't know what he is! It's a horrible message to send at the very start, and the film only goes downhill from that point. It's not funny, it's not entertaining, it's not meaningful and it's not Muppet.If nothing else, Muppets From Space proves what a visionary Jim Henson was, and that, unfortunately, no one in his organization grasped his philosophy, even slightly. Now you know why the Muppets have languished since Jim left. "},{"Title":"&#x85; and get lost on earth (DVD)","Date":"15 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Again, Andie MacDowell helped me to choose this movie. But with the Muppet, it wasn't totally terra incognita so I expected to have fun.The opening gag is excellent but right after, it sucks! I just slept&#x85;Maybe I was too tired, but the commentary helped me a lot it is terribly boring as the Muppet tried to be silly and funny but just failed! It's the same for the bloopers bonus a rather good idea but it lacks terribly of imagination! 20 scenes of about 4 seconds without a global play it's just stupid! Even if the animation is good, and all the Muppet being there, the Muppet magic is gone as it doesn't make me laugh! In addition, the movie is rather dark (in a military base or at night) and the colors aren't very bright! Finally, for what I saw, Andie stars for maybe two minutes getting involved in a cat-fight with Peggy! That's all! Maybe she has got more screening time but it was during my sleep! "},{"Title":"Go Gonzo!","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Recap Gonzo is feeling lonely. Unsure of his past, unsure of his heritage and even unsure of his own species. But suddenly he is getting messages through his breakfast cereals. Watch the sky and R U There. More follows and Gonzo becomes convinced that he is from space. Unfortunately nobody believes him, well nobody but COVNET, a secret government agency that has seen the messages too. Now they are willing to do everything to learn what they believe Gonzo knows...Comments Well you get what you expect, and that's good. A typical Muppet movie centered about Gonzo, with the typical Muppet kind of humor and jokes. But also, there are many more or less hidden references too other movie clearly aimed for a little older audience, that they will enjoy. I did. Combined with the appearances of known actors and celebrities in small or bigger roles it makes a very fun movie.Not to be taken seriously, but who would want to do that. Sit back, enjoy, and let the Muppets go...7/10 "},{"Title":"Muppets From Space","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" If you have ever wondered what Gonzo actually is, because he is always referred to as a Whatever, then this is the film to find out. Gonzo (Dave Goelz) is not his usual self (obsessed by injury) because he does not know where he came from or who he is. He is then told by messages to watch the sky. He is told by cosmic fish that he is an alien. He is now trying everything he can to see or contact his family. Kermit the Frog (Steve Whitmire) and the other Muppets obviously do not believe him. Meanwhile, K. Edgar Singer (Jeffrey Tambor) is trying to meet Gonzo, and possibly find out his possible alien past and genetics. Eventually there is a resolution to what Gonzo really is, when his alien family come down to Earth and offer to take him home, but Gonzo refuses because of the many friends he has made. Also starring Miss Piggy and Fozzie Bear (Frank Oz), Dr. Bunsen Honeydew, Waldorf and Swedish Chef (Goelz), Rizzo the Rat and Beaker (Steve Whitmire), Pepe the Prawn (Bill Barretta) and many others. With cameos by David Arquette, Pat Hingle, Katie Holmes, Hollywood Hulk Hogan, Ray Liotta, Andie MacDowell and Rob Schneider. The Muppets were number 47 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons. Very good! "},{"Title":"A Great Disappointment","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The title Muppets From Space is completely misleading.  Instead, it should have been called Gonzo is From Space.  After all, the people who have really made the Muppet franchise successful after all these years are rarely seen throughout the movie.  Instead we see new characters like that French lobster replace old lovables such as Fozzie bear and Kermit the frog.The charm and story of the usual muppets movies are lost in the endless sea of pointless celebrity cameos and lame jokes. Forget about this movie if you are a loyal Muppets fan and instead rent A Muppets Christmas Carrol.  At least with that movie you get some imagination and not a series of pointless jokes that have already been done on cable countless of times.  "},{"Title":"Not appropriate for young children","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This film was being shown by a local theatre as part of their free summer program for children. First off, I cannot believe this film was rated G. PG or PG-13 would have been more appropriate. Why my 2,4,6 and 8 year olds had to see shotguns, machine guns, torture and kidnapping, let alone the fighting is beyond me. This is not what you'd expect in a rated G muppet film. Obviously Jim Henson was not alive when this film was done. I was so upset by this film, I was going to walk out several times, but wanted my kids to see the resolution or the happy parts, so they wouldn't just remember the violence. It was so anti-climatic, with the resolution lasting only a few minutes before the end of the film, it was worthless. My kids were shaking and telling me how frightened they were. ABSOLUTELY DISGRACEFUL!!! "}]