[{"Title":"Absolute Garbage","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"105 out of 153 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Possible spoilers, if it's even possible to spoil a film like BEL. This is by far one of the worst war movies I have ever seen, especially in terms of realism. As a former Naval Flight Officer who was stationed on a carrier in the Adriatic in the early 90's, I can say with absolute certainty that this story, the dialogue and just about everything else was complete hogwash. It pains me to think that some hack writer actually got paid big bucks for this script, probably much more than I ever made in full year in the Navy. Anyway, I could obviously point out a million things wrong with this picture, but I'll limit to a few laughersFirst, I flew EA-6B's, not F-18's, but apparently nobody else did. Every EA-6B (and non-F-18) shown in the film was tied down to the flight deck. In fact, I don't recall any other jet being launched or recovered in this film from that carrier deck other than that 2-seat F-18. Back then, the Hornet squadrons on my boat (yes it's a boat not a ship. Only blackshoes called it a ship. Even had a 'shoe Senior Chief correct me (a lieutenant) in that regard once. Get real.) only had one seat, one pilot and no navigators/rios. Only Marines flew those D-models. At least they could have used an F-14.-Some Master Chief running around the boat chastizing an Admiral and telling him what to do/not do. Yeah, right.-The bad guys are shooting SAM's at our heroes who survive quite a while before getting bagged. Only after getting safely on the ground with their big, bright, colorful (!) parachute canopies, do they decide to interrupt the Admiral's meal to tell him a jet's been engaged. Oh, I better get up and see what's going on! That boat would be at General Quarters the minute the first missile was in the air. And missiles, which normally travel at many times the speed of a Hornet in burners, would either hit or miss, not follow you all around the sky. And a search & rescue mission would be in place IMMEDIATELY regardless of what some pseudo-Italian knucklehead who thinks he's in charge says.-Guys walking around the flight deck with no head/ear protection immediately before, during, and after flight ops? Uh, no. At not playing football either.-Flight crew (officers) eating meals on the enlisted men's mess decks rather than the dirty-shirt wardroom? I suppose it's technically possible, but are they out of their minds?-A Navigator/NFO threatening to leave the Navy to go fly for the airlines? Sorry, even if one had a civilian pilot's license (most do NOT) all those backseat hours in the Hornet count for squat in the eyes of the FAA. There are way too many military PILOTS that compete for commercial pilot jobs, that a navigator sure as heck wouldn't get one.-A downed pilot sitting there in an open field in enemy territory not even making an attempt to hide/evade. The other guy just leaving him there to find higher ground? Didn't you guys learn anything in SERE school? Also, a single fighter going feet dry in potentially hostile territory with no other escort, support aircraft, or SARCAP? Hah!you get the picture... "},{"Title":"Big Mistake (SPOILER ALERT !)","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"64 out of 95 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT ! This was the sorriest movie I can ever remember seeing.  I realize that everybody is still in shock from 9-11.  I personally lost a family member because of it.  But that doesn't mean I'm so starved for patriotism that I would blindly love this crap.  A US Navy pilot and navigator disobey orders then get shot down.  Suddenly he can dodge automatic fire from assaults rifles, 20mm cannons, and grenade launchers?  He runs in the daytime, stops to transmit in open territory, and suddenly knows the area better then they people who are chasing him?  His commanders are unwilling/unable to help him.  The end is the worst, he's running around in between crossfire of his rescuers and his pursuers without ever getting hit?  Grabs some disk of pictures that would have been transmitted automatically to base as soon as he took them anyway?  Then runs and jumps off a cliff to someone hanging from a helicopter rather than having the stupid helicopter land for 3 seconds to pick him up.  I realize that some people may need a boost of patriotism but we can do much better than this crap.  See 'Saving Private Ryan' again if you're that desperate. "},{"Title":"In Hollywood There Are Some Lines You Should Never Cross...","Date":"29 September 2005","Score":"63 out of 94 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" I first saw this movie with a few buddies who had rented it on a Saturday night, and thought I'd join in. Now, if this had been a spoof of American War movies, it would've been great. Only problem is that it isn't a spoof; it's dead serious. The huge number of goofs and mistakes aside, this movie offers little in the ways of storyline and character development. You really couldn't care less if Wilson's character lives or dies, and Hackman doesn't really get anything done until the end of the movie (which is ridiculous to say the least!).Now, the thing that really breaks this movie, is the aforementioned goofs and mistakes. As I mentioned, if this movie had been a parody on American war/action movies I would've loved it, because all of the goofs actually make you think that it IS a parody! But considering the fact that it's a glorified, super-patriotic, default American war hero running around facing all kinds of problems, it all seems like a moral boost for the newly attacked America (my sympathies for all who were affected by 9/11 by the way...) The hero is a handsome, blond, all-American guy (they could've added that he was a star quarterback and we'd have the complete package) who faces irredeemably evil Serbs/Bosnians/Whatevers (we never really get to know...) and has to face the hazards of traversing unknown territories. It all seems the typical Hollywood action/war...HOWEVER... *SPOILERS!!!!!*The fact that the entire navy administration doesn't send in a rescue team until the very end is a bit silly. Also, scenes like the minefield where Wilson's character is chased by two soldiers and runs straight through the trip-mines (where he is unhurt by the explosions, one of the soldiers step on a mine that kills both him AND his buddy standing 10 feet away!), And the ending in which he's shot at by a HUGE amount of soldiers (including tanks...) and manages to get out unhurt (note also that three half-as*ed choppers take out a lot of that army without getting shot down...). And let's not forget when he runs up a hill while being shot at, and the bullets keep on following him while he's running down the other side!*SPOILERS!!!!!*So, all in all, as a war movie it's horrible Hollywood junk that falls flat on bad acting, terrible script and major goofs! As a parody on action/war movies though, this could go far! If they'd only put those weaknesses to good use...Many will try to save the movie by claiming that It's not supposed to be realistic!. I, however, feel that war is bad enough to be taken seriously, and not turned into a stupid glorification like this, where one man can beat an entire army (and considering how incompetent the Serbs/Bosnians/Whatevers are portrayed as in this movie, I'm surprised that no one took offense!). Just like Titanic, it undermines the very issue at hand, and deserves to be forgotten for that.1/10 "},{"Title":"Incomprehensibly bad","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"48 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I'm sure there have been worse movies made. I just haven't seen them. Even if you are not looking for an intelligent handling of international politics, and don't care about the horribly jingoistic attitudes portrayed, I think it is still difficult to fathom how this movie could be enjoyed. Action sequences are never resolved, they just **SPOILER WARNING** end with the main character miraculously transported to another location. It is unfortunate that the U.S. military can not extend the range of its transporters to actually get characters completely out of the battle zone, instead of a mere few hundred yards.The rest of the world mocks America because of movies like this. "},{"Title":"Unrealistic, but Fun","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"80 out of 132 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Sure, this movie is unrealistic, slightly jingoistic, and not exactly Dr. Zhivago when it comes to a deep plot, but it's fun to watch. I'm a serious student of the military studies in a professional sense, and I fully realize that the technology (especially the missile chase) and doctrines are unrealistic, but I am also capable of suspending my critical eye when I just want to sit back and enjoy an action flick. I'll save the brain power for something that actually matters, not for a movie, which is just another form of escaping from real life for an hour or two. So yeah, this movie gets a thumbs up for a fun film to sit back and enjoy the surround sound and big screen TV while chomping on some popcorn and a Coke.Don't a movie seriously that isn't supposed to be taken so seriously! "},{"Title":"Not a spoiler, but the true awfulness of the film needs to be acknowledged","Date":"5 March 2010","Score":"82 out of 136 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Having just watched this film (based on the participation of an actor I admire) I have to say that this film was can only be described as unintentionally funny throughout. Full of clichés (ie European general who doesn't care about the troops, gung ho Americans itching for action). Oh dear. The worst bit about this film is not the political idiocy of it, the emptiness of the plot, the disdain for life or the appalling editing (slow motion shots which are a reminder of the A Team) but the music. What does it say when a civil war in the former Yugoslavia is accompanied by rock music? Well, it says that this is essentially a movie for American teenagers who haven't a clue where Yugoslavia is (or was) but who do need to be made to sit still in the cinema. Result with an action movie where random death happens to people they don't know about or care about but American lives are precious. Ultimately, this is a recruiting film for kids who think that they can be involved in foreign wars they know nothing about, get shot at, but come home safely. Dire. "},{"Title":"Comically Idiotic filth...","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"37 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  This is the sorriest waste of time and money that I have ever seen.  I can't believe that Gene Hackman participated in this garbage.  Is fame and stardom a bore for him?  Does he yearn for oblivion? It seems that he's deliberately trying to end his career.  Well anyway, this movie is about a NAVY pilot Chris Burnell (Owen Wilson) who is shot down over Bosnia and must get to the border to be rescued.  <SPOILER> As soon as he parachutes to the ground he witnesses how his navigator is executed by a chain-smoking, Adidas-clad, unshaven Serb soldier of fortune.  Not waiting any longer Burnett activates the GOD MODE cheat code and takes off running uphill while being shot at by assault rifles and large caliber machine guns, and as you might have guessed he escapes, for now.  In fact the cheat code stays on for the rest of the film and is also used by Admiral Reigard (Gene Hackman) in the helicopter rescue scene at the end where the Serb platoon consisting of over 50 infantry men, tanks, and large caliber weapons, is eradicated by a two Hueuey helicopters. <END OF SPOILER> After watching this film I learned that 1). SAM's are very slow but have unlimited range and fuel 2.) Serb soldiers do not need food, water, nor sleep 3.)An American NAVY pilot can withstand tremendous G-forces 4.) Thin ice that cracks under a human can really support a tank.   Holy crap, who wrote the script?  He should be hanged.  Can this movie get any lamer or dumber you ask?  Yes it can! There's a part where Burnett is picked up by refugees and a kid (wearing an Ice Cube T-shirt) gives him a clean bottle of Coca-Cola (label to the camera) and after a sip Burnett says `good'.  So basically the bad guys, including the Adidas wearing bounty hunter, smoke cigarettes and the good guys drink Coke.  Oh my, my!!!  Who's responsible for this?  However, this movie does have some pluses such as props and camerawork, but it's all overweighed by lack of realism, exaggeration, political correctness, and Owen Wilson's crocked nose.  BOTTOM LINE Watch `Nick at Nite' instead. "},{"Title":"Tough To Beat A Good Man-On-The-Run Action Movie","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"69 out of 119 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" I don't think this is really considered a war movie in the normal sense but it might as well be since it involves all military people and the focus is an American Navy pilot who is shot down over Bosnia and runs for his life while waiting to be rescued.Outside of Owen Wilson (Lt. Chris Burnett) blaspheming about a dozen times, I thought this was a very entertaining film with spectacular sound and a couple of very intense action scenes. I always find man-on-the-run stories good, anyway.The missile-jet scene has some of the best surround sound I have ever heard in an action scene, along with super visuals. Wilson's travails, as he tries to stay alive in hostile territory while red-tape holds up his rescue efforts, are fascinating. The action scenes are quite different, too.This is a film I guarantee will not put you to sleep and, at the same, doesn't overdo the action. The end has the usual credibility gap with what I call Rambo mentality, but overall is a gripping story. "},{"Title":"Good, fun, action film (with a bad ending)","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"65 out of 116 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" behind enemy lines, is a movie which shows the typical American hero, stuck in abnormal circumstances. The film itself was good, it certainly delivered action, suspense, and for the most part, fun. The characters were solid, and director John Moore emphisised the war - torn cities of Bosnia quite well (which was one of the highlights of the film). Owen Wilson, did a good job at portraying a character way out of his comfort zone, and Vladimir Mashkov was chilling as a Serbian sniper. I must admit,and agree with most people, the ending sucked. The whole Owen Wilson dodging bullets thing,(while running on a lake)was a bit far-fetched. I mean seriously, those Bosnian army guys would have be trained to shoot accurately in these situations. i mean its like 70 snipers against one man, even an army tank misses! you see all these Bosnians shooting and not one, not one hits him.overall the film was good, but could have been better, it delivers thrills, and does keep you entertained. But like most peoples opinion the ending is a disappointment "},{"Title":"Sick and tired of this constant trashing!","Date":"3 January 2010","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" I have to agree that this is completely unrealistic movie but what actually annoys me the most is the constant trashing of Balkan people through presenting this war in such movies. Most actors that are portraying Bosnians, Serbs and Croats might be Slavic in origin, however the main characters are given to people who are native English speakers so the dialogs in B/H/S language are ridiculous, misinterpreted in English and offensively stupid.The storyline is offensive to all the people that died in this war, but also to people who lost a loved one in that war.I'm really sorry that Owen Wilson and Gene Hackman allowed themselves to be involved in such BS of the movie. "}{"Title":"A movie with everything!","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"47 out of 83 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  From the very start of the epic cinematographical masterpiece I could tell that I was about to witness something truly special; I was not let down. That said, I would have been better able to review this film objectively had not been for my mesmerisation at the hands of the truly astonishing nose of the man himself, Owen Wilson. Many lines of quality dialogue flew right past me as I marvelled at the wonderous nostrils adorning the beautious face of this great man. This herculean facial feature was indeed the highlight of the movie for me.Regathering my scattered senses, I was once again plunged into the gripping storyline as a group of evil Serbians vindictively shoot down the spyplane of two great and noble american airmen. After bailing out, good ol' Owen is shot at by a platoon of monobrowed soldiers, who seem to be carrying guns because it makes them look sexy rather than for putting them to any practical use. Honestly, I could have done better with half a brick.I will continue no further as I do not wish to spoil the amazing and absolutely-not-predictable twist at the end. Will Owen escape the guerilla scum? Will you be able to hold onto your lunch (or meal of preference) after the director utilises his 30th high speed pan and his 10 billionth ultra-fast zoom to closeup? Will Brad get back with Janice now that she is carrying his baby? Do Village Cinemas do refunds? All this and more in one of the greatest movies of all time. "},{"Title":"Unbelievable... in a bad way.","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  *Spoilers... kind of.  Not really.*This film was good except for the fact the main character made a lot of stupid, stupid mistakes.  Considering the training his character should have had, there were a lot of things he did that seemed really out of character.  Many of these things were even common sense.  Many times I found myself saying Oh come *on*!  What are you thinking?  For me, this alone spoiled the entire movie, very badly. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Funny and typical movie..","Date":"1 June 2008","Score":"19 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" It would be a nice movie if the good and the bad guys were not presented by a particular nation. In this movie the Serbian people are the bad guys and the other people in Bosnia good. It's wrong because in that war all sides had done horrible things, the Croat the Muslim and the Serbians.This film is a typical American Hollywood film, choosing one side who is the bad guy and the other the good guy, and the American forces who are like very strong that no bullit hits them and other cliché stuff..Some parts in the movie really happened there, but it was not only done by one side, but by all sides at that war.So looking to historical fact's and to the never stopping propaganda about the strong American army who gets about 10000 bullets thrown to them and nobody get hurt, I think the film is 'crappy'. "},{"Title":"Really, really stupid (even for this usual genre)","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  How they got Owen Wilson and Gene Hackman, guys with talent and skill (Wilson also with writing) to act in this movie is beyond my thinking (outside of the money factor).  Behind Enemy Lines wastes their talent, and wastes the time of the audience as well.  Wilson plays a navy pilot who gets shot down with his co-pilot over enemy territory in east europe (Bosnia, serbia, wherever-ia) and after he witnesses his co-pilot get shot by the enemy, he goes on the run from him to try and get rescued by his commander (Hackman) who wants to get him out but repeatedly gets told not to. Ok, it's a workable concept and at most it does sound interesting, but the huge flaw comes in that it is deliberately ridiculous in showing how in three or four different instances Wilson is able to evade ALL shots from an entire of army of European soldiers (many of them partially trained in combat) that persue him all the way to the end (spoiler).  I know your suppossed to not take everything in realistic terms (yes, even with inspired by true events movies like this one) but, come on.  The scene where Wilson and the other guy get shot down is exciting, but the pay off is baron.  D+ "},{"Title":"Shot down in flames","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Some spoilersThe premise of the movie is interesting enough. An American navigator, Burnett, is shot down Behind Enemy Lines in Bosnia. Because of political considerations, he cannot be easily extracted, and has to make his way home on his own.The movie starts slowly, with some pretty standard character building, painting Burnett as a likeable, wise-cracking but somewhat unruly Navy navigator. We then get a little bit of very far fetched action as the navigator's F-15 tries to dodge incoming missiles (by the way Hollywood, SAM missiles do not do 180 turns - that's strictly for cartoon time) and then perhaps the most interesting 20 minutes of the film just after the aircraft is shot down. You actually feel tense as the bad guys approach Burnett's hiding prone figure.However, after that it just gets plain silly. Burnett dances his way through mine-fields, dodges sniper bullets, and climbs to the top of mountains and back while most of the Serbian army tries to eliminate him. What might have been a tense psychological combat between Burnett and his assailants is thwarted by caricatures of brutish and stupid  bad guys stumbling over themselves, followed closely by America's inept NATO allies.And as for the ending... puhleeze!! The Admiral himself leading the rescue mission? Helicopters flying in formation into the setting sun? Whose idiot idea was that?3/10  "},{"Title":"Incredulous hack work","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  MILD SPOILER AHEADAfter reading all the bad reviews of this movie, I had pretty much written it off and never planned to rent it. But, I had a coupon for a free DVD and this was the only thing that was in that I had not seen. In retrospect, I should have re-rented Saving Private Ryan, an infinitely better war movie.Don't get me wrong, I like war movies. I like watching crap blow up and bad guys get blasted as much as the next grunting guy. But this movie is ridiculous. I find it really, really hard to believe that NATO would allow American pilots to perish just to save a fragile peace accord.That coupled with a barrage of completely incompetent bad guys makes this movie almost unwatchable. I mean, how did these Serbs manage to take over a 7-11, let alone half of Bosnia. They can't hit a thing. They fire off 1000s of rounds and never hit anything except conveniently placed civilians.I don't fault Owen Wilson and Gene Hackman. Both do their best within the laughable confines of their roles. Gene Hackman seems to have done this movie merely to fill up his dance card. His delivery and characterization are as always flawless, but you can tell his heart isn't really into this stinker.Okay, the action scenes are fair. There is a pretty good arial scene and some of the gun fights are rousing. But that hardly compensates for the utter hack work that is the remainder of this movie.The only consolation I have, is that I rented this for free. I am glad I didn't pay for it. "},{"Title":"Owen Wilson.  And stuff blowing up.  Sounds good to me!","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"26 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Behind Enemy Lines ***Bravo niner delta, what's your vector, Victor?You'll hear lots of dialogue like that in Behind Enemy Lines.  Military code talk is one of the coolest things ever.  Vector, copy, come back, affirmative, negative, no-go, R(ally)P(oint)... That stuff is just plain COOL.Back to the movie review.  So &#150; you're making a war movie with airplanes. Let's make sure you have everything you need.  Stock footage?  Check. Lieutenant with a &#145;bad boy' attitude?  Check.  Stuff blowing up?  Check. Politically ambiguous military situation?  Che &#150; what?  That doesn't make sense.  I mean, we're America... (Don't worry &#150; We're the good guys.  It's all the rest that's ambiguous.)See, Behind Enemy Lines is set in Bosnia during the &#145;last' days of the civil war in Serbia/Yugoslavia/Bosnia-Herzegovina.  Chris Burnett (Wilson) is stationed on an aircraft carrier in the Adriatic Sea.  The ship is commanded by Admiral Leslie Reigart (Hackman), who in turn is under the command of NATO, represented by Admiral Piquet (de Almeida).  Now, Burnett is a bit of a maverick.  Not like the Tom Cruise type &#150; Burnett is tired of being in the Navy.  He signed on to be a fighter pilot, not a sitting around on the ship pilot.  In fact, he's handed in his resignation papers.  Of course, you can't just leave in the middle of a mission.  When the ship returns to port, Burnett is done.  Reigart doesn't really care for Burnett &#150; he used to have potential, but now he's just dead weight.  So, in a bit of vindictiveness, Reigart assigns Burnett (a navigator) and his pilot, Stackhouse (Gabriel Macht), on a recon mission on Christmas.  The recon?  A lake.  Lovely. But, radar picks up some activity.  Activity OFF OF THE ASSIGNED COURSE.  Now, we've established that Burnett is a maverick, so, naturally they do recon over there.  They take pictures of mass graves.  Then, they get shot down. BEHIND ENEMY LINES.  This is not good.  See, NATO planes were not supposed to be making fly-bys in that area.  A peace treaty has just been signed, and things could fall apart at any moment.  So, Reigart has a choice to make &#150; does he risk the lives of thousands of people to get one man?  Does he ensure peace and leave a man behind?  We all know the answer to that.Behind Enemy Lines is slick.  It is very, very slick.  Teflon.  It looks like a video game.  A really cool video game.  Shifty frame-rates, cool filters, Matrix-style special effects, Saving Private Ryan-camera-effects, it looks way cool.  It's not universally realistic, but, stylistically it works very well.The acting is also good.  No one is going to win any acting awards in this picture, but, no one stinks.  If you don't know who Gene Hackman is, turn off your computer right now.  You have some serious catching up to do.  If you don't know who Owen Wilson is, start paying attention.  This guy is good.  Very, very good.  You may have seen him in Zoolander (he was the blonde model).  You may have seen him in Shanghai Noon with Jackie Chan. You may have seen an underrated comedy called Rushmore &#150; he co-wrote that. He's just beginning to get recognition, and he deserves it.  While I think he's better in comedies, he's no slouch as a leading-man-action-hero. Joaquim de Almeida doesn't stand out, but you've seen him before.  (He played Bucho (the bad guy) in Desperado)So, that leaves us with the story.  It must be tough to make a war movie now.  WWII was easy &#150; the bad guys were easy to spot.  But, to make a movie based on any war post-1970 must be tricky.  Things like finding &#145;bad guys' aren't easy anymore.  Even in something like the Gulf War.  To paraphrase Mark Wahlberg from Three Kings `I forget... Are we shooting people anymore?'  The Balkan conflict was really, really tricky.  First of all, there were three sides.  Secondly, there was a huge history of racial strife in the area.  Thirdly, NATO stepped in to prevent the war from spreading into Macedonia, which would have brought Greece (a NATO member) and Turkey (another NATO member) into the war against each other.  Fourthly, keeping all the factions straight was very, very hard unless you studied political science.  Behind Enemy Lines doesn't get too bogged down in the details, which is good.  Nor does it name real names.  Slobodan Milosovic is not mentioned, but he is implied.  The story is about an American airman in the middle of the conflict, but it's not based on the story of Lt. Scott O'Grady.What we have here is a slick, mostly non-political (there are some references to landmines being bad for children and other living things) war movie.  It's not perfectly paced, but it's close.  The cinematography is really, really cool.  And stuff blows up. "},{"Title":"It serves its purpose as fluff and filler. No more, no less.","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"   Behind Enemy Lines follows a shot-down pilots' struggle to stay alive and ultimately get rescued from... well, behind enemy lines. The premise is as simple as that, and so is the story. Don't expect much character development for anyone you see in this film because you will be disappointed. But, and it's a big one, if you want to be entertained and are willing to sit through an hour and a half of rehashed storylines, then you'll probably actually find yourself liking this movie. Owen Wilson (Shanghai Noon, Bottle Rocket) plays the pilot whom is in severe danger throughout the film. There is absolutely no doubt that had this movie actually been written to take place in the real world, or even follow basic proper storytelling, his character would not have lived to see the last 50 minutes of this film, but that is not the point here. The point is strictly to keep the audience interested for it's full length and it succeeds. I can't say that I recommend this film but I definitely was not bored while watching it. Wilson did a great job here in making his character sympathetic, all the while forcing us to not ask so many questions about the plot since really the story (if you want to call it that) doesn't allow much time to stop. He is on the run. The film begins with a cliche setup of a hotshot Navy flier who has had enough of his 7 years doing nothing onboard the Navy Aircraft. He has done no more than routine checks and excersises and was hoping to see and serve for the real deal...war. The scene would have been laughable, but is reduced to mere smirks while watching Gene Hackman (Admiral Reigart) delivers his lines. Shortly after, and right in time for X-mas dinner, Owen and his partner must do one of those routine checks. Owen, having been given permission to be dismissed in 2 weeks, feels he has nothing to lose so decides to break the rules and fly over a restricted area which is supposed be empty anyway. Well I couldn't believe it when they found trouble lurking there (I'm being sarcastic). So now the plane is shot down in Bosnia, Owen's partner is the one injured when they land from having ejected from the plane. Moments after, Owen leaves to get to higher ground where his communication devices work. I don't know why I even bothered explaining this much of this so called plot, frankly it doesn't matter. Here's my advice, don't go see this film if you want a story that will amaze. It's all about action; it's about close calls, and unbelievable plot twists and outcomes. It's about good and bad, and the American hero. And its first time director, John Moore, delivers in a close, but no cigar level of Bruckheimer Films (Armageddon, Top Gun). That's not really a good thing. So if your a regular movie goer and have little taste for a challenging film experience, then by all means go see this. It serves its purpose as fluff and filler. No more, no less.  "},{"Title":"Poorly executed military exercise","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Against my better judgment, after watching this film get blasted by critics everywhere, I let myself be convinced by my date to watch this movie at the local movie theater last night.I must make a point here  I try to never let my opinion be swayed by critics.  If I want to watch a movie, whether it has been praised or reviled by critics, I still go see it and always try to walk into the theater with an open mind, letting the movie sink or swim under its own merits.I am afraid to say that this one did the former.It is not that the movie is technically incompetent.  The scenes involving Burnett and his pilot's flight from the enemy missiles are extremely exciting, and the way Moore presents Burnett's escape through a mine field while his pursuers are caught in the slow-motion explosions was so well done that I actually perked up in my seat.It is not that the acting is bad.  Owen Wilson does a good turn as the navigator on the run, actually taking my mind away (thankfully) from any Zoolander flashbacks.  Gene Hackman, as always, is excellent as the guilt-ridden admiral, and both Joaquin De Almeida and David (whatever happened to his career?) Keith are very good at their supporting roles.No, it is not any of these things.  The problem with this movie is that the actual actions of the person we are supposed to be rooting for (Burnett) are so extremely stupid, that even a person who has never gone through basic training will be snickering at his movements.  In real life, anyone behaving this carelessly would have been dead before clearing the first mile of his long journey through enemy territory.While being tracked by the enemy (both their army and a lone assassin who has 48 hours to bring his body back) Wilson's character walks through miles of open space (whatever happened to the use of natural cover to aid your travels?), lets out a scream within the enemy's earshot when he sees his friend getting shot (without which the soldiers would have thought him dead, thus no real point to the movie, granted - but you can do this a number of other ways that would not have seemed this ridiculous for a trained soldier), and after successfully escaping a virtual gauntlet of enemy troops and tanks by getting rid of his uniform and wearing a sky mask, goes ahead and takes off his mask right by the enemy tank and turns  towards them, so that we can take a full look at his face and notice his cleverness!  Was the writer (and Director, for that matter) so eager to show us his (their?) ingenuity that they couldn't wait a few frames until he was out of the soldier's line-sight?   I mean, the music played during this last scene makes you think they believe this to be a particular clever moment.  Sorry guys, it just looked stupid.Overall, I can not say I was happy watching this film.  It does have a couple of good moments (mentioned above), but not enough for me to feel satisfied with a film.  If I had watched it on DVD, or maybe HBO, maybe I would have been a little less disappointed.As it was, as a movie experience, BEHIND ENEMY LINES deserved being shot down. "},{"Title":"Undemanding War Film.","Date":"1 May 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Owen Wilson survives a shoot-down of his reconnaissance airplane over Serb-controlled Bosnia. He's discovered evidence of a massacre of Moslems so the Serbs are determined to track him down and kill him. They've already captured, tortured, and executed his pilot. Meanwhile, back on Wilson's ship, his handler, Gene Hackman, is in touch by handy talky and is eager to launch a rescue mission but he's always being reined in by The Suits in the person of a French officer in charge of peace negotiations.This was released in 2001 and so antedates the attacks on 9/11 of that year, otherwise this movie is so compliant regarding the presumed desires of its intended audience that it's safe to assume that, had it been made a year later, the Moslems would have been the mass murderers, not the victims, although The Suits might have remained French.The plot is lifted wholesale from the successful Bat 21 of 1988 but is far less challenging. In the earlier film, Gene Hackman is the aviator stranded behind enemy lines and is forced to kill a hostile civilian who is the father of several scarred children. It fills him with chagrin.There is no such ambiguity here. Owen Wilson is the only blond in sight. All the natives are swarthy and the villainous ones are ugly to boot. They sneer and scowl and bark orders and leave each other to die without a qualm, the way the Nazis used to in World War II movies.Not all the incidents are lifted from Bat 21, although the tale sticks pretty close to the template, even down to the golf lingo used to disguise the messages between Wilson and Hackman. In Bat 21, the story, including the fairway references, was based more or less on a true historical event. This one is entirely made up. Crawling through the sea of decomposing bodies that are left over from a massacre is lifted from The Killing Fields. It differs from the original model, too, in being dumbed down. Wilson is obliged to run an obstacle course similar to Hackman's but zapped up with myriad CGIs and extreme slow-motion visuals of guys and their equipment being blown apart.Poor Wilson is subject to all sorts of travails. He slides all the way down the wall of a vast dam; he's shot at; he's almost disintegrated by the explosion of more land mines than can be counted; he's hunted by a professional killer with a telescopic sight on his rifle; he pursued by hordes of mustachioed Serbs; tanks blow holes in the walls he hides behind; he burrows under rotting corpses; his hair gets mussed; he gets all dirty but never gives up hope.Wilson isn't a bad-looking actor. I kind of liked his nose, aquiline in profile, lumpy in frontal view. He doesn't seem suited for dramatic roles, though. He might do well in light comedy. Gene Hackman is his professionally competent self, looking older, and he and his staff are bathed in a bright, irritating, neon-blue light that serves no purpose.If you enjoy action movies filmed with devices borrowed from MTV or TV commercials, a plot borrowed from the much better Bat 21, and a satisfactory bundle of binary oppositions between good and evil, lacking in any mature values, provoking nothing more than an arousal jag, this is for you. Otherwise, you might want to see the more imaginative Bat 21 and The Killing Fields. In any case, you've seen this before. "}{"Title":"An average action movie that is slightly offensive in its exploitative attitude to a terrible conflict","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"30 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Lt Chris Burnett is a US Navy navigator working on a NATO mission around Bosnia. Bored with routine in the Navy and fed up flying uneventful missions to survey the peace, Burnett annoys his CO one last time by putting in his notice to quit and return to civilian life. Of course his reward is to be put on a mission on Christmas Day doing routine reconnaissance. An error in the intelligence data leads them over an no-fly zone where they see a convoy of Bosnian soldiers who should not be there and, in the process of recording them, they are attacked and shot down. Separated form Burnett, the pilot is captured and killed, leaving Burnett to evade capture for as long as he can until he can be rescued. First of all, lets make it clear that this is not the film to come to if you are expecting anything intelligent or worthwhile about the conflict in Bosnia; if that is your aim then I would suggest maybe Saviour as a starting point but certainly not this film. However if you want a standard action movie that happens to use the bleak washed out colours of a war zone to add character as well as using the war to make lots of things go bang then this should do you &#150; as long as you can stop your brain from thinking about the morals of using such a conflict to make a flag-waving, simplistic piece of Saturday night entertainment. The plot aspires to being some sort of serious piece about the conflict based around an action movie but it is nothing of the sort. Instead the conflict is very simplified for the purposes of leaving our brains free enough of worry and moral concern for our fellow man to be able to just enjoy things going bang. The plot sees an American soldier evade the bad guys with the aim of defeating them against the odds &#150; it doesn't matter who the bad guys are because they are a device rather than real people &#150; they could have been black (Black Hawk Down), Muslim (The Siege) or French (SWAT) but here they happen to be Bosnian. We don't need to worry too much about this because the film doesn't really do anything with them other than use them as the baddies to the blonde and clean cut Burnett's goodie. I'm sure I'll get bashed as anti-American for saying things like that but that is not my intention and I'd like to think I'm just being objective; lets be honest, this is just an action movie and shouldn't be looked on as anything more. However even judged on the standards of action movies this is only an average affair, with a plot that destroys its own tension by making Burnett increasingly bullet-proof as the film goes on, leading to a climax that reminded me of the laughable ending to Rambo 3. It does have tension early on but it has blown it by the ending, and the simplistic approach to a real war is hardly helpful. The direction tries to cover the gaps by using advertising gimmicks of jump cuts and freeze frames &#150; they aren't a replacement for content but at least they make the film a bit more interesting. Ignoring the morals of it, the use of the frozen war zone does create atmosphere really easily and it was used well.With Hackman too old to be repeating his Bat-21 role, Wilson steps up and, aside from his usual comic stuff at the start, plays it pretty straight and has clearly aimed to be nothing more than an all-American kid just doing his duty. He aims for this and this is all he does which, in an action movie, is fine &#150; however I kept thinking of Denis Quaid and thought how much braver he was in his choices. Hackman must have done about 2 or 3 weeks work on this film given 95% of his scenes are in one main location; he is OK but really just phones this in. The support cast is interesting in regards the Americans (people like Keith and 24's Almeida) but no effort is made on the side of the 'enemy' who are simply goons and baddies from the get go. Again it all works fine in a dumb action movie but the real setting in such a terrible conflict made me hope for more than just action fodder.Overall this is an average action movie with a bullet-proof hero taking on baddies who look different (black, Eastern European, Muslim, whatever) to bring good to the world of evil. On this level it is nothing special although it has some nice touches of style along the way but gets silly as it comes to the end. However morally it had a responsibility to really use this stage to do more with the conflict than just use it as a backdrop. Sadly it just paints everyone as the baddies and only looks for the emotion of cheering 'our guys' on rather than feeling anything for the real people or real country. Saviour may be bleak and depressing as a film but my god it is easier to stomach at times than this was. If you want things going bang then it should do you but you'd best try to switch off your brain, morals and heart before you start watching it. "},{"Title":"Up the Behind of these Enemy Lines","Date":"17 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Where these sumbitches ever found that ugly and no-talent Owen Wilson, I'll never know -- or care.After his horse-play with the navy catapults, his wanton disrespect for authority, his stupidity at evading capture, and his refusal to obey orders in the field, I couldn't wait to see Wilson get gunned down. Unfortunately, whenever he's a clear target, all the enemy soldiers instantly become the worst shots in history.I watched this film to see Gene Hackman, one of my favorite actors. Gino wasn't at his best here, but he was still better than anything else this little oil slick of spectacularism had to offer, including moments of errant fantasy, like when the black guy in the war-room punches his fist through the tracking map. . . . . yeah, right. Security, throw him in the brig.OK to view on the couch with some beer and a big bag of cheese puffs. "},{"Title":"Survival game by Owen Wilson against Servian soldiers","Date":"21 February 2008","Score":"15 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" This is a taut and compelling film based on true events ; it focuses a pair of brave pilots , two crack fighter pilots , the Air Force Lieutenants Burnett (Owen Wilson) and Stackhouse (Gabriel Match) . The F-14 Fighter pilots have only seen the war from 40.000 foot until they're shot down behind enemy lines , in Bosnia territory . Now the Admiral McMahon (Gene Hackman) in charge to get him out , before the Servian soldiers (Olek Kupra) and enemy forces bombing the area . However US commanding doesn't want intervene but is about a peace treatise . Stranding two pilots in enemy territory , now in order to survive , there starts a game of survival . They must fight the rebel forces that threaten their lives and retrieve photographs about massacres .It's an adrenaline-fueled adventure with spectacular flight-scenes, suspense , tension and lots of entertainment . What's important here are the aircraft flights , shooting , noisy action and breathtaking combats . Fantastic , memorable aerial cinematography and overwhelming pursuits are the main assets of this story . Although it displays a ridiculous finale in ¨Rambo¨ style . The movie follows the wake from Bat 21 (Peter Medak with Gene Hackman , Danny Glover) in similar premise though developed in Vietnam . The picture delivers an excessive stirring camera with continuous Steadicam and it produces some headache to spectator . Hyperactive musical score adequate to action by Don Davis (Matrix) . The film is based loosely on the experiences of USAF Captain Scott O'Grady, who was shot down near the town of Mrkonjic Grad in northern Bosnia in June 1995 and was stranded in Serb-held territory for six days before being rescued by US Marines. O'Grady brought a lawsuit down on 20th Century Fox for damages to his character , he claims he didn't curse as much and never disobeyed orders . The flick was professionally directed by John Moore in his first film . Later on , he achieved successes with ¨Flight of Phoenix¨ (2004) and ¨The Omen¨ (2006) . Followed by an inferior sequel titled ¨Behind enemy lies II  Axis of evil (2006)¨ by James Dodson with Nicholas Gonzalez and Keith David and other inferior third part . Rating  Acceptable , no dull , but is quite excitement . "},{"Title":"Perfect if war ever break out in disneyland","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"17 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Ok..If you're one of those who just look at this film for the pure mindless entertainment it is, then I guess it's okay to like it.I can do that with a lot of films, but this one really scares me. Don't worry I'm not a christian puritan or anything like that. More the oppocite..but I do have common sense. I really don't know where to begin, but first of all I've lost a LOT of respect for Gene Hackman. I thought he was a serious actor. The plot isn't even worth a mention here. Oh well..Ok, the first thought that really hit me after seeing this was that it had to be a movie made to make people join the army. But no, it probably haven't gone that far. But yes, after I talked to a friend that have been in the army over there, he could tell me that parts of it actually has been used in the US military's promo videoes. Unbelivable really, when they do almost every mistake they could do in that movie when it comes to military tactics and common sense. When you have a whole army looking for you, you don't go to the biggest clearing in the forest or sit on a big rock on a high mountain top. And you don't clear mines by walking up to them and shoot them with your gun standing 5 meters away. Those mines have a kill radius of 40-50 meters..and the hero runs through probably the stupidest made mine field ever btw. He's at best 10 meters away from them, and runs through them all without even a scratch. Okay, this is nitpicking, but still a little serious when you think about it. There's just hundreds of stupid errors in this film and all to make war look like something cool. The ending just tops it all of course. This film is mindnumbingly stupid and for those who wants to join the army after seeing it...well you will never read this, so you'll probably die a horrible death anyway. It scares me really to see how many people think this movie is soo cool. It's the perfect propaganda machine really...perfect. "},{"Title":"Commando (Swartzenegger), Cobra (Stallone), Superman (many), Behind Enemy Lines (Wilson)... all movies in which the hero cannot be hit by enemy machinegun fire","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"17 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I ask you! What US Navy pilot and navigator would stray/depart from their assigned flight plan ? especially if it were a no-fly zone? Not one.If you were on the run being chased by an army trying to kill you, would you stop and sit on the concrete levee of a reservoir in plain sight? An idiot that deserves to get killed.What trained serviceman would come out blazing holding his firearm sideways in his hand like a cowboy instead of with both hands and squarely in front of him? John Wayne, Sly Stallone, ArnoldAnd finally, who could survive running straight back into enemy fire to retrieve a CD-ROM? John Wayne, Sly ?Why did the Bosnian tanks not fire at the escape helicopters? Was it just me or did some of the Bosnians look like a toy army in the final explosion?How disappointing! I was all ready for a good really based war movie. Sure the basic premise was good and the cause was noble, but the action was inconceivable. The movie trailers I saw that day included Black Hawk Down. Knowing the real story made me weep and angry. What a dark day in our military history! Let?s hope they do not screw-up that one too. If you hear anything about those brave soldiers being rescued ? skip that one too.  "},{"Title":"appalling propaganda","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"18 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" i always laugh at how the American's claim to champion equality yet there is such enormous racism against the Serbian peoplethere is a scene in this movie in which Owen Wilson somehow kills three armed soldiers with one knife in close range... how pathetic is that! then another time in the movie, one of the Serbian soldiers crosses himself, saying for mother serbia after committing an 'atrocity' ----please!anyone foolish enough to believe that the serbs are actually like this has most likely already received a lobotomyso if cheap American patriotism is your thing -- with a side of BS to top off the sundae -- then you will greatly enjoy this movie (in case people care, serbs have actually saved more American pilots in history than anyone else -- which is why movies like this really tick me off) "},{"Title":"don't waste your time","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"19 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  The short version is rent the DVD, skip to the third scene, and watch an FA-18 on reconnaissance try to evade (unsuccessfully) two SAMs. Try not to ask your self too many questions, just enjoy the spectacle of fairly recent CGI special effects. Then, press eject and return it to your neighborhood video store and be glad you spared your intelligence a nasty insult.I watched this thing, anticipating a fairly brainless pop-action flick, and I was disappointed that I was disappointed even more than I expected. This film was little more than a music video; fairly decent production values (in terms of design and cinematography, not editing) are wasted on an empty plot, pointless dialogue, and totally incoherent action sequences (except, almost, the above-mentioned). I'll omit the long list of examples, as my fellow commentators have covered the gamut pretty well.I was encouraged that many of the viewers commenting on this film saw it for what it was worth a rotting plate of tripe. Hopefully, the studios have already bannished Director Moore and his producers from Hollywood. "},{"Title":"So Badly Written It`s Offensive To The Dead Of The Balkans Conflict","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"36 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  What`s fundamentally wrong with this movie is summed up by the opening voice over about  The Cincinatti peace accord  . I jumped out of my seat screaming  The whaaaat ? . It`s the Dayton peace accord you bloody fool  . But I realised this was a complete work of fiction even though it`s set against the background of the aftermath of the early 90s Balkans conflict . Or is it ? Is it set before the signing of the Dayton peace accord of 1995 or after it ? Is it set before the Kosovo campaign of 1999 or after it ? This vagueness of chronology is irritating as are the politics . Why is the Serb faction so anti- Mladic ? Despite his unforgivable behaviour against Bosniak ( Bosnian Muslims )  and Croat civilians during the conflict Mladic was by far the most popular Bosian Serb leader amongst the Bosnian Serb population , and once again I`ve got to ask when BEHIND ENEMY LINES is set ? If it`s after 1995 Slobodan Milosevic should be the hate figure for these Serb rebels for signing the Dayton peace agreement . Another thing that annoyed me was the false picture painted of the NATO command structure which has always been commanded by Americans . There is exceptions to the rule such as NATO`s ground offensive in Kosovo in 1999 being led by British general Mike Jackson but NATO has nearly always been an entirely American run show and there`s no way Uncle Sam would allow an entire NATO task force to be run by a French admiral as seen here . And another unforgivable error that shows the screenwriters don`t have a clue what they`re writing about is the line  The F-18 was shot down over southern Bosnia  ! Even when the Bosnian Serb army made its greatest gains in the summer/autumn of 1992 they never reached as far as southern Bosnia , this area remained in the hands of the Bosnian Croats before , during and after the war while most of central Bosnia was held by the Bosniaks while the rest of Bosnia was held by the Serbs so if the hero was shot down over  Southern Bosnia  how come he`s being chased by Serb militia and tanks . Oh and if there`s a peace deal how come everyone is fighting again ? Wasn`t there a large UN presence before NATO arrived ? Wasn`t there a large NATO ground force ( I-For it was called ) sent into the country to implement the Dayton peace accord ? So how come we don`t see any NATO ground forces stopping the fighting between the factions ?  I might be accused of nit picking but I wish to say that I think it`s absolutely obscene that Hollywood has made a movie set against the back drop of a conflict that killed 278,000 human beings and not once do I get the impression that the production team know what they`re talking about . It`s not too difficult to check a few facts if only to show a little respect to the victims of this brutal conflict . I`ve never been to the former Yugoslavia but I obviously know more about the conflict than the people who produced and wrote the screenplay . If you`re going to do a made up movie that resembles MCGUYVER meets MTV can you please have the decency to set it in a made up country   "},{"Title":"Throw This Film In Front of Enemy Lines.","Date":"3 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Behind Enemy Lines (2001) Dir John Moore / Cast Owen Wilson, Gene Hackman, David Keith, Gabriel Macht, Vladimir Mashkov Title indicates that someone is on the wrong side of the track. It can also indicate one's reaction to viewing this sh*t. Owen Wilson stars as a fighter pilot in the Navy who is sent on a mission at Christmas time to test a digital camera. He accidentally uncovers an operation resulting in their plane being shot down. His partner is murdered but Wilson escapes on foot. From there it is Wilson running for his life and Gene Hackman under pressure from admirable to leave everything be. Lame action scenes highlight with director John Moore failing to deliver anything interesting. We are given pointless footage of sniper's reactions to orders as if we need to see his sneer one more time. Wilson runs, makes narrow escapes, and then runs some more. Hackman is totally wasted in a role that becomes his worst since The Replacements. David Keith and Gabriel Macht also appear in this mess as if enough careers weren't tarnished by its awfulness already. Vladimir Mashkov plays the most boring villain in the history of film. A tennis racquet with a paper face on it would be more compelling. Anyone remaining until the end of the film should be given a special jury prize for their patience. How about the opportunity to cut the reel to shreds or use the film as target practice? Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"Stupid and ridiculous","Date":"2 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" This film rightly finished off Owen Wilson's action movie career. The premise is incoherent and irrelevant. This is about an American pilot shot down over enemy territory and must survive against all odds.I actually like Owen Wilson, especially for movies like Shanghai Noon. But his depiction of a perpetually agro yet resolute pilot just doesn't work. It's embarrassing to watch him kick and curse, like some kind of cartoon.There's an especially ridiculous scene toward the end when he sprints through a series of tripwires and emerges completely unharmed. Shades of Rambo 2 and 3 are present. "}{"Title":"Exciting, gritty, forgettable","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  This film has a high amount of energy and movement.  Some of that effort would have been better used for character development.  Constant motion, gritty photography, lots of action.  Still it lacks in depth of characters/story development.  I enjoy seeing Gene Hackman but like the NATO admiral character restricting his movements, so it is with the director of this movie, making Hackman character almost reduced to a backdrop of the story.  The surviving pilot acts and behaves in a way that I don't really care what happens to him in the story or this movie for that matter.  It's exciting movie for the moment and after it's over, forgotten.  I'd prefer movies that would have me ponder over the characters and or the movie after it's over.  This isn't one of them.  This might make it over to the $4.99 new DVD's bin after it has its short run in the theatres. "},{"Title":"It was....good...","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Any movie starring either Gene Hackman and/or Owen Wilson is definitely worth seeing. Behind Enemy Lines isn't an above-average movie that I'd praise, but it is very entertaining. It is an average movie with some very good actors in it. It has above-average special effects and has some good intense, thriller scenes. There are parts of the movie that are a little hard to swallow but the director does a good job making it flow almost to the point where you do not notice the over-dramatic parts of the story. I liked this movie and I'll continue to watch it every now and then. People give this movie a hard time for its unbelievable scenes. Those people should watch movies like XXX or Transporter 2 and then revise those criticisms of Behind Enemy Lines. It is a good movie that entertains well. "},{"Title":"Good action war flick","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" I don't care much for Owen Wilson but this is probably the best movie he's done to date. He actually had to act and he's not just being funny. Hackman is always cool and they had a great villain chasing Wilson. Wilson is an Air Force combat pilot who hasn't seen any combat. Stationed on the U.S.S. Carl Vinson (where my cousin is currently serving) he is a navigator flying recon missions over Bosnia enforcing the no fly zones. He has two weeks left in his tour and frankly doesn't give a damn about their missions. They are a joke. So when they get called on another run during XMas it's business as usual. No business. But when Wilson goads his co-pilot and good buddy into flying off course to investigate a possible troop concentration they stumble upon more than they bargain for and get into deep deep trouble. Wilson has to out-think, out-shoot and out-maneuver his deadly pursuers and reach safety. Alotta action with suspense and some really cool combat scenes. One reviewer said this movie is misleading because the war in Bosnia is over when this film takes place. Wrong. The war in Bosnia is never over. That's the point. It's been going on since before World War I with no end in sight. They will be fighting til the last days on Earth which is very troubling and unfortunate but there it is. Enough of politics. Watch this one if you want some pure enjoyment and fun. "},{"Title":"How bad can it get!!!","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  This film has nothing to recommend it.  It's sad to see Gene Hackman having to end up in films as awful as this badly written, badly directed, badly filmed - well, just how bad can it get???  It was sad, really, when you think how good the story could have been if the above had been done properly.  But this film really is a stinker and I wouldn't wish anyone else to waste 101 minutes watching it. "},{"Title":"Usual, standard, american Hollywood crap","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Even among other examples of the usual Hollywood crap, this one is particularly bad. It is interesting to notice that commentators who like this movie are mostly Americans whereas the rest of the world regrets the fact that they wasted almost two precious hours of their lifes watching that (not including the time to rent the movie and bring it back). "},{"Title":"This Movie Sucks","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  This movie is terrible from start to finish.  There are numerous plot holes, which are accompanied with completely unrealistic action sequences.  Owen Wilson's character would have died at least 4 times during the movie if the events actually took place.  I saw it a while ago, though, I'm sure there's some more if I watched closely and counted them all.  If you like action movies with no plot, and unrealistic action, this movie is for you.  "},{"Title":"Very funny, although that wasn't the intention","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Was forced to watch this movie by my ex-girlfriend.  I laughed my ass off as Owen Wilson was running across the snow untouched through fire from 40 troops and 10 tanks.  She got kind of mad at me because she was crying for some reason during this part.  Terrible movie. "},{"Title":"Leni Riefenstahl wannabe","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  If Leni Riefenstahl were still making 'patriotic' propaganda movies today, this is how it would look like, less style, knowledge and grace that she undoubtedly exercised. This film will appeal only to less-sophisticated plebs who needs entertainment based on simple black-and-white thoughts and messages. Alas, there are people in the industry who will continue to cash in on this premise. "},{"Title":"behind or between maybe ?!","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  This is a typical story. The hero has to show how brave and smart he can be. It is a hard movie, the war had many victims... And when it is about war, the scene is very confusing, you never know who you can trust, you are all alone. Still, I didn't like that Rambo style action with all those shootings missing their target. "},{"Title":"Awful Movie","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  This is, by no doubt, one of the worst films I have ever seen.I don't understand why there is the necessity to treat the audition like complete fools. I don't recall someone avoiding so many bullets and rockets since Rambo III.Please, avoid this one, so you won't regret the ticket money (like I did). "}{"Title":"Worst movie I've seen in a long time.","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Great cast---Owen Wilson and Gene Hackman are two of my favorite actors, but this movie had so many stupid mistakes and unrealistic action that I seriously considered walking out of the theater. I wish I had. A complete and total waste of time and money. The fact that there are so many morons who LIKED the movie (???!!) only confirms my fear that the majority of people are incredibly stupid. "},{"Title":"Too loud, no continuity, dumb plot","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Behind Enemy Lines is just a bad movie.  Actually, the director has  made a cross between a video game and a commercial - not a movie.  The sound was way too loud and mostly inappropriate.  There was no continuity - the bad guy just about nails the good guy, then poof, the good guy is in a new place with the bad guy nowhere to be found - it reminded me of levels in a video game.  And if our Navy works like the one in this movie, I don't know why anyone would volunteer! Don't waste your time seeing this movie - see Spy Game instead. "},{"Title":"Not as good as it seems","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Well, I guess that this seems to be a good action film for most of the people. The movie is not so bad indeed, but it contains some major flaws. For example, most of the actors who speak Serbian or Croatian in the movie are actually from Slovakia or Russia. Some of them really sound like they're drunk or heavily drugged. And the stupidest scene in the movie is where the main character and a Bosnian teenager stand in an endless plain. I wonder if any of the film makers have ever been in Bosnia. They should know that mountains occupy most of the Bosnian territory. From the perspective of a born Bosnian, this movie looks like a bunch of American crap. "},{"Title":"Generic action cheese","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" I want go into much detail, but to sum it up Behind Enemy Lines is a cheesy, generic action flick with a dumb, clichéd plot (if you consider that a plot), unrealistic, gung-ho action, and a distasteful covering of the conflict in Bosnia. If you're looking for a summer action flick, with its share of guns and explosions, it'll do fine (though there are definitely better), if you actually enjoy quality films and enjoy intelligence, skip it.Wilson, an American pilot, disobeys orders and ends up getting shot over Bosnia. Of course, we have Hackman, the American officer who will risk countless lives in order to get his man back. "},{"Title":"A typical movie where the enemy are all dummies","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Typical gun-ho movie where the enemy are so dumb that nobody knows why they are even capable of war.  Shooting a POW for no reason, setting up a booby trapped minefield only to have the pursuer disappear and not wait for its prey, the pursuing sniper running to the middle of the ice field for absolutely no apparent reason except to expose himself instead of quietly waiting for the prey to do the exposing, and of course, the usual hail of bullets from the enemy that doesn't hit anything.Lets add the righteous general who goes against the rules to save his man, the NATO commander who does nothing except get in the way.The filming technique seems odd.  Is it suppose to be a photo journalist style with the with the cameraman and its shaky camera work, running and chasing the main character?  But this isn't photo journalism.  If the shaky camera work is to be done, it should be from the perspective of the character.  Plus the quick cuts is more at home in a music video instead of a movie.  "},{"Title":"Basically a waste of time","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Gene Hackman, good as always, but he is just a schil to get more paying customers to see this movie.  The only good parts in this movie are the flying and Carrier scenes.  This is a very sloppy and lazy movie.  There are so many unrealistic scenarios in this movie you may just as well read a comic book.  The fighter is making all kinds of evasive manuevers and the missile(s) follow his every move - not realistic.  One missile grazes the aircraft from a front on aspect and damages the plane and itself, then turns around, quickly running the aircraft down and then exploding, tearing the airplane in half.  These damned missles are rugged little buggers, far more rugged than any missle currently known to man, and on top of that, they have incredible range and manueverabiltly.  When the Serbs see our hero fleeing up the hill, they begin firing at him, bullets hitting all around him. He goes over the crest of the hill and the bullets keep on coming - how is that?  These bullets can go through and over hills??  The tank in the initial scene in the open plain magically appears on the other side of this steep hill - these Serbs are mighty clever guys and have some mighty awesome tanks, capable of traversing a very steep hill (small mountain), with incredible speed.  Further,  there is NO character development so one cannot really connect with the actors. This is a real stinkeroo, but if you are just in the mood for a little mindless, jingoistic entertainment, knock yourself out.  "},{"Title":"Feel Good American Flag Waver","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"   Behind Enemy Lines was released at a time when Americans needed a good old fashioned American flag waver. The story concerns a couple of American pilots (Owen Wilson, Gabriel Macht) who are shot down in enemy territory in Bosnia after photographing evidence of genocide. Back on board an American aircraft carrier, Admiral Reigart (Gene Hackman) makes plans to get his men out of harm's way. Reigart's efforts are frustrated by his NATO commander who doesn't want to upset the politicians. Meanwhile Burnett (Wilson) becomes separated and has to survive by his wits alone. The scene where he stumbles upon a mass grave is particularly chilling and graphically realistic. Wilson is good as Burnett who is on the run it seems, from the entire Bosnian army. But is Hackman as the crusty old Admiral, who takes the acting honors for this one. His performance as the patriotic hard nosed commander who risks his command to save his men is memorable. An exciting adventure.   "},{"Title":"Camera work makes a person sick!","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Can't tell much about the movie, other than the camera will not settle down. For those persons subject to motion sickness, this is unforgivable!The camera keeps moving for no reason, it does not enhance the plot, it does not make the movie better.Perhaps it is designed to keep your attention off the bad script and acting, like ET did with all the LOUD music.I had to leave because the movie made me sick and I could no longer view it.When will directors and produces wake up and learn that when the camera distracts the movie goers, it is not beneficial to the revenue? "},{"Title":"Wilson does good","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" BEHIND ENEMY LINES (2001) ** Owen Wilson, Gene Hackman, Joaquim de Almeida, David Keith, Olek Krupa, Gabriel Macht, Vladimir Mashkov.  Standard military action flick with Wilson as a Navy flier whose recon mission takes a turn for the worse when his plane is shot down by hostile Serbs in the Bosnian war and his attempt to be rescued by his commanding officer (the always good and crusty Hackman) despite all odds.  Wilson is a fine breath of fresh air in this otherwise creaky post-Cold War kinetic yarn.  (Dir John Moore)  "},{"Title":"the biggest crap i've ever seen","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I usually don't need to criticise any movie,because what's s*** for me can somebody love and contrariwise. But this movi overcome all i've ever seen. This movi is full of stupid and sometime comic action scenes.But this wasn't the worst.The biggest danger in this movie waiting hidden in background.I come from country with experiencis with totalitarian politic system(like in Soviet Union) and this kind of cinematography served system to maintain power in it's hands.I usually call this movie propagandistic.(Also used by Hitler and Stalin(this info I feature for US citizen who don't know Soviet Union and its history))If exists more movies like this so I Can imagine that a lot of americans thing that killing (murdering sounds better) people in other country by their soldies is in good order. At the end i wish to appologize to all those americans that do not support this kind of propaganda  "}{"Title":"ridiculous movie","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  This was the worst movie I've seen in years.  I regret that I paid to see it in the theater.  I realize it was released immediately post-9/11 but come on.  The good guy repeatedly escapes from traps without any explanation, and then they make it seem like it was all a real story by listing Where Are They Now bio's at the end. "},{"Title":"Inane","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  This is another Hollywood movie made for people with the attention span of a fruit fly. Make it quick and splashy with lots of explosion and stuntmen, and who gives a damn about logic.The sad thing is if in order for US Army to appear big and  strong, you make their foes stupid and incompetent, how big and strong  our army really is. And as an afterthought. Owen Wilson is, probably the worst actor I ever seen.I will do my best to avoid him from now on. "},{"Title":"Dross.","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Excruciatingly awful from beginning to end, the movie must've been set up as a tax loss. The script has the appeal of a wet weekend in Trenton and the cast displays the acting skills of cardboard. Hackman has already been through this kind of thing before -- BAT-21 -- so presumably took it on his accountant's advice, because even in script form this drivel would have been pretty obvious. What with this and Tony Scott's appalling 'Spy Game', the argument for bothering to go to the movies, or even rent them on video or DVD, grows weaker and weaker.Back to the television, then, and William Holden & Mickey Rooney in The Bridges At Toko-Ri. There's more drama, more pathos and more talent in the closing 10 minutes of this 50-year-old movie than 'Behind Enemy Lines' and 'Spy Game' put together.Score not worth rating. "},{"Title":"This is as bad as it gets - or would be, if it didn't have a star prepared to pretend otherwise","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Amazing how Owen Wilson can carry a movie all by himself - or, if the movie is like this one and simply cannot be carried by anyone, he can at least carry the bits where he's on screen. (The Haunting is an exception; Wilson cannot be charming if he's cast as a complete dolt.)  Surely Wilson, who has co-written some good scripts himself, must have known that this script was awful - yet he really TRIES with it, doing what he can to bring out humour where there isn't any and feeling where, on paper, there's only schmaltz. Full marks to him. A pity the film still stinks.Gene Hackman, on the other hand, clearly knows how bad the script is, and doesn't try at all. He just stands there and barks; on occasion he even half-fluffs a line, and it makes the final cut, and why not? He'll still ultimately be as convincing as any of the other actors, so long as he remembers not to sigh in impatience as a clueless young director asks him to recite witless clichés, one after the other.You would have thought the premise was foolproof a stranger in a strange land, not speaking the language, running for his life from partisan forces he's not sure he can even identify. It takes more than mere hackwork to screw up this surefire action scenario as thoroughly as John Moore does. It takes a director who's used to making music videos (or television ads; it comes to the same thing), who thinks editing means cutting the celluloid into four-frame pieces and serving it up as a salad, whose idea of creative camerawork is spinning the camera wildly around two people who are simply having a chat, making them look as though they're at the centre of a merry-go-round.Special mention, in this film in which everything except Owen Wilson is bad, should go to the musical score, which is worst of all. It consists of EVERYTHING - lame pump-up-the-volume-and-leave-out-the-tune rock songs, drums, strings, trumpets, horns, and and an etherial (or so the composer supposes) choir - none of it bearable, all of it aggressively loud.Insults to our intelligence include (1) Chris escaping capture by swapping uniforms with a dead body and walking away from the battleground with a balaklava over his head, and then, because the director thinks we're too dense to work out that the guy in the balaklava is him, TAKING OFF the balaklava and TURNING AROUND so that we (and the enemy soldiers who are trying to kill him) can get a good look at his face, and then, for good measure, RUNNING AWAY at a speed fast enough to be suspicious but not fast enough to get away should anyone happen to run after him; (2) bad guys' machine-gun bullets and bazooka missiles INVARIABLY missing their target at close range - I mean, really, why not just re-write the script so that the hero is further away or harder to hit; and (3) the suggestion that American forces are not free to do whatever they please because they are ultimately held in check by their NATO allies. Ha! Ha ha ha! "},{"Title":"Tacky racist propaganda","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  This film was pretty standard Serb-Bashing by a writer who seems to know little about the Balkans in general and Serbs in particular.  Sheer racism. As if that weren't bad enough, it looked like it was edited in a blender. Cut.  Cut.  Cut... meaningless slow mo.  MTV looking POS.  Hated seeing a talent like Gene Hackman slumming in such a horrid project. "},{"Title":"Terrible propaganda.","Date":"1 March 2012","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" This movie is grossly anti-Serbian, it is an insult to the Serbs who fought and died for their nation.Just look at the Serbs who died! Milica Rakic for example, she was just a child who was bombed to death by NATO.This is nothing but mindless propaganda which makes the Serbian soldiers look like Nazis.You could see more friendly images of the enemy by watching a documentary about Anne Franke or Himmler.Unless you're a strong supporter of the Bush regime and you would gladly die so your president could get more power then I suggest you don't watch this pathetic excuse of a movie.That's all I have to say.0/5 0/10 0/100 "},{"Title":"Whew! Maybe the technically the worst military movie in years.","Date":"8 November 2010","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Starting with the goofs. The F18 would not have been alone. They fly in pairs. The admiral would not have been the primary leader. The carrier may have been his flagship but there wold be a ship's captain running the daily routines. The helo's from the carrier were Hueys. In reality they would have been H-53 choppers with marines in them. Carriers during the Bosnian campaign would have had H-3's, H-53's, and H-60's. When the admiral hears the ejection seat beacon in the first part of the movie he says what's that?. To be in his position he too would be a pilot and know the sound of the beacon. The admiral is followed around by the master chief in this movie. In reality the Command Master Chief would answer to the ship's captain. The movie has many other blunders and tech issues these are just a few. Having spent four years on the USS Eisenhower CVN-69 the movie with such blunders is tough to watch. I suggest making another choice. "},{"Title":"hot dude dodges bullets to loud pop music while defending NATO bombing of Kosovo","Date":"2 September 2010","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" The musical score of this so-called film was nothing short of laughable. I really felt as though an adolescent boy had selected the tunes to accompany Owen Wilson's amazing dash through minefields and away from dozens of evil Serbs out to whack him.In some ways, this is a typical American war movie Americans exhibit superhuman abilities to evade the bullets of the Evil Enemy, while teaching the world a thing or two about the U.S. military and why they feel the need to embroil themselves in every single conflict on the face of the planet.I regret that most Americans are too ignorant about world affairs to be able to recognize that The Evil Serb is a convenient fiction invented by supporters of the NATO bombing of Kosovo, led by U.S. President Bill Clinton and Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, which was premised on the absurd notion that the Kosovars were innocent victims. In fact, the KLA provoked Milosevic to overreact precisely in order to trick the international community into taking sides in a highly complex conflict which had been going on for hundreds of years--with atrocities committed by all sides against all sides. Yes, there were mass graves produced by the Serbs, but also by all of their foes. The NATO campaign painted Milosevic as the new Hitler in order to justify the need for the continuation of NATO after the end of the Cold War. Clinton was in the midst of scrutiny about a blue dress, which came to a sudden halt upon U.S. involvement in Kosovo. Albright had mentioned to Colin Powell that she really wanted to try out the big toys of the DoD... (I believe her words were, What's the point of having this great military that you're always talking about if we never get to use it?) Suffice it to say that these people were not exactly galvanized by sentiments of justice and morality.Gene Hackman used to be an excellent actor, and perhaps he still is. Here, however, he seems to be sneering behind what he obviously recognized to be a ridiculous character. He should have declined to participate in this propaganda fest. Really. "},{"Title":"Expensive propaganda in a feeble attempt to rewrite history","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" This masterpiece has ordered by the propaganda department to try to justify the military operations in Serbia written all over.Since only little kids and absolutely ignorant people could buy the preposterous depiction of context, not much was spent on the scenario. On the other hand, the savings fueled the eye candies mightily. So the ideological cesspit is wrapped in very expensive SFXs. The military is crass stupid, be it on the aviation or land combat side. Just kids playing war in a barn, shooting at each other with broomsticks. But with pretty good CGI.Yum yum, pretty good food for the bastard-killed-my-buddy-so-I-ll-rip-his-balls-off-lovin' couch potatoes.But well, if citizen of the almighty America are happy to let their movie industry project a mighty aura of arrogance, brutality, crass ignorance and stupidity, so be it.I guess such movies could be used in a couple of centuries (along with some USSR-era fictions), as examples of information control mechanisms in imperialistic nations. "},{"Title":"Good-Bad, A-team style time, meets MTV, ummmm Rambo lite?","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Kinda covers it. It does crib from that US pilot who spent 3-4 days highttailing it from the Bosnian Serbs in '95(can't remember his name, Scott or Shannon something...-who is sueing the filmmakers by the way...), but essentially this is 'Bat 21' by way of Rambo, A-Team, etc.In other words, a very 80's kinda flick that has current MTV style graphics, editing(paging Michael Bay....), quick cuts, etc. Overall it works-if you simply put yer brain on 'stun' and watch this for what it really is, a Rambo live-action cartoon. Nothing more or less.I agree with everyone's take on the goofy shooting-gazillions of rounds and not one(1) hits Luke Owen 'til the end-but lotsa baddies get it. There were the nods/images towards the Tuzla/Srebenicia massacres-which I found to be both patronizing AND kinda forced. If you really wanna do their plight justice, having the hero fall facedown into an open mass grave isn't quite the way to go about it...ah well.I liked Hackman though sure, he phoned in his performance. Not much you can do with the chomp the stogie and stare at the computer screen role, no matter how many times you do it. Not one written this flatly anyways.Owen was cool. Again playing the spacecase from Armageddon, I really enjoyed seeing him running around in the fatigues, carrying a gun, etc. This is def. Not typecasting here.I had more problems with just the semantics they showed-film takes place over 3 days, right? First it's clear, then deep snow, then clear, then snow. Yes it's winter and it's mountainous-but you can see for yourself, right by the Angel statue, he constantly goes from open winter/no snow to BOOF it's white-out time, on an hourly basis at the most. That doesn't quite hold up. The editing not so great.The acting by the baddies was right on the mark for such a film, the cinematography the current trendy washed out 'Private Ryan' kinda thing-which does get old in a hurry.I don't think that this will be remembered anymore than Iron Eagle is today, it's just too-too goofy for it's own good.  Still it's watchable, you do root for the good guy, and all that-see it with that in mind and you might be set.**1/2 outta ****-for trying.  "}{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  nothing special action flick","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" I'm an action film buff, so I went into Behind Enemy Lines with a good attitude. I didn't need a deep and compelling storyline, or plot, characterization, or deep themes about life.Behind Enemy Lines takes a stab at saying something about the nature of war at a distance (without getting ground troops involved), but it comes across as preachy and shallow. So really it is a straight action flick.As such, it is not bad, but nothing special. Plenty of stuff blows up and gets shot, but there are also some drawn out scenes and some monotonous running.Who should see this movie-- action film buffs, but only on a rainy dayI'll give Behind Enemy Lines a 6 out of 10, which is the highest rating I'll give a film I wish I'd skipped. "},{"Title":"rubbish","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" This movie is only useful if you want to understand what is wrong with so many Americans these days. It shows how the real world can be reduced to a white-black, good-bad, us-them, American-everybody else cartoon. I'm more than a bit scared that legions of people may not know the difference between such simplistic cartoons and reality, and base their political views and behaviour on a simpleton understanding of the world like this. Right wing, Bushite, American hung-ho trash that should come with a health warning this movie may poison your mind.Shame about Hackman. Remember 'Mississippi Burning', Gene? fG "},{"Title":"That red white and blue","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Movies like this are interesting as they truly bolster the mind-set most Americans have concerning their military and global presence. The writers immediately thrust the viewer into their belief (which I guess they think everyone *naturally* believes, of course, who would think otherwise except those commie b***ards...) that NATO is an all-reigning hero just trying to establish a little peace while those immoral, honorless, thick-accented Bulkaners are wrecking the whole thing. What does reign in this movie is the typical yankee mind-set of being a world cop that maintains all good in the world. What I don't understand is how the NATO general that's higher ranking than Gene Hackman gets to be a bad guy. Supposing the Serbian situation was really as depicted in the movie, he's the only intelligent one out of the group...Somehow him trying to stop Hackman from sending in troops to save one piddly soldier because it could shatter the entire peace process is a bad thing. If Hackman's character had anymore brains then a ton of lead (which he apparently doesn't) he would realize that one soldier isn't worth the peace of a entire country. Who really cares, uh? Too bad for Wilson's character, he shouldn't have been flying in a demilitarized zone anyway, he can walk to a refugee camp or Red cross station like everyone else...Though watching Wilson's character running from a dark, unshaven Serbian bad guy was enough entertainment to keep my brain running in neutral, I found the bullet-dodging talents of Wilson quite amusing. In the first dodging sequence it was engaging, in the second less, by the third it was standard and after that the only thing to keep you awake was your own eye-movement (Yes, there was more than three bullet/mine/missile sequences..far more). The film got so utterly and disgustingly red white and blue at the end I almost vomited. One of the only pro's of the movie was that the main character wasn't some buff, rippling heart throb but rather a crooked nosed, casual everyday guy. Relating back to NATO, a scarily ironic point my husband bought up is that that destroyed town in the mine sequence was more likely victim to NATO's bombs than anything else.Anyway, its a good movie if you like watching the Hollywood film industry play with people's perceptions of the American government and military as world cops and righteous heroes. Otherwise, if you're like me, read a couple books on Yugoslavian history and current events instead so you can get a full, balanced and real scoop on Serbian happenings.  "},{"Title":"Boy, is this a predictable piece of crap","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  If it weren't for the Bosnia references, you'd think you were back in the eighties, and some clueless director/producer thought that a flick where Top Gun meets Rambo was the golden path to easy money. It is predictable, the acting is sub-standard, the clichés are beyond moronic... I can only think that Gene Hackman owed the producers of this movie some money, or maybe they knew something about him and blackmailed him into agreeing to be part of this joke of a movie... otherwise I can´t fathom he wouldn´t have seen the mediocrity of this play right from the first glance at the script "},{"Title":"Simple American war movie","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  If you like a typical good guy/bad guy movie then this is the one for you. If you aren't a true fan of this type, don't watch it.It lacks excitement, good acting, special effects, an American flag at the end and a realistic story line. The good part is that it's easy to watch, no deep thinking required. Purely as a war movie it doesn't score very high either, the scenes and camera shots do not bring up any excitement. Compared to Saving private Ryan for instance, it is there where the biggest difference is. Added to this is that it's amazingly American. Therefore the American soldiers are strong, clever, superman kind of guys. The opposition looks mean, but act like clowns. So you can imagine of what level the script is.To summarize, it's a highly American, unrealistic, bad acted movie.  "},{"Title":"Wasted time even  on a lazy hangover-Sunday.","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Where to begin? Technically Bad camera-work, horrible soundtrack. The camera is really irritating, for trying to create realistic sensation by constant shaking. Bad cut as well, the main character moves through a forest with changing climes. the soundtrack is embarrassing. the dialogs are pathetic and (partly) illogic. And the most unrealistic action scenes ever seen. No comment to the moral values uttered. The story is plausible and may have real origin and this might be the only reason to finish watching (beside constant curiosity about how the enthusiasm for beautiful or spectacular images can narrow the view to the point of making a vulgar drama like this.) "},{"Title":"Essentially amoral","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" I fully agree with the excellent but mostly negative reviews of many authors on this site.This movie is essentially amoral in the sense that it abuses recent historical facts by an utterly simplistic approach.It is also an apology of the heroics of war at a time many of us are truly concerned with the rising loss of young American lives in Iraq.The theme is an upgraded version of the war epics during the 1940's, when heroes such as Errol Flynn eliminated uncountable Japanese divisions single-handed.The Thin Red Line for example depicted war as it really is and appealed to so many of us as it made us think.Behind Enemy Lines uses or abuses a true story to reduce it to a child-like representation of violence and death. "},{"Title":"About as stupid as The Naked Gun. The difference? The Naked Gun was supposed to be!","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  It's not unusual for an action movie to start fast and go downhill within 45 minutes of air time. Such is the case here. While the sometimes talented Owen Wilson has at times been fun to watch(see Shanghi Noon and the even better sequel Shanghi Nights for proof)he is simply not convincing as the hero. Things get more powerfully silly when the bad guys (who appear to have the vision of Stevie Wonder) fire rounds of automatic ammunition but are unable to lay down Wilson but he can't miss with his handy pistol.This movie should give the Zucker Brothers ideas for the Naked Gun 4. "},{"Title":"That was some excellent running...","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Basically the majority of this movie consists of Owen Wilson running from people who can't seem to hit somebody with automatic weapons at alomost point-blank range.  That's about it.  Utterly moronic, really.The so-called action scenes Wilson's character survives either due to doing something utterly impossible or because the enemies are utter morons (worse than Wilson's character, not that his character possesses any great intelligence). "},{"Title":"Wilson and Hackman's Big mistake","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I have to say that this is one of the worst movies I have ever seen. The scriptwriter has taken liberty to publish the Guide to Cliches with this work. What on earth was Gene Hackman and Owen Wilson thinking when they signed up for this terrible picture.One more thing. Loud rock music does not distract from how bad the lines were and they were cringingly embarrassing.Wilson is one of the flavours in Hollywood at the moment but he ought to be more choosy about the roles he undertakes in future otherwise like the chewing gum on the bedpost, the flavour could vanish pretty quickly. "}{"Title":"What is wrong with this movie?","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Well, there are a lot of things not working...1) Realism as mentioned by a lot of people here before, the Serbs shoot worse at point blank range than the Stormtroopers of Star Wars.2) The portrait of NATO The fact is, that Europe (West-European Alliance) tried to handle the conflict itself and failed miserably. The presence of the U.S. helped to do a little better. This means nothing, I mean nothing, in the NATO works without U.S. approval. After all NATO is an American product and the U.S. is the only Superpower left in the world. So the role of Joaquim Almeira is awful and makes me mad it´s the old cliché of there are our boys in there and we got stabbed in the back by politicians or in this way by a NATO general. Think of the picture you establish by doing so! This movie was compared to Rambo Part II & III and they are right in this way. 3) The portrait of the Admiral Hackman is wasted. He has done bad movies before, but this time it´s the worst. You don´t believe him struggling, he just appears weak. 4) The style! Oh, what a mess! It actually would have helped if you´d concentrate on ONE! But this mixture is not working at all. Is it an MTV movie with lots of fast forwards or is it a slow-motion movie?5) The story A man hunt is per se thrilling, so why not point out this more, the struggle of a hunted man, fighting to survive? Or just show the traumatic journey through a land of war, disturbing like, well, Apocalypse Now? But doing a Rambo-clone in the new millenium, that´s just stupid! The movie failed at the box office. At least here in Germany. Guess why?!What I like I´d actually liked the F18 scenes (though not being realistic). And some scenes in the landscape like that destroyed monument on that mountain...and Owen Wilson. The other things, I don´t remember. And that´s good!Macaulay J. Connor 3/10 "},{"Title":"American propaganda","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" I've seen a documentary where an agency is helping film producers to deliver them army material such as boats, tanks, weapons, whatever you need to make the movie. In return the army wants the filmmaker to portrait the US Army as heroes and warriors, turn it into propaganda. If the filmmaker denies, you're on your own. Now of course every army on the planet does not want to be criticized, but in the US it has gone too far. With this movie it's just the same. Someone already mentioned bad acting, and illogical events and unrealistic army tactics. This movie is just 'another US army movie' that annoys the hell out of a lot of Europeans. It's also very boring to watch, as if a movie with a lot of guns would make it spectacular. The bad guys in this movie are ruthless and kill their own men when necessary. A cheap way to let the viewer symphasize with the US army, and not the baddies. It's a disgrace and an insult to Bosnia because the movie turns them into stereotype bad guys, while the truth is much, much more subtle. "},{"Title":"Worst film since Plan 9 From Outer Space","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" however one of the best comedies ever!!! It guaranties 101 minutes of uncontrollable laughter. The mistakes are so many that an encyclopedia should be written to uncover them all. The characters are all morons, good or bad, the evil Chetniks which are supposed to be Arkan's Tigers are in a desperate need for glasses with a dioptry of at least -21 since 50 of them cannot hit a single man running uphill despite the fact they are armed with heavy machine guns and anti-aircraft guns. They also dress in Croatian uniforms to kill innocent civilians (the black and white flashback in which the genocidal baddies are wearing insignia of HVO, meaning the Croatian army - the mentioned scene was cannibalized from Savior anyway but it is completely idiotic nevertheless - why should Chetniks dress up like Ustashe to kill a bus of civilians???????) And because they killed a bus of civilians which was happening in Bosnian war every day (yes, this is called WAR) they are terribly afraid that the good Americans would find it out and beam them to the Hague tribunal for war crimes so they must kill every American they can find on Serbian territory. On the other hand, in the scene in Hach they massacre the entire city and nobody cares. As Owen Wilson would put it as he did about 35 times in the film Goddamit! Around 100.000 people were killed during Bosnian war but this doesn't matter to Hollywood producers to whom the Serbs are evil because they shot an American pilot. In the head!!! (But first the Lord of Evil by a very uncommon Serbian name of MIROSLAV LOKAR talked to him and poisoned him with the tobacco smoke from his cigarettes.) It is also completely unrealistic that the Chetniks would actually want to kill two insignificant American pilots instead of selling them for ransom because their forces were always in a bad need for money. Stupid...If you are familiar with Bosnian war and the Balkans this film is more enjoyable than a Mel Brooks goofy comedy. Otherwise you can live with illusions that war looks like Disneyland theme park.0/10 for a war movie, 10/10 for a comedy "},{"Title":"Worst racists propaganda, I've ever seen.","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I had a big problem following this 'movie' - I couldn't understand what they were speaking! Not in English, but in Serbian, and that's a bit weird since that's my mother tongue. So since authors ware not able to find few Serbs to play the main roles,  I guess that tells you something about this crap, I mean 'movie'. This 'movie' is equally shameful for Serbs, Croats and Bosnian Muslims, and not to speak that is a literary spit to thousands of victims fallen in this war. And most of all this is disgrace for those who made it and those who can swallow this 'ramboistic masterpiece'.I'm only sorry that I was not there to 'welcome' Lt. Burnett (main 'rambo-pilot-superman'), personally. But in that case this would be 5 minutes short documentary, instead of 105 minutes long fairy tale.  "},{"Title":"Rambo revisited","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Behind Enemy Lines is a movie that puts you straight back into the Rambo-era Clueless idiot of a pilot gets shot down over Bosnia, survives an enormous number of highly dangerous situations in spite of his own stupitiy. Meanwhile, he is being chased by a bunch of highly inept Serbian (?) soldiers who constantly lose track of him for no obvious reason and a sniper who can't hit an barn door from 5 meters away.An incredibly stupid action movie (comparisons to Battlefield Earth are in order here) which forsakes any kind of realism or common sense in order to make the Americans look good and everyone else, including the NATO, like a bunch of braindead morons.One of the worst movies I have ever seen. NO STARS "},{"Title":"Funny movie, very bad","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" I really don't know how is it possible to make such a stupid movie. Better to spent a money for a children without a parents, children which are hungry etc...Lets me tell you about this movie - Planes can be easily shoot down ,and they cant avoid 20 anti air missiles. People which are being involved to recorded this movie should be more informed where, and why, and how they will act. Enemy army was Bosnian Serbian army, but they don't speak Croatian language like u can meet in this movie.Very bad movie with bad actors. Even Rambo 3 is better. I will give to director of this movie award for the worst movie ever ! "},{"Title":"Embarrassingly BAD. Wrapping this crap In the Flag is offensive!!!","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  This movie is so bad it is an embarrassment. As an avid American, please, world, accept my humble apology for this poorly made, sloppy, unrealistic, technically inaccurate and laughable, dark, hateful, hideous mess. Having seen it this afternoon I feel like bathing. There are so many flaws, it is impossible to include them all, or even to know where to start for the Highlights of Horror. Plot holes so huge you could drive a Yugo through them. Just plain bad editing, scripting, filming.One example-- in the final chase scene the characters are shown running through snow in the forest. In a few frames, the snow is gone and it's suddenly autumn in a glade. Then a few seconds later they're back on a mountain top of snow and ice, with thick flakes in the air. Then back to autumn in the glade, etc. The hero, in the autumnal scene, glances 200 yards over to a statue on a bluff. Walking to the statue, not only is it deep winter all of a sudden, but they actually show him walking on pond ice, hinting that he's about to crash through the ice into a huge, dangerous pond hidden under the snow. Pond ice high up on a hillside, with the large pond going right to the edge of the bluff? The amateurish design of this movie is beyond comprehension. And to paint it all with a thick, clumsy patriotic brush, given 9/11 is patently offensive.Gene Hackman has been a hero of mine for years-- he is a true grand master of acting. Even his previous bad movie, Enemy of the State, was watchable and enjoyable on a certain level. Gene, Gene, Gene-- what happened dood?Owen Wilson is a young up-and-coming writer, producer, actor. I love his previous work, and have anticipated his rise to super-stardom. However it happened, this sure wasn't the vehicle. He is clearly a master-in-the-making, and Behind Enemy Lines isn't powerful enough to derail his career. But still-- I predict he will cringe whilst on dates, hanging out with friends, and during on-set recreational breaks for YEARS to come as his friends remind him of this loaf of a movie.If there is only one movie theater within 50 miles of your town, and this is the only movie playing-- please stay home. Please save your money and your eyeballs. And, if you're like me, save yourself the embarrassment of sitting through this dreck. Hey, just sit on your porch for 2 hours. You'll have more fun, and it'll be more meaningful. "},{"Title":"Crappy film...","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  if around 40 heavy armed enemy soldiers with tank support aren't capable of shooting down 3 lausy helicopters and one single man from a distance less than 200 meters that's pretty much describing how the film is built up. The good Americans are fighting a justice war against the bad of the world and loosing only 1 pilot.Quite boring after the first 10 min. In comparison to Black Hawk down this film stands no chance. The only highlight was Gene Hackman who played quite well in this film. The scenery was realistic and tried to give a view into the cruelties of war...but this positive effect came to short and was overplayed by the nonexisting plot of the film. "},{"Title":"It is embarrassing to watch this movie.","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  It is a story about an American navigator who has to survive in Bosnia after his F18 has crashed. There are very aggressive and unpleasant rebels chasing him during the movie. It is embarrassing to see how makers of this movie are trying to convince the viewer about the good intentions of the American soldiers in this movie, and how bad the Serbs are. The contradictions between the good and the bad guys are sometimes even stronger than in former communist propaganda movies. The viewer can see that the life of an American is more important than the life of many others and that the leaders of international organizations are frustrating rescue-attempts. The action is interesting in the movie, but for everyone who really knows what is going on in the world, it is very difficult to keep on watching this movie until the end. It is clear that the story is a product of the fantasy of the American navy, and it is very sad that especially in these days they weren't able to come with a better and more realistic story which the defenders of our freedom deserve. "},{"Title":"Disgrace","Date":"18 October 2004","Score":"16 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" One of the worst cases of one sided propaganda I've ever seen. Hitler was a madman all right, but at least he had excellent Leni Riefenstahl doing quality propaganda films for him... I don't think most of you heard of her- no she's not the one who has shown her breast on Super Bowl nor one of Jerry Springer's guests- try Google...For reality purposes makers of this crap could have at least used proper Serbians to play themselves (ie bad guys). Instead they used actors speaking Serbian with Croatian accent - how ridiculous. Or maybe it isn't so ridiculous since film's objectives are not too subtle anyway - showing US as a peace loving nation))) Cheap propaganda. BEL very much supports stereotypes we (ie Europeans) have about US film and art (and about average US citizen). Very very sad.BTW one of the commentators on this list said SOMALIANS (instead of Serbians)))... I guess it makes no difference whatsoever who GOOD GUYS are fighting against (if it is Serbians, Somalis, Argentineans or extra-terrestrial forces) in US film as long as they stay brave and peace-loving...And for those talking about good action and great effects in the film - FYI films were originally about ART and hidden messages to audience. I saw none here.Signed ONE_OF_THE_ENEMIES "}{"Title":"Let me tell you that...","Date":"19 November 2007","Score":"17 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" - I'm sick of Americans trying to boost up their patriotism or maybe to somehow justify themselves for involving in every possible war on this planet.- I'm sick of their idiotic lines in these kind of movies like  Let's go get our boy back!. And that line comes from great actor like Gene Hackman. Patetic!- I'm sick of American script writers who somehow manage to make all nations on this world hostile; and of course Americans are saints and people that are always attacked by others.- I'm sick of people making this kind of movies because they couldn't even manage to film this movie in Bosnia, were the whole story happens; instead Slovakia is Bosnia.- I'm sick of this casting directors, who gave Olek Krupa the role of Miroslav Lokar. Krupa is good actor but he speaks Bosnian very funny and everyone around him speaks better that language.- I'm sick of all people who worked on this movie. Especially John Moore, Gene Hackman and Owen Wilson.- I'm sick of American need to prove to the world that they are Americans, the best people around. Well Americans are very questionable expression cause Americans are Indians and today so called Americans are Europeans who came to America and killed or slaved Indians.Americans need this kind of movie especially today. Why? Well they have to lie to their nation (Bush) and saying that Iraq was a good move. Wake up! Americans are in Iraq because of oil. And these kind of patriotic crap movies are watchable only to Americans or to those who don't know or don't want to know what Americans are doing today. "},{"Title":"Good action movie but very misleading in portraying the war in Bosnia.","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"17 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I just spent about two hours watching  something that should be at least little bit familiar to me, since I experienced the war in Bosnia at close. Imagine my surprise when I realized that almost nothing was portrayed correctly. First of all, THE WAR IN BOSNIA IS OVER! That is something that many movie makers fail to understand. They obviously need a warlike setting and than they chose the most recent war they can remember. Lt. Chris Burnett's mentioning Britney Spears in the beginning of the movie indicates the fact that the story took place in last few years. One would think that the movie makers should take that into consideration. Another major mistake is the fact that they say in the news report that the serbs occupy southern Bosnia, when they actually occupied northern Bosnia (quite logical if you should look at the map). I mean if you chose to make a movie about a recent event, you could at least consult some experts and concentrate on details, if not because of the quality of the movie than because of the respect for the people who suffered. I have to give the movie some credit because they at least used existing yugoslavian names (and didn't try to make up some name that sound foreign as many other films and series do) and didn't portray the people as primitive long bearded lunatics on horse, even though they were portrayed only as mad killers. Overall the movie is quite exiting which makes it acceptable, but it is not at all realistic which totally undermines any quality it can possibly have. Make sure that you have all this in mind when you watch the movie.  "},{"Title":"Great sets and good suspense and action make for a worthy viewing","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"45 out of 89 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this film. It was a great mix of action and suspense, with some very realistic cinematography.Basic plot - the Bosnian War is coming to an end, and from a US Navy carrier in the Adriatic, Owen Wilson and his pilot fly out on the last recon mission of the war, but are taken down by a surface-to-air missile. The rest of the film is about Wilson trying to get rescued while he is chased down psycho-genocidal Bosnian Serbs. You see, Wilson's plane took pictures of something the Serbs didn't want seeing.The film is augmented by some superb cinematography, and very realistic sets, which really capture the cold and miserable setting in which the story is depicted.I have to admit that Owen Wilson was an odd casting for the role, but he surprised me by not grossly annoying me too much, and seems to carry the serious role pretty well.Gene Hackman carries well the role of the Admiral, frustrated when attempts to rescue Wilson are blocked by his NATO-command boss over political-sensitivities.The Serbs, particularly the psycho paramilitary guy in the tracksuit, are nasty, efficient and ruthless, and whilst I've noticed some criticism of this film for it being jingoistic and anti-Serb, one has to question whether this depiction *was* inaccurate or not... From what I recall the Bosnian Serb military were not nice people, and this film reminding us of that, I believe, is a perfectly valid point.There is a lack of realism at times in the film, especially toward the end, where Wilson seems to dodge a million bullets emerging from an entire brigade, including armour vehicles etc., but don't let this detract. It's definitely worth a view. "},{"Title":"Behind.......way behind.....","Date":"26 December 2004","Score":"48 out of 95 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Let's see. Take one standard action film involving Americans, add in a new baddie for them to triumph over, and have the baddies act atrociously and brutally, then let the good guys be victorious in the end.That about sums up BEL. It has reasonable special effects, a plot that is simple and oh so seen before, and a square jawed handsome hero (although, looking at Wilson's nose, not that handsome).People have already remarked on various inaccuracies and symbolism such as the angel in the midst of war etc. Instead of going over those I'd like to point out the overriding message this film taught me.That it's OK to disobey orders. Disobey them in such a way as to get your best friend killed. But that's OK, because no matter what happens when you disobey orders, it all comes out good in the end. You feel better about yourself and you'll bring the bad guys to book. So don't worry about your best friend. He was only a plot device anyway.One thing is certain, though. As long as there is conflict in the world, there will be a Hollywood movie to glorify it and vilify the enemy.And just who were the enemy? The Bosnians? The Serbs? The Croats? The film didn't seem very certain itself and neither was I, even at the end.Particularly laughable (and somewhat disturbing) in this no brainer action film was the dreadful end sequence, where we get to find out (via the wonder of the subtitled explanation) what happens to the main characters.Now, call me old-fashioned, but such final scene what they did next stuff in my book is reserved for two types of film - comedy spoofs and documentaries. This film is certainly no comedy, so the appearance of these notes, to me, would seem to imply that the movie was in part based in reality. I find this disturbing simply because there are any number of extremely dumb people out there that would see such final comments and assume the film was, after all, based on true events. And it's this kind of it happened like this cinema (which most often involves Americans saving the world) that concerns me most. U571 is another, now notorious, example of this. Apparently its true that history is written by the victors......As for the movie, the opening scenes are the most rewarding. Once the movie passes into its middle it becomes a bit dull and the ending, as others have observed, is more like a Rambo film and gets quite farcical.The movie is best watched whilst a few drinks shy of inebriation. You'll enjoy it more and not notice the foolishness (hopefully). "},{"Title":"Modern war action with many goofs","Date":"25 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Made just six years after the end of the Bosnian War (1992-95), Behind Enemy Lines is a modern-day war-action film. It doesn't involve troops in combat, but the forces of one of the combatants pursuing a downed American pilot who was flying a photo mission. It was a time when the combatant forces were supposed to be non-aggressive, but the pilot spots illegal troop movements of Serbian forces when he flies over an area outside his authorized zone. He gets shot down by an anti-aircraft missile.I give this film six stars solely for the action, however unrealistic it may seem. And, because of the message that the Navy admiral was not going to abandon one of his men. In this day and age, that's a message that our military need to know, especially if the U.S. is going to rely solely on a volunteer, professional armed forces.My rating is probably stretching it, on the basis of accuracy. I don't know fighter aircraft or Navy operations, but I could see basic mistakes in several portrayals. I was an Army paratrooper many years ago, and the apparent lack of common sense and disregard or lack of knowledge of evasion and escape training by the downed pilot was frustrating to watch. Other reviewers &#x96; former Navy pilots and veterans have pointed out some of the many technical and military flaws of Lt. Chris Burnett, played by Owen Wilson. And, of the crew of the carrier.Gene Hackman is OK as the admiral, and the rest of the cast are OK for the roles they have. I think some of the Serbian portrayals are overboard. But, the film is packed with action. Had the filmmakers worked to get accurate portrayals of the carrier crew, proper equipment, correct aircraft, and survival procedures, this could have been a very good film. "},{"Title":"I enjoyed the ride","Date":"23 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Well despite what others thought I really enjoyed this. I hadn't seen it in ages and had a great time watching it again, a thrill ride with solid characters, excellent special effects, and some cool looking camera work. Just as an FYI this is a great movie to watch on the treadmill as it's essentially just one long chase sequence set to some decent music.It does get a bit rah-rah-ridiculous during the final climax, flag waving and just OTT bordering on silly but whatever I was still entertained.This never slowed down, sure you can question the believability of events but I just enjoyed the ride, as our hero runs through exploding minefields, slides down the side of a dam, and hides in a pile of dead bodies with the enemy just inches away from him. There's a scene in a defunct factory/minefield where one of the bad guys suffers the shock waves of a (grenade) blast in slow motion, I've never seen anything like it, well done. The fighter jet scenes while being targeted by a missile reminded me of 'Top Gun', but were still exciting.The story follows Owen Wilson as a navy pilot who is shot down over enemy territory and then struggles to get to his extraction point while surviving the relentless pursuit of a deadly tracker/sniper and countless hostile troops. With his rescue mission is delayed by politics, commanding officer (Gene Hackman) goes against orders to bring him home.I liked seeing Owen Wilson in this downplayed action role, he did a great job as did Hackman, but he's playing a familiar character. Vladimir Mashkov is chilling as the Serbian sniper dude too. 2/23/16 "},{"Title":"Much action, no brains","Date":"8 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" This movie has a plot that could have been interesting if done right. Unfortunately it was done badly.A recon pilot and co-pilot disobey orders by departing from his assigned flight path over Bosnia. They get shot down by bad guys operating in a demilitarized zone where they have been murdering civilians. One of the two (didn't ever figure out which) is injured, found by the bad guys who shot down the plane. They shoot the good guy. The remaining good guy was climbing a hill to establish radio contact with his aircraft carrier. He sees the shooting. He screams out loud at the sight of it, thus betraying his position. The rest of the movie is about him evading the bad guys pursuing him. Of course he is a superman and the bad guys are knuckle-dragging idiots, so evil the Devil himself would shun their company. The admiral on the aircraft carrier overrides orders and sends out rescue mission of a few attack helicopters. Just as all admirals, he joins the mission. Acting as the modern day cavalry, the copters arrive just in the nick of time to save our hero from capture by the bad guys, blowing up tanks with their missiles and machine gunning lots of bad guys. The movie ends with some written remarks that try to give the impression this was a true story and the people in it were real.Another war movie in which the lopsided depictions of the two sides and the truly ridiculous ending add the final touches of banality to what otherwise was only mildly entertaining.Read the Hated It reviews for more details about the numerous failings. "},{"Title":"critics ate critics","Date":"28 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Behind enemy lines is an intriguing movie. If it was based on a true story, I could see why people would be so critical. Well folks, it's not based on true events and it's just a movie. We don't have to break down why an Admiral puts forth an order for no search and rescue or why sailors on the deck are playing football. The movie to me is not considered a war movie but more of a survival movie.I thought Owen Wilson did a great job , Considering that he is more of a comedic actor.I served in the Navy and I'm not going to sit here and analyze a simple movie based on what's real and what's not. I liked the action , the sense of survival and the storyline. It's not a great movie but a type of movie to pass the time and keep you intrigued.Although it's 2016, I still enjoy watching this movie. "},{"Title":"Good, but not great","Date":"8 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Behind Enemy Lines is a cliché war movie that doesn't deliver on the points that matter most in a war movie. It simply has too many sub plots that just hang in the air, not that they really mean anything to the movie but detract from the final picture. Employing unappealing filming techniques and visual effects, a score that seems out of place and lackluster comedy that hurts when it is delivered on screen the movie just doesn't click together as great movies do.But despite these flaws, the movie starts to get the ball rolling at some parts, and pulls you in for an action packed ride. But when the scene changes, the charge that was building up quickly vanishes and you are left wanting.Overall the movie is a fun watch, but doesn't have the same impact as other war movies or the feeling of wanting to watch it again after it is over. "},{"Title":"Kudos, Mr. reg user tris_moseby!","Date":"4 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" I cast my vote to you as you managed to produce one of the best reviews I've ever seen - great job! I will quote youI was once again plunged into the gripping storyline as a group of evil Serbians vindictively shoot down the spyplane of two great and noble American airmen. After bailing out, good ol' Owen is shot at by a platoon of monobrowed soldiers, who seem to be carrying guns because it makes them look sexy rather than for putting them to any practical use. Honestly, I could have done better with half a brick. I will continue no further as I do not wish to spoil the amazing and absolutely-not-predictable twist at the end. Will Owen escape the guerilla scum? Will you be able to hold onto your lunch (or meal of preference) after the director utilises his 30th high speed pan and his 10 billionth ultra-fast zoom to closeup? Will Brad get back with Janice now that she is carrying his baby? Do Village Cinemas do refunds? All this and more in one of the greatest movies of all time. "}{"Title":"Not a bad military man on his own action movie.","Date":"14 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" I saw this one years ago at a dollar theater and have to say that was money well spent considering how many times I have paid full price for a movie and it has completely disappointed. This one is about a pilot shot down over enemy type territory. He must make an escape using his instincts and at times he receives help from his military buddies who are anxiously monitoring his movements and giving him advice when it is possible. Owen Wilson does a rather good job in the lead role as the pilot on the run, though someone else may have been a tad better in the role. Not disparaging his performance, he just does not have that military look to him. Gene Hackman though was a perfect fit for his role which is not to much of a surprise. There is some good action and nice close calls scenes in this one, one in particular comes to mind as Wilson's character is seen from a satellite and it looks like he just stops as the enemy forces close in on him, but you later find out how he was being smart in that situation. He befriends a youth at one point and I was half expecting this kid to return in the final scene and save Wilson or something, but that did not happen and that is a good thing, as that would have been almost expected and way to happy. The movie is not perfect though as it is not particularly memorable in certain areas of the film, I remember the rather explosive finale, the scene where Wilson gives the soldiers the slip and the boy and a scene involving a football and a plane launcher, but a lot of the other scenes I draw a bit of a blank. Still, it was entertaining enough and was a nice diversion. "},{"Title":"based on a true story with some unrealistic action","Date":"13 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Behind enemy lines is although derived from a real life story of an American pilot downed inside Bosnia in 1995 here this story is made more enhanced with action but the action is quite unbelievable in which a whole large squad of Serb paramilitary and elite army unit is not able to contain a single man who is fighter pilot but not specially trained to handle ground warfare tactics. he is showered by so many bullets and explosives but manages to escape every time without a scratch ,running at a cliff while tanks and armored personnel carriers are firing heavily by keeping site at the target but fail the worst was when he is spotted by 2 Serb military petrol men , he runs , strips off the string of land mines , all of them explode in uniform manner one by one , he escapes unharmed easily while the explosion shock waves send the Serb soldier 20-30 feet in the air and his ak-47 is twisted by the impact. In real life this incident happened to Capt Scott.o.Greddy he was in the US air force , he was on a routine cap mission over the Bosnian territory in his f-16 he took off from Aviano base in Italy preserving no fly zone at that time he was spotted by Serb radar , they activated their Sa-3 missile battery ,with caution so the f-16 an-apg 65 radar s warning receivers may not spot them and launch AGM-88 harm missiles , when sa-3 was launched , it was to late for the capt Scott to deploy tail decoys or chaff flares he ejected , landed safely , for 10 days avoided every body he could ,eat ants and even leaves. his call sign was basher-25 while in the movie naval LT Chris Burnetts was Arc angel 06. There is lot to tell but i sum up here only. The makers of this movie only made a bad move by putting some unrealistic scenes , they could had done better. "},{"Title":"Making entertainment of misery.","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Based on R1 DVD 106 min.Set in a different location this might have made a passable chase style movie with an interesting mixture of low and hi-tech toys, as it is it uses a recent and terrible conflict as a cartoon backdrop for yet another gung-ho we can trample 'er we like American lowbrow movie. The movies dismissive treatment of the local participates; one Admirals comments I've been here five years and I can't tell the difference; perhaps reflects a typical American; even European; view but the movie makes no attempt to educate the viewer and that is inexcusable.For those who don't see any point in the above consider a 2004 movie perhaps a romantic 20-something comedy featuring an airline captain and a floosey who works in the World Trade Centre, pretty sickening stuff.It is distressing to see stars like Hackman and Wilson getting involved in such a project.5/10 - marks deducted for extreme bad taste. "},{"Title":"Ho-hum","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Nothing about this film is outstanding in any way. Even Hackman's performance in this one is a little weak. The story is fair, the screenplay is fair, the cinematography is fair, the special effects are pretty minimal and overall, its just simply fair, maybe a little bit less. I might rent it again in a couple years, but in the great scheme of things, it's a forgettable film. It's not BAD, it's just not that good either. "},{"Title":"Not amazing, not great... watchable though","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those movies that fails to be anything more than just another action movie.  I thought it might be thought provoking, being in Bosnia and all, but it failed there.  I thought it looked well shot from the previews I saw.  Although some of the photography was nice, most of it was cut in 0.001 second scenes which flash back and forth and just look terrible.Those quick cutting scenes don't really work, and this movie was not really all that action-packed anyways.  You don't really care about the main character, who just seems like your usual lippy US soldier.  Overall, I do not recommend this movie, although it has it's good points at times.  About 5/10 "},{"Title":"Had potential to be even better.","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Although this movie had good suspense and action, it could have been even better than it was.  It fell into the trap that many silly action movies fall into - that their main character is a superhero, able to outrun machine gun bullets and grenades.  Thousands of bullets hit inches around the hero, yet none touch him.  We have seen that a hundred thousand times before, and it gets sillier every time.  If this had been toned back - or eliminated - the movie could have been excellent.  Some of the action sequences were directed in a unique way and the cinematography was excellent.  However the problems above make me give it a 7, no higher. "},{"Title":"Action-packed but laced with inaccuracies","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  For example, in the scenes with the SAM1) The jet would have been long gone by the time they got the SAM up and fired. 2) If they did happen to launch it, the SAM would have hit them in about 2 seconds.  The F18 was pretty much at ground level. 3) When the F18 evaded the first missile the first time, it never would have re-acquired lock. 4) The second missile would not have been able to catch up to the first (the scene shows both of them tailing him)...they're flying at the same speed after all. 5) Since the F18 was at ground level trying to evade the first missile, the second missile never would have been able to be fired ANYWAY.  PLUS they were running away from the launch site at Zone5 (full afterburner)!Also, why did the army decide to quit chasing him when he was within rifle range at that first hill? "},{"Title":"Special Effects and Too-Clever Dialogue Win Out Over Realism","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I wasn't sure if Owen Wilson could hold his own in this part, but he came through with flying colors.  Gene Hackman, as usual, is awesome. Unfortunately, the film succumbed to hokey dialogue and down right silly scenes.  I don't understand why anyone (including the PA on the set) didn't find some problem with enemy tanks sitting idle while soldiers fired rifles and machine guns at attacking Marine helicopters?!  Especially since these were the same guys who launched two SAM's that shot down a U.S. jet (after a chase that that seemed to last 100 miles and included 6 or seven passes per SAM---pretty smart missiles). Another scene falls flat when Owen Wilson, disguised in an enemy uniform, begins to walks comfortably and safely out of town, when he suddenly pulls off his black mask and breaks out into a run. Since they switch to slo-mo when he looks back, I can only assume that the director decided that effect was more importantly than a believable scene. This neglect of the big details for the sake of catching dialogue, over dramatizing, and over the top effects was obvious through the entire move. It was frustrating, because the acting and plot were good enough to make this movie a great one. "},{"Title":"An average movie...","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  There really isn't much to say about this movie. It followed the template of most movies, establishing the mood at the beginning, throwing a situation, then spending the rest of the time resolving it. The good guys were just doing their job, the bad guys are one dimensionally bad (we don't see the story from the other side), and in the end, the good guys win, the bad guys lose. No, that's not a spoil, you know that's going to happen anyway. There were some great visual effects, but then at times it seemed to be done just so it could be done.Bottom line Average movie worth your time if you want to have that patriotic feeling while sacrificing some of the realism that your enemy is a person too, not just evil devils on earth. 6/10.-Mark "},{"Title":"Don't now what to think of this!!!","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  After seeing this I didn't know how to react. It's a strange movie, not STRANGE like D. Linch, but strange like what's the genre???. If it's supposed to be a comedy....well it's great. Right on target....quite brilliant. I thing the Monty Python would be proud. That last scene....over the top. Was there anyone left alive on Bosnia? I think I saw John Wayne in there, or was it StandAlone - Rambo?!?!? Seriously now ,this movie is just sad, but 20 years from now it will be a comedy classic. "}{"Title":"Could have been better....","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  (Check for a very little spoiler at the beginning)`Behind Enemy Lines' is just another nice-ending US-against-the-world military & war story about an endangered navy pilot (Owen Wilson) who is shot down and strongly pursued by rebel troops at enemy lines in Bosnia just after being caught taking air pictures of a secret base.Although Enemy Lines follows all kind of military clichés to the fullest, the movie is a good all-around technical production with a nice dark-blue cinematography based in cold & isolated mountain landscapes (already seen in another similar film like `Enemy at the gates') and the use of very good sound effects which are effective throughout the whole movie.This movie could have been a better film if the story would have showed us something more interesting and Owen Wilson would have showed the audience the portrait of a real navy soldier. Robinson Almanzar. "},{"Title":"Well-acted and action-packed, even if a little dumb","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Behind Enemy Lines is a fun movie to watch. It's not a gritty, realistic movie that will show you the horror of war, but the action is entertaining enough to distract you for a couple hours. Owen Wilson and Gene Hackman are fine actors, and they manage to make their characters fairly interesting even if the script doesn't. But the real reason to see this movie is the action. Director John Moore keeps everything moving quickly and does a good job keeping the audience on the edge of their seats. His directing is very MTV-style, really flashy with lots of quick cuts. Sometimes this is effective, and sometimes it's just kind of annoying, but overall, not a bad job by Mr. Moore. The plot is a little far-fetched at times, but with the amount of action in the movie, it won't bother you if you don't think about it too much. The script goes a little James Bond-ish at the end; a hundred foreigners firing machine guns and hitting everything BUT Owen Wilson, but who cares, it's still fun. Despite some gaps in it's logic, Behind Enemy Lines is not a bad movie. You'll be entertained, even if you're not blown away.Rating 7/10 "},{"Title":"Overall it's well directed by John Moore, but just lacks an edge to make it great, so it just becomes another war story.","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Owen Wilson plays navigator Chris Burnett, who feels he isn't getting enough action in the air force, and &#145;bam' before you know it is behind the enemy lines running for his life in the middle of Bosnia. At first it seems to be a story about friendship and loyalty, but before long the story line starts to waver around many different elements but never sticking to one, which lets the entire premise down. Overall it's well directed by John Moore, but just lacks an edge to make it great, so it just becomes another war story. Although Owen Wilson plays his part well, it's the portrayal of Gene Hackman as Admiral Reigart, which is done masterfully. Overall it's a nice story to watch, but nothing special. "},{"Title":"I thought those movies died out in the 80's!","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Behind Enemy Lines is a movie in the tradition of Missing in Action, Iron Eagle or Rambo - but like The Matrix did exchange beefy heroes by slender Keanu Reeves, a modern Mission in Action-movie has to rely on a more down-to-earth hero than Sylvester Stallone. In this case the always solid Owen Wilson. Also different to those Reagan-era-MIA-movies is the fact that Behind Enemy Lines doesn't focus on the rescuer (Gene Hackman) alone but even more so on the missing guy. Therefore we see Wilson running through Bosnia, hunted by half the Serbian army. I don't know how that soldier survived one second. He screams, he walks on open ground, he dodges thousands of bullets - well, he's an American!To be fair, Behind Enemy Lines isn't the same reactionary crap as its predecessors, mainly because it takes the politics slightly more serious. The single most impressive line was the NATO general's You might have saved one man, but you risked thousands others. This rings true - even if it is left unanswered and finally ignored by Hackman. He's no hero, he's an idiot who risks war for one stupid soldier who entered a de-militarized zone. The moral seems to be Well let those Yugoslavs kill each other, as long as our boy gets back home save. Does that sum up America's foreign politics? Anyway, to make the whole quest more honorable, the Serbs are not only unshaved and chain-smoking, they're also sadistic and don't fit a film that wants to be more realistic than Rambo. Oh and they can't shoot of course. This is one of those movies where 100 enemies with tanks and MG's aren't able to hit a single target.So what is Behind Enemy Lines? It's an overlong war movie that doesn't dare to do anything new. It features some good acting, some stupid dialogue, some very CGI-ish effects and a little flag waving to please the American bible belt. Nothing more - but at least entertaining.Rating 5/10 "},{"Title":"a sequence of stereotypes aka Owen Wilson running around in circles","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" You think Gene Hackman and you think that the film can't be that bad, because you can always concentrate on him, if the film should really fail. But this time I really got disappointed. In the end, the movie feels like an advertisement film for the American military; you get a sequence of stereotypes and a maybe interesting story is spoilt between American heroism and movie action. Not even the action scenes reward you for officious score, silly dialogues and the various plot holes. I could have saved my money on this one! "},{"Title":"Adrenalin rush - but not long lasting","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" It often happens that films come in pairs and, in the same month on British screens, we have `Behind Enemy Lines' and `Black Hawk Down', two movies featuring rescues of American servicemen from policing missions in distant parts of the globe where the US involvement was less than brilliant. Their appearance is not coincidental &#150; it reflects a wish, post the horror of the World Trade Center attack, to show America at its most heroic. Certainly `Behind Enemy Lines' deliver an adrenalin rush, but the style is too gung-ho for it to last long.The plot concerns the shooting down of an American jet which is &#145;off mission' over Serb-occupied Bosnia-Herzegovina. The American military has co-operated fully with the hardware, so &#150; in a return to `Top Gun' territory - there are terrificly atmospheric shots of the aircraft carrier that is the crew's base and some really exciting film of the F-18 Hornet that is their &#145;mount'.  Slovakia stands in for Bosnia but fits the bill convincingly. It was a shrewd move not to cast a star in the lead role, but instead the newcomer, blond-haired, pinched-nosed Owen Wilson. In fact, the only really well-known actor in the movie is Gene Hackman, playing a characteristically gruff role as the admiral of the carrier, but he is sadly under-used, even when stupidly he is shown leading the helicopter rescue operation (`Let's go get our boy!'). First time director John Moore deploys some flashy camera-work and provides plenty of pyrotechnics but, besides the fact that it has been done before (in the more intelligent `Bat 21'), the whole thing is just too formulaic and simplistic to make a lasting impression.  "},{"Title":"Engaging film","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsBehind Enemy Lines is a perfectly watchable actioner,which is apparently based on a true story.Owen Wilson isn't the most convincing action man lead in the world,but Gene Hackman has proven he can play these military commander roles better than anyone else,with this and the likes of Crimson Tide,Bat 21 and No Way Out behind him.A problem with the film is that the characters don't behave in accordance with the most basic rules of military conduct,such as in a scene where Hackman dismisses Wilson from his office and Wilson forgets to salute.You'd think that Hackman,as a real life former American Navy soldier himself and one of the leading stars of the film,would have pointed this out to the scriptwriters and that they would taken notice coming from someone who knows what he's talking about better than they probably do.Also,the end showdown is more of a cop-out than this year's earlier slugfest Enemy at the Gates.However,the film features some brilliant action sequences,and although the ending defies all plausibility,is a prime example of this.*** "},{"Title":"I'm glad I saw this movie but would not recommend it.","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Lt. Burnett's lack of care in concealing himself was surprising --sitting on top of a mountain peak in enemy territory - --emptying his white water bottle and tossing it on the top of the ground, to be found by the deadly tracker he knew was following him.Worst of all - the continuing clash of authority between the french admiral and Admiral Reigart - stopping the implementation of the most basic military tradition, to rescue your downed pilots - preventing even the attempt to fulfill the commitment of all services to its members in danger - telling all the young men and women whomay be thinkng about joining a service and watching the movie, You might be abandoned if there happens to be a clash n the higher command, including a frenchman overriding your senior U.S. officer - without the very highest levels of U.S., including the President/Commander in Chief, being directly involved - is absolutely unbelievable!  "},{"Title":"Really enjoyable, but breaking no moulds","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Once again in a big budget American film realism is sacrificed for action sequences (and what action sequences they are!!!!), and there is the usual overemphasis on America being the land of the free and the fact that it is fit to bursting with heros. Despite that, this was a thoroughly enjoyable and exciting action movie by numbers.  Cleverly shot and exciting for the most part, Wilson did well as the films hero and Hackman did well at playing himself (again!).The thing that lets this film down is its dull script. For a couple of hoursof mindless entertainment you could do a lot worse. "},{"Title":"Utterly Unbelievable","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  We accept that action films are fantasy and that we must suspend belief. We accept that an entire army that has been fighting a war for years (and so might be expected to be proficient with their weapons) can't hit our hero from thirty or forty metres away. However this film was full of too many unbelievable situations to be excusedSpoilers ahead!Why would anybody put a hard drive for a photographic system in an ejector seat? I work in the defence industry and this is probably a problem of knowing too much, but a mate of mine who does not also picked this up. (And why does that 'hard drive' look awfully like a minidisc taped to a bit of card? - This prop looked even more tacky because the rest of the film was clearly polished and high budget).A sniper, again proficient in the use of his weapon from years of war, manages to miss our hero from a couple of hundred metres when the target is sitting down, not moving and the weather conditions are perfect.The missile evasion shots are excellent but are marred by the explosions of the fuel tanks which look awful - again, after seeing such excellent aerial and c.g. shots these poor quality effects really jar.You find your pilot injured (a leg wound) in open, hostile terrain. Do you a) Leave him where he is so that when the bad guys come they can't fail to spot him in his green uniform against the white snow and next to his brightly coloured parachute, or b) move him to the excellent cover less than 100 metres away? Our man chose a) and, surprise, surprise, sees his pilot gunned down. Not even the American military is that badly trained.There is a minefield in a destroyed industrial complex. There are a number of tripwires running accross an open space. Our hero starts picking his way through, when three bad guys turn up behind him. He starts to run and trips a wire. The mine to which the wire is attached is 90 degrees to his right or left, the bad guys are about 20m behind him. Yet the explosion knocks them off their aim while our hero is unharmed. Even worse the secondary explosions from other mines all over the place and ones that our hero trips as he runs through manage to kill the three soldiers (who never entered the area) yet leave our hero unscathed!Our sniper who has been tracking the hero looks through his sight at the camera - the sight is large with no obvious adjustment mechanism and we can see his magnified eye (we wouldn't in a normal sniper sight). Next shot, a few seconds later, the sight has metamorphasised back into a standard, much smaller sniper rifle sight with the adjustments clearly visable. The magnified eye shot was completely unnecessary to the plot, but meant that a deliberate continuity error was introduced that could not fail to be spotted. This is simply bad directing.You may think that I am just picking holes but all these things and more contributed to make sure that I for one, my mate sitting next to me, and a number of people we overheard when walking out of the cinema, could not suspend belief. The glaring unbelievabilities (OK, so I made that word up!) jumped out so often that they distracted from the storyline, which was actually above average for this sort of movie! "}{"Title":"Good Action, bit sad (not in the crying sense) at times.","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Good film, good action, good setting.But i'm confused...**SPOLIER**When the marines are sent to rescue the pilot one of them gets killed. So...What was the point??? No one cared about this marine, what about this marnies family?? What was the big deal about saving 1 man when another is dead anyway???!!? I mean arguably the Marine plays a more important role in the U.S Army, does he not?Good bits The Sniper bloke. The SAM misslesBad bits The skating on the ice bit. The marine bit.  "},{"Title":"PREDICTABLE AND DULL","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  ************************SPOILERS AHEAD************************There is nothing creative or original in this flick. It's the same basic Hollywood formula1. Hero and buddy go on routine mission. 2. Hero's buddy gets killed the first 15 minutes or so by ruthless   villain. 3. Hero vows to avenge buddy's killing and hunts down villain. 4. Villain hunts down hero and attempts to wipe him out. 5. Hero survives ridiculously impossible odds. 6. Hero and villain clash one final time. 7. Hero kills villain and is rescued just in time. 8. The End.Talk about creative constipation, this is it! A big waste of time and money($9.00 + $2.00 for parking) If you're looking for high quality war drama, check out SAVING PRIVATE RYAN. Stay away from this one.Rating  *1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"Wonderful Photography....Lousy Movie","Date":"31 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" The photography is unbelievably good but the entire plot is childish and also unbelievable.Owen Wilson's main ability is to run, run and run and utter the S--word ever so often.  Gene Hackman..such a fine actor..is now on the other side of the bell curve at least in this movie...Lokar Olek Krupa It seems his main reason for being there was to wear his uniform letter perfect....Only Superman can avoid the enemy as well as Owen Wilson.However Vladimir Mashkov, the paramilitary bad guy was superb and deserves an A plus for his role.If you are bored, go see it simply for the missile part of it. I give it a generous 5.0. "},{"Title":"Don't Waste Your Hard Earned Buck!","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I love a great, suspenseful, action-packed military movie.  However, Behind Enemy Lines was somewhat suspenseful and full of action (of the unbelievable sort), but not great by any stretch of the imagination.  So far-fetched, many things about this movie were entirely outlandish.***SPOILER*** DO NOT READ IF YOU ARE PLANNING TO SEE THE MOVIE AND WANT TO BE SURPRISED...This movie didn't even follow appropriate military command.  When a jet is shot down, the person who is next in line to make a decision is the squadron commander, not the Admiral (played by Gene Hackman).The next thing is, Owen Wilson's character leaves his injured pilot behind when trying to find the right altitude to contact his Aircraft Carrier via radio.  Of course, the pilot is captured and executed.Not to mention, at no time in this movie did it look like Wilson's character suffered any effects of the cold, icy climate of Bosnia (as depicted in the film).  Nor did the main villain/manhunter (he wore fingerless gloves..give me a break).Last, but far from the least, since when do Admirals leave the ship to partake in a rescue mission for one man?  It appears the producers/writers/director took a page from the old Star Trek book when Captain/Admiral Kirk would leave The Enterprise in favor of a ground mission on some unknown planet.The acting was fine.  Just the scenarios are a bit absurd.  I certainly hope Black Hawk Down is nothing like this movie. "},{"Title":"Top Gun meets Private Ryan","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  The only people who shouldn't like this movie are the Anthony Edwards types that think Top Gun was too jingoistic to be realistic.  Although this movie is not a true story, it has elements of true stories woven into it in the most nail-biting ways, and it will keep you glued to the screen.  Just like Top Gun, the characters are slightly renegade, with predictable results, and just like Top Gun, the movie says Don't mess with the U.S. which is a message we need to hear right about now.  "},{"Title":"ENORMOUSLY cliche'd","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Folks, this movie just oozes with horrendously overused movie cliches.1) The bad guys aim and shoot, but they can't seem to hit the hero, who can hit the bad guys without even trying.2) The old outrun the explosion and hurl yourself bodily to the ground JUST at the outer edge and emerge unscathed except for a few smudges trick.3) The grizzled war veteran bucks safety rules designed to save lives, using expensive equipment and risking the lives of several soldiers to rescue just one.4) The young, single, hotshot pilot saves the day.I'm wondering how our pilot can walk out in the open, stand at the top of high hills in front of God and everybody, and STILL manages to elude the enemy?I am just so sick of movies that create adrenaline-surging battle scenes that don't make sense, increasing the special effects budget at the expense of a decent storyline.I don't know about anyone else, but I LIKE movies that engage my brain.If you truly want to see a good Gene Hackman movie where there's a soldier behind enemy lines, rent Bat 21. "},{"Title":"entertaining, but....","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  As is typical with action/military films, I found myself annoyed with the blatant technical inaccuracies in the film regarding military hardware, practices, capabilities, etc.Many people dont care, dont know, it makes no difference to their enjoyment of the film. But to me, it smacks of amateurish research and attention to detail. Its not that it ruins the picture, its simply that it slaps you in the face with a reminder that hey, this is only a film.  The attention to detail is what sets apart really well-done military films, like Saving Private Ryan.I will highlight several glaring inaccuracies1. Aerial photo reconnaissance is not performed at low level, as is depicted in the film. In several scenes, the plane is flying between mountain peaks and through valleys. Furthermore, you would never recon anything by flying directly over it. Recon missions are supposed to be covert.2. Thermal imagery, from satellites, is not capable of the real-time, sub one-meter resolution that is often depicted in thriller films..like the Tom Clancy films.3. SAM missiles are not capable of tracking an aircraft in the manner shown (ie, repeated turn-on-a-dime maneuvering over a period of several minutes) Even a medium range SAM might only have a range of up to 10 km, which is about the distance covered in less than 30 seconds at mach 1, a speed the F18A can easily achieve in much less than that period of time. Granted SAM's get up to Mach1+ quicker than the average aircraft, like maybe just 4-6 seconds, but they cant turn on a dime at Mach 1, and they have limited range. If you were fired on by a SAM, chances are its either gonna hit you right away, or miss you entirely, not chase you around.3. In the scenes dealing with extracting the downed aviator from behind enemy lines, the helicopters leave from the USS Carl Vinson, which is presumedly somewhere in the Adriatic off the coast of Croatia. They travel to a pick-up point, near the town of Hac. (this is probably based on the real life city of Bihac, in northern Bosnia, near the border with Croatia). However, travel time is about 10 minutes. This is a distance of at least 100 miles, and would probably take about 45 minutes.4.  Also in the helo scene, we see Gene Hackman's character sitting in the second pilot position of the aircraft. This would never be done..an Admiral would never be flying a helo. A combat helicopter is always manned by two fully functional, active pilots. In case the aircraft commander gets hit, you have to have another pilot on the stick to fly the aircraft.Granted, all the inaccuracies contribute in small measure to the consistency of the story line. Without Gene Hackman in the final rescue scene, there could be no climactic resolution of the conflict that Owen Wilson's character introduced in the early part of the film. "},{"Title":"short summary","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I thought this film was well-produced, and the main action sequence was impressive and well-paced. But I would have enjoyed it more if it were not for the plot. The story itself was okay, but when you grind it down to basics, its an America-is-wonderful-and-can-do-no-wrong film. I have nothing against America I promise, but even the NATO officer had to be foreign so Gene Hackman's character wasn't guilty of bad decisions - he was just obeying orders. I was with a group of 4 people, and everyone felt the same. "},{"Title":"the most annoyingly directed film I've ever seen","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  the most annoyingly directed film I've ever seen - not a shot goes by without some pointless, flashy jump cut, tricky edit or Matrix-style bullet time shenanigans. He's aided by editing from the what's this button do? school. I guess disaster is only to be expected when a director is employed on the basis of a Sega ad shown on MTV. Its all the more terrible for employing the Bosnian crisis as its backdrop and shamelessly rewriting history. Its a shame to see two great actors - Hackman and Wilson - reduced to this kind of crap. "},{"Title":"Decent entertainment with the all-American ending","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  First of all, my only real gripe about this movie is the camera work. Sometimes its good to be inventive and unique but when you make the cinematography awkward just for the sake of being different it doesn't work out.Otherwise, I thought this was a pretty good movie, definitely worth the eight bucks.  For those of you weekend movie buffs that think this is little more than Hollywood razzle-dazzle, you're right... but you should have known better going in to a movie with Owen Wilson playing the lead. When I want to see filmmaking at its best, I watch something like 2001 or Rear Window. But this time, I wanted to see a well-done action flick and that's exactly what I got.The high point of the movie is the ending. I won't spoil it for anyone but I will say it has to be the most kick-a**-and-take-names all-American ending ever, and if not, certainly close (and like it or not, the ending IS entirely plausible). "}{"Title":"A Good Story Wasted 101","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I was  reading a few of the other reviews and lots of information and misinformation about this film!The storyline was certaintly compelling of a Navy plane capturing images of Serb atrocities and a story of escape and survival. If the director tried to keep it that way and not try to create a pseudo realism action film, it would have be a decent film.The scenes with the aircraft carrier and it's operation were very interesting, but the missile chase scene was the best action sequence(bring back the Top Gun days!). Then it all went downhill from there(like a FA18 Hornet split in two!). Owen Wilson(Burnett) continues his annoying come-on guys, liken up attitude and enters into this sort of running man marathon with the bad guys(Serbs?). Unclear if they were in fact a renegade faction of the army, but who cares. They certaintly looked the part and were menacing. The landscape, equally bleak, helped the viewer to feel the sense of danger Burnett is in. Lucky for him(and for Hackman), his radio is working so we get this banter and second story of how Hackman has to stand-down to the Nato Admiral and the tense fragile peace process at hand. Okay Hackman, sit on yer hands, for now, cowboy! Rescue operations are delayed and Burnett's task is to go to a rendevouz point while being chased by a small army unit and a sniper with a really nice rifle. The idiot doesn't know how to use it cause if he did, the movie would have been over, so we laugh at his attempts and Burnetts incredulous escapes from land grenades and close enemy encounters. Hated those fast-forward camera movements and slow-mo's to accentuate some shots. So realism then went out the door rather quickly on this one. If they wanted to make the story more interesting, Burnett could have met up with a villager and interact, but the substitute was a truckload of young resistance Muslim fighters and that went nowhere.The finale is absolutely laughable and there was a shot where Burnett is cracking the ice layer on the ground( perhaps a frozen lake?), but they didn't do anything with it and then the party begins. Oh brother, I think I sank a foot into my movie chair on this sequence. You know it takes so little to make a film better, but they prefer to play these DOD-approved films. Happy ending, rip up movie ticket, had a good chuckle! Wait for Ridley Scott's film Blackhawk Down... More Oliver Stonesque films to follow, IF Ashcroft will allow them. "},{"Title":"Incredible! A top notch thriller! Not to be missed!","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Only one word can describe this film...incredible!! I was completely on the edge of my seat throughout the whole movie. Any military, or action movie buff must get away from their computer and go to see this great film.Owen Wilson plays Lt. Chris Burnett, who is serving in the navy in the Adriatic Sea. On Christmas day, his commanding officer Admiral Reigart (played superbly by Gene Hackman), sends Burnett on a recon mission above Bosnia. During the mission, Burnett takes pictures of a mass grave site in the hills surrounding the town of Hac. When his plane is shot down by the Serbian military, it is up to Reigart to try to get his man safely back home.Gene Hackman gives one of his best performances of his career in this film, and Owen Wilson is fantastic in his first serious role. Never being a fan of Wilson, I was alittle skeptical on how his performance would be in this film...but the man does deliver!!! Fantastic battle scenes add to the suspense as we follow him through the hills of Bosnia, avoiding the persuing Serbian forces.Do yourself a favour and check out Behind Enemy Lines. It is a brilliant and fast paced thriller. There was only one problem with this movie, I wished that it did not have to end! "},{"Title":"They dropped the ball...","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  This movie had every chance to succeed A great trailer; OwenWilson and Gene Hackman; a John and Jim Thomas (Predator,Executive Decision) script; a budget of $40 mil.  But for all this, thewhole is decidedly less than the sum of it's parts.  Whathappened?Well for one thing, Owen Wilson was all but wasted in his role asLt. Barnett.  No chances to utilize the deft comic touch he'sdisplayed in Shanghai Noon or Zoolander.  All he had to do in thisfilm was run from guys shooting at him, and while he does thateffectively, what's the point?  I wish that he had been given thefreedom to do more with the role.  Meanwhile Gene Hackman essentially reprised the same role thathe had in Crimson Tide, then as a sub captain, now a shipadmiral.  Though it is a role his fills well, it's not as interestinganymore.Also, Enemy Lines strains plausibility more than even the mostunbelievable flag-waving war film...the scene where he hides in agraveyard of corpses with the enemy literally walking over him wasespecially ludicrous.And I found myself annoyed by much of director John Moore'scamera work.  Obviously he's yet another commercial director,based on the frenetic herky-jerky camera work on display here. Can't these guys just hold the camera still and let the actionunfold, as opposed to trying to create the action with a bunch ofquick cuts and shaky shots?I really wanted this movie to be good, and just because it's betterthan most of the other films out right now, that's still no excuse forbeing mediocre.  It could've been much more.Perhaps the true test of a movie's worth I will not be buying thisone when it is available on DVD.6/10. "},{"Title":"forgettable Hollywood war movie that begs you to leave your brain at home...","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Director John Moore's debut film is just another pointless Hollywood war movie that will probably get beaten by the critics and embraced by the general multiplex crowd. The plot revolves around a rescue over enemy territory and gets even more vague as it goes along. The viewer never finds out too many plot details but are expected to let their eyes glaze over, enjoy their popcorn, and ask no questions. There are no unpredictable moments and nothing about the film that makes you want to talk about it afterwards. Although the film does contain a solid performance by Gene Hackman, he cannot carry the movie being a supporting actor alone. It is left to Owen Wilson, who is by no means an action superhero or leading man.There are a lot of slow motion action sequences that become a little boring after a while. It almost makes you want to look for the remote with the fast forward button. It's like watching a music video with the sound off.The film was supposed to come out early next year but was pushed due to the studio thinking that everyone would want to see an American soldier rescued from the foreign enemies in their war-torn country. They're probably right, too. It screen tested well nationally and locally, so why not $trike while the iron is hot?I wouldn't recommend this to too many movie buffs. I mean, it is mindlessly entertaining, but why waste your time when there's much better out there? Wait for video if you care to see it, otherwise let it make its peaceful voyage to the video graveyard.  "},{"Title":"Worth the price of admission!","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  A fairly involving story about the war in Bosnia with Owen Wilson playing a happy go-lucky flyboy who is shot down behind enemy lines and Gene Hackman as the crusty Navy Admiral who violates orders in an attempt to bring his boy home. Wilson gives a more complete performance than in the more comical roles he is primarily known for and Hackman, as always, is very good. While the story at times defies credibility and plays fast and loose with the real story of the Bosnian war, it does keep moving and revs up the suspense and tension. The scene where the jet is shot down alone is worth the price of admission. GRADE B+ "},{"Title":"Worth a trip to the theater. (Spoilers)","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  A surveillance mission leads to a Navy jet getting shot down and the remainder of the movie is about the navigator, Lt. Burnett (Owen Wilson), on the run from the enemy while Gene Hackman works to save him from the USS Carl Vinson in the Adriatic Sea.  Most things in the movie are believable with one exception.  In the final action scene, a storm of gunfire rains down as  Lt. Burnett makes a dash for the helicopter rescuing him when he suddenly remembers he needs the film from his surveillance mission.  He takes an astronomical risk to run back to his ejected seat and recover the film.  My question is why on earth did he not have it in his pocket all ready?????  He was on a surveillance mission for crying out loud!  Did he not think the photos he risked his life for would be important when he was rescued?  This isn't a bad movie, but it won't be one that finds a place among my DVDs either.   "},{"Title":"`Enemy Lines' has the look, but not the heart of `Top Gun'","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  A couple nights before I went to see `Behind Enemy Lines,' I saw, by pure chance, mind you, the final hour of `Top Gun.' After watching that 80's classic, I went into `Enemy Lines' with raised expectations. In the fifteen or so years since `Top Gun,' there have certainly been some technical improvements in moviemaking, so `Enemy Lines' must be a new millenium visual treat. And it was. The film starts out with our main character, navigator-bombardier, Lt. Chris Burnett (Owen Wilson) preparing to take off on a mission over the former republic of Yugoslavia. Unfortunately, an engine flames out. Burnett, after some seven years in the navy has grown disillusioned and wants out. One thing stands in Burnett's way-his tough, demanding commanding officer, Adm. Riegart (Gene Hackman). As a punishment, he and his pilot are assigned a Christmas-day recon mission. While flying, they take pictures of a mass grave being filled in by the Serbs who had recently signed a peace accord. To cover up their deed, the Serbs shoot down Burnett's plane. Both Stackhouse (Gabriel Macht), the pilot, and Burnett land safely, but the Serbs catch up with Stackhouse and kill him. Now the race begins. The Serbs, naturally, are afraid of NATO retribution, so the set out to kill Burnett before he can be rescued. Meanwhile, Riegart sets a rescue plan into motion. While Riegart plans, the French NATO commander, Adm. Piquet (Joachim de Almeida), is trying to preserve the peace by setting exacting standards for Burnett's rescue. Pursued by Sasha (Vladimir Mashkov), a Serbian master tracker, Burnett must find his way through Serbian army units, mined warehouses, sniper-filled woods, and a truck full of Elvis impersonators to get to his rescue point. I was genuinely entertained by this movie. Although it does not have a world-class script (the plot is more transparent than Casper the Ghost on diet pills), Owen Wilson is able to come across as a fairly normal guy, frustrated by the system that he seems to be trapped in and now questioning his ethical standards. Gene Hackman is also entertaining as the stereotypical tough-as-nails-but-with-a-soft-heart-type of commander. But all is not well. `Behind Enemy Lines' really needed only one thing to be a great film-attention to reality. Am I really supposed to buy Burnett time after time avoiding massive volleys of gunfire directed at him? Come on! The Balkan people have been constantly at war for the past decade. I would assume that most of the soldiers left would be able to accurately fire a gun at a target. And after Burnett runs through a mine field with explosions right and left, is he wounded, if only with a superficial scratch that looks like it might have come from a shaving accident? The answer for those of you playing at home is a resounding NO. Another thing that annoyed me was the over-exaggeration of technology. Now I know that the United States has some pretty good satellites, but can one really be expected to pick up a single man running through hostile terrain? Uh&#133;no. Now that I got that little rant out of the way, let me give a little bit more praise. The jet scenes were absolutely awesome. It looked so real, in fact, that I almost thought that it came from actual footage, but in retrospect, no plane could have stayed with an F-16 so closely for that long. The camera work was a bit unusual; combining both slow- and fast-motion shots of both the chase scenes and the jet scenes. And one other thing, the music was perfect. Don Davis's (`The Matrix) scoring was over-the-top, which was a nice touch to this patriotic movie. One other thing lacked in this movie when compared to `Top Gun.' In `Top Gun,' you actually begin feeling for the characters, urging them on or yelling at them not to do this or that. Of course, that might just be my thoughts&#133;Anyway, `Enemy Lines,' while well-executed, I could not see myself silently urging Burnett on because it just wouldn't fit the film. On a side note, before you go see this movie, be up-to-date on the Balkan situation. Know who's fighting who and where (I would like to thank my World Geo teacher, Mr. Decker, for giving us loads of copies on the Balkans-great research material). Now for the rating itself&#133;89 percent out of 100. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Gotta say I liked it.  It's got a fast-paced plot and some good action scenes.  found it very entertaining, but as is the case with all movies it is definitely flawed, which will ruin the fun for some people.The flick seems to fluctuate from crowd-pleaser to serious meditation on the horrors of war.  some of it was just pure excitement, but the really serious scenes (especially those involving Hackman's dialog) seemed distracting and out of place.There's also a chuckle provoking scene where Wilson narrowly escapes the baddies only to remove his disguise just a few feet away from the enemy Serbs.Also, how did all that armor make it's way up the hill without Wilson hearing it?That said, it was still a good time, and I really like Owen Wilson.  Sure he's pretty much the same guy in most of his films, but I find his persona likeable.  And the scenes with the missiles pursuing the fighter plane are knockout stuff, the definite highpoint...But I won't even mention the song at the end...... "},{"Title":"It's all Owen Wilson","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I really wanted to like this film. I was hoping for an updated Bat 21 with Hackman on the other side of the radio, but instead got a 80's-like action flick complete with music video scenes that play out like unused Top Gun footage...I kept waiting for that Smashmouth anthem found in every other movie to come out the last two years to blare out of the speakers during every single action sequence...but alas, I think they only used bad 80's music. The director uses every cinematographic trick from the bag without scrutiny, creating such an awareness that this is only a movie with actors filmed by a director and a cinematographer, that it was entirely distracting. It's like what would happen if you gave a grade-school kid a box of 1000 crayons to color a picture--you can bet that he's going to find a way to use every single crayon whether or not it's for the benefit of the picture...it's no wonder though, all the director's done before this is TV commercials.This is yet another movie that made me squirm with embarrassment to be in the same theater with when the credits rolled.  However, Owen Wilson...this film's only ongoing bright spot. In a film full of cliched dialogue, story and scene representation, every one of Wilson's reactions, spoken lines...everything, has a nuance that removes itself from the rest of the drivel. He's such an unlikely casting selection for this role that's better suited for the likes of Stephen Baldwin or Casper Van Dien, and his unwillingness to play an action hero here works so well that this film confuses me. It's a movie I dislike so much, but still want to see again for Wilson's performance. I guess I'll be good to myself and just wait for The Royal Tenenbaums.  "},{"Title":"A well-directed, if unoriginal, modern war thriller","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Take a bit of Top Gun (gung-ho, renegade Navy Pilots take their fighter plane for a bit of off-mission acrobatics); add a bit of Crimson Tide (tense, on-ship arguments between two equally bull-headed commanders), a Fugitive-stylechase and Enemy at the Gates sniping; chuck in the latest in clevercinematography (cross-processed film a la Three Kings; flo-mo a la The Matrix; ultra-fast shots being played back at standard speed a la Lock,Stock/Snatch); some gritty Saving Private Ryan style battle scenes and you're someway towards this well-directed, if unoriginal, war thriller. Set in the recent Bosnian conflict, it follows the attempts of a Navy navigator (Wilson - showing he can handle straight drama, with his geeky vulnerability a refreshing change to the square-jawed military stereotypes) to escape capture and certain execution after being shot down by Serbian rebels. Hackman (ingruff-by-numbers mode) is his admiral, fighting his NATO superior for the right to go and rescue his man. The horror of the conflict is over-simplified by the film in favour of the straight race-against-time thriller, but there are some genuinely disturbing moments,not least when our hero ends up face down in a mass grave. In conclusion, this is a watchable, if unoriginal, war thriller with more than a nod or eight to film favourites  - hey, there's even a joke about Castaway.... "}{"Title":"Sadly, nothing you haven't seen before","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I must admit, I was a little leery of Behind Enemy Lines.  I've read more than a few movie magazines this year, and knew when and what to expect among films due out this year.  I do not remember reading anything about Behind Enemy Lines.  My first exposure to it was a preview seen a few weeks ago.  The PG 13 rating also scared me a bit, as most serious action movies usually depict enough material to merit the R rating.  Toss in the fact that I saw the excellent Spy Game the day earlier, and I must admit that I really didn't go into this movie expecting a blockbuster.  My intuition was correct.  Behind Enemy Lines has the look to me of a movie that was just sort of thrown together.  It isn't so much that it is uneven, poorly acted, or excessively unrealistic.  It is just that its...well, nothing special.  As a previous viewer stated earlier, the film is very very predictable; if ever there was a paint by numbers plot, this is it.  The characters (and there are really only 3 that you know much of anything about) are pretty stereotypical, especially Gene Hackman's character.  He could very easily have been played by the same Carrier Commander from Top Gun and you wouldn't have noticed the difference.  Owen Wilson does a better job than expected here, and I have no problem with his casting in this role.  The villains are standard garden variety goons.  I feel that the movie would have been better if it had provided more of an insight into the sniper character, but you basically know nothing more about the character at the end of the film than you do at the beginning, other than he was interned in a prison camp somewhere at some time.  The action is fairly well done, especially the F/A-18 segment.  When I think back to the films I saw for the first time in 2001, Behind Enemy Lines is going to fall into the just another flick category.  I'm not sorry I saw it, nor will I make any special effort to see it again in the next year or so.  It is pretty much an average movie, and one that might be more appealing to those that didn't see Bat 21 (starring Gene Hackman of all people) or Flight of the Intruder, two Vietnam Era movies from the early 1990's with similar subject matter that I consider superior to this film.   "},{"Title":"Pure Crap","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Reality is suspended in theater, yet when a plot is so far-fetched that you must induce a sense of gullibility, enjoyment is hard to come by.  This flick was pure crap.  I laughed through much of the action scenes for the mistakes were glaring.First, the jet is shot down by Serb forces behind enemy lines and Wilson's character, Burnett, nonchalantly walks up the open field hilltop where his pilot, Stackhouse, is injured.  What does Burnett do?  He stands up for a while, joking with his pilot, then walks away in search of something- leaving his pilot in plain sight of any advancing party.  Hello?  If enemy forces just shot your butt down, don't you think they'll have enough motivation to search for you?So Burnett spends the whole movie running away miraculously dodging tank shells and running through minefields, while Gene Hackman's admiral character spends the whole movie being a yes-man to a NATO admiral.  Then the ending sees Burnett turn into a Rambo character while Hackman suddenly has the balls to do what he should have done from the beginning- rescue his damn pilot.Many flaws with the relationship between U.S. forces and NATO.  American forces rescue American servicemen, simply put.  European NATO forces do not go in to do our job, we're often doing their job.  No American admiral would be that willing to sacrifice an American serviceman over the fishy orders of a NATO admiral.  What cause the NATO admiral would have to be in cahoots with Serb forces was never even hinted at.  Also, the jet originally took a picture of a Serb convoy, but this somehow gets changed to a picture of an open genocide grave at the end.  If Serb forces were really concerned about aerial surveillance of the grave, they would have covered it up. "},{"Title":"Gene Hackman carries the movie!","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I'm not too familiar with the story that it's based off of, but the movie isn't bad. When the pilots of a fighter jet on a reconnaissance mission sees something they aren't supposed to, they are shot down 'behind enemy lines'. One pilot is killed, & forces the other to be on the run. It's up to the Navy to get him back safe & sound. Navy Admiral Gene Hackman helps this so-so movie into a great movie. Owen Wilson isn't bad, but Hackman's acting makes this movie great. "},{"Title":"A good movie","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  A good popcorn flick, and one of the better action movies of the year. Owen Wilson, who I have NEVER been impressed with, actually does a decent job in this movie, but Gene Hackman is true star of the show. He does great in this movie as he always does. First-time director John Moore seems to try all his tricks in this movie (he has previously directed mostly commercials, and you might be able to tell that as you watch), and although some might find that to be distracting, I enjoyed his directing style. (One example I especially enjoyed was a super-slow motion shot of a soldier setting of a nearby mine.) Action movie fans should probably check this one out.7/10 "},{"Title":"Great Saturday night movie.","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film with four friends on a Saturday night and I can tell you that it isn't boring for even one second.  It moves extremely well but has absolutely no academic redemption whatsoever.  It is strictly a sound and editing picture.  It works fine because it has a peculiar strain of action in so much that it draws the viewer's senses in to the point of pleasant addiction.  The gun shots are realistic and not the typical sound effects you're used to.  They sound like the reality you would experience in a news program or documentary.  Debuting director John Moore has a rapid movement of camera angles and hand held shots similar to 'Saving Private Ryan'.  Gene Hackman and Owen Wilson are caricatures rather than characters and while this movie stretches credibility from time to time, it is a satisfying piece that crosses 'Uncommon Valor' with 'Top Gun' on a low key type of scale. "},{"Title":"Good action, not much else","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  The climax of the movie comes very early, it's when the F18 is being chased by the SAM missles.  Extremely good/cool action there, but then everything falls apart gradually.  It's like a cartoon where the hero just doesn't die. The bad guy sniper is unbelivably lousy, he can't hit a 18-wheeler within in 10 feet.But the F18/SAM scene itself is worth the theater visit.  "},{"Title":"Empty headed fun","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I am especially glad to see a flight officer be the hero this time.  He is a NAVIGATOR, the backseater.  Goose, not Maverick.  Not that pilots aren't wonderful... but there are other crew members on most military planes and they never get any credit for anything.  Even the movie itself states The American people want their pilot back.Since the trailers give away the whole plot, I'm not spoiling anything when I say the scene where the plane gets shot down is very well done.  The SAM chase is exciting, and I don't think I've ever seen a more realistic depiction of an aircraft being destroyed.  It's good to see on the big screen for this, if nothing else.If you close your eyes to the great big holes in the plot and a truckload of cliches, you will have a fun time watching this movie.   "},{"Title":"Unbelievable, but I didn't really care.  **Possible Spoilers**","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Ok, if this movie had come out before September 11th, I admit I would have slammed this movie into the ground. But since I have a newly realized sense of patriotism, I happened to like that Hollywood finally made a modern military film that depicts The American Spirit in a positive way.Hollywood has made plenty of films about the U.S. military. But the bulk of them tends to portray the U.S. as a big bully or a satirical icon. Or they simply choose to make films like Crimson Tide or A Few Good Men that depict the dark side of the military. When Hollywood does make military movies that show the U.S. Military in a positive light, they usually center on events that occurred during World War II (Saving Private Ryan, The Big Red One, Band Of Brothers, Pearl Harbor). We really haven't had a war as legendary as World War II, and let's face it, there are maybe a couple of movies that portray Vietnam as anything other than dark and nightmarish(Operation Dumbo Drop, Good Morning Vietnam, scenes in Forrest Gump). The Gulf War is now being adapted to movies (In The Army Now...to some extent, Courage Under Fire, Three Kings). I was afraid that our military efforts in Bosnia would be overlooked by Hollywood.On to the movie...Owen Wilson was perfectly cast as Lieutenant Chris Burnett, the everyman main character who rose to the occasion despite his past. His performance redefined the concept of the American Hero. In the past, Wilson has chosen parts that emphasize his comedic talents (Meet The Parents, Bottle Rocket, Zoolander), and he brings elements of his comedic timing into his performance in Behind Enemy Lines. Which is not to say that he was comedic in his portrayal of LT Burnett, but it added depth to his character as a whole, especially since a lesser actor would have played his part as shallow as a puddle. At times, we see Wilson's Burnett as scared, other times he is laid back, and other times he is as determined to get the job done as any other action hero. Plus, Wilson had to do most his major lines by himself. It is that multilayered performance that I believe saved this movie.As far as the supporting cast goes, Gene Hackman works the material to the best of his ability. But he gets the worst lines in the movie. It is unfortunate because Hackman is so good at playing the career military officer with a touch of roguish charm as he did in Crimson Tide. Joaquim De Almeida gives a minimal performance as the NATO Chief with his own agenda, and is the sole voice of opposition again Hackman's character. Almeida holds his own against Hackman, but we just don't see enough of him. Rent Desperado if you want to see Almeida in action. David Keith has done Naval movies in the past (Men Of Honor, U-571), and his performance in this one was solid. Olek Krupa also gives a fine performance as the leader of the renegade Serb troops that are after LT Burnett. He has little to do but scowl and bark orders, but he does it in a realistic way, with plenty of emotion to back it up. Gabriel Macht's performance as LT Stackhouse (Burnett's pilot) was very convincing and he plays off of Wilson's character very well. The friendship between Burnett and Stackhouse is one of the high points of the film. I only wish that we were given more scenes where the two friends get to interact more often and show more levels of their relationship.People may call this Top Gun In Bosnia, and I admit, the first quarter does seem like that. But after Burnett and Stackhouse crash, it becomes a different story altogether. What started as a film about young Navy pilots horsing around on an aircraft carrier a la Top Gun, it becomes a cat-and-mouse game a la Enemy At The Gates. There are many unbelievable moments, such as the few times that Burnett evades hails of bullets and mortars fired by Serb troops and emerges unharmed. The final battle scene with Marine Hilos firing grenade launchers and miniguns upon Serb troops(who are also firing their own weapons), and with Burnett caught in the middle of it all while managing to emerge unscathed yet again, caused me to roll my eyes a bit. But the film was fast paced and beautifully photographed, the film did make war-torn Bosnia seem picturesque in its own way. Some camera techniques seemed to be lifted directly from the Omaha Beach scene in Saving Private Ryan, but it is used effectively in this case as well. As in Saving Private Ryan, the technique is used to show the hectic pace by which battles are fought. The movie also uses freeze frames and close-ups effectively. John Moore's direction was technically flawless, using gorgeous cinematography to move the narrative along as well as establishing an overall theme of movement in the film; this film never slows down.Overall, this film is exciting. With action scenes as mesmorizing as they are impossible, great acting by Owen Wilson and decent acting from the supporting cast, this film finally shows the modern American military in a positive light. If you see this movie, you will have a newfound faith in the American spirit, even if you do have to suspend your disbelief.I give this movie an 7, on a scale of 1 to 10. "},{"Title":"Better than expected.","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  The movie, when taken for what it is, a popcorn action film, is actually quite a bit better than I expected. For one, I hadn't quite pictured Owen Wilson as an effective lead in an action movie, so I was skeptical to begin with.  Also, as popcorn action films go, they are usually at least good (worthy of a 6 or so) so I hadn't expected more than that.  As many have said before, the story is fairly predictable and I wouldn't disagree.  That knocks it down a point or so in my book but at the same time it's not a terribly bad thing.  Many many many movies, some of which are quite good, are predictable... the question at that point becomes  Ok then... what about everything else?First off, the acting was commendable.  Maybe no Oscar winning performances, but Wilson was more than adequate in this film.  The action was plentiful and at times reasonably suspenseful.  The visual style of the film was also very effective and added to the enjoyment without being overdone.  I'm very glad that the director didn't over-use some of the popular slow-mo photography styles of the day.  The overall visual style helped immerse you into the dirty, gritty, bleak surroundings in which the film takes place.Bottom line is, if you're an action fan, you shouldn't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Bullets fly and things explode.","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I went to this movie hoping to see Owen Wilson running from explosions.  I wasn't disappointed.  When trapped behind enemy lines, Owen's character comes up a great plan  run like hell.  Then he starts running, amid explosions and flying bullets, and doesn't stop till the movie ends.  So, if you want to see a movie featuring Owen Wilson running from explosions, this is the one to see. "}{"Title":"Ugh, the nausea . . . (may include a SPOILER)","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I definitely agree with one of the other commenters that the cameraman should be shot.  It was like watching the Blair Witch Project, with more missiles and guns (though, I daresay the BWP could have used a few well placed missiles).  I'm sure the filming budget included something more than a man with a handheld camcorder running behind Owen Wilson.As for the characters, again we have Gene Hackman in what is becoming for him a typecast role.  As we saw in Crimson Tide, Hackman is the crusty old war hero who knows everything, while all the other characters can't even blow their noses.  But then at the end (sniff!), he sees the error of his ways and becomes a better man.  Awwww.  Owen Wilson plays a pretty good Lt. Burnett.  Another hot-doggin' fighter pilot (think Tom Cruise) wanting to see some action; this is a character becoming standard in any shoot-'em up war film these days, but that's okay.  We can handle that!  The bad guys are thoroughly bad.  And the effects are good, when they aren't bouncing all over the screen.  So, if your just in the mood for an okay war film, light on the comedy, light on the drama, heavy on the artillery -- enjoy! "},{"Title":"Style over substance, entertaining nonetheless","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Behind Enemy Lines tells the tale of a U.S. Navy pilot shot down in Bosnia during the time of that country's conflict. The story is loosely based on the true events surrounding Lt. Scott O'Grady-a U.S. pilot shot down over enemy territory and recovered by American forces. The similarities to real historical events begin and end there.Owen Wilson plays Lt. Burnett, who, while flying a standard recon mission, crosses into hostile territory to photograph suspicious military activity. A rebel group shoots down his plane, and subsequently hunts him down. He must now escape these hostile forces, traverse harsh terrain, and weather foggy politics to find his way to safety. Guiding him via radio is his commanding officer, played by Gene Hackman.What one first notices about this film is that it's definitely aimed at the MTV generation. Quick cuts, variable film speeds, CG effects, hyper-real photography and heavy use of filters give the film a music video feel at times. Thankfully, this never overpowers the story, and in some cases, it adds to the drama. (Two great scenes involve the effect of a land mine on a soldier, and the inner workings of an ejection seat firing.) Some viewers will feel these techniques are overused-it all depends on your tolerance for stylishness.Needless to say, the action scenes are stars of this film. While they aren't wholly original, they are presented in such a way that they seem fresh and exciting. The opening sequence when Burnett's plane is shot down is truly amazing, and there's a scene involving an abandoned minefield that's fantastic-a highly memorable set piece. Many of the combat scenes also feel reminiscent of Saving Private Ryan-frenetic yet crisply photographed.An interesting point regarding the action Some viewers have cited scenes where Burnett seems to be in danger, and in the next scene he is shown to be in relative safety-the scenes depicting his explicit escape missing. While this is a valid point, there really isn't any jarring lack of continuity here. These missing scenes are directly related to the danger level of Burnett's situation. In other words, the filmmaker NEVER presents us with a scene in which Burnett triggers a land mine, and then cuts to him having a sandwich. The director simply omits scenes in which Burnett is not in any imminent danger. It's assumed he finds his way to temporary safe haven.Some have also commented that the action here seems far-fetched. True, yet the action is no more far-fetched than in any film in the genre. If you can stomach Die Hard, Goldeneye, Mission Impossible 1, or any GOOD action film in the past 25 years, you shouldn't have a problem with this one.As far as the performances go, there's much to like. Owen Wilson does a great job as an amiable everyman. He gives us a refreshingly low-key performance, and presents us with a new take on the typical soldier character.  Gene Hackman proves once again that subtlety is what acting is about. Many actors-especially in war films-feel that yelling and chewing scenery equals talent. Hackman continues to put actors like DeNiro and Pacino to shame in this area.Unfortunately, these likeable performances are squandered on semi-flat characters. There isn't much depth or back story to Burnett or his commanding officer. The feeble attempts to show Burnett's home life are just that feeble. There really isn't much for us to latch onto and care about, and that's a shame. In short, there's little more to these characters than what happens to them in the 2 hours we see them.The film also stumbles in it's presentation of the overall conflict. One would think the filmmaker would attempt to present the confusing Bosnian theater in a simple, filmgoer-friendly manner, but he does not. While one can excuse that for the sake of drama, one can't ignore the loose ends left hanging when the director does decide to present a heavy political issue. *SPOILER* When Hackman's character leaks information to the press to expedite Burnett's rescue, a fellow admiral points out a flaw in his logic He may save his pilot, but in doing so, he has endangered the peace process, which may result in thousands of deaths.  Unfortunately, we never see how this point plays out. *END SPOILER*In the end, the film never quite rises to the dramatic pinnacle it aspires to. It comes close, and many will undoubtedly clap when its over, but it seems a bit forced and flat. (Due to the flat characters.) It would not be surprising if many viewers forget this film days after seeing it. The filmmakers should have taken a page from Crimson Tide or even Sniper--military films that stay with the viewer.Flaws aside, Behind Enemy Lines still manages to entertain.  It's an effective action film that gives us a fresh style of action and a new type of soldier (thanks to Owen Wilson), and it's worth seeing. If I had to rate it, I'd give it a solid 6.5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"A great MOVIE","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I went to see this movie after reading the New York Times review, and I have to say that the Times was right on.  No, this is not a great film, the way The Elephant Man or Citizen Kane is, but it is a well done movie.  The plot is fairly conventional, the execution was really good.  This was the directors first film, and he does well.  I felt that his use of special effects enhanced the film, though I know some felt it detracted.  The use of slow motion and sound after explosions fits into what soldiers have said about what they feel at that moment.  The director knows how to ratchet up the suspense, and though in the back of my mind I knew how it would end, I still felt suspense at what would happen.The performance by Owen Wilson was great.  I have liked what he has done in the past, and this was totally different.  Here, he is an action hero, but then again, he isn't.  He seemed to come across as a regular guy, even a bit cynical about being a soldier, who is thrust into a situation that needs extraordinary courage and reflexes to get out of.  He aquit himself very well.Gene Hackman did a great job, as usuall, as Wilson's commander.  Hackman can take any role and make you believe that it is a real person.All in all, this is worth watching if you want to see a fun war related film, that is patriotic.  It even gets into, though subtley, the reason for being in any war. "},{"Title":"Behind Enemy Lines = 1991's Flight of the Inturder recycled just new location!","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  If you've seen the 1991 movie Flight of the Intruder which starred Brad Johnson and Danny Glover, you've seen this movie before. All Hollywood did was change the location to Bosnia! Big deal! The movie itself is OK but at times I'd swear this movie was misrated! It should of been rated R for all the war violence! I felt like I was watching Pearl Harbor's battle scenes over a 90 minute period! Gene Hackman gives us his usual miltary performance in this movie. Although he acts like he is just doing it for the paycheck. Owen Wilson was OK in the role of Bennet who is lost in Bosnia over the holiday season. Both of these actors have done better work. I think Owen Wilson should stick to comedy or else try a new genre in his next flick. Hackman can do well in almost everything . I just find it hard to believe that i like him better in his past movies.If you must see this, wait for it to reach your cheap movie theaters. Or better yet wait for on DVD! I belive there are several times in the movie which has bad editing. Or better yet, save yourself your hard earned cash and watch 1991's Flight of the Intruder! This movie is a rip-off of it!  "},{"Title":"Cross the LINE...","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  BEHIND ENEMY LINES BBEHIND ENEMY LINES is a fun thriller with wham-bam effects and a high budget. It's true to the genre and it delivers the goods.Owen Wilson stars as a hot shot Navy flier named Burnett. Him and his partner Stackhouse (Gabriel Macht) are assigned to a recon mission. They pick up some activity on their radar and check it out using their shiny new digital camera. What they see are mass graves and illegal troop movements. Not good at all. The Serbians have signed a peace treaty and they are now breaking it. The Serbs fire two missiles at Burnett and Stackhouse. This leads to a heart-pumping, visual masterpiece of a scene. The best part in the movie, by far. One of the missiles hits the plane and the two pilots eject, landing in God knows where. Burnett goes to higher ground to get his radio to work and leaves Stackhouse there. Troops arrive including Tracker (Vladimir Mashkov) and his commander Lokar (Olek Krupa). They shoot Stackhouse in the head. Burnett is trying to make it out of there alive but Tracker just keep coming after him. Back on the navy ship, Admiral Reigart (Gene Hackman) is trying his all to save this kid. We wants to go in and rescue him, but his superior, Amdiral Piquet (Joaquim de Almeida), won't let him. Throughout the movie, Burnett dodges bullets, missiles, and works his way around land mines.BEHIND ENEMY LINES is not without flaw, though. It uses and reuses the tired cliché where the entire Serbian army shoots thousands of bullets at him, yet every one conveniently misses him. He shoots back and hits them right between the eyes. This has been used since the early Bond films and annoys me every time. Wilson does a fine job as Burnett. He's the goof around type, but when it comes time to get serious, boy he gets serious. Hackman, as always, is great as Reigart. Hackman has made a career of playing these guys and in this one he exceeds admirably. One thing that did bug the snot of out me, was the camera. It was neat in the beginning and slowly worked its way up to obnoxious. Director John Moore has only had experience in commercials and that kind of camera movement works well in thirty second commercials, not in two hour movies.BEHIND ENEMY LINES is tired and choppy, but gee-whiz, does it ever entertain. It's suspenseful, big, loud, and flashy. "},{"Title":"War is Hollywood","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  *Contains Spoilers* There are several diametrically opposed critiques I can see being honestly and reasonably written about this film. It is hokey; it is over-the-top exciting.  It is stirring; it is jingoistic hogwash with good market timing. It is not believable; it is a film you have to work with (i.e. don't be so literal-minded). Because it is THE big Hollywood patriotic/military roll-out for that gulf between September 11 and January 1, I wanted to like this film. --A lot. Undeniably, it is at times one of the most exhilerating films I have ever seen. (The early scene of the flyers trying to evade heat seeking missiles will not allow you to draw a breath. A certified rouser!) There are three areas where I take exception 1) The male lead is dislikable. I realize this is subjective as anything else I will say, but after establishing himself as a care-nothing smart ass early on, it is hard for us to overcome our calloused reaction, when trouble arrives, that The jerk is on his own. Of course we do care, as we would to see anyone in his situation. But with a better chosen lead, we would have cared more. (See Hitchcock on the subject of the death-kiss an unlikable lead plants on a film.) 2) The Rambo III level of incredible narrow escapes. By the 4th time I saw our boy running through a dense hailstorm of hot lead, I wanted to grab a rifle, commandeer a tank, and say Let ME show you how it's done. Hair-breadth escape is exciting once. The 4th or 5th time, you know you are being worked, and further, that everything will turn out OK, even when physics says it couldn't. Being able to relax as to the outcome of a serious drama is what series TV has always been about. 3) In the end, the navigator who has been through hell on earth retrieves his letter of resignation and wads it up as the music swells. His gesture could have been made credible with more careful writing. But coming as it does before he has had a shower, indeed before the sweat and blood are even dried on his skin, this moment rings so forced, so Hollywood. If you crave a feel-good, lightweight patriotic movie for the holiday, this might be it. 7.5 stars-- Mainly because even trash can be exciting at time. "},{"Title":"Nonstop Action","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  An exciting film, and a well-told story.  Owen Wilson and Gene Hackman do a terrific job of making this film credible; this is to be expected from the veteran actor Hackman, but Wilson doesn't get left behind in the acting department, luckily, since the movie centers on him.Yeah, the camera work is jerky in spots, and yeah, we get all the tricks, but this only adds to the urgency of the situation.  You'll be on the edge of your seat throughout the whole movie.  And big-time kudos to the stuntmen involved, especially in the bridge scene.On the eve of the Army-Navy game, at least this movie gives us USN-types something to cheer about this year.... "},{"Title":"Interesting sign of the times movie","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  A dangerous, fugitive enemy running away in mountainous terrain from a massive army bent on tracking him down and killing him...hmmm...during these patriotic times it is impossible to miss the irony of this theme.  It's no secret why this movie was supposedly moved up from a January release.  And for a non-American, the flag-waving can get a bit much, but overall this movie, when it sticks to its narrow aims of delivering a taut chase thriller with lots of blow-em-up scenes, mainly achieves its aims.  I had to double check the director--I thought Jerry Bruckheimer and Tony Scott from Top Gun was doing a sequel, right down to the CSI-type of what happened here based on the current evidence flashbacks.  We've seen it all before--Uncommon Valour, another Gene Hackman device comes to mind--but I thought the choice of Owen Wilson was not a bad one--he is not physically menacing like a Schwarzenegger so he draws quite a bit of empathy as a Mr. Everyman thrown into heroic circumstances.  And I must say the art direction of a grey and destroyed Bosnia was quite good, as was the casting of authentic Eastern Europeans in the Serbian (?) role--the Tracker dude in particular was convincingly menacing.  I would have liked a little fleshing out of the politics of the conflict, but let's face it--the bad guys are really bad, the higher-up politicos are slime, and the good guys must win in the end.  See it on the big screen, get a big bag of popcorn, and promptly forget about it 30 minutes after you leave the theatre. "},{"Title":"good action","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  yeah the flight scenes were good, the action scenes were good...the constant hand-held photography during the action was distracting. My favorite characters were David Keith and Hackman. (he's got a great scene of self-doubt) The plot was thin, and I kept wondering how they could embellish the story so much. I give it a C+ overall, but worth seeing in the theatre for the flight scenes ( a Top Gun effect) "},{"Title":"Story wise it is somewhat weak, but outside of this it is a reasonably enaging and fairly suspenseful film","Date":"30 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Lt Chris Burnett (Owen Wilson) is a Navy Navigator who has now become uninterested in further pursuing his career in this role. He effectively resigns and hand his notice in to his commanding officer Admiral Leslie Reigert (Gene Hackman). Reigert informs him that he'll allow Burnett to stay on for a further two weeks after which time he will be relieved of duty. Following this, Burnett along with his colleague pilot Stackhouse (Gabriel Macht) are sent out on a holiday mission, but things take a turn for the worse when they enter an unauthorised area and find themselves under attack from Serbian militants. Their plane gets shot down, Stackhouse gets killed and Burnett finds himself on the run from the militants. Reigert does everything in his power to rescue his navigator, but his superiors refuse to authorise a rescue. With Burnett battling against impossible odds, will he survive this nightmare ordeal? One major problem this film has is that it's very weak in terms of story telling- we have a very sketchy narrative about the war in Bosnia, the genocide that occurred in Bosnia is almost completely glossed over (there are one or two flashbacks, but the film doesn't do much to emotionally engage the viewer - which is quite poor when you think about the atrocities that occurred and how much of an impact could have been made on the viewer). It's also clear that no-one is likely to accuse the writers of being objective in their story telling -there definitely seems to be a lot of bias and 'flag waving' going on from what I saw.The positives that can be drawn from this film are that, despite its misgivings, it is actually a suspenseful and engaging film. When watching this film, I was reminded of The Naked Prey which was basically one man's survival against a large number of people against all odds with limited resources. Burnett's rather elaborate escapes were clever and entertaining and therefore I did enjoy this aspect of the film (albeit from a somewhat superficial perspective). The visuals and cinematography were also impressive. In some ways, these things are great as they do make the film enjoyable and great to look at, but in some ways they also have the opposite effect by over powering the film and limiting the story - evidently I see good and bad here.As far as acting goes, Hackman was as solid and reliable as ever. Wilson was also fairly good. The ending was a little overblown and 'Hollywood' and it wasn't helped by a somewhat cheesy final line from Burnett.This is a fairly enjoyable film if you look at it as a suspenseful 'one man against the odds film' but outside of this it's a film that should have had a much stronger narrative and it should have had more of an emotive core. It's OK as far as action and suspense go, but it's weak in its story telling. "}{"Title":"Lots of things blown up","Date":"6 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" F-18 Fighter navigator Chris Burnett (Owen Wilson) is tired of boring meaningless flying over the Balkins. On a routine Christmas mission, he gets stuck on a recon mission. They go off course to scout a target, but get shot down. The Serbs find the pilot and executes him. Chris goes on the run alone against massive forces. Meanwhile Admiral Leslie McMahon Reigart (Gene Hackman) in command of the carrier sets out to rescue the down pilot despite orders not to.There are many things going wrong with this movie. First there is no way any command would not go to Hell to rescue a down pilot. A bit of diplomacy is not going to stop any American command. The only possible excuse is logistics, and an aircraft carrier has all the logistic they need.Then there is the standard bad guys can't shot straight. Owen Wilson is bullet proof. They are blowing up the entire country and yet they keep missing the guy. It gets ridiculous after awhile.This is a blow em up action thriller disguised as a realistic military movie. If you forget any pretense of real danger, this is a good fun time having things explode. "},{"Title":"Ho-Hum","Date":"2 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Gene Hackman reprises the role of 1980's 'Bat 21', in this equally pedestrian war movie. Whereas in the former outing it's Hackman who is downed behind enemy lines and being talked through his dilemma and inexperience by 'angel' Danny Glover; in 'Behind Enemy Lines' it's Owen Wilson's turn to be the shot-down schmuck, whilst Gene Hackman - now a generation older, and way beyond his action-man days - plays the navy Admiral responsible for his recovery.From Vietnam we have moved to Bosia. In the intervening years, filming has become more lavish, music and sound-scores slicker, but otherwise it's business as usual. There's no point griping about all the clichés; without them the movie would be half its length. Once off the carrier and over the Caucasian hills, we enter a world that is so curiously monochrome that the whole movie could have been shot in black and white. Add in plenty of mist and an overcast sky and we have the sort of otherworldly presentation that Hollywood seems to employ in order to convey mystery and strangeness. It's a place where fire-breathing dragons or gut-busting aliens could just as easily be encountered as mass-murdering commies. Once you see the style for what it is, the effect becomes wearisome and shallow.Everyone is cast to type. The Americans are clean-shaven well-intentioned simpletons - educated God-fearin' farmboys out to protect the Christian way in a world of dubious international politics too complicated to be resolved by just a good bombing. The Serbians are grubby, ugly savages, who delight in that time-honoured east-European tradition of Slaughter-Thy-Neighbour.Live with the clichés and the first three-quarters of the plot are a half-decent actioner. But then it quickly deteriorates into one of those utterly implausible scenarios that is hard to distinguish from a computer game. Two hovering helicopters annihilate an armoured brigade. The Serbs can't hit the broad-side of a barn. The yanks can't miss. Our airforce hero knocks out more Kalashnikov toting combatants by means of a handgun, whilst sliding along some ice on his bum, than the entire Serbian brigade. And he's not even a marksman; he's a navigator.Towards the end, the whole movie seems to be little more than a recruiting advertisement for the US navy. Which I suppose is the price you pay for having so much unrestricted access to one of its aircraft carriers. One thing that does concern me regarding this and other movies of the genre, is the readiness with which senior officers are depicted as going off the rails, breaking the law, or disobeying orders. It really does make you wonder what sort of people are working in the high-command. This is strictly TV matinée fodder, unless you're a God-fearin' farmboy etc. "},{"Title":"Difficult to like, easy to dislike...","Date":"13 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" I realise Gene Hackman has made a few pups in his time, but this was a strictly by the numbers performance in a film average on every level except script, which was truly dreadful.Not being the biggest Owen Wilson fan, I at least expected some semblance of character development in his 'gung ho' pilot (almost a Top Gun reject). Hackman's character lack any depth of feeling - poor Gene tried to inject a modicum of 3D into his commander role, but alas the script prevented him from doing so.Some moderately exciting but truly unbelievable actions scenes (70 Bosnians/Serbs/whatever they were against 1 American and they still miss!!) lifted what was a truly awful script to a degree of mediocrity.Only see if you an absolute Hackman/Wilson nut, just so you can you crossed it off your 'to see' list. "},{"Title":"a","Date":"12 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Although the movie is very good i found only 1 flaw, and its about the story. The script writers should have done better research on the war that took place in Bosnia. There were 4 nations fighting there and one of them was shown as barbaric nomads. The regular armies weren't included in the massacres there, but the volunteer troops and para military formations. Lokar, the ''main evil character'' was, in fact, a rogue war villain, fighting for himself and not for any country. And the uniforms are quite wrong. Except that, the movie is thrilling, with some great action scenes, although it seems quite stupid to leave the partner on the open after being shot down in the enemy territory, and not looking for over first. "},{"Title":"I liked this movie","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" This is a rare action movie that's, well, not your typical action movie. A lot of action movies revolve around some action hero taking out dozens of bad guys and not getting a scratch. They often do this while saving the world, etc. Behind Enemy Lines is different in that it's more realistic than, say, any James Bond movie.Behind Enemy Lines' follows a naval pilot (Owen Wilson - I'd like to see him in some more serious roles like this one) as he's shot down over Bosnia and forced to run from a local militia that wants him dead. Rather than following a typical, formulaic kill all the bad guys in cool ways course, Wilson instead chooses flight over fight for most of the movie, which adds much needed credibility. Sure, there may be a few instances where in all likelihood, one of the many bullets fired at him would find its target, but if you can get over that mentality (and it's way better than most over-the-top action movies in this sense), you should thoroughly enjoy Behind Enemy Lines.The movie is shot with a blue filter that gives a sort of cold, unforgiving, warzone vibe that further adds to the experience. Owen Wilson is fantastic in the downed-pilot position, with little touches of dark humor here and there that are appropriate, and other times that are grim and unsettling.The war-torn landscape adds tons of credibility to the film. Mines, tanks, guns, mass graves, wreckage, destroyed buildings, booby traps... they are all invaluable in setting the scene where our story takes place.Let us quickly examine the action of Behind Enemy Lines before this review comes to a finish. Take MI 2, first. We see Tom Cruise killing scores of guys in massive gunfights, flashy hand-to-hand combat, motorcycle/car chases, diving from helicopters, etc (this is your typical action outing). Behind Enemy Lines, instead, (minor spoilers) shows Owen Wilson's downed-pilot recovering photos taken from his plane of local atrocities (the reason the militia wants him dead), running from gunfire, traveling through minefields (including a road filled with mines on either side with trip-wires connecting them in the center, and our hero is forced to run through this, at one point tripping...), hiding in a mass grave, etc. The action is both spectacular and (mostly) *BELEIVEABLE*, and we could sure use more of that from Hollywood.This is a great action-drama flick. And guess what? You don't even have to leave your brain at the door! That's worth the price of admission, alone. "},{"Title":"Unrealistic, but nice effects.","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" This has to be one of the most unrealistic war movies I've seen Heat seeking missiles do several 180 turns (real life missiles burn out their fuel in a few seconds, and fly on inertia) Trained soldiers fire machine guns, sniper rifles and tank shells at the main character at close range, and not a single round hits him. American officers apparently have no clue what they are doing, and keep asking their subordinates silly questions. Explosions kill Serbs, but don't even scratch Americans standing at the same range.The list goes on, and of course the story is told in the usual self-righteous way of American war movies. If you can divert from this or don't care about realism, then this movie is actually pretty good. Owen Wilson plays the role of the stranded navigator pretty well, and Gene Hackman is as always a shoe-in as the high-ranking officer, who seems cold and arrogant, but in time turns out to be human.The visual effects are nothing short of great. Everything is kept in a chilling bluish color, mixed with the shaky and slightly disorienting camera style of Saving Private Ryan, which really makes you feel like you are there.Overall it was a good movie with a disappointing ending. If you don't care about realism, it may be a whole lot better -- I'm just one of those people who can't help but notice. "},{"Title":"American gun ho bullshit","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" I actually liked Owen Wilson better in this action role than in his comedy roles. His comedy roles have been so stereotypical that it was actually nice to see him doing something else than his one and the same comedy roleThe movie itself was that typical, American gun ho bullshit that looks like a military recruitment commercial. As other commentators have pointed out, the military facts were horrible. The one attempt at taking a look at the local people and events that might have been interesting, was cut short. There was no insight to how the local's feel about Americans and why.The ending, as pretty much anything in the middle, was predictable.As I said, I did like Owen in this new role and I did like the visuals. Nice special effects. I just wish I would have required to use my brain to understand the movie. The situation in Bosnia is certainly complex enough to allow a more complex plot. "},{"Title":"Everything was good until the ending","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Behind the Enemy Lines was a cheap war film that came out in 2001 for of course entertainment. I thought everything throughout the movie went good and I liked it until the stupid ending. *Spoilers* Okay, Owen Wilson is running on sheets of ice and there are Bosnians chasing after him with tanks and tons of guns with many many people and Owen is running to get to the helicopters that are coming to pick him up. All the Bosnians are trying to shoot him and there are like over 70 people trying to kill him that are like only 20 feet away from him. There trying to shoot him, but they always miss. I don't think he got shot once with even tank missiles firing at him. I just thought that was way way farfetch'd. I mean everything was just alright. The music, the acting, the dialouge and especially the action was good but the ending just ruined the whole movie and I was just like okay, I don't know if I can trust this movie any more. I don't know how a director can do that to a movie, honestly. It sucks that everything went right for the movie until the ending. It just sucks. The director is going to have to think a little hard. Overall this movie was pretty decent but still this had the worst ending ever. It brought the movie downHedeen's outlook 6.5/10 **+ C "},{"Title":"Rugged Individualism","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  The Concept 'Rambo' meets 'Natural Born Killers' meets 'Dances with Wolves'Mild spoiler--as opposed to extra spicy, I guess.Theodore Roosevelt would've loved this movie.  The idea behind it is simple (much like Indiana Jones), take one easily accepted hero ('Top Gun' showed that Aviators are macho enough), dump him in a land he knows nothing about, and then have him learn a few life/political lessons along the way before the final fireworks.Viola! instant success...at least it paid off for Stallone.  Instead, the director wants to be Tony Scott so we get almost every superficial trick thrown at us hyperactive tracking camera, extreme zoom close-ups, lots of slow-motion, and various filters.  Just like Stone in his post-'JFK' days, he wants to try everything.Ironically, Ridley Scott used similar techniques in 'Blackhawk', but we now know that he cares not for story in his projects.  Here it's meant to cover the script and Owen Wilson's bad acting.  Hackman probably came on because he went through the routine in 'Bat 21.'  He's not even trying anymore.I frankly don't care for realism in films anymore, just technical or (at least) aesthetic competency, but this has neither.  Watch it.  But you'll probably feel cheated or insulted.Final Analysis = = Cinematic Dud "},{"Title":"Action For C-i-v-i-l-i-a-n-s (100% spoiler free)","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Apparently this movie has attracted militaryheads and is being overly bashed by, shhhh, people-in-the-know expecting military accuracy to detail and realism. The kid asked me for my Blockbuster membership card not my military ID, when I rented it last night. This is a Hollywood action fiction compilation - I watched it as such, and thereby, enjoyed it as such. If you're not Tom Clancy, you too might enjoy sitting back and checking out this fairly decent movie. Fully equipped with an interesting sense of urgency keeping it rolling along. You feel like you're trying to catch-up to Wilson as he keeps moving in the direction he hopes will lead him to safety. May even find yourself panting with him while he runs. So what, a lot of bullets from abundant automatic weapons missed Wilson as he played out this dare, and guess what... None of them hit me on my couch either. Go figure.      "}{"Title":"The best part of the movie was. . .","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  The best part of the movie was when they kicked the football off the air carrier and lost it in the ocean, and shouted, Wilson! in reference to Tom Hank's Cast Away.  Too bad that was in the first ten minutes.  The whole movie dragged on and on.  I went to the expensive theater for this movie with friends and felt totally ripped off.  I don't even think I would've gone to a second run theater for this movie.  It was full of cliches and sub-par acting.  Black Hawk Down was a much better war movie with better acting, more realism, and a more exciting plot.Avoid this movie.  It's really not that good.  I don't plan on ever watching it again, even if it is a late night TV movie. "},{"Title":"Shallow Movie With Multiple Weaknesses","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" After watching this movie, it's easy to see how this was the first movie made by the director. He has made numerous commercials before and their influence is obvious throughout. From the misguided slow motion shots, to the MTV style soundtrack, to the loud explosive special effects, to the shameless coca cola pitch, director Moore filled the movie with every gimmick that could appeal to mass audiences. However, he succeeds more in making the intended serious undertones of the movie laughable. Younger audiences may enjoy the action and cat and mouse game that develops between Owen Wilson and his pursuers, but those looking for more depth need to look inside an empty coke bottle. There are character and script flaws galore in here, not the least of which is Owen Wilson walking past an enemy tank in disguise and then promptly removing it, as if to say, here I am, come and get me! Was it so that the many 20 something girls in the audience could see his blonde hair? There are several goofs like this throughout the movie. There is one terrific sequence of a fighter plane trying to escape smart missiles; otherwise, Gene Hackman's supporting role as the admiral is the only thing worthwhile. It seems as if Hackman, like Michael Caine, has been in his share of weak movies in the latter half of his career. Perhaps the biggest dunder-headed act in making this movie was casting Owen Wilson in the lead role. He was an unproven actor in this genre and still is. *1/2 of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Good for what it is.","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  This movie could have been set anywhere, with any of hundreds of backdrops, it's fiction, if you sweat every minuscule detail when watching a movie, pass on this one.  But if you're like most people and can suspend disbelief, you'll enjoy this one. "},{"Title":"Fiction people, take it as that!","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  If we remember that this movie is a work of fiction and not of fact, we might enjoy it a little better.  Take it for what it is, and you might enjoy it a lot better.  I stumbled on the movie on HBO, and actually rather enjoyed.  I wouldn't call it Oscar material or anything like that, but for what it was, it was a lot of fun. "},{"Title":"mindless propaganda!","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Arguably I rented this particular movie for the action, not for the amount of intellectual stimulation it offered. The action was acceptable, and this alone justifies many a goofy plot, and poor acting, but in this case, I must say, there is no redemption to be found in a couple of decent action scenes! Sure the prospect of a lone soldier fleeing a horde of enemy forces in hostile territory, might sound okay, but certainly not when the overly patriotic element becomes the axis around which the story evolves. Admittedly the patriotic element is almost always apparent in American war movies, but it goes way to far in this movie. It is the usual story The American army takes care of its own, and no one, not even the ridiculously pacifistic Europeans are going to interfere! It think it is praiseworthy that the movie attempts to create a little attention around a forgotten war in Bosnia/herzegowina but all it really does it to let American troops advertise their supremacy and shows us the inevitable defeat of a stereotyped eastern European military group. This is by the way *not* a spoiler, because it is so perfectly obvious from the beginning what is going to happen. The acting is almost acceptable. Owen Wilson clearly tries hard to portray the soldier in terrible distress, that finds courage in the love for his country, and Hackman is almost convincing as Owen's senior officer, but both of these reasonable performances are overshadowed by the BAD plot, and terrible stereotypes we are presented with. 5/10     "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I thought this was a pretty good movie. The plot or characters should'nt be taken too seriously as that is missing the point. This film is all about the effects, which are very impressive. Although pretty unbelievable some of the time such as at the end of the film or when he runs through woods with artillery exploding all around him its all in the name of fun and excitement. The shootdown is easily the best bit of the film, extremely good use of camera angles, slow-mo, overcranking and still shots by the director. A few bad blunders on the military  technicality standpoint like missiles being able to turn 180 degree turns but the thrill of the chase more then makes up for it. Lots of impressive effects like a person being blown up in slow motion and the ejection sequence. Some of the dialogue is a bit bad but the acting is pretty good. The sound effects are excellent. Should really be seen on the full screen or with surround sound. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Not good","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  If you have never heard before about a war in Bosnia, and have no idea what was going on there, this movie might have some suprises for you.If you did know some of what was going on, you'll see this movie for what it is. Rambo with a philosopher in the lead. This film is predictable, dumb, sentimental and -most of all- boring to death. Except maybe for the scene where their shot down.If you want to see a good film about the Bosnian war, check out NO MAN'S LAND instead (winner of the Oscar for best Foreign Film!). "},{"Title":"Just a quick point","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  The entire point of the film is that the American officer didn't care what the consequences would be, if he went to get his man. He was warned that the consequences would be the deaths of thousands of Yugoslavians. That he was prepared to risk all those lives for just one man is an issue of its own, which I might come back to soon.What I object to is the fact that film then tried to justify this using the very dubious evidence of ethnic cleansing. Although this made their rescue of the fallen soldier worthwhile (in the broad societal sense), it was an accident, i.e. not the reason that they rescued him. The rescue was a selfish one, and the ex post justifications for it are despicable.I know it's only a film, but still these things all help people to form their opinions. I think it's shameful. "},{"Title":"One of the most disappointing movies!","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  It is really a shame that this great cast be wasted on this.I think that anyone who has ever seen a couple of war movies will know EXACTLY how the film will run, it's like Deja Vu.OK, so we all know that it's a story of this guy trying to get from point A to B with the villain trying to stop him.if you have a plot that is THIS  linear you at least try to compensate with some intense action, or some witty dialogue.At least in RAMBO III, when the plot suffers we get to watch Stalone in action.I think Behind Enemy Lines is a documentary in disguise!, except that a documentary is more fun!* out of ***** "},{"Title":"Americans can break all the rules...","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  That is basically the message of this movie.(SLIGHT SPOILERS)   Two American pilots stray from their course over a no fly zone. Not that there's anything wrong with that. Also even the Admiral breaks the rules and sets out on a rescue mission without orders. But, that's OK, because he's an American.  And throughout the movie, our hero amazingly dodges machine gun fire and tanks and even hops through a mine field. And the serbs(ie bad guys) always miss no matter how good of a shot they have. And I can't believe Gene Hackman agreed to be in this. He must have owed someone a favor.FINAL VERDICT  There are some cool special effects in the beginning when the SAMs are chasing the jet, but after that, nothing spectacular happens.  There are a lot better action/hero films out there, ie Die Hard. I suggest one of them over this. "}{"Title":"The world's shortest movie review!  This movie...","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" ...sucked.But seriously.  I can't believe this movie got made.  I've heard wooden dialogue before, but this was the Sequioa National Forest.Bad editing, annoying soundtrack, embarrasing acting (or in this case, moving around in front of a camera and playing dress up). "},{"Title":"I'm still not impressed...","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Behind Enemy Lines (2001) (PG-13)(**1/2 stars out 5)Starring Owen Wilson and Gene Hackman.Behind Enemy Lines stars Owen Wilson as Lieutenant Chris Burnett, a hot-shot United States Navy air pilot who had been shot down over Bosnia after capturing footage of war crimes being committed by Serbian soldiers. After being shot down, he becomes the target of obsessed Serbian rebels and is forced to go on the run to safety.  Meanwhile, another battle is being fought on board the aircraft carrier USS Carl Vinson.  Burnett's commanding officer, Admiral Leslie Reigart (Gene Hackman) is fighting to get him back, even at the risk of loosing his rank.First of all, I've heard that this film is loosely based on the true story of Captain Scott O'Grady, a Navy air force pilot who had been shot down over Bosnia and was forced to make his way to safety.  I do not know how closely this film follows those events and frankly I don't care.  Second, this film has an extremely high body count, even for a PG-13 action film.  The PG-13 rating was a mistake and severely I doubt that a war film could ever be this light-hearted.  Third, I'm an American.  I sure like to see the flag waving in certain scenes, but too much of that will often get in the way of story-telling, thus making anything that occurs very laughable.Owen Wilson is an extremely gifted actor and writer who is already on his way to Oscar stardom.  With his Oscar-nomination for Best Original Screenplay for last year's The Royal Tenenbaums (which he cowrote with Wes Anderson), you can see that he's obviously gifted.  But he will not get there any sooner if he keeps making films like Behind Enemy Lines.  He is extremely miscast here and he does not make a very believable action hero.As for Gene Hackman, an accomplished actor and Oscar-winner, he is what probably keeps this film on its feet and from becoming total crap.  I know that he has had his fair share of bad films, but his presence here is this films saving grace.Now the action scenes.  Many of the action scenes in Behind Enemy Lines are very chaotic and move at a rapid pace.  Camera techniques that were first pioneered in Steven Spielberg's Saving Private Ryan are put to use here, but are very poorly shot.  In fact, because of that, the action scenes come off as being very cheesy and not even realistic.As I stated above, many of the action scenes are poorly thought out and are badly edited.  One scene has Owen Wilson running through a mine field. This scene stands out in particular as being the worst because he's running through it and doesn't get a single scratch, even though there are mines exploding and that there is debris everywhere.  It's ridiculous because this makes him come off as being some sort of superhero or something.There's also another scene where Wilson is forced to switch uniforms with a dead soldier.  As he's walking away from the soldiers disguised as one their own, he removes his hat to reveal to the audience of what had just happened. PLEASE!!!I remember all the hype that been surrounding this movie about a day prior to its release on VHS and DVD.  I remember that one of the ads said that the film was a celebration of the American spirit.  Hardly.  All Behind Enemy Lines is an action film masquerading as a war film.  If anything, this film is a mere celebration of the fact that they think we are all idiots and do not have any common sense.Very poor action film.  "},{"Title":"A real disappointment...","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  It never ceases to amaze me how people can have such widely divergent opinions about a piece of cinematic (in this case, NOT!!!) art.  Some of these reviews make this flick sound like the greatest thing since sliced bread.  Others give me the impression that watching this movie caused internal bleeding in their eyes.  Count me in the latter category.  First let me confess that I did not watch the whole movie.  Halfway into it I had enough, and decided that my time would be better spent having elective surgery or something like that.  So maybe it got better in the second half, but I doubt it.  When I first heard about this movie, it sounded like a cool premise.  Also, I'm a big fan of the Hackmeister, and usually make it a point to check out movies he appears in.  Not that they're all gems, mind you, but he's so darn good that they're usually, at least, watchable.  Not so in this case.  So what do I think the problems are?  Everything!  Owen Wilson is miscast as an action hero.  The dialogue is inane, the action scenes unrealistic, the soundtrack annoying.  Why in the world would a guy like Hackman appear in a movie like this?  Does he really need the money that badly?  And speaking of bad war movies, avoid Windtalkers as well. If you want to see a good, lesser known war movie, see the HBO produced When Trumpets Fade.         "},{"Title":"Average war movie","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  This MTV style war movie wasn`t much to cheer for.Badly acted,way to noisy and too much bombastic music.Sadly,Hackman is wasted in a minor supporting role.Owen Wilson does NOT fit the action hero part,he`ll better stick to comedy like Zoolander,Meet the parents.Ending in this movie was way patriotic and overblown.Direction is somewhat irritating,with it`s MTV style filming.BEL may keep you entertained,but it`s forgotten very very fast.Skip this!Rating  3/10 "},{"Title":"THE MTV OF WAR FILMS","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Definitely for those with one-second attention spans constantly roving camera, twitchy, over-cooked visual effects, disorientating fast-cutting, and musical overkill.  Adequate for a five-minute music promo, but TOTALLY the wrong stylistic choice for what is ostensibly a stealth-led quest for survival behind enemy lines.  The unbearably glib and showy style poorly serves the action sequences, and more critically distances us from Owen Wilson's Burnett character everything moves too quickly, and as viewers we simply do not spend enough quiet moments with him.  By extension, his growing resourcefulness in the face of near-impossible odds is glossed over.  To witness and empathise with his struggle was surely one of the main thrusts of the film, was it not?Counterbalancing Burnett's primordial struggle for survival are the `cerebral', political machinations embroiling Gene Hackman's Admiral Reigart, but it will come as no surprise to discover that this wider angle is equally botched.  The warning repeatedly given to Reigart is stark any attempt to intervene and rescue Burnett risks severely undermining an already brittle peace process.  But beyond such rhetoric, the precise implications of US intervention are not examined.  The media's role in the Balkans conflict is also hinted at, but disappointingly we get no intelligent examination of its potentially inflammatory impact.   Historical and political elusiveness feels particularly disingenuous here, since the fate of Burnett, and by consequence the driving force of the narrative, is directly anchored in the political gamesmanship of the US, UN and Balkan states.  BEHIND ENEMY LINES is not a good stand-alone action film, and it certainly has nothing intelligent to say about the Balkans conflict and the external peacekeeping mission. Avoid. "},{"Title":"One of the worst films I have seen Gene Hackman in","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  The fact that it tried to tackle the Bosnia thing was a sure cert it was going to be tacky and predictable.It started with us having to believe these two Fighter Jet guys were dead cool and one was on the edge of getting out coz of lots of war mongering nonsense. I just want to see some action!Next minute they are shot down and forget all their survival training within a second. Predictably, one of them has less luck than the other, leaving one of them to run from the bad guys.Who were the bad guys? Having been to Bosnia I am fully aware that it is rock solid to try and work out who did what to who and who was the worst bad guy out there. But Hollywood has decided that the Serbs are the bad ones and portray them as ruthless killers with a very weak motive.The story is very simplistic, trying to prove itself by bringing the Serbs to justice via the escaping pilot. He runs, they chase.What I liked There was signs of suspense in parts, and the scenery was nice. At times (the ejection scene) there was an attempt to film things in detail which I liked.What I didnt like The out of place music that just ruined the film. The ability of the navigator, who was trying to escape, to dodge countless number of bullets and mine shrapnel. Not to mention his ability to not be affected by the weather at all, despite not eating at all. The very Corny america is great plot. The end subtitles that give a pathetic end explaining what happened to them all after, leaving me wondering if it was all a true story!?In summary, one of the worst films I have watched Gene Hackman in. It was corny, had a very weak story, poorly directed as a whole and just reminded me of so many other films that have been beforeBat 21 Top Gun Crimson Tide etc..etc...Rating Only watch it if you are from the USA. Not very good.Recommendation If you like this sort of film, go and watch Black Hawk Down. "},{"Title":"better when it was called BAT 21","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  This movie is not very good.  Its morality is drawn right out of overblown journalism, picking villains out of the vault of political correctness.  I mention this because few of its audience have much of a clue about the Civil War in Yugoslavia (nor much of an intirest)and the movie tries its preachy best to take advantage of that fact.  Regardless, the Serbs have done some bad things, so if ya' gotta pick an enemy, why not them (among many others).  My point being they might as well not have bothered laboring this mediocre action film with any evil does exist and here's an example morality at all; it is lost in the medium (example Rambo III).     Leave this one on the video shelf unless you are a die-hard Owen Wilson fan, and if you are a Gene Hackman fan, you will see a MUCH better version of this movie by watching BAT 21.  "},{"Title":"double yuck","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I have just watched a movie with my friend and we both agree that it SUCKS !!! It's overrated.... full of nonsenses )) Just like Rambo and stuff like that, sure, it's ok for little children who belive that a man can fly and run through a minefield and come out unharmed, run all day around with two sips of water, and bad guys are just like they are jumped out of a cartoon movie or something like that ) all nicely shaved, ugly, the numero uno bad guy, oh he's somethin special... all nice, dressed in black... yuck... and they have CELL PHONES !!! )))))) hahhahaha .... anyone who has driven through Bosnia has gone MAD because there's no signal anywhere or it's too weak... and they talk on the phone in the middle of nowhere... all in all... it's overrated, tipical american advertising of how they are so goood, and stroooong, and righteous, and everything... like Rambo 3 when Sly helps good Talibans in their fight for freedom against the bad Russians who drink vodka and smoke cigarettes... alone against all and victorious at the end... hm... anyway )) it's a good laugh )adio  "},{"Title":"Silly and Cartoonish","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Thoroughly disappointing. After being blown away by the intensity and realism of Black Hawk Down, this movie was about as much fun as watching your kid brother play a crummy video game for two hours. The flight sequences were ridiculous and the battle scenes completely hokey. Unengaging drivel that is best left on the video store shelf. "},{"Title":"Lots of neat action, sound, and photography, but not a particularly great film.","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  some SPOILERS -- Behind Enemy Lines is a fine recent example of how films are tailored to audiences. By most measures Ebert and IMDb viewers are right -- this film has a dumb story, sometimes silly dialog, and a main character who does seemingly dumb things at just the wrong time. But my 29-year-old son, a pilot and photographer, loves this film, and last night with me was perhaps his 3rd or 4th viewing and it still excites him. Because he doesn't care so much that it is a dumb movie. It has planes flying, missles chasing them, slow-motion shots of an enemy getting blown away, thrilling sound effects, great bass in the subwoofer during explosions, interesting camera work, and the good guys prevail in the end. For my son, this film is a 10. For me, it is probably a 3 for story and believability, and maybe a 9 for action and sound.  So a real rating of 5 to 7 by most of us would be about right.The setting is Bosnia, although it was filmed in Slovakia. Pilots are photographing a mass grave and other war crimes when a couple of clever missles finally get to them (I didn't realize those missles had so much fuel!!), they eject, one survives, and the chase is on to see if he can both retrieve the hard drive with the photos (in the ejection seat), evade the enemy firepower, and get to a safe zone for a rescue. The climactic scene is a great battle among enemy ground troops with lots of guns and tanks, and three friendly helicopters with lots of guns and launch missles.Owen Wilson of crooked nose and deviated septum fame is the star, the pilot who survives against all odds and 20 million rounds of gunfire at point-blank range. Gene Hackman is the carrier commander who takes almost all of the 100 minutes of the movie to do the right thing and rescue his man against orders, even though it means losing his command. Not quite the same character he plays in The Quick and the Dead.The DVD is great, surround sound superb, the LFE makes the chair you're sitting on shake, a perfect DVD to demo a surround sound system. There's even an interesting making of special. Just a good guilty pleasure of entertainment, if you like that kind of action, but overall not a particularly good movie. Still, I'm glad my son made me see it. "}{"Title":"Report on this movie","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Now, to tell you the truth this movie was crap. Owen Wilson was really annoying and Gene Hackman played a stupid character. The story was just plain dumb and the action I've seen before. I thought the director made the movie to sappy and it was just very stupid. I don't think I'm ever going to see another Owen Wilson movie AGAIN!!!! This movie diserves a D "},{"Title":"LETS BE ALL WE CAN BE, MEN!","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Behind Enemy Lines does a good job at keeping you intrigued andentertained by the action and chase sequences.  Much of this is do tothe fast pace of the movie.  HOWEVER, the director seems a bit too wrapped up in seeing how diversehe can be in his stylistic sequences.  You have the cinematography thattakes a page from the hand held technique of Saving Private Ryan - but,hey - if your gonna portray war, you might as well depict it the waymost people see it. But then, there are the odd still frames ofcharacters just before something crucial happens. Or the incredibly slowshot of a Serb getting blown away by a trip wire explosion.  Thisparticular shot may be compelling in its wooooooooohhhhhh quality. Butit feels a little too forced.  One sequence that had me glued to the screen was when Owen Wilson hidesamong executed Muslim remains.  It's not only clever because of the heatvision satelite shot, but it's gritty, realistic and rarely seen in awar film.  BUT AGAIN, it is very odd when you compare this to the buildup scenes with there hard rock or techno sound tracks that resemblemore of a NAVY ad rather than a thought provoking action/war movie. When Hackman leads the rescue team on to the helicopters, I couldn'thelp but laugh at the possibility of him saying LETS BE ALL WE CAN BE,MEN!SPOILERThen of course there's the choppers flying off into the sunset. WOW ITSSO ORIGINAL.  But i'm not being sarcastic when i say it's goo "},{"Title":"Definitely needed a better script","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  The concept of this film seemed to provide good material for an entertaining movie. With Gene Hackman, David Keith, and Owen Wilson, the cast wasn't bad. The special effects were ok but somewhat superfulous. Whoever wrote this pile, doesn't seem to know squat about the military. ***Some spoilers*** Carriers have CAG officers to run the air operations and they are not rear admirals. The plane flys in and takes pictures and yet there is time for a couple of phone calls and a guy to run and tell his boss about it and the pilot flys over the one missle battery the serbian commander calls. The guy even says he hears the jet. Then fires 2 missles, minutes apart that track the aircraft, catch up to it but cannot quite get those last few yards. They're pretty amazing missles as far as tracking goes too. Lt. Burnett finds his pilot and leaves him in the middle of an open field where he parachuted and is suprised when he gets captured and killed. Burnett runs through a mine field and lives! Not to mention why is he going through a factory to begin with. He was told to get to the safe zone and then gets sent back to the town near where he crashed. He stops a truck and hitches a ride. This movie is ridiculous. By the way, shaking the camera is NOT an artform, it just annoying. 5/10  If you got to see it, don't expect much!  "},{"Title":"What crap!  -  2 of 10","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Check realism at the door for this one.  I know that there are a ton of technical mistakes in this, but I saw enough mistakes of common sense, so I have a few questions  Why did he leave his pilot out in the open when they knew they were hot?  Why did they call off the first rescue 500 feet from the rescue point without checking the visible ground where Owen was? Why did the young hip-hop fan follow him?  Why didn't Owen remove the hard drive before the lead started to fly?  Oh my god, this movie has a stupidity level that's sky-high.  Those are but a few of the questions I had.  Some others were, why did Gene do this film?  Who gave the OK for this turkey? This is one of the worst piles of garbage I've seen since Battlefield Earth. Ug.  'Nuff said. "},{"Title":"surprisingly weak B-movie","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" This one is, I must say it, a waste of time. the characters are serving the usual stereotypes, bright haired angel-like heroe sometimes a little bit childish, but if neccesary 110 % prepared..., on the other side, dark-haired, bulky partisans, of course not-shaved, and only god knows why not able to speak their native language without an foreign accent... probably just bad casting ... Being of serbian descent, I was really amused by this uninspired B-movie...but what will one say, who does not prefer naively presented advertisement for the military for entertainment purposes? the bottom-line  predictable popcorn-cinema, but ok for the american market "},{"Title":"Annoying","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  One of the most annoying films I have seen in a long time.  The amateurish jagged camera work in an attempt to create tension simply causes you to wish the film was over.There are numerous huge gaps in logic.  Many scenes are just completely unbelievable even if you suspend all common sense.  A real hack job.Owen Wilson comes off as just a smartass. One wonders why he was still allowed to fly jets and not locked up in a slacker asylum.I hope Gene Hackman was well paid for this one. "},{"Title":"This movie forgot the realism","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  'Behind enemy lines' should show an almost true story, so I expected it to be very realistic.But I don't think that John Moore would like to use his brain during the making of this movie. There were some situations I found very stupid- When Burnett tried to run away from the Serbians in the beginning, why did all the Serbians suddenly stop following him, so he could sit on the top of a mountain in the next scene?- Burnett was followed by some Serbian soldiers in one scene, and he was hiding under some bodies. Why did the Serbians stop there and not continue the hunt for Burnett?- What happened to all the fragments of the mines which exploded in the town? - Burnett wasn't even wounded, even Rambo got more hurt in Rambo III.- In the final scene where Burnett escapes from the Serbians, why do all the Serbians suddenly stop shooting when Burnett was catched by the rescue-man?There were several other scenes some friends and I questioned, but I wouldn't use all my time writing those scenes down.If you would like to watch this movie, then stop being critical and just watch it as it is. I can't avoid critisism, so I would rate it 4/10. "},{"Title":"Great film, terrible filming","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I really liked this film. It is entertaining and a decent retelling of the classic good guy running from the bad guy and being rescued by the other good guys story line. That being said the cinematography is awful. The director seemed to be making a 2 hour MTV video. I'm not a film maker, but am a viewer and know what I like and dislike. The fast forward for a half second then normal speed technique is irritating at best and shouldn't be used throughout the film. The same goes for fast, normal, and slow motion all used in one shot. Yeah, we know the camera can do it, just because it can doesn't mean you should. If the camera man is jittery buy a darn Steady Cam. You can't hardly tell what Longhorn is doing with the seat at the end of the film due to his motion and the camera motion. I guess I could my monitor on a vibrating bed and the image would be complete. Other than those items this was a great film, but those things were so distracting that they stick with me more than the bulk of the picture. "},{"Title":"Cool action film.","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I rented BEHIND ENEMY LINES yesterday and I was expecting to see another war movie that borrowed everything from all the many war movies that came before it. But I was generally impressed.Lt. Chris Burnett (Owen Wilson) has twenty days left in the United States Navy, before he can be sent home. But, before those twenty days are over, him and his friend Stackhouse are shot down over enemy territory after taking photos of a mass grave containing the bodies of Muslims, Jews and Serbs. And while Burnett struggles to survive, his commanding officer (Gene Hackman) goes against orders to carry out a desperate rescue mission.Now, I really don't like Gene Hackman when he plays a role where he tries to be serious. He becomes Alec Baldwin and loses all his charisma and then cannot act afterward. His best performance to date was HEARTBREAKERS. He is neither serious nor intelligent in that one. Now, Owen Wilson did good in one of his bigger roles. I thought that the ending would be a crappy one, but it was actually okay. But, it has somewhat of a musty smell that can be directly traced to ENEMY AT THE GATES. But, see it anyway. You'll like it.....5/5. "},{"Title":"Pathetic","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Well, typical American_Hero_with_American_Flag_in_the_background quasi action movie. I found only one action which is worth seeing and it is ground to air missile strike ending with super hornet down. Besides this one the movie is quite dull, full of goofs and mistakes. The dialogues are simple and stupid, you can find better in Dawsons' Creek. Same with Actor's skills... Gene Hackman should be ashamed... "}{"Title":"This movie is worth watching.","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a good ol' American trimuph over the evil that lurks in the Middle East.  Owen Wilson plays the role of a Navy Fighter Pilot stuck in the middle of a terrible situation and in order to survive he must outsmart the enemy.  Gene Hackman plays my favorite role he plays A high ranking millitary official that will take a stand to do what is right.  There was a scene that highly imitated Top Gun.  It is interesting to see the difference 15 years makes in digital technology, not to mention the advancements in the aircraft. Behind Enemy Lines was an all around good flick with the three straws that stir the drink, Action, Suspense, and Comedy. "},{"Title":"Decent action flick","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Wow, what can i say? I actually enjoyed this movie. This movie is basically about a Lt. Pilot named Burnett (Owen Wilson) where he's about to be honarably discharged in 20 days. It takes place in a carrier in the ardiatic sea supposedly in the war with the Serbs. Burnetts Gerneral Reigart (Gene Hackman) dosn't like the idea of Burnett leaving so he sends him on a Holiday Recon misson to p**s him off. Burnett and his partner Stackhouse end up getting lost in Bosnian territory but find Serb soldiers in a demilitarized zone. Burnett takes pictures of the soldiers and mass graves of muslims whom the serbs massacared. The serbian soldiers shot down the plane and all heck breaks loss. With Burnett despartely running from the serbian army, he'll encounter trip mines, muslim rebels, rough terrain, mass graves. No one can help him from the carrier because the general is being outruled by the NATO admiral. Burnett is then on his own for one wild ride.Pros Good acting by almost all the cast. It had a good story (i don't know if the story stayed true to the real Burnett who acutally was in the conflict). Realsim on politcal correctness. Good cinematography where it made you feel like you where in this heart-pumping and exciting conflict. I loved the terrain and it's view of Slovakia. Shooting in Bosnia whoulda been too dangerous. I liked how it kept somewhat to realism because they never portrayed this pilot as Rambo gunning down 50 people. The pilot had to run, not gun. The Scene where the Jet is trying to out manuever the Sam missles is a spectaulur site.Cons The ending seemed anti-climatic and way too unbelieveable. Never really explained the conflict in bosnia or the US's stance. Acition was decent but nothing spectacular.Overall This is a decent action flick worth a rent on DVD. It's good a likeable where (owen wilson, whom is a likeable guy) hes not too handsome, not too buff, not too anything. Not really worth buying unless your a big fan of owen wilson or just enjoyed the action in this movie. Overall i enjoyed watching this film on a Firday night. 3 bucks well spent.-=FINAL VERDICT=- 7/10 "},{"Title":"You might like it if you don't have high hopes.","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I'm a huge Gene Hackman fan, and really respect that he takes roles of all kinds.  It proves how great an actor he is.... He does just fine in this role as well, but the role really doesn't have much for him.Likewise, the character Burnett is a problem.  This guy is part Wylie coyote, and part batman.  Again, no reflection on the actor, who I don't happen to like, but it's the role that ruined the movie for me.This movie never rose to the level of believable, because of Burnett's long shot escapes time and again.  Wylie coyote could take lessons  get hit, but get up again...fine in the next scene.I love this KIND of movie like pizza, but THIS one was a real disappointment. "},{"Title":"average","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I definitely wouldn't call it a war movie as some people do. This is just another Hollywood made action movie and it follows the template of such movies. Doesn't miss an immortal hero, which makes it even worse.if you'd like to see an excellent war movie, you should rather forget about this one. "},{"Title":"Has it's moments - good and not so good","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Living close to one of Europe's largest American military bases, I've met a fair few U.S. Navy flyers, and none of them looked anything like Tom Cruise or Val Kilmer. Just regular blokes doing their day-job and not the square-jawed all-American hero types at all. Which is why I though that Owen Wilson was actually very well cast in this role. He was so, well &#150; ordinary!!! The movie itself is standard Hollywood action fare. Pretty predictable stuff really, but fairly entertaining escapism nonetheless. As usual the bad guys (in this case the Serbs) are portrayed as one-dimensional thugs and all of them are lousy shots with a gun. Another reviewer on this page has said that he hasn't seen any action movie hero dodge as many bullets and rockets since Rambo back in the &#145;80s, and that just about sums it up perfectly. And the American cause is (quite naturally because this is Hollywood) a noble one. The film has its share of powerful scenes &#150; the F18 shoot-down scene and Wilson's discovery of the mass grave in the forest in particular. But it also has its share of silliness too, the rescue scene in particular being implausibly over-the-top, incorporating as it does a mixture of Rambo-style bullet-dodging, 007-style cliff-leaping stunt work, and the inability of several BMP armored vehicles and massed Serb gunmen to shoot down (or even hit) three hovering American helicopters at very close range.The supposedly `clever' fast-zoom and CGI camera work is also headache-inducing at times, and really should have been toned down a bit. Unfortunately, this style of filming seems to be becoming increasingly fashionable and is often done just for the sake of it. And this film is no exception.Overall I'd rate this movie as a good 6 out of 10. I won't be rushing out to add the DVD to my collection, but I might watch it again if and when it appears on satellite TV. "},{"Title":"Shame the script doesn't match the FX","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Hey, no argument hear about the action scenes, they're spectacular. But the logic flaws throughout are staggering. The fact that he's a top gun pilot and carries on like a spoilt schoolgirl was my first problem. When in a tight situation his military training seemingly deserts him and he acts like a scared citizen. And a lesson from Evasion 101 when you're being closely pursued by an army, don't sit on top of a mountain where you're beautifully silhouetted for snipers, no matter how good an opportunity you may provide for cinematographers. The premium moment in this movie's descent from action to comedy came when Wilson's character radioes in to report that he is at the designated pick-up location. When he comes under fire and begins to move, Hackman's character orders his crew to get a fix on his position! The same position they told him to be at! It's one more flaw in a long series. 3 points for sfx. None for everything else. 3/10.  "},{"Title":"Lame, Lame, Lame","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Behind Enemy Lines  *1/2   Despite good performances from Gene hackman and Owen Wilson, this updated Bat 21 type film about a solider(Wilson) left behind enemy lines is terrible in most other aspects. The script is full of implausibilities, and first-time director John Moore makes the film look like an episode of MTV Cribs. You would hope that someone with an actor of Gene Hackman's caliber would create something halfway decent, but that's not the case here. "},{"Title":"This movie is just too much.","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Ok, I expected this to be another brainless hollywood-style action movie, and I was right. Having that state of mind, I could enjoy the movie until the silly end. I could stand the sterotypical bad guy/good guy theme. I even accepted that mines only hurt the bad guys... somehow.The end was too unbelievable for me. You have 4 hueys against X number of BMPs and BMP-2s, which are armed with AT-4a missiles and of course  73mm guns. Since this is a piece of unbelievable pro-us-military propaganda, the hueys win. I can accept exaggeration in the interest of the plot, but this was just over the top.The directing of this movie is questionable. It is shot in a music video MTV-style. Sometimes it works, but often it doesnt. "},{"Title":"Hollybosnia","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  And again we have a good example how Hollywood looks at some historical events as such in Bosnia. The serbs are the bad, and the patriot soldiers of the us are the good. Instead giving the audience a good story they gave them some great explosions, and fantastic FX. Hollywood should make more movies like American Beauty and more like the Deer hunter. And please please stop making the sentence; We will get back our.............. pfffhhh.  "},{"Title":"I liked it better the first time when it was called BAT 21","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  This movie was a HUGE disappointment.  I am a big fan of Owen Wilson, and Gene Hackman - but they both stunk in this film.  The plot was a weak re-hash of Bat-21 or even Flight of the Intruder to a degree.  But both of these films are far better than this nightmare.  The camera work was poor, the dialog laughable, the premise was not even remotely plausible, and overall a big waste of time....  I should not write this now, because I just finished watching the movie.  - BUT I am so mad that I blew the time and money to see this stinker I wanted to warn others as soon as possible. Stay away from this at all cost - I would not even rent it!  - No Kidding, it's that bad. "}{"Title":"Embarrassing","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  RATING  * / ****Behind Enemy Lines is exactly the kind of film that I will not spare harsh words for. After all, was I not made to sit for two hours watching a work so devoid of passion, truth and entertainment value? The film is predictable down to the very last detail. It is a work processed straight out of the Hollywood Money Making Machine with no touch of humanity anywhere to be found. I think it would be more appropriately titled Run Owen, Run! (Brought to you by Coca-Cola, Chevrolet and Ice Cube). If you've seen the film you know exactly what I'm talking about.If you must know, the plot involves Owen Wilson as Chris Burnett, a Navy lieutenant running away from his Serbian foes. Gene Hackman is Admiral Reigart, the one trying to pick Burnett up and bring him back home. The trouble is, a peace treaty was recently signed between America and those chasing Burnett, so if Admiral Reigart dares and goes after him, his entire command is at stake. War is a complex subject, and a good war film should never be able to be summarized in three sentences. But this isn't a good war film, and I just did it, didn't I?I probably don't need to tell you how unrealistic this whole affair is. Am I supposed to believe that with an entire section of the Serbian army on his tail, Burnett gets out completely unscathed? Are these guys really such bad shots that out of all of them, not one can even hit Burnett in the leg? With the carelessness Burnett shows, he's pretty damn lucky that Hollywood magic can pull him out of a jam whenever he needs. I say Burnett is careless, let me elaborate. If I were in his position, and had a chance to escape by blending in with the opponent, there is no way I would take off a ski mask that was concealing my identity (even if I did get rewarded by hearing that triumphant music in the background).I am also sick of directors coming into Hollywood, placing a bunch of radical camera tricks in their film and thinking that makes them Orson Welles. POV, 360 degree rotation, Slow-Motion (one of the inventions the film world would be a better place without), lightning-quick montages, it's all here, and ALL the time. Director John Moore never gives it a rest. English should be a required course in film school so directors can forget about the lenses and the camera speeds for at least a minute and focus on the point they're trying to get across.Owen Wilson and Gene Hackman do their worst in this film. Owen Wilson is a generally good actor who somehow lets all his acting skills go to waste and create a completely bland, stupid character. And Gene Hackman? It would be a huge understatement to call him a fantastic actor who's had some classic performances, but he is scraping the bottom of the barrel with this one. I can safely say that this is one of the worst performances of his fruitful career, and I am in shock that such a smart actor as him would choose such an empty project. However, Gene Hackman at his worst is better than Ben Affleck trying his hardest. The one reason Behind Enemy Lines is on a level slightly above dreck like Pearl Harbor is because it is graced with his presence.Behind Enemy Lines is the kind of film built to suck in money, and maybe grab a few awards along the way. Unfortunately, this is becoming the norm for war movies these days, but trust me, people aren't being fooled. If you want a surge of post 9/11 patriotism or inspiration, save your nine bucks and rent something with real emotion like Casablanca or Mr. Smith Goes to Washington; something that aims to do more than nab the top spot at the weekend box office. "},{"Title":"Great Action Movie","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  This was probably one of the best action movies made in 2001. The action, war scenes, and story were all so wonderfully drawn up to make a good movie. However, all movies have something in them that just couldn't happen. In this case it was some of the stunts pulled that were so unlikely. But other than that, 'Behind Enemy Lines' was a wonderful/edge of your seat action movie. "},{"Title":"Wow a rollercoaster of a film","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I was a little dubious about this film - however I was not disappointed.  What a roller coaster of film.  In a nutshell crew of an a American Naval jet are shot down and there follows one hell of a game of cat and mouse with Bosnian militia.  Lots of set pieces (the actual shooting down of jet is tremendous) and explosions.  However hidden amongst all the ordanance is a cracking story told at breathtaking pace.  Acting is a little B grade and I am not convinced Owen Wilson was a particular good casting choice(dare I say he is a little 'camp') - however he handled most of the scenes well.  Gene Hackman acted by numbers (lots of meaningful stares etc) - but on the whole 8/10.  Blackhawk Down next - hope that is half as good as this.  Is it me or are the UK censors relaxing - this was only a 12 - yet there was a fair sprinkling of the F word and some quite graphic scenes.  The film was much more gritty than I imagined. "},{"Title":"good action film.","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  This film is very loosely based on a true incident which took place in the Bosnian civil war where a downed American pilot evaded capture behind enemy lines until he was airlifted out by U S forces. The depiction of the war ravaged towns and countryside is very realistic  together with the horrors of civil war with children laying boobytraps and civilians of both sexes and all ages bearing arms and participating in fighting. A particularly good scene was the evasion and eventual destruction of the aircraft by heatseeking missiles. A good action film which does not glorify war but shows it in its true colours.  "},{"Title":"Very good! Some awesome action sequences.","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Much better than expected, and the shooting in Slovakia gave it a realistic feeling.  Cinematography was spectacular at times - loved the documentary shooting style during the heavy action.  It put you in the middle of the action at times, and was well done.Wilson did good.  I didn't expect much from him in this type of roll, but he surprised me.  Wish he had taken more physical damage though.  Ending was too easy for him. "},{"Title":"Over done drama","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  When I first heard about this movie, I thought this was gonna be a cold war thriller. But what it ended up being someone trying to copy John Woos action style. Owen Wilson gives a real weak performance. Not that  he is a bad actor. Just that this role was not for him. Some scenes were not believable. Even when Owen Wilson switches clothes with one of the bad guys. And when the camera is behind him. He takes off his mask so the audience in the movie theater will know who he is. The audience will pretty much know who he is.The only thing good about this movie is Gene Hackman. Gives a good performance as the Admiral who will risk his command by rescuing Wilson. Hackman is still one of our finest actors. "},{"Title":"More good than bad","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  This is a pretty good action film.  Most of the film is an edge-of-your seat chase, which is very well done.  There is some of the best camera work I've seen in this film, but there is also some of the worst (think Blair Witch).  There is also the standard here we come to save the day Hollywood ending.  But the good is better than the bad is bad.  While this will probably not be the best film you've ever seen, it is worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Exciting stuff","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  This is a good piece of escapist entertainment, and if you don't mind that the story is not rocket science stuff, there's no reason not to enjoy it. It got off to a very exciting first half hour, and then I expected it to fall flat, given the slim plot. But the action is so good, together with the camerawork, that I didn't notice any real let-up in the pace. Owen Wilson was quite good, although his fair hair made the stunt doubling somewhat tricky, and Gene Hackman returned to form. Having almost walked out of his last three movies, I was expecting another turkey, but it certainly was not that. You can't really call this a war movie, although there isn't a single female in the cast, but I suppose it is geared to us chaps who like action heroics. I must admit I preferred this to most war movies, because it is easier to identify with one man on the run. I thought it was worth the admission price just to see the American jet try to avoid heat-seeking missiles. A terrific action sequence that ranks with any I've ever seen. 6/10, which is good for me! "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  This really is a pretty good movie. (I gave it 8 out of 10 stars) All the actors did a good job and the movie was enjoyable to watch. The only thing that bothered me was that there were long periods of silence in which Burnett didn't talk (Because he had no one to talk to.) It also seems to be lacking something, but I can't figure out what. However, it's an overall good movie and I liked it. "},{"Title":"All Around, Pretty Good","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I personally love action movies like this one, so the people I went with weren't surprised when I said I loved the movie. I was the one surprised when one of them, who didn't want to go see the movie in the first place, said she loved it too! It has great sound effects that in the theatre, or in a home with surround sound will almost literally blow you away! Although some of the scenes were predictable, most of it kept the girls clinging to their boyfriends and friends on the edges of their seats. I personally recommend this to anyone who loves a little action, and even if you don't, you just might be surprised at how much you might like this movie. The acting was great and the sound effects set the mood at exactly the right moment, so the only real problem was the fact that you could predict some of the movie! I rate it a 9/10. "}{"Title":"THE FRONT ACTION FILM OF THE YEAR!","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Yes I am not kidding but this is the only solid action movie to come out this summer which did not feature Mummy's or Dinosaurs or even lame computer hackers named after gaming fish!Can you recall the time when we saw actors like Connery and Cage battling to save San Francisco?Or the time that Bruce Willis had to violently kill three people in an elevator in Die Hard with a Vengance and the comic pairing of Will Smith and Martin Lawrence in a no holds bar action flick called Bad Boys????Well it seems that those films were in the past and today we have to rely on heavy special effects and PG-rated action movies to satisfy our appetites(Blame it on the Mummy and Armageddon).Well at least this film is a step above from the rest of what was offered this year and basically if it reminds you of Top Gun and Star Wars at the same time I really don't care because this film was a real crowd pleaser for me.Owen Wilson plays Burnett a gung-ho pilot (do you know any other) who must survive and save his country from an international incident.I do not like discussing the plot but all I can tell you is that I enjoyed this film and it is filmed with every style of MTV film making you can imagine so that the audience can recodnise the young Wilson in his first solo action flick.It worked well for me,so don't fuss about how it should have had this and that cos you know you can't really do much to change the film now except just watch it so just watch it! "},{"Title":"A big budget failure from a first time director","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  John Moore needs to decide on a directing style.  Behind Enemy Lines could have been an enjoyable popcorn fluff film full of patriotism for a country that can't seem to get enough of that sentiment.  Instead it is a shoddy mess of directing styles matched with a story line from the guys who gave us the moronic Wild Wild West and laughable Mission to Mars.  Moore can't decide if he wants to be Speilberg with his Saving Private Ryan-esque dropped frame battle scenes, the Wachowski brothers with a Matrix style slow motion close-ups, Ridley Scott with the Enemy of the State views from a satellite, or Darren Aronofsky with his very brief use of the up close head shots.  All of this coupled with a cliche-ridden script with poor dialog makes for a terrible viewing experience.  Hackman and Wilson are in top form but are really just killing time here before filming The Royal Tenenbaums. Hackman and Wilson aside, most of the acting is terrible.  The extras seem to be pulled off the street over acting every step of the way.  All in all, a very poor film with subject matter that deserves better treatment.  If you want patriotism, stay home and rent Red Dawn instead. "},{"Title":"I love Owen Wilson..","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I'd watch anything he's in - what is a girl to do? ;-)Anyway I am usually not one for action films but Owen Wilson is great in this, he proves he can do more than comedy! I always knew he had it in him! What a talent! I can't wait for the sequel to Shanghai Noon! ;-) "},{"Title":"Surprisingly decent kick butt military action movie","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised with this movie.  I decided to see it because I figured Gene Hackman wouldn't waste his talent on anything that isn't worth his time.  It won't be winning any Oscars, but it is thoroughly entertaining and fun.  That is all you can ask for from most movies anyway.  Owen Wilson is definitely out of his familiar comedic role, and he does a good job with it.  Basically this is entertaining and a good way to spend a couple hours. If you like action movies at all, you won't regret seeing this one. Score B+ "},{"Title":"GOOD ACTION FLICK","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  This was an exciting film, with excellent action sequences both on the ground and in the air.  The scene where the plane is dodging the heat seeking missile was really exciting.  It dragged a little where Owen Wilson was running from the enemy.  Overall if you want to see a film that will keep you on the edge of your seat, go see this one. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but the cameraman should be shot...","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Behind Enemy Lines is an entertaining, if somewhat predictable foray into the action-thriller for Owen Wilson. Although the casting is at first somewhat distracting - Wilson's previous work has centered on, with rare exceptions, comedies or roles which serve primarily as comic relief, and it's somewhat difficult initially to take him seriously - Wilson does an excellent turn as leading man in a serious action role.The plot is somewhat thin at points, and the movie is maybe a half an hour shorter than it should have been - certain points need far deeper explanation than they're given, or at least better clarification - but it's still a decent enough way to spend a couple of hours.My only real complaint is with the cinematography. After two hours of the jarring sort of hand-held camerawork that one finds in the Blair Witch Project or the opening of Saving Private Ryan, intersperced with a too-liberal helping of high-speed pans, freeze frames, and John Woo style slow-mo and bullet-time shots, one has to wonder if the film crew has ever heard of a steadycam... "},{"Title":"Red, White and Blonde!","Date":"29 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" The panoramic shots of a bad ass aircraft carrier floating in a true blue sea of serenity with cock-rock playing over it is enough to get you so pumped for the action in Behind Enemy Lines that you won't care if this takes place in a country you've never heard of. Unfortunately, this gung-ho action thriller is occasionally and rudely interrupted with scenes of dramatic tension that reek of obligatory sensitivity. I mean who cares why these people are killing each other? I want to see Owen Wilson be all he can be. Wait, what's the Navy's slogan again? Anyway, what I mean is I want to see Owen teach those treacherous foreigners what it means to be Red, White and Blonde! Owen Wilson stars in this ass-slamming adventure as a golden boy pilot. His nose is cast in a supporting roll as well. Wilson has no time to distinguish between warring ethnic groups, he's got to outrun armies and look for a giant angel. With boy scout determination to beat the odds and a true blue American sense of international justice, Owen makes his way through body parts and mud(ethnic cleansing has nothing to do with cleanliness), runs through the most ineffective tripwires ever and takes his mask off way too early as he walks out of an enemy camp. And when it's all over with, you better believe that more progress has been made towards peace and justice than the UN could ever hope to achieve. "},{"Title":"Good Action Film!","Date":"25 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" I guess this film falls in the comic book action type films. They stretch the reality and feasability quite a bit, they're fun popcorn movies. One of my favorites in this genre involves a soldier in his 50s climbing and fighting on a moving cable car coming down a mountain, while dozens of Nazis are shooting at him and he doesn't get a scratch (or a heart attack). I'm talking about Where Eagles Dare which is a very entertaining and fun film. Behind Enemy Lines has similar scenes but is another roller coaster ride. Criticizing this film is ludicrous because it's only a movie and not a documentary. Movies should be enjoyed and not criticized. If you're watching just to find flaws, then don't waste your money as ALL movies have flaws. Use some imagination and try to enjoy yourself. That's the idea behind movies. I thought Owen Wilson did a fine job, and for me, this film was the first time I ever saw him. Gene Hackman is always great in films and he delivers here too. I enjoyed the story and I found director John Moore and Brendan Galvin's (cinematographer) film techniques interesting. Don Davis' score added to the tension and the Bosnians were all terrific characters whether good guys or bad. Just as in James Bond films, this film was one of those I wonder how he's gonna get out of this one? types. You gotta use some imagination and a stretch of your believability and just sit back and enjoy! Redundant but true! "},{"Title":"Watch it every time","Date":"18 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" The photographic quality and soundtrack is superb. Would almost make you want to visit this part of the world as a tourist. If it didn't have such a terrible history - and not just the last twenty years.The film has been roundly criticized as flag waving and trite. But ask yourself; wouldn't you want Gene Hackman on your side, and anyhow if it was in your power as Task Force Commander wouldn't you bend the rules. The peacekeepers were constantly outfoxed in this conflict anyhow.The scene where the pursuing soldiers can't see Owen in the mire is shocking at every level. And gets close to what the countryside hides.But for me the stand out part is Sacha (Vladimir Mashkov), who is actually Russian, but is so true to the part it makes the entire film for me.And if you liked this, try Hunting Party with Richard Gere (another actor switching out of type for this part of the world) and see if you wouldn't do the same.23/7/2014 Just been doing a quick review of my reviews (yes, narcissistic, I know) but there's something strange here.This film and its reviews are absolutely cluttered with negative submissions. The film is not that bad.I think I'm seeing IMDb being used in some sort of campaign. Anti-American? - well, bog off and watch The Whistleblower with Rachel Weisz - 'cause Europeans didn't come out that clean there, either. Human nature is a bitch, see!. "},{"Title":"Serviceable despite its Clichés and Stereotypes","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Clichés and stock characters riddle freshman director John Moore's Behind Enemy Lines, an entertaining but derivative aircraft carrier-based Top Gun escape thriller about an American fighter jet shot down over Bosnia, boasting histrionic Rambo heroics and sophisticated Patriot Games technology. Lightweight leading man Owen Wilson of Shanghai Noon stars as a trouble-prone F/A-18 Superhornet navigator with a bad attitude. Apparently, Lt. Chris 'Longhorn' Burnett (Wilson) has served eights years on the U.S.S. Carl Vinson without getting a taste of combat. Unhappy and frustrated, he complains to his long-suffering friend and pilot, Lt. Jeremy 'Smoke' Stackhouse (Gabriel Macht of American Outlaws), that the days of punching a Nazi in the nose at Normandy are finished. All Burnett wants now is complete his tour of duty and cash out. I joined the Navy to be a fighter pilot, Burnett explains to his gruff, tip-lipped superior, Admiral Lesley Reigart (Gene Hackman of Crimson Tide), not a cop walking a beat. Referring to the Balkans, Burnett adds, I certainly didn't want to be a cop in a neighborhood nobody cares about. Predictably, Lt. Burnett's attitude takes a 180 degree whirl after he finds himself up to his neck in the worst disaster of his life with an army of murderous, trigger-happy Serbs closing in for the kill.Surprisingly, the Pentagon approved the improbable David (Natural Born Killers) Veloz and Zac (Last Action Hero) Penn screenplay based on an original story by Jim & Jack Thomas of Executive Decision and Predator 2. Basically, Behind Enemy Lines qualifies as a patriotic, flag-waving recruiting exercise for the U.S. Navy. Filmed aboard the U.S.S. Carl Vinson, this slickly produced but thoroughly derivative airborne actioneer takes advantage of its authentic setting. While our guys are flying a reconnaissance mission, Burnett activates their fancy new digital camera. Stackhouse agrees to cruise over a no-fly zone. Incredibly, our heroes catch Serbian troops on camera in the act of burying Muslim victims in a mass grave. Evil Serb Commander Lokar (Olek Krupa) orders his diabolical henchman Sasha (Vladimir Mashkov of 15 Minutes) to fire their SAM missiles. In the most adrenalin-laced episode, a SAM missile blows their jet apart, but Stackhouse and Burnett catapult to safety. Stackhouse injures his leg on the way down, so Burnett hoofs it off to a high place to radio the ship. No sooner has Burnett left Stackhouse than the entire Serbian Army encircles him. Wicked Sasha shoots Stackhouse execution-style in the back of the head at point blank range. Afterward, Sasha embarks on his relentless pursuit of Burnett. Meanwhile, back on the U.S.S. Carl Vinson, Admiral Reigart finds his hands tied by a meddlesome NATO superior Admiral Piquet (Joaquim de Almedia of Desperado) who refuses to let him rescue Burnett. Piquet worries more about the fragile cease-fire and a treaty due to take effect in a couple of days than about Burnett's survival. Behind Enemy Lines passes muster on a wing and a prayer. War movie aficionados should find it serviceable despite its clichés and stereotypes. "}{"Title":"A pilot is down behind enemy lines and his commanding officer makes it his mission to bring him back safe and sound.","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Behind Enemy Lines =================This is an interesting movie set in the time around the Bosnian Serb conflicts and it starts out with an American plane doing a photo reconnaissance mission over the countryside where they get shot down by Serb forces. The pilot and his navigator eject and land but the navigator is killed, That's where the core of the movie starts as a chase ensues to keep him alive both by his actions, and by the people outside on his aircraft carrier who he is in communication with.If you find this movie is a bit of a touchy topic then you might not want to see it, but if you like a bit of suspense and a bit of action and a story that was in fact true then you are going to simply love this movie.. CORRECTION ON MUGGYSPHERE'S SUMMARY It wasn't the navigator that got killed, it was the pilot. Pilot Stackhouse(Gabriel Macht)gets shot and Navigator Lieutenant Chris Burnett(Owen Wilson) makes it his mission to make sure that Stackhouse didn't die for nothing while they were on their mission. They were on a mission but things get them in a hot situation which causes big obstacles for one man (trying to find why he joined the navy) to overcome. "},{"Title":"Good Film","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Reading some other reviews and having a decent understanding of the messages this movie was trying to convey, persuaded me to write this. Some call this generic and unoriginal. The fact is that this movie goes beyond the good guys triumph over bad guys cliché and confronts true history. Albeit this story never may have happened, but you can bet the genocide of innocent women and children did. The genocide in that country is no dramatic story made up by the screenwriters of this film. This movie takes that gives us something to feel good about. Perhaps more than a documentary because we ultimately side with the true good. Simply because a movie is not original in its mechanics does not make it bad. I would recommend this film to anyone who wants to feel that sensation afterwards of knowing that what their country does is right. "},{"Title":"Better than I expected...","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  This movie was much better than I expected it to be. I have never been the biggest fan of Owen Wilson. I didn't care for some of his other work like Royal Tenenbaums, Bottle Rocket, but this one did him justice. In a rare occurance, Owen stars along with the legendary Gene Hackman, in this war/thriller. I recommend this movie very much. If you like war movies, cat and mouse chases, military strategy, good acting, action, then this is for you. Gene Hackman is good as always, as is Owen Wilson. Ashamed this wasn't highly well received by the critics or others, but it worked for me. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"What movie shall I be today?","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I think I can ignore the content of this film for this review as it appears the producers ignored it completely. I'm being serious. There's nothing of note. Let's talk about form. This film is based solely on form, which sadly is one of the trappings of stepping from television commercials to feature-length films. After genuinely exciting and stylish opening battle (FA18 vs. 2 missiles), the movie drops in tone to what is simply a catalogue; a book of camera and editing 'fabric-samples', if you like. It has every trick in the book. Sumptuous dolly and jib shots, nice composition... but wait! Let's go for the flickery Spielberg hand-held look a la Saving Private Ryan... NOW let's have a go at Tony Scott's Enemy of the State/Guy Ritchie's Snatch fast/slow/fast motion effects... whoops, back to smooth slow-mo crane shots again... Is this a bad thing? Well, yes. It feels like the director has made a bet that he can emulate every visually influential director of the past 30 years in two hours. It doesn't matter that all characters display abject stupidity at every turn. Even Hackman looks bad in this, a hand-wringing, insecure ADMIRAL, no less. Does that make sense to anyone?See it if you like eye-candy, but avoid otherwise.Funniest moment our hero and his new friend run through a forest. He shouts 'stop!' and holds up his hand. They freeze, listening intently as the poor old steadicam does about 20 laps around them. He eventually lowers his hand and they run off..... "},{"Title":"Do not waste your time.","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I went and saw this film on the grounds that the trailer looked interesting and I respected Owen Wilson and Gene Hackman as actors. Well, silly me! This film lost me about  5 minutes in. Standing on the deck of an aircraft carrier, a group of navy lads chat about the strength of the oncoming wind. And guess what - there's stuff-all wind blowing at them. This laid down the standard for the production values of the entire film, except I guess they thought they could get away with it  by disguising the poor film-making with flashy post-production effects. By the end I was thinking If I see one more cheesy speed-ramp I'm going to rip the film out of the bloody projector.A crappy, weak, run-of-the-mill story-line, this was really nothing more than yet another piece of back-slapping propaganda for the US military.The other thing that bothered me was the music, which is surprising now that I look on the IMDB and see that it was done by the same guy that did the superb music in The Matrix. I guess it shows how bad directing can ruin the tasteful use of music. There were too many points where the music was trying to force the emotional response out of the audience, instead of  complementing the underlying emotion of the scene. Also there were a number of big dramatic hits in the soundtrack that were utterly unjustified as what they were underscoring was either not worthy of a big dramatic revelation or was so predictable that when the revelation did come, the music made it seem like a joke.So, all in all, if  you want a good lesson in how to make a bad movie, then I recommend this film. Otherwise, steer well clear. "},{"Title":"Pathetic!","Date":"27 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" This is by far the worst movie I have ever seen in my life. Fortunately for me, I only saw 15 minutes of it when it was shown on TV, which was more than enough. I never wanted to see this movie in the theaters as I knew it was just another pathetic attempt to profit from unfortunate events that happened in Bosnia (this being a one-sided CNN version of events). I can't believe Gene Hackman took part in this movie, he must've been desperate for cash. How sad is that, boohoo. Don't even want to mention Owen Wilson, he was always a sore loser. As for the director, what a moron. If you want to make a war movie, at least try to make it somewhat authentic and believable. THI IS LAUGHABLE! Hire actors that can actually speak the language of the people you so blatantly persecute throughout the entire movie (you can't, because nobody in their right mind would take part in such a subjective and prejudicial crap). I don't understand why these directors continue to make films with the same pathetic content, don't they have any other ideas. Maybe they should change careers, not maybe, definitely! Oh yeah, the acting is hilarious!!!Very, very pathetic movie. I feel sorry for all those people who actually paid to watch it and for all those who took part in its production, go work at McDonald's! "},{"Title":"So bad, that it is almost funny","Date":"25 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Not only that this is a shallow brainwashing propaganda - this is a really, really bad action movie, even if turn the blind eye to the pathetic quasi-patriotic part of it. There are bad guys (Serbs, of course) and good guys (and the best among them are Americans, of course). Serbs are not only murderers and blood thirsty savages in this movie - they are also completely incapable soldiers. Bunch of them cannot hit the main character while chasing him, but then, meters from the helicopter, he realizes he needs to get back for something, and of course, he turns back, takes out his pistol and kills one bad guy with each bullet (while, of course, they still can't even hit him).People from all the nations in that bloody civil war were frightened, miserable, fighting to survive and defend their families and homes. And on all sides there were self-sacrifices, but also there were some idiots committing crimes. Serbs no more or less than the others. They did not come from outside, but lived there mixed with the others. There were no good and bad nations in that war, only good and bad people, equally distributed in all of them.This kind of propaganda makes me sick, regardless if it tries to justify an American military operation in a foreign country, or if it is made just to entertain. It fails both. "},{"Title":"Evil Serbs Attacking","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Like my fellow citizen Stasa noticed, movie is full of bad thing, unauthentic data etc. Empire based on films like this must collapse soon.Look people Roman Empire lasted 1000 years, Bizantine 800, Russian, 400, British 200, German less than 100, and, how long this Evil Empire last? I am not trying to persuade you that all the Serbs are good and all Muslims are bad.No!I want to say thatthere are killers and there are normal folks. So, that is about it. Empire chooses who is the good guy. Who knows, tomorrow Muslims or Albanians will turn into monsters like Talibans, like Chechnians, like Iraqis,like Cubans, like all ex-American allies. "},{"Title":"What is this, the 80s?","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  There is way to many movies like this one, the only part I like in this movie is when they actually get shot down. The rest of it is, well let's say it's not that great. But hey, common, where is the realism? I would like this movie if it were made in the 80s, but.. It's embarrassing. I mean, would an admiral risk his job, not to mention his men to go get a pilot who was shot down because he didn't follow orders? Would a pilot even disobey orders like Burnett and Stackhouse did? The first 10 minutes were OK. But then it all becomes to extreme, and the ending!... Typical American movies, the Americans are the heroes and all the other are the bad guys. There are a lot of movies like this one, but they were made in the 80s and in the 80s you didn't make anything else, but we are in the 21th century now!  "},{"Title":"Not Bad Post-Cold-War War Movie","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Behind Enemy Lines is a kind of Clinton-administration Top Gun, a Bosnia story of raring-to-go fighter pilots kept in tight operational quarters, if their missions aren't scrubbed on the flight deck by NATO hand-wringing over the peace process, loosely defined as when warring factions agree to massacre fewer civilians that week.  The story concerns Lt. Chris Burnett (Owen Wilson, with hair that's pretty long even by Navy aviator standards), an F-18 jockey on the USS Carl Vinson off the Bosnian coast.  He wants to fight a war, to punch a Nazi in the face, and is frustrated by the NATO leash, and the lack of a real war to fight (seems almost quaint now, doesn't it?).  He gets shot down when he strays off course during a photo recon, and has to dodge marauding Serb forces to survive while the allies try, with varying levels of enthusiasm, to rescue him.Naturally, there is a dual conflict here while Wilson is battling unshaven war criminals, his warhorse CO dukes it out with NATO brass, in the form of a scowling Spanish naval officer, less concerned about the downed pilot than the fate of the Cincinnati Accords (a deft play on the real-life Dayton Accords, and a reference, perhaps, to Cincinnatus, a philosopher who urged civil control of military forces).  As Rear Adm. Riegert, Gene Hackman cuts a familiar figure in Navy khaki.  Marine veteran Hackman carries with him a certain martial authority, and he is able to use it without conscious effort.  Here, his battle-weary face reveals more of his character than his battle-weary dialogue.  Joaquim de Almeida does what he can with the NATO officer; to his credit, he maintains credibility, even while delivering the inevitable speech about how little Wilson matters next to the prospect of peace.  While this is a classic war-movie boo-hiss moment, de Almeida lends it such sincerity that you think, gee whiz, the guy's kinda got a point. As Burnett, Owen Wilson is fine, though the part isn't too far removed from the breezy, callow types he has played in the past (also, for a downed pilot on the run, he doesn't sneak around very much; at times he looks like a jogger who's gotten a bit lost).The movie is at its best as a portrait of the mutagenic madness of the Yugoslav civil war, and wisely, the movie avoids a lot of speechifying on the subject.  It prefers to paint a visual picture using images and vignettes, which are striking enough to raise the movie above its modest action-flick ambitions.  The color scheme on the ground is all black mud and shattered concrete pallor even the snow is gray.  The landscape (the Slovak Republic, standing in for southern Bosnia) is shown with all the weirdness that makes this the most sadly surreal of modern wars refugees sipping Coke and hiding out in strip malls, while hard-faced men in track suits prowl among blasted religious statuary, and plant trees atop mass graves.  In one of the movie's most poignant moments, Wilson watches as a man and a little girl seem to be playing a sort of odd skipping game, and when we see what they're doing and why, it is quietly devastating.The photography is impressive as well the scenes of whiz-bang American technology are shown in frenetic stop-motion and fast-motion, and by contrast, there is a nifty slow-mo shot of the effects of a land mine, which, in a more self-indulgent movie, we would have seen several times in a Matrix-style rotating pan.  Here, first-time director John Moore plays it like a ballet.  On the speed side of things, we get a cool scene where Wilson's F-18 engages in a lethal pas de deux with a pair of streaking Serbian SAMs while warning lights flash all around.Unfortunately, the movie starts to shudder near the end.  We get characters and situations that might develop into something promising, but don't. There is a half-hearted half-plot involving evidence of genocide that is flip and unconvincing.  Much like Three Kings, Behind Enemy Lines underplays its strengths and gambles its credibility on a big corny climactic action scene.  Hackman and a Marine Recon platoon (using the wrong machine guns, dammit, Hollywood!) throw together what MEUSOC officers like to call a hasty TRAP, involving far too much footage of Wilson sprinting across an open field while half a company of Serb mech infantry unloads behind him.  The scene is well filmed, and I have nothing against a little GI triumphalism, indeed it's one of my very favorite things it's just a shame to see a movie start so well and finish so cheaply.  Behind Enemy Lines is not a bad movie (except for that lousy direct-to-video title; too bad Rules of Engagement was already taken).  But it isn't quite the surprise gem it could have been. "}{"Title":"Better than 'Peacemaker' or 'Welcome to Sarajevo'","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  As a Serb it was very interesting for me to watch this movie. And it's not so bad movie, even though we're shown as 'the bad guys' once again. The biggest fault was selection of the actors, because most of the actors that play Serbs are Russians and Slovaks, so their Serbian was a littlebit funny. Like if Swedish played Englishman.  "},{"Title":"Behind the Times.","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Crazed action adrenaline rush has U.S. flight navigator Owen Wilson shot out of the sky, along with his partner, over war-torn Bosnia during the dead of winter. Wilson is the only survivor of the crash and he is forced to literally run away and hide from the enemy as he attempts to get back to safety. The military does not look to be any help until Wilson's superior (Gene Hackman) goes against protocol to get his man out safely. Leave your mind at the door when watching this special effects heavy effort. Director John Moore (who had previously directed action video games!?) seems to have trouble with plot and characterization. We are thus left with a lot of explosions and noise while Hackman's potentially interesting part gets demolished by an avalanche of old cliches and tiresome genre antics. 2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Bad is a compliment","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"13 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" I have seen plenty of BAD movies, but this one is insulting. Furthermore, I loathe films that teach the public the wrong things. I know, I know... it is not a documentary... but give me the benefit of the doubt that watching a movie that shows things that are completely and totally inaccurate for the purpose of making the movie exciting is WRONG. After watching this movie, people will think that fighters get chased around by missiles which keep after them until one or the other is destroyed. If it were not so stupid it would be comical... but sadly, people believe this crap because they don't know better. Please avoid the ignorance, and forgive the waste of your time if you see more than 10 seconds of this horrible film. "},{"Title":"An old-fashioned, action-packed war movie","Date":"23 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" This fluid, adrenaline-fuelled addition to the recent wave of war films to hit our cinemas in the wake of SAVING PRIVATE RYAN is less serious than most, instead preferring to simplify the characters and situations of the (real-life) war situation - and using them as a basis for what is pretty much a straightforward action offering, utilising the old-fashioned chase style plot as a basis for the continuous shoot-outs and battles between enemies. In fact the film has a minimalist style, preferring to keep things low key, as a sole man - played by Owen Wilson - must try and make it to safe ground before the stereotypical bad guys shoot him dead. BEHIND ENEMY LINES may not be a work of art, but as an action film it exceeds all of our expectations. The pacing never flags for a second and the action is plentiful and exciting.The highlight of the movie is undoubtedly the super-impressive airborne chase between our heroes in their Navy jet and two surface-to-air missiles sent to destroy it. Utilising modern digital effects, this air battle is portrayed as never before and extremely entertaining. From then on, the rest of the action is surface-based and concentrates on massive amounts of gunfire, explosions, tanks and even a sniper or two sent to obliterate our American hero before he can escape. Critics complain about the clichéd nature of the plot and the patriotic flag-waving from the US, but when the action is this good such trappings don't really matter. Watch out for an ambush in a minefield which is also a highlight of the movie.Stylistically, director John Moore is one of those MTV graduates desperate to pack the movie with as many camera styles, pans, tricks, sweeps and spins as possible. The widely contrasting methods of filming do become a little too frenetic and overwhelming but on a whole they're adequate and add to the realistic feel of the action. Owen Wilson has now matured from lame comedy and bad acting in THE HAUNTING into becoming an adequate leading man and the viewer gets to engage with his good-natured character as he narrowly avoids the enemy time after time. Gene Hackman is there for name value as a gruff admiral back at the base, who barks orders like there's no tomorrow and eventually proves to be a good chap after all (I told you this was clichéd). Despite whatever shortcomings, BEHIND ENEMY LINES is a fine piece of light-hearted cinema, an old-fashioned adventure with little or no moralising to get in the way. Shallow but very entertaining. "},{"Title":"Has Entertaining Moments,but Dosen't Really Succeed as a War Film,","Date":"22 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Behind Enemy Lines is a mediocre movie with a well developed storyline and a talented cast.It is very enjoyable,although I think the main thing it wanted to be was a war film,which it didn't particularly succeed at,they're suppose to have very dramatic moments and some really intense scenes that make us feel like the main character is in genuine danger and could die at any moment,there wasn't much of that in this,it has a lot of comic relief,which I will admit was pretty funny but it really took away from being a good drama.I don't think Owen Wilson was great casting for the lead role and they didn't give us a reason to really care for his character before he is put in great danger.However,Gene Hackman certainly saved this movie and is the main reason why my rating isn't lower,he delivers a really dramatic and inspired performance and his dialogue was the closest thing to making this feel like a proper war movie.Its not a great War film but it is action packed and has some good moments,I would recommend Behind Enemy Lines if you ever see it on television,but don't go out of your way to watch it. The US navy must rescue one of their own when he is shot down over enemy territory.Best Performance Gene Hackman Worst Performance Vladimir MashkovIf you have any recommendations on films/TV series I should watch or review,or any questions to ask me,just tweet me @DillonTheHarris "},{"Title":"An excellent PG-13 War / Action film! Very well done and entertaining... Blu-ray Excellent A10 V9","Date":"18 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Well, I'll keep this short and sweet (just like I like my women...) If you want an Action / War film that is well directed, written, and especially very well acted, that ISN'T into hard core violence (in other words a great Action / War film to watch with a date or for the family) then this is it.What I really liked about it (I ALMOST gave it a '9') was that the director used just the PRECISE amount of stylized cinematography and hand held camera where it was maximally effective without being overdone or distracting. the sound design was also extremely effective; the soundtrack while Owen Wilson was running over a particularly gruesome area (I don't want to give anything away...) was perfect! For just that moment, there was a genuine atmosphere of palpable Horror which fit perfectly.The film itself is very simple. If you're NOT looking for heavy, hard core, graphically violent films like 'BLACK HAWK DOWN' or 'SAVING PRIVATE RYAN' or anything multi-layered, psychological, and with profound depth like 'APOCALYPSE NOW', and you just want a good, fun, family-friendly Action / War movie, then this is definitely it! And, when I say 'family-friendly', I'm not talking 'Disney' here, just not hard core body limbs being blown off, etc.An excellent and very entertaining film that does EXACTLY what it is supposed to do, and does it well... "},{"Title":"The egg the curate praised","Date":"18 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Behind Enemy Lines reminds me of an expression we have in England and which Americans and other English speakers will know it's a bit like the curate's egg. A young, gauche curate was given an egg for breakfast by the vicar's wife which was not just no fresh, it was unmistakably off. But when asked how his egg was, the curate was mortified that he should appear rude if he told her the truth, so 'it's good in parts', he told the vicar's wife. So is Behind Enemy Lines. Unfortunately, those parts which don't stink do not do enough to rescue this film. Were they to do so, it might well have been far better than similar fare, but sadly - and understandably, being produced on American cash - Beyond Enemy Lines chose to follow the formula to the nth degree it has a 'happy ending' in which our hero naval jet navigator Owen Wilson is saved at the last minute and returned to his ship in one piece. I'm obliged to put quote marks around the phrase 'happy ending' because given the number of 'enemy' killed to enable Wilson's rescue, that ending is not all that happy for some. And when will Hollywood accept that one of 'their boys' is not necessarily one of 'our boys' in that we don't get too dewy-eyed when an American is saved. In my case a Brit perhaps (although personally the schmaltz always involved in that kind of adventure leaves this Brit cold). There are some good things in Beyond Enemy Lines the special effects, the cinematography, the editing, much of the acting is the good side of average. On the minus side, of course, are aspects of the plot Wilson manages to get from one spot to another with remarkable ease, whether it is from the mountains into an abandoned and mined lowland factory site, back into the woods, then back into the mountains. The chap (in a tracksuit, why no uniform?) who is hunting him down also has the most remarkable luck in finding young Wilson again and again. And exactly how, in the heat and anarchy of battle, did Wilson manage to undress and swap uniforms with a corpse, giving the film its plot twist when the rescue mission is called off because the Serbs claim Wilson has been killed? One interesting potential theme is completely thrown away, and had it been developed far more might have redeemed the film somewhat Gene Hackman is ordered by his superior to call of the rescue of Wilson so that peace negotiations are not jeopardised. In essence, one life is to be sacrificed for the very real possibility of saving thousands, as the superior, not unreasonably, points out to Hackman. Such tragic dilemmas surely face commanders all too often. But dammit, this isn't the real world, this is a Hollywood adventure, and Hackman sticks two figures up to authority and rescues his boy anyway, even though doing so ends his career when as a result he is relieved of his command. Perhaps my initial judgment of 'curate's egg' is a little harsh given that when measured against films of this kind, Beyond Enemy Lines does rather better than some of the rubbish I've sat through, most recently The Day After Tomorrow which I couldn't even finish watching after it took a left turn down Schmaltz Alley halfway through and was never going to come back. And though I didn't see the second half of that film, I just knew Dennis Quaid was going to rescue his son even while thousands of other were dying horrible deaths. But back to John Moore's effort I should like to see him make similar films away from the pressure to follow a formula, because whatever else this film did or did not deliver, it is, at least, certain that Moore has what it takes. "},{"Title":"great movie. 8/10","Date":"28 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Behind Enemy Lines is a great film filled with action and suspense.It surprised me that they chose such a funny actor like Owen Wilson who normally works in comedy. Altyhough the part he played was a serious one, he managed to demonstrate his serious acting skills well. Having Owen Wilson play the part he did in this film put a innovative twist in it, and it paid off.The action in this film was outstanding, for example, when the missiles were chasing the plane around. It was full of suspense, thrills and interest. The way it was written and filmed was excellent because it gave me a sense that I was really there, feeling everything and doing everything that the characters did.Although this is a relatively serious movie, there are some light-hearted, humorous aspects.The scenery added to the nature of the film, by the dark, dull, cold colours and lifeless and broken images. "},{"Title":"Owen Wilson?","Date":"18 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" I'm not sure I would have picked Owen Wilson to be the lead in a war movie, but so be it. Wilson is a Naval observer shot down behind enemy lines during the Bosnian War, and everyone and his grandmother is soon after him. Gene Hackman plays an admiral who can't bear the the thought of leaving Wilson behind, even if it costs Hackman his career. Of course, Hackman looks 80 years old in this movie, so the thought that he might be retired or pull desk duty doesn't seem so bad. Some of the movie is very good, like the vivid portrayal of war-torn Bosnia (with Slovakia standing in for Bosnia). Some of it is pure fantasy, like near the the end when Wilson is dodging thousands of rounds being fired at him by dozens of Serbian storm troopers. This is a lesser war movie effort, made by the guy who gave us an OK remake of THE OMEN and a tepid remake of FLIGHT OF THE PHOENIX. Strictly a time killer. "},{"Title":"Run of the mill US military feel-good flick","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" There's not a lot to complain about. It's a rescue flick with a number of competent action set pieces padding it out. Owen Wilson is vibrant, if not entirely charismatic on screen. Gene Hackman is phoning in a terribly written role but manages to hold the screen as only someone of his calibre can.The opening flight sequence is probably the best - unfortunately, since it's all downhill from there. The worst might be a thermal imagining sequence in which Hackman has to keep shouting 'what's happening?' at a screen (where nothing is happening) to maintain some sort of drama.Good - and necessary - propaganda, a much needed America looks after its own themed flick around the time of 9/11. But not much more. 5/10 "}{"Title":"Fast-paced and intense, but ...","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" ... badly made. Now, I've read how harshly people criticize this film for its unrealistic scenes and bad soundtrack, so I don't want to go jumping too far.I've got to say, I remember watching this wide-eyed, which is very rare for me to do. I actually even remember muttering he's really done it when Chris Burnett (Owen Wilson) parachuted by the demolished angel statue, which was very strong symbolism, by the way. The part where he fooled the hunter by putting a glove on the machine (whatever it was called) and came rushing out of the snow shooting in fury made my mouth open. I was really impressed with the scene where Burnett hid himself in the grave pit under the corpse to evade the Serbians (or Croatians? Can't remember). Everyone on his team knows where he is. They can see that the gunmen are passing by him when he is clearly under their feet. But even they don't know quite if he's alive or not. Nothing is sure until the sigh of relief when he appears alive under the dead man. It's shocking and relieving at the same time.Not to mention, this is the first drama I've ever seen Owen Wilson do. I never really took him seriously as an actor, but after watching Cars, I was interested. Watching this, I noticed that he's good at making expressions. He knows when to look angry, when to look unsure, when to look smitten, and when to look cool. He's actually quite good at drama. Wonder why he stopped, hmm.However, this film could have been equal to Platoon had it had a better script and cinematography. I didn't mind the camera shaking so much, but honestly, the monotonous and unchanging lighting kind of made the situations and moods in the film less enjoyable. And the script! The script was really what made it a disappointment. It went too fast and it was just ... unmoving. It's as if they tried to make this so clear that they just spilled it all out so there's nothing left to think about.And ugh, the soundtrack! They played heavy metal rock at all the wrong moments (as if they're were any other type of music.)Overall, this film was very entertaining and action-packed. If only the script was a lot better ... "},{"Title":"I Really Enjoyed This Movie","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" I watched this movie again last night. 1st few times I saw it I enjoyed it. However, lately I've been playing Battlefield 2 Modern Combat (xbox 360) and have come to further understand the instruments of war. A lot of the weapons in this movie (30mm, SAM's, 120mm, 50. Cail's, Sniper Rifle, SMG's, etc, etc, etc) can be found in that game. I thought the Flight sequence was FANTASTIC! Try to imagine yourself in that position.You are flying with a friend, just taking pictures, re-con mission. Out of nowhere a SAM (GTAM) Locks on your plane. You are behind enemy lines, your doing everything possible to dodge that damn SAM. You think your doing good when again out of nowhere, 2nd SAM (GTAM) locks on you. Now you are flying Mach 3 trying to get away from 2 SAM's (GTAM'S) and they are right behind you at Mach 3.2 LMAO! Thats intense right there.And thats just the 1st part of the movie. Then you have to travel MILES back to safety while being chased after. There are two 30mm tanks, one 120mm, a sniper, about 40+ men with Assualt guns, about 15+ with SMG's and all you have is a 9mm Pistol. Play Battlefield 2 Modern Combat and then watch this movie. GREAT MOVIE! "},{"Title":"Entertaining Film","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" This film held my interest and there were lots of war scenes and situations that Owen Wilson, (Lt. Chris Burnett) put himself into just because he had a bad attitude about how the Navy simply just wasted his time going in circles, as his every day duties on an aircraft carrier. Gene Hackman,(Admiral Leslie McMahon Deegart) cautioned Lt. Burnett about his attitude and sent him on a flight Christmas Day, causing him to miss a good Holiday meal and getting himself into all kinds of trouble over Bosnia. Lt. Chris Burnett manages to play hop-scotch in a mine field and manages to pick up a few friendly natives in Bosnia to help him out. Gene Hackman looked bored making this film and gave an effortless performance. However, the film did entertain and held my interest most of the time. "},{"Title":"It's Not As Well Done As It Thinks It Is","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" BEHIND ENEMY LINES ***1/2 A Navy navigator gets shot down on an island and has to fend for himself amidst a throng of violent avengers who see him as a threat to their own plans and nondisclosure. He tries to successfully reach the pick-up point where he can be retrieved to get out of harm's way. The plot doesn't contain much more of anything else, only the people who are picking up the navigator must take measures without the consent of their authorities, which intensifies the story. This film tries to be clever, adventurous, humorous, and touching throughout its running time, but overall I find it lacks too much original substance to be a very good film. Still it's definitely watchable. "},{"Title":"Inaccurate, jingoistic feel-good claptrap but still fun to watch.","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" There is much wrong with this film. As a reviewer with a military background points out, it's totally inaccurate and nonsensical. It promotes jingoism and contrived, Hollywood-style patriotism; the characters are stereotyped caricatures, and the ending is incredibly ridiculous. Yet I still give it a 6 rating. Why? Simple; it's much like a film version of the type of tough-guy, military themed comic books popular when I was growing up in the late 1950s and early 1960s. It has excitement, drama, pathos and demonstrates true human weaknesses and strengths within the confines of its cartoon-like world. The special effects are very well done, and the surround sound mix is excellent. So, it's a simplistic, unrealistic action flick that does offer two hours of entertainment. While the young and impressionable may be seduced by its two-dimensional propaganda, others should see it for what it is, a Hollywood fantasy film. Nothing more, nothing less. If one sets the polemics and lack of logic aside, and remember 'it's only a movie', then it does what it was intended to do, which is entertain. "},{"Title":"Behind Enemy Lines","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" A action/war/drama/thriller about a navy pilot Lt.Chris Burnett(Owen Wilson)who get's shot down on a reckon mission over Bosnia because he took pictures of something he wasn't supposed to see.So He has to fight to stay alive and avoid hostile Serbian forces.Owen Wilson(Lt.Chris Burnett)plays a more serious role then he usually does in all the comedy's he has played in.Gene Hackman(Admiral Leslie McMahon Reigart)does very well with his acting in this movie he never over acts and he is very consistent.The directing was really good i thought i mean it wasn't academy award worthy but it was pretty good.The screenplay is OK except when Owen Wilson is talking and then it is great.The storyline is a little fuzzy in areas pretty stupid actually it could have been better.Best actor/actress-Owen Wilson Owen Wilson gets serious-Jake Hyden I rated this movie 6 out of 10 6/10 "},{"Title":"Owen goes to war","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Well, this took me by surprise war flick starring Owen Wilson (Burnett) with Gene Hackman (Admiral Reigart). WTF, I thought my self, this is guaranteed to be a bad idea, little bit like placing Gene Hackman in comedy with Clint Eastwood.Well, I was right and wrong movie itself was poorly written, with very stereotypical characters. Owen's character was thick as a sheet of paper, Gene was typical army commander and the enemy (Serbs) were just men without any good qualities. So lots of flag waving in that department We gotta get our boy back.Acting was over all quite decent, not prize worthy, but good, especially from non English speaking actors department, who did, IMO, do lot better jobs than the American star, who without no doubt got bigger pay checks.So the plot goes Burnett is a fighter navigator who gets shot down on a mission. He's behind safe zone and he was shot down on demilitarized zone and because of peace negations navy just can't go and get him. So he must run, run, run from the evil Serbs, ex specially that evil sniper, and get in to the safe zone for the pick up. So nothing new in that department.But I did give this flick a decent amount of star, and that was because of the action scenes which I liked very much. Very talented direction in that department.So in summary good in action wise, bad in plot wise. merely decent by acting. "},{"Title":"Behind Enemy Lines","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" (Owen Wilson) plays the part of Chris Burnett a pilot for the Navy, who is forced to survive in the enemy's territory, after his plane is shot down by Russians. (Gene Hackman)plays Admiral Leslie Reigart Chris's commanding officer who goes to great lengths to rescue Chris. Behind enemy lines is a mixture of good and bad, very well-acted, fairly predictable and not as action packed excitement as it was hyped up to be. The story was more about the conflict of the countries in europePros well acted, good storylineCons Predictable, not entirely realistic "},{"Title":"Cheap entertainment, based on some actual facts","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Normally I'm a big fan of war movies, although it has to be said that I prefer anti-war movies, like for instance Cross of Iron and All Quiet on the Western Front. I don't like war movies full of fake heroism and unrealistic situations, with the only intent to be 'cheap' entertainment. And that's exactly where this movie misses its target by a mile or two... This is not only a movie that doesn't show much of what happened during the civil war in Yugoslavia in the 1990's, it also never tries to be anything else but entertainment for the popcorn munching brain dead people who don't know anything about history and don't care about accuracy and realism.It has to be said, this could have been a good movie with an exiting story line. A reconnaissance plane of the US Navy has been shot down over enemy territory after it has taken pictures of mass graves. Now the pilot and his navigator have to try to stay out of the hands of the enemy (in this case the Serbs) and make it to the save part of the country. One of them, the pilot, is wounded and stays behind while the other one, the navigator, will try to call for help. The Serbs find the wounded pilot, execute him and start chasing the navigator... This would have been good on its own, but of course they had to add some extra dramatic, though far from realistic things to the story. Just to give you an example The admiral of the ship, on which the men were stationed, will personally lead the rescue mission, but is countered by the NATO-allies. But don't be afraid, our dear admiral will rescue the navigator personally...I have to admit that not everything in this movie was bad. Some action scenes were certainly more than just worth a watch. And of course it's also a good thing that it shows some of the atrocities committed by the Serbs. But overall this movie really annoyed me too much to make me enjoy it. The fact that an entire army of Serbs can't catch one man, that the admiral himself will fly to the rescue zone, that the navigator doesn't jump into the helicopter right away, but first returns, under a gigantic barrage of enemy fire, to the crash site because he wants to recover the photographs... really made me dislike this movie.This is just some cheap entertainment, a fictional story that has been loosely based on some actual facts. It has some good action scenes, but if you are looking for a realistic movie on the Yugoslavian civil war, than you'll have to look somewhere else. That's why I give it a 5.5/10. "},{"Title":"Who cares?","Date":"5 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Seriously guys, lighten up!! so what if there are discrepancies between fact and fiction, after all aren't all movies different from the stories which they represent? It's a basic formula that has been tried and tested from the early days fromcinema!!Movies are meant to be only a representation of the events or stories that have happened. Things may have been taken out of context here, and I wont go intoany details here, but guys, look beyond the facts and figures and try toappreciate the movie for what it was, even if it was a load of crap.Now wouldn't the world be a much happier place if there was free beer andpopcorn for everyone!?!? I say stop the bickering, pull up a chair and have a beer!!PS- I have a Maltese background, and from our history, the Germans, Brits and Americans flattened the country in WWII and brought the country to the brink of financial collapse, but do we bitch about it?? hell no, we're too busy partying!! -P "}{"Title":"Fast forward See the Abbreviated Version and save time.","Date":"15 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" The two parts of Behind Enemy Lines that I really enjoyed (due to the flight skill and technology shown) were the escape and evasion by the pilot (precipitated by an error in judgment and protocol) at the beginning, and the satellite downlink to HQ to see the navigator's location and tracking him live by heat imagery.That's it; save these two segments to disk and return the movie. Probably one of the best flight simulations I've seen at the movies and also a glimpse of satellite technology and capabilities. Since Gene Hackman (like Paul Newman) usually never makes bad movies, offer him the Hammy Award as a consolation for the poor judgment and weak portrayal. In this adaption he's in command of indecision and weakness; as the commander, he should've stepped down years ago; and how did he advance other than politics? Makes you wonder about politics and networking for advancement. Is this really an indication of our military? If so maybe Donald Trump should consider an armed forces version of The Apprentice and start with the military academy graduates. A values check would be appropriate.We should already know that a true American Commander would not cave into a manipulated command order influenced by a foreign national without offering his two cents, if only to be on the record. The character he portrayed was weak; he was a slow decision maker, morally lacking in resolve (what's right and how to accomplish that). The commander deserved to be a desk jockey in DC; after many gross errors in judgment he demonstrates that gray hair and longevity in the military (or any occupation) shouldn't connote wisdom. "},{"Title":"Riveting Action Sequences","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  This is a pretty riveting war/action movie, about a pilot who gets shot down over Serb occupied Bosnia. Great flying and action sequences, and pretty good acting from a youngish cast against a backdrop of a great human drama and tragedy. By the end, you'll want to kill the French and will hate the stifling rules of engagement as much as the pilots do. We've been here before of course, and Hackman himself had the shot down pilot role in Bat21, with Danny Glover, so we're in familiar territory. The behind the lines part of the movie will remind viewers of Harrison's Flowers, Welcome To Sarajevo and of course BAT21.All things considered, a good action movie. "},{"Title":"An Embarrassment for All Involved","Date":"2 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Spoiler Alert Don't let the presence of Hackman and Wilson fool you--'Behind Enemy Lines' is an embarrassment for all involved.This is a b-grade schlock action movie with airs. Apparently director John Moore believes that grainy, textured cinematography, shaky camera shots, random, music-video style cuts, and interminable slow-mo sequences of achingly dramatic moments are supposed to cover up a hackneyed, totally implausible scenario.The film is most off-putting in its portrayal of the function of the US Navy. Sure, movies are meant to be fantastical, and action movies in particular tend to be unrealistic. But the audience for war movies also tends to bring some knowledge of how the US military functions. You don't have to watch the news or read military histories to know that 'Behind Enemy Lines' bears no realistic resemblance whatsoever to the function of a USN aircraft carrier.The film starts off, preposterously enough, with Lt. Chris Burnett (Owen Wilson) mouthing off at his commanding officer, Admiral Reigart (Hackman), about how ineffective their mission (meant to resemble the recent genocidal conflicts in eastern Europe)is and how he intends to resign.Far cry from Top Gun, let me tell you. Anyone who knows anything about Navy fighter jet pilots can tell you that such a scenario is utterly impossible. There are few jobs in the military more sought after or demanding than that of a naval aviator. Most people can't really grip how incredibly difficult and dangerous it is to land a jet on an aircraft carrier--particularly at night. These men are not the cocky flyboys of old--they are highly trained, highly motivated, and well-disciplined, and they are also always at risk of losing their jobs. Navy pilots--or most other military personnel, for that matter--don't lecture their commanding officers about politics. They follow the chain of command. The training they go through is as the most exhaustive and thorough in the US Military, because their responsibilities are so huge. No man who could ever consider doing what Lt. Burnett does--over and over again--would ever make it through the battery of psych. evaluations these guys have to pass to get into the cockpit of a fighter. The men who do survive the training are True Believers. If, in some strange world, a Navy pilot did decide to vent his dissatisfaction to a superior, his ass would be out of the flight rotation instantaneously. There are literally hundreds of young pilots salivating to get a chance to fly jets, so the military has no need to risk lives or the millions of dollars it costs to replace a fighter jet on anyone who thinks their personal politics justify insubordination. Orders are orders, and men who seem uncomfortable with following them get sacked, not placated. Instead, our guy Burnett is up the next day, ready to go screw up and create an international incident.Burnett, of course--cocky, rebellious flyboy that he is--decides to disobey direct orders and steer into a no-fly zone. We're being asked to believe that a Navy pilot would willingly violate international law on a whim, potentially screwing up peace negotiations or even sending his country to war. Yeah, right.The plane crashes, of course, and Burnett's much more likable pilot (Gabriel Macht) gets killed by the ambiguous eastern Europeans, who then dispatch their stereotypical merciless contract killer, a creepy-looking guy in soccer warm-ups, to play the stereotypical Fearsome Bad Guy stalking Burnett.We're then told to believe that the American military would abandon poor Chris to his imminent fate rather than spoil the 'peacemaking process.' Yeah, right--that's the good ole USA, ditching its soldiers when they're in trouble (not that he doesn't deserve it). No, only rough-n-tuff old-school Navy guys like Admiral Reigart really know what it takes to be a patriot. This man, who is able to run his carrier based on the absolute loyalty of his crew and their adherence to the chain of command, decides to say 'to hell with orders' to save the ass of a guy who defied a direct order--from the Admiral himself. Yup. This sort of thing happens every day in the USN, I'm sure.'Behind Enemy Lines' came out only a few weeks after 'Black Hawk Down,' and while that film also deviates in certain aspects from total realism and accuracy, its representation of military life is much more faithful to the truth, and the comparison of the two reveals just how ludicrous 'Behind Enemy Lines' actually is. Only rent or buy this film for comedic purposes. It is easily among the worst war movies in recent memory.  "},{"Title":"Good Film","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Based on the story of U.S. Air Force Captain Scott O'Grady, BEL embellishes on an interesting story. In the film O'Grady becomes a marine played by Owen Wilson. On a routine mission, Wilson and his pilot spot something on the radar and decide to check it out. However, they neglect the fact that they are not supposed to fly over that area, as agreed by NATO. They also decide to try out their new digital camera, capturing some shots of what is going on below. Though this is just a bit of fun for them, they have unwittingly sparked a major conflict the Army below. Wilson's plane is shot down, forcing both men inside to eject. What happens from there is gripping, and most definitely worth watching for. Not simply an action flick, BEL draws you in, and leaves you happy.  "},{"Title":"Run Owen Run - Enjoyable but unrealistic","Date":"27 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed the movie, but having said that I had to ignore the silliness of the plot and recognise that this was not a realistic action movie (just an enjoyable low intelligence flick).A sad part of the movie was Gene Hackman, the movie looked like a paycheck only for him.In relation to the action sequences, it was well filmed, but I still cant get over (spoilers coming), how Serbian military with machine guns can miss Owen Wilson from 50 yards, or how when faced with massacre, Serbian soldiers stand and face rocket helicopters like a mexican standoff...or how Owen can be on the other side of a hill being shot at yet the bullets still hit near his feet......If you take all of this out of the equation, its not a bad movie.But as long as you dont take it seriously.If any one wants to comment or send a message on this movie, please message me. "},{"Title":"The World will never be at peace!","Date":"18 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Behind Enemy Lines directed by John Moore is a movie with a title that we Americans always find ourselves in. I have seen this movie several times, but never with the eye that I have now. If I were to put a theme to this movie, it would be `No matter how we try, there will never be world peace.'One thing that helps me established this was how Moore continued showing the angel on a cliff in the middle of nowhere. For example, when Burnett and Stackhouse where getting ready to crash they nipped the angel on the wing. In addition, when Burnett was coming down on the parachute he went by the angel, and had a mid-shot view of the statue. Moore wanted to show that there is no peace in the world, as we continue to put ourselves in situations. All the scenes that involved the statue displayed a variety of reasons why we cannot be at peace in our country and the world.Another key example was as he headed towards there was a long shot of the same angel which was where his ejection seat had landed. When he arrived back at the site there was a long shot showing how far he was really away from the ejection seat that held the film.The key about war movies or those that deal with soldiers is that you must look for the key. For example, in Full Metal Jacket directed by Stanley Kubrick you may recall the photo of Louis Armstrong. When we think war, we think blues because the whole idea is so depressing.  So the connection of a jazz great with this entire scene is key to the connection of war and blues. This brought me to the conclusion about the angel, and how relevance it was to the theme. John Moore did an excellent job at directing and illustrating the theme in Behind Enemy Lines.  "},{"Title":"Huge problems with reality","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I won't comment on the anti or pro American bias of several posters.Please compare this movie with BAT-21.Both were based on actual events and both had Hackman playing key roles.That's about it for similarities.The problems with this movie.1.  American policy is to never, never, never pass command of US troops to non-US officers.  Thus, the actions of the French Admiral would be impossible in reality.2.  Universal military doctrine is Leave no one behind.  There is no way that a US Rear Admiral would allow anyone to tell him not to move heaven and earth to bring his man home, dead or alive.3.  Hackman is too old to be a Rear Admiral.  He looks about 60, maybe 65. This means he would have had to be passed over at least a dozen times, which also means he would not have command of a battle group.4.  As is usual with war movies, there are not anywhere near enough people in the scenes aboard ship or where decisions are made.  The people in the Combat Command Center, about 10, would probably be just enough to be his staff.  Where are the Commanders, Lt. Commanders, etc.? Instead, we have one of each.  It's as if we have his own private group.5.  Where is the line to the Pentagon?  In a situation like this, there would be close coordination with the Pentagon, if not the White House.6.  A Rear Admiral going on a rescue mission?  Please.  One of the things about elite forces, of all nations, is that they are highly trained TOGETHER to perform a mission.  No one is allowed to insert new people into the unit on the fly for a mission, especially someone of flag rank.  A leader's place in a situation like this is in the CCC, running the show.  These missions are typically conducted with senior enlisted personnel running the show.7.  To those who say the US is the bad guys, I say, anything we have to do to bring our man back is justified.  Anything.  This movie tried to make that point, but Political Correctness got in the way.  Just remember what the evidence was of and what it lead to. "},{"Title":"A fun action packed movie with annoying plausibility and plot hole problems.","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  BEHIND ENEMY LINES (2001)THE GOOD--I liked how the movie had two interesting story lines going, and how it would intercut between those two stories just as something terrible was happening which helped create tension and suspense. --This film has great, stylistic cinematography. We get all different kinds of camera techniques for different sequences. The hand-held camera especially helps with the war atmosphere of the film. --The most valuable thing you'll get out of Behind Enemy Lines are its wonderful action sequences. There are heaps of them and each is necessary and entertaining. The most enjoyable of them all is the first major sequence in which Chris character and his friend start with some fun flying that soon turns into a fight for their lives as they dodge and dive the Somalians' missiles. There are heaps of interesting visual techniques used and I literally was breath taken. Great work!THE BAD--I hate it Chris how has only just escaped near death, his plane has crashed and burned and he's on enemy territory with people who want to kill him yet he just smiles and cracks a joke. VERY annoying, arrogant and unrealistic, no matter how relaxed he is.--For a war movie, Behind Enemy Lines is not very plausible sometimes. The best example of this is when Owen Wilson is running through an open field getting shot at by God knows how many Somalians and he dodges every bullet and doesn't get hit once. Very frustrating.--What happened to the dude who liked hip hop and rap music? Chris said he would come back for him, but there was no reference to him at the end of the movie. Very annoying when plot points are just left hanging like that.RATING7/10 - A fun film, packed with action sequences, but with annoying plausibility problems and plot holes.IF YOU LIKED THIS MOVIE I RECOMMENDBlack Hawk Down (8/10) Captain Corelli's Mandolin (7/10) A Knight's Tale (8/10) The Matrix Revolutions (7/10) Terminator 2 Judgement Day (10/10) "},{"Title":"What an Ending","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  It's quite sad isn't it, when a movie based on actual events gets a fake hollywood ending that just about ruins it.  This movie could have done so much to clarify the frustrating situation in the Balkans and could have delivered the story with fabulous top gun special effects.  It did have the effects sequences (primarily when and how the plane gets shot down, you're guaranteeed to want to rewatch the scenes on your DVD, as they are breathtaking).   But the story is lost in the stupid, absolutely impossible hollywood ending, and it takes this film from a 10/10 possible rating down to a 7/10.  Could have been great, now just a blip on your 2001 radar.   They failed to give film watchers more credit than this.  "},{"Title":"Great story becomes flag waiving at the end","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  First of all, The story of Lt. Chris Burnett i a mighty story, i could even be the story of a hero but as so many times before the final movie becomes a story that denies others than americans to be great, and in the end become just another hero story that the filmakers dident care to do anything more than just so-so. Owen Wilson isent a bad actor, but he isent great either and Gene Hackman just goes on as usual.Behind enemy lines isent a bad movie but it isent close to great "}{"Title":"Average film, flawed plot, good attempted premise","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Other than some outstanding visuals, especially the missile chase scene, this film is nothing special.Hackman plays his stock leader character but does it well as always. Wilson was an unfortunate miscast. In this film he just doesn't have the intensity to suit the role.The plot itself has a few holes  -- it's hard to believe the army chasing the downed pilot had such a hard time finding him, especially initially, when they knew exactly where he was. They had vehicles and he was on foot. They knew the territory and he did not. Why didn't they get tracking dogs? Or a helicopter? Or simply fan out and then surround him?Instead the villains are dumbed down to make things simpler for our hero. They are also two dimensional and totally uninteresting. Making the villains intelligent, and the hero just a bit more so, would have created a lot more suspense. Instead it's a simple chase film with mostly predictable action.I watched the DVD extras and saw some potential. They tried to bring to light some of the horrors of the war, and its attempted genocide. There was a brief scene involving the leader of the muslim resistance, but in the theatrical release this was cut short and it wasn't clear who he was or what they were fighting for. There was a brief scene with a mass grave, which was unfortunately cut down to appease the censors.This film had an opportunity to enlighten people on just how despicable this war was, but instead the message was mostly lost because of the editing.Another thing bothered me. There were a number of scenes with a foreign admiral with a French accent. He and his crew thwart our American general repeatedly until he takes matters into his own hands. I'm spoiling nothing here, because you see this coming from the beginning and from the previews.At the end, American military might arrives and saves the day. Rah rah!In reality (as opposed to Hollywood History) the peacekeeping effort was led by the UN with soldiers from many countries. Why couldn't they show cooperation among the countries instead of taking another opportunity to moon the French?  "},{"Title":"Behind enema lines Thats where youll be when you start watching this","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Behind Enemy Lines is a touching story of the worlds first white long distance runner facing peril at every corner of warring Bosnia. Indeed he could put the fellowship to shame. The only difference is that you dont root for the fellowship to have their head blown off. Behind Enemy lines manges to insult the bosnian army, the us navy, and the viewers intelligence. Apparently 50 bosnian soldiers can miss a bounding Owen Wilson  with every major automatic weapon known to the Soviets. And Gene Hackman can miss a respectable end to his career.There is a part wher Wilson dramitacally jumps towards a helicopter. I was really hoping that hed miss and hit the blades.Now THAT would have been a happy ending. This movie shows that an insolent, rank cursing maverick pilot is exactly what the navy wants. But thats not the only criteria. You have to be able to run faster than exploding grenades and hurtling tank shells. Watch the olympics. YOull get more story there, but perhaps less speed on the cross-country.  "},{"Title":"entertaining but hollow (spoilers)","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Its amazing what hollywood can do with a serious subject.Here we have a film with a great cast, a director with a sense of style and a subject that hasnt been delt with head on in any other major production with the exception of The PeacemakerI will not comment on the acting or directing seeing as how it is adequate for a film such as this. The only exception in this film goes to Joaquim de Almeida who is given a thankless role as an admiral trying to hold together a fragile peace process that is put in danger by owen wilson being shot down and gene hackmans attempts to rescue him. While im not trying to bash these two actor whom I have great respect for, the script really gives them nothing to do except go on autopilot in an action film.Another problem with the film is the rating. In my opinion it isnt fair to any serious conflict to make a film about it and rate it PG13. The point of violence in war movies is to show just how brutal it is and that isnt reached with a PG13 rating.Hollywood likes to take serious issues and turn them into popcorn ficks. Another good example is a film like Tears of the Sun which had more depth but never fleshed out its character very well.  One must wonder how good this film could have been in light of a superior example being Black Hawk Down. Despite all the negative qualities of the film, there are some redeeming aspects of it.As an action film, this film works pretty good. It has an amazing sequence where a jet tries to evade an incoming missile.  Another great sequence is one were some soldiers activate a series of mines. These are all capped by the final shootout atop a mountain clifftop. It takes a great deal of suspension of disbelief to believe that so many men could miss owen wilson but as the audience, by this point in the film you have to go along with it for the simple entertainment value.All in all, we have an entertaining action film that could have been so much more if a director like oliver stone had become involved.In the end though, see this film for yourself "},{"Title":"this film reminds me how great it is being American","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Amazing film, I watched it over and over when I first bought it on DVD. Owen Wilson, cranking out a very effective dramatic role, brings to life this documentary on a downed pilot in hostile territory in a real way, reminding me who freaking good it is to be American. Some of the film's highlights Powerful performances by Wilson and Gene Hackman, and Olek Krupa, effective musical score, emotionally charged dialogue, and a climactic ending with American helicopters blowing away the enemy soldiers. Demonstrates the power of the American military. "},{"Title":"Seeing the closeness of the military units gives the audience some peace of mind...that they would do anything for one another.","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  What started out as a simple mission to scout out the area where the war had supposedly ended, two American pilots find themselves engaged in gun fire and are soon shot down to the ground.  From then on there is a struggle between the military and the peacekeepers as to how to go about getting the pilots back.One theme, or central insight, that can be seen from this movie is how all branches of the United States military come together as a family when one of their own is in danger.  This makes the audience feel more involved as well because we feel we are riding along with the military.Gene Hackman acts as Admiral Leslie Reigart in the film.  As good of an actor as Hackman is, I felt that his role in the film was too constrained. For an Admiral, they did not give him much power or control.  Owen Wilson stars as Chris Burnett, one of the pilots that was shot down.  With only seeing Wilson in comedies, I felt that he did a great job in playing the role as a fighter pilot.One scene that supports the theme mentioned is when Christmas dinner is being held.  This scene gives us a family atmosphere among the military. Although it may seem boring, the soldiers are eating with their new family members, since they cannot be with their actual families.Another scene that I found touching was when the crew fear that both pilots are dead.  Nothing but silence fills the room.  All of a sudden, one of the soldiers punches a hole in the wall and screams that they did nothing to save them.  Afterwards, silence again fills the room as the rest of the crew, including Hackman, are overcome with the fear of death to their pilots.Although not nearly as elaborately done by far, one can liken the film to something like `Saving Private Ryan.'  They share the same principle of getting one of their own out of harms way.  `Saving Private Ryan' was more combative and more gruesome with the ground war scenes.  `Behind Enemy Lines' did everything by aerial assaults.Music helps set the mood and tempo of the movie.  I enjoyed some of the freeze framing aspects of the movie when the pilots are about to get hit by the gunfire.  Everything freezes before impact and you can hear the pilots breathing and see the fear in their eyes.They also did a good job with some different angles.  I like the aerial shot of the Americans and the Bosnians when they are engaged in battle. They also have a good tilted shot of Hackman with his ship and it's men behind him.  This supports the family theme as Hackman looks like the father, and the men look like his children.Overall I really enjoyed watching this film.  After watching it a second time, you come to realize it's just the same cat and mouse chase movie. Seeing the closeness of the military units gives the audience some peace of mind, however that they would do anything for one another. "},{"Title":"Saving Private Burnett.","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Behind Enemy Lines is a classic example of a story that was told in order to be made into a neatly packaged action film. Owen Wilson plays the part of Lt. Chris Burnett, a fighter pilot in the Navy who, after seven years of service, has yet to see a single day of the kind of thing that he has been trained for. In a memorable scene with his superior, Admiral Reigart (Gene Hackman), Burnett defiantly states that he joined the military to be a fighter pilot, not a cop, especially not a cop walking a beat that no one cares about. This scene sets up all the cutesy emotional hoo-hah during the rest of the film as Reigart acts like saving Brunett is just as important as if Burnett was his own son. I like that the old American adage of never leaving a man behind is so strictly defended, but it's done by turning Reigart into a sort of reluctant but total father figure, the same way that Detective Gerard was at the end of The Fugitive. But in that movie it was okay because it didn't pervade the entire film, and Gerard had reasons developed throughout the story for acting that way towards Kimble.Burnett and his pilot, curiously named Stackhouse, are flying a typical mission, which is more of a flying exercise than a recon mission, when they spot some unusual activity on their radar and, both bored out of their skulls at the routine of their time in the Navy, decide to fly over it and test out their `shiny new digital camera.' When they fly over, they capture a lot of pictures of Serbs engaged in illegal military activity, in violation with a recently established peace treaty. I am not an expert in political matters, because most of the time I prefer to lose myself in the world of movies than watch the news, but something tells me that there are a few countries that are not going to be entirely thrilled with the way they're portrayed in this film, such as Bosnia and Serbia and France, given the antagonistic Admiral Piquet, played by Joaquim de Almeida.Speaking of Joaquim de Almeida, you may remember him from his role as Bucho in Desperado, where he played an evil mob boss in Mexico, in charge of a lot of startlingly moronic henchmen, the stupidity and incompetence of whom is only matched by the Serbians chasing after Burnett for the majority of this film. Roger Ebert mentions that Burnett is a guy begging to get shot and the Serbs are a lot of guys who couldn't hit the side of a Serbian barn. Pretty good observation, since there are numerous scenes in the film where Burnett is in a wide open space literally being shot at by every enemy soldier that ever shows up on screen in the film, and doesn't even get a scratch. Makes you wonder if they've ever shot a gun before.There is one man who asks to be the only one allowed to go after Burnett, obviously hungry for killing since he's an evil Serb, and then can't hit Burnett even when he's sitting still on a concrete outcropping and the sniper has a perfectly clear shot. Back on the ship, meanwhile, Reigart is struggling to get permission to send a rescue mission out to pick him up, but in probably the only interesting part of the film that is not superficial action, he is unable to because even though they proved that the Serbs were involved in illegal activity, Burnett and Stackhouse also violated their mission course and so shouldn't have been there in the first place. Passing over the border into Serbia could cause some serious warfare that could potentially cause a lot more killing than just of Stackhouse and Burnett. This is an interesting dilemma that Reigart must face, and the way he gets through this and on to the obligatory happy ending where everyone flies off happily ever after into the sunset is probably the only thing in the film that's not completely predictable.(spoilers) As far as an straight up action film, Behind Enemy Lines succeeds. There is plenty of fast action and lots of explosions and shooting and killing and a thrilling plane sequence near the beginning where Burnett and Stackhouse suddenly find themselves trying to evade two heat seeking missiles, but this is about as far as the movie goes. There is tons of sappy crap, like when Burnett is sleeping in the woods and hears Stackhouse whisper his name in a dream, waking him up just in time to flee from the sniper and thereby saving his life from the grave, and even worse than that, there is a slow motion sequence late in the film where Burnett is facing the helicopters finally there to pick him up, but shakes his head no and runs back to retrieve the digital pictures so that Stackhouse would not have died in vain.It was a smart thing to do not to have had Stackhouse die for nothing, but having Burnett do it smack in the middle of a hail of gunfire from both sides (evidently the Serbs can't hit hovering helicopters, either, even at close range) was just too much. The end of the film is a massive copout, ending with nice slow motion shots of each character as we're given text explaining what they all do after the end of the movie, pretending that this was based on real events. This is the weakest way that action movies can end, and is only used when there is a good reason to know what the characters did after the movie but no good reason to show it, if it's a cheesy comedy and these last lines just provide one more cheesy laugh, or if there is just not enough money to film it. Either way, in this film it is just done so that they can tell us what we already know, such as that Burnett stayed in the Navy and Admiral Reigart did, indeed, lose his command for his decision to go after Burnett behind enemy lines.It surprises me that this movie is not a Jerry Bruckheimer production in the sense that all the goofy sentimental crap of a Bruckheimer film has been thrown in, such as Burnett hearing his dead pilot whisper his name in a dream just in time to save his life, and all the fast-paced, sugar-coated action, but on the other hand, there is no cheeseball romance thrown into the movie to dumb it down, and that is one of the few things that we can be thankful for. The imaginary satellite that allows Reigart and his crew to watch as the enemy soldiers approach Burnett's motionless body was interesting in that they are all watching this but don't have a clue how they can be that close and not see him, but it cancels itself out because it is so fake that it's almost funny. Even if there were satellites that could show what is happening with that much detail, there's no way it could stay in one place long enough to create a perfectly still image like that. Interesting to watch, but like the rest of the movie, there's really not much going on underneath. "},{"Title":"Ok movie.","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I thought the movie was ok. The only thing I really couldn't stand was the CRAPPY MUSIC!! Near the start of the movie, they play this Sum 41'ish music. What's this, another teen movie?? IT'S A F!@k'in WAR MOVIE. And then, they take music thats sounds a lot like music from the matrix. You know that whole hammer pounding sound. The music didn't feel like it should be there (at least thats how I felt throughout the movie.) I thought that the whole slow motion thing with the bombs exploding and seeing the guys slowly being thrown from the blast was pretty cool. Then again its been done. Again, I found this movie to be fairly marginal at best. "},{"Title":"A fine film, but let down horribly in the closing stages by the standard Hollywood script writing team.","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  This film starts off very promising, in an action style, with the camera continually moving and the excitement rolling long at a healthy pace. The performances are strong and convincing from Owen Wilson and the other supporting cast, with Gene Hackman pounding in a fantastic performance as always. The story remains as strong and powerful throughout, with some serious edge of your seat scenes. However, as the final sequence begins, the over the top Hollywood scriptwriters have been brought in to increase the stupidity level. The final scene has a lone man against an Army of tanks and soldiers, with the grand US Navy using next to no equipment to stave them off, ridiculous as ever Hollywood. A fine film, but let down horribly in the closing stages by the standard Hollywood script writing team. "},{"Title":"Antonijevic must be fuming","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  As with many things in life, what you make of this depends on what you want from it.  Do you want an action film?  Well, this is reasonably entertaining.  Some nice explosions, a couple of effective set-pieces (the bit with the mines is pretty good).  Usual rock music over the plane-taking-off sequence.  Y'know.  Yawn.It's virtues?  Well, it's fun.  Not sure that's necessarily a good thing in a war film with a subplot about mass-murder of civilians.  Hackman is Hackman, hurrah.  It's quite stirring, probably.It's faults?  Hm.  There are many, but here are my two favourites.1. It appears to propound the questionable and dangerous philosophy that it's important to rescue a pilot, even if it restarts a war in which thousands of civilians will die - and worse, that anybody who says different is a coward or a bureaucrat.2. And this is a biggy.  When Wilson finds the huge stack of bodies (which is quite a good scene in action-movie terms, even if we've seen it before), we see a flashback to a bunch of 'Evil Serbs' massacring civilians.  This ought hardly be controversial - after all, it's a matter of record that such crimes were committed by Serb soldiers.However, the film shows us Croat Paramilitaries doing the killing and appears to assume that we will just see them as Serbs because they're committing a crime.  This 'flashback' footage is ripped out of Peter Antonijevic's conspicuously superior film, 'Savior', and I find this kind of 'shorthand' rather worrying.  True, most people who have not seen Savior will not see this, but in a way that's the problem.  The expectation appears to be that if we see murderers, we will therefore see Serbs - whatever the uniform.  I find that a little disturbing. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie!","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I am a 43 year old female and I really don't like a lot of war movies and I don't believe the US should be the police of the world BUT this movie was sooo real! To begin with Owen Wilson is really cute and I like  his voice. That peeked my interest. But the visuals for the missles following and shooting down the plane were great.  The stop-amd-go sequences added a lot to the movie too.  It was really not your typical John Wayne/Audie Murphy war movie. When they landed they just laid out there in the open like, ok, the US will be here to get us any minute now, instead of hiding in a covered area. But it made u realize that these guys really DID NOT know what war was (even though the US was not in a war, which was a crucial fact in the movie).   When the first guy was killed, Owen screamed which made you feel like this could really happen. He was just a kid/man in the armed services doing his job of flying a plane. Since WE (the US) were not at war, he didn't feel threatened. But the underlying fact is that Bosnia WAS at war and we were getting involved so to the Bosnians, the US was at war with them too.  The pictures of the bombed out cities and ragged people really made you SEE what war does.  We haven't had that happen to us in the US so some of the people who thought the movie was terrible, probably take the freedoms that we have for granted. My son is 18 and I thought about him being in a situation like that.  It made me want to cry.  It made me respect the men and women that are in the armed services because they chose to do this; when they could be at home, in a nice cozy family room, eating popcorn and watching a movie. Yeah, the shooting was unrealistic and Owen going BACK for the film was insane but HEY, it's the stuff all movies are made of. And I'm not ashamed to admit that I was actually cheering out loud when our boys showed up at the end for the rescue.  GOOD FLICK!  "}{"Title":"'Behind' a good action movie","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  ** 1/2Starring Owen Wilson, Gene Hackman, and Gabriel Macht.Two men's plane gets shot down in enemy territory.  So they eject from the plane and land in an isolated area (they think).  But when enemy soldiers arrive and kill one of them, the other one must fight for his life and get back to safety in one piece.  It has enough action to be a good movie, but there are numerous plot holes that bug me every time I see it. "},{"Title":"An entertaining yet predictable attempt at rewriting history","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Inasmuch as the movie is an attempt at rewriting history and painting a benevolent face on imperialist aggression, it cannot be considered a good film.But insofar as it is packed with a fast-moving plot, and a series of twists and turns that I would consider unexpected, its entertainment value is definitely above average.Owen Wilson as Lt. Chris Burnett performs above his average, accurately portraying the role of an officer in the armed services. However, his role is all too predictable--to no fault of his own.I do believe, however, that the movie does a good job at showing the serious lack of morale and sense of duty that swept through the vast majority of the armed forces. The war that this movie is based on was one that was undertaken with the flimsiest of pretexts repeated over and over again in the form of CNN soundbytes, with not a single one panning out.  The scenes towards the beginning do a good job of conveying these feelings of aimlessness that pervaded the lives of so many.The imagery borders on cliche with the close-ups, but could still be considered effective nonetheless.Overall, the entertainment value is moderate to high. But to the extent that the film must be also viewed through a lense that filters out jingoism and historical falsifications, it can only be described as poor.Worth the watch at any rate. "},{"Title":"What goes up comes down. But down in hostile territory.","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Very good morale booster. A thrilling drama with some terrific looking F/X. A rebellious Navy navigator(Owen Wilson)convinces his pilot(Gabriel Macht)into flying into a no-fly zone and gets shot down by Bosnian troops. His commanding officer(Gene Hackman)politically has his hands tied and it appears there will be no immediate rescue. The pilot is executed by an overzealous secret police officer who now leads the chase to find and catch the navigator who earlier was craving some action. The navigator must now survive long enough to reach the rescue point that may or may not be his salvation. Also notable in the cast are David Keith, Olek Krupa and Charles Malik Whitfield. Intense and exciting film. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I myself enjoyed this movie.  It was a good action movie that provided me with much joy and marvel.  There were some bad things to it, as well, as it is with all movies.  I can name major errors.Yup, first of all, bullets never touched Owen Wilson, the hero, though they fired upon him many, many times.  It would have helped the movie if they would have had him hit.Secondly, the ending and dialouge weren't too great.  There was not really much closure at the end.Even with those, it was a good movie.  It provided emotional fodder for me. I thought it was a good movie that deserves more credit than it gets. "},{"Title":"What a music video of a movie!","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Produced by Mtv, Behind Enemy Lines stars Owen Wilson and Gene Hackman and it's directed by Sly Stallone (the director of the classic Mtv Produced feature Rocky IV).The review The movie is entertaining at times but you just can't accept it as a serious war flick! This is a movie for the pure entertainment.2(**)out of 4(****)stars "},{"Title":"GOD BLESS AMERICA!","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" This movie just makes me want to clutch old glory to my chest. Based on a true story about an AMERICAN airman who was shot down over one of them loser countries we were trying to protect (when we had nothing better to do), it's a thrilling PATRIOTIC action flick like Rambo II. The action is really the icing on the cake here. The message of the film is AMERICA IS GREAT AND MIGHTY AND EUROPEANS ARE USELESS AND WEAK AND ALL FOREIGNERS ARE EVIL LOSERS AND WE SHOULD DO EVERYTHING WE CAN DO PROTECT OUR BRAVE, PATRIOTIC SOLDIERS WHEREVER THEY MAY BE EVEN IF WE HAVE TO BLOW EVERYTHING UP!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!GOD BLESS AMERICA! "},{"Title":"Fly High","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I had totally forgotten what this movie was about but after I saw it at the cinema I told myself  When it comes out on DVD . I thought Owen Wilson did an excellent job and had a good sense of humor at times also.Even though this wasn't a true war movie such as Saving Private Ryan or compare it to Black Hawk Down , it was exciting and fun to watch. After it got started it never stopped. After all , remember Top Gun ? Let's not take everything serious. If it wasn't for that movie I wonder how the F-14 got popular.I thought the song they played during the Christmas mission was cool and the aerial photos as well. The scenes I liked were when they tried to escape the attacking missile and the rescue mission. "},{"Title":"a refreshing film for Owen Wilson, plenty of action to!","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  This was a pleasant surprise, i missed it on the cinema over here as it was on for about a week. Owen Wilson is one of my favorite comic actors and this made a nice change to his regular funny guy roles. its got a fair beat and their are some brilliant sequences such as when the plane is tailed by missiles, and when he walks through a mine field. it was a bit predictable but it had some very clever plot twists. the biggest problem i had with this film was a bit of a coincidence. i watch many films and recently watched an amazing oliver stone movie called Savior. theres a scene in it where a line of civilians are gunned down by a river, two bits in particular in this scene, a boy with a very sad look on his face kind of goofy teeth and a row of soldiers holding guns next to a bus. now in behind enemy lines theres a scene where he falls into a ditch, we all wonder why he isn't moving, he's lying dead still. turns out he fell into a trench full of dead bodies, as soon as we realize this the film flashes to a black and white execution scene, not a full scene but quick glimpses, and i was surprised to find it was in fact the scene i mention from savior! call me terribly sad to notice or just plain lucky but i felt someone should mention it as savior is one of my favorite motion pictures. back to the point, this is a very gritty yet light hearted action flick for boys who like action and girls who like a strong male lead, it all works very well but i cant help thinking i have seen it all before (accept for the 2 cool scenes i mention) overall 8 out of ten as it keeps you tightly on edge and is a very well directed flick, bad because its too short, bit predictable and stole a scene from a great un-sung film. watch it if you can, its worth it and look out for the scene i mentioned! "},{"Title":"decent but flawed action film","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Contains Spoiler!! In the opening scene of `Behind Enemy Lines,' Navy pilot Chris Burnett and his flight buddy - affectionately known as `Stackhouse' - indulge in a little pre&#150;flight gallows humor as they recall various famous rock performers who have met their ends in plane crashes.  Is it any surprise, then, that these two jocular jocks will face the prospect of a similar fate before too many more scenes have played themselves out?Indeed, it turns out that, not long afterwards, both Burnett and Stackhouse are shot down by the Serbians while flying a reconnaissance mission over what is supposed to be a de-militarized zone in Bosnia.  Only Burnett survives and he is forced to hot foot it over miles of difficult and unfamiliar terrain while being pursued by sniper forces bent on his annihilation.  Gene Hackman co-stars as Burnett's hardnosed - but actually soft-hearted - commanding officer who is forced to decide between keeping the terms of a fragile NATO-imposed peace agreement, thereby leaving Burnett to fend for himself in the wild, or saying to hell with the treaty and rescuing one of his own men as his gut instincts tell him to do.If `Behind Enemy Lines' turns out to be a fairly decent action picture, it is attributable almost entirely to the likeability factor emanating, as always, from actor Owen Wilson.  With his Average Joe persona, Wilson takes Burnett out of the realm of superhero and makes him a character we can identify with &#150; this despite the fact that the number of hairbreadth escapes that Burnett manages to pull off strain our credulity far beyond the breaking point.  Wilson is also aided by the flashy visual technique employed by director John Moore, which helps to cover up the fact that the screenplay has really very little character development taking place under its action-movie surface.  We might also object to the fact that the script never even attempts to come to terms with the complex nature of the Bosnian conflict, choosing instead to reduce the issue to as simplistic a sociopolitical level as possible.  The film also suffers from a sort of built-in monotony factor, endemic to most man-on-the-run narratives.  This is especially aggravated &#150; as it is in this film - when the chase is taking place in a foreign country with very few of the people our hero encounters able to communicate with him much beyond simple phrases and gestures.The cinematography does a tremendous job capturing the stark beauty of the film's bleak, wintertime setting.  Unfortunately, the adrenaline-pumping rock music soundtrack tends to not only undercut the sense of realism created by the photography, but to cheapen the serious and tragic real life events that define the film's historical context.  Perhaps the bitter war in Bosnia is simply too recent and too fresh in our minds to serve as an excuse for yet another rah-rah tale of American ingenuity and virtue. "},{"Title":"One of the better movies","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  It is one of the better movies I have seen, I thought it was based on a real life story. The cracker for me was Wilsoooooooon at the beginning of the movie. I also would have thought Tom Cruise would have dodged that SAM without any problems!! "}{"Title":"****1/2 out of 5","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Rip-roaring war movie stars Owen Wilson who is reminsant of a young Bruce Willis as a Navey fighter piolet who's jet is shot down and must fight to survive while waiting to be rescued. Also stars Gene Hackman who is great as always as the man working on rescuing Wilson. The film is an even mix of Enemy at the Gates and Eenemy of the State and features many heart racing, adrenaline pumping action scenesmade great by its innovative direction and also features a climax so heart-stoppinly exciting it has to be seen to be believed. Although not as intense or as serious as Black Hawk Down it is none the less effective and should be seen by war and action fans alike. "},{"Title":"really good action movie","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Owen Wilson is great in this picture and was able to transform into a perfect navy fighter from a perfect son-in-law. Gene Hackman knows his craft well. Although unintentionally, the movie shows pretty accurately the parties in the Bosnian war inert European Union, agile US, ruthless Serbs and hopeless Bosnians. "},{"Title":"Action & Originality","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Behind Enemy Lines commences with an excellent opening. Humor. Owen Wilson's character Chris Burnett complains of boredom and ultimately hopes to leave behind his post as a navigator.  Spoilers.  Gene Hackman, Admiral Leslie Reigart, is furious when Burnett tells him and responds to Burnett's letter, if we were at war, you wouldn't last long. The navigator thinks nothing of it and is dismissed.  Gene Hackman decides to send Burnett along with pilot Stackhouse on a routine flight over Bosnia which soon turns into a worst case scenario they get shot. The movie then becomes a fight for survival in a foreign land. Burnett is instructed by admiral Reigart to evade and survive.Burnett dodges bullets, leaps over landmines, crawls through mud and single handedly evades death in a foreign warzone, inadvertently proving his Admiral wrong. Also there was some very cool satellite usage worth mentioning. I give this movie a 10/10 for action and originality.  Very entertaining.   "},{"Title":"Action packed, thrill ride.","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  May contain spoiler.Owen Wilson plays Lt. Chris Burnett a Navy Navigator on planes w/ his pilot Stackhouse (Gabriel Macht) based on an aircraft carrier USS Carl Vinson commanded by Leslie Reigart (Gene Hackman). He originally showed loads of promise but began to slip off. When Stackhouse & Burnett are forced to fly a recon mission. But when they broke off of the assigned route they recon some things that they were not to see in the DMZ (De-Militarized Zone). They are then shot down in this sequence of time a very exciting scene goes through. Then (t)he(y) must evade capture by the Serbs. It has tons of action and some surprises. All and all a pretty good movie. "},{"Title":"Solid Action/Drama from Director John Moore","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  In 1998, with `Saving Private Ryan,' Steven Spielberg raised the bar for all that would follow in the genre of `War' films (just as his colleague, George Lucas, had done some years earlier for Science Fiction with the original `Star Wars').  Spielberg put the reality into war on the silver screen, and since then nothing less has been acceptable.  Not to say that `reality' alone makes for a successful film; other elements must be factored in, and in the final analysis, each film will succeed or fail on it's own individual merits, reality aside.  One that does succeed, and for a number of reasons, is `Behind Enemy Lines,' directed by John Moore, which delivers that expected reality, but offers a lot more along the way, as well.On a Christmas Day routine recon flight over Bosnia, Navy pilot Stackhouse (Gabriel Macht), and his navigator, Chris Burnett (Owen Wilson), notice some activity in one of the `demilitarized' zones (which also happens to be a `no-flight' zone), and summarily take it upon themselves to investigate.  Their efforts immediately cause more than a little consternation in certain quarters, however, and very quickly their mission goes south with dire results.  Having seen (and photographed, no less) things not meant for their eyes, they find themselves on the wrong end of hostile missile, and their plane goes down.Having ejected in time, Burnett finds himself on the ground, alone, and in hostile territory.  He manages to call in his position, but due to the muddled and convoluted politics of the moment, Admiral Leslie Reigart (Gene Hackman) is prevented from sending help in straight away, which leaves Burnett for a time to his own devices for survival in unknown terrain while in harm's way.  But Burnett, a seven year veteran, is determined to make it, and to make this mission mean something-- which it will, if only he can get the proof of what he's seen back safely.  And that means beating the enemy at their own game, and on their turf.Initially, Moore's film seems destined to become just one more of the brutally realistic and action packed war stories that have evolved since Spielberg's `Ryan,' albeit a good one, from all indications early on.  The story is solid and there's plenty of action, all of which is carried off nicely by star Owen Wilson, but by the half-way point there's nothing much that sets it apart from the usual action/drama survival film.  It plays out, in fact, like a cross between `Enemy At the Gates' and `Black Hawk Down.'  Then something happens-- and it takes a turn that kicks it up a notch and takes it beyond anything those other films offered and/or delivered. Once the action surrounding Burnett's dilemma is established, Moore sharpens his focus on the more personal aspects of the story, and it suddenly becomes more than just a quest for survival; it becomes the study of a man on a mission, a man with a goal and a purpose, an individual against whom the odds are decidedly stacked.  And by infusing that decisive human element into the story, it elevates the film to a higher level and achieves the kind of success never realized by either of the aforementioned films, in part because of their failure to effect that very same level of human drama that sets this film apart.As Burnett, Owen Wilson is very effective, turning in a performance that is quite natural and affecting.  Wilson has something of a quirky appearance and a rather mesmerizing tone and manner of speaking that gives him a charismatic screen presence and makes him extremely accessible and convincing.  He manages to avoid the trappings of the stereotypical `fly-boy' character, checking his ego and machismo at the door, and it makes Burnett very real and believable.  It also makes the development of his character-- his actions, reactions and attitudes-- convincing as the story progresses, as well as lending credibility to the overall film.Hackman, on the other hand, falls directly into stereotype with his portrayal of Reigart; this is a character we've seen time and time again in just about every war film to come down the pike.  But to his credit, Hackman does it extremely well, which is the beauty of watching an actor of his caliber perform.  He's the consummate professional, and even when covering familiar ground, he has the ability to make it seem fresh and, most importantly, entertaining.  Hackman is a gifted actor with a tremendous range; this character-- by it's inherent nature-- simply has nothing to offer by way of a challenge.  Reigart is merely a character that serves a purpose, and Hackman realizes that intent to the fullest.The supporting cast includes Charles Mark Whitfield (Rodway), Joaquim de Almeida (Piquet), David Keith (O'Malley), Olek Krupa (Lokar), Vladimir Mashkov (Tracker) and Marko Igonda (Bazda).  A film that offers some insights into politics, as well as the human condition, it manages to be thought provoking while delivering some terrific action, drama and solid entertainment.  Worthy to be called one of `Ryan's ` more successful offspring, `Behind Enemy Lines' is the watermelon of war films; it takes some doing to get through the rind, but once you get to the good part, it's pretty sweet, and more than worth the effort.  And that's the magic of the movies.  I rate this one 7/10.                       "},{"Title":"Great action movie","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  After reading all the negative reviews on this movie, I want to put in  a positive review.  I found the movie to be riveting and highly entertaining.  YES, it is ridiculous that the main character is able to survive all that he did.  However, how often do you ever see a REALISTIC action movie?!?!  (Schwarzenegger's True Lies was FAR MORE ridiculous and did not get the bad feedback that this movie received.)  Other reviewers complain incessantly of the unrealistic events, but I found it no less believable than any other action film out of Hollywood - in fact, it was more believable since the guns and explosions were in a military context.  If you like action, then you'll like this movie - just don't expect it to be a realistic portrayal of war. "},{"Title":"Name that movie....","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  If you can suspend your belief in reality, this movie can be enjoyable. It was entertaining, fairly well paced, but it just was difficult to really watch this movie with a straight face.The biggest thing that jumped out was just an inconsistent look of the movie. Probably about 20 minutes into the movie my friend and I started naming other movies certain shots were taken out of, since nearly everything seemed copy. Things that mimicked Saving Private Ryan (slow motion scenes with no sound, shaky camera moves in action scenes), camera shots and movements that copied anything done by Michael Bay (anything involving slow camera movements circling the actors while they intently look at something in the distance). There are more, but these two repeated copies jumped out at us the most. "},{"Title":"Transgender appeal","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  The problem with this movie is its shameless theft from Missing in Action III.  And they obviously thought that the Bosnian setting and ubiquitous use of subliminal phallic symbols would distract viewers from the obvious.  How wrong they were.  Unfortunately, the scenes in which Leonard Maltin appears as a Britney Spears impersonator were cut from the final print. But I understand those scenes may be restored in the sequel as it is supposed to be called, A Boy and His Gerbil.  And don't think that the title isn't a double entendre. "},{"Title":"Entertaining but implausible war story","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  This film gets very high marks for technical excellence for a war story with good action footage, but the story is so contrived and unbelievable that the film plays more like a fantasy adventure than a realistic war film.  We are asked to swallow so many events that just wouldn't happen that the film loses a good deal of credibility.Who could possibly believe that the U.S. would sit still while N.A.T.O. dictated that we must not attempt the rescue of a downed pilot becaue it might upset the peace process in Bosnia?  That is utter nonsense.  And are we to believe that an entire platoon of soldiers with automatic weapons all firing simultaneously could not hit the constantly dodging Burnett?  Not likely.  There are numerous other plot contrivances that require extraordinary suspension of disbelief, but most of them are critical plot elements so I will refrain from possible spoilers.John Moore is a rookie director that does a terrific job with the technical elements of the film.  He presents a very realistic look and feel in the carrier scenes and the air combat scene is first rate.  Actually, all the action sequences are outstanding, no doubt in large part due to the work of twenty year stunt veteran Steve Davison (`End of Days', `Batman and Robin'), who was the second unit director and stunt coordinator.  This film also blends stunt photography seamlessly with visual effects to produce extremely realistic action scenes.  However, when it comes to managing the screenplay, Moore seems to just assume that the writers are the best judge of how the plot is presented, or he doesn't connect with the concepts plot and character believability.  This is Owen Wilson's first film in the lead and while he does a good job, he just isn't serious action-hero material.  Wilson projects a naturally sarcastic, smart aleck personality that works in some of the scenes in this film, but when it gets to the macho action sequences, he just can't carry it.  He was terrific in Shanghai Noon, where the action was all tongue-in-cheek.  In that film, his wisecracking humor was a perfect fit.  However, this film gives him little opportunity to display his fabulous comedic talents and he is adrift trying to play the survivor.Gene Hackman plays a supporting role and as always gives us a solid performance as Admiral Reigart.  I can't keep track of how many military movies (mostly naval) David Keith has been in since `An Officer and A Gentleman'.  He must be on only one call list.  He always gives a credible performance in these roles and this one is no different.  Joaquim de Almeida is dreadful as Admiral Piquet of N.A.T.O. command.If you like action films and you are not too fussy about implausible stories, this film delivers.  I rated it a 7/10 based on the marvelous stunt work and visual effects and the realistic military look and feel.  "},{"Title":"Behind Enemy Lines is just mindless, hyperactive, military action... but it sure is a lot of fun!","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  The story of Behind Enemy Lines is one we've all heard before a guy is stuck in an enemy zone and his Admiral is forced to choose whether he wants to sacrifice the life of one man and save the peace between two nations, or sacrifice the peace between two nations and save the life of one man. But it is the style in which Behind Enemy Lines executes its plot that makes it stand out. Although in retrospect the script isn't really spectacular, you don't even notice it while watching the film because it's so much fun. It has a fast-paced story -- which has become a must-have for movies nowadays due to the ADHD-society we live in -- and the action is cool and relatively realistic. Owen Wilson is, as always, smooth and charming, and Gene Hackman is, as always, phenomenal. During the film you will definitely question the believability of the events it depicts, but once you really get into it, you won't even care. You will be on the edge of your seat as the lead character runs through an exploding minefield, falls down the side of a concrete dam, and hides in a pile of dead bodies with the enemy just inches away from him. Okay maybe it's a little predictable and trite, but comparing it to stuff like The Scorpion King and Spider-Man, it's an action masterpiece.Overall rating 7/10 "}{"Title":"Lame Ass piece of crap!!!!!","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Do I have to explain that my One Line Summary doesn't?? I was smart enough this time not to see this in the theater and waited till it was out for rental so I wouldn't have to waste as much money.All this movie was is a BAD rehash of BAT*21 and a very bad one at that. Can someone explain this to me? Why is it that in every movie where there is a really mean bad ass guy who is either a terrorist, Russian Mafia bad guy, or some extreme psychopath...... they are always wearing that Adidas style sweat suit. I guess it is a comfort factor or it makes them look like they are that much meaner than they really are, cause they are not the biggest guy, just the meanest. (Trust me on this, watch for it next time you see it in a movie or T.V. program).I don't know how anyone can take Owen Wilson as a serious actor. Now I realize that I am sitting here at my little old computer and Owen Wilson makes a HELL of a lot more money than me at doing what he does compared to what I do and I am probably a little jealous. Stick my ugly ass in a movie like that and I can come off as good as he did..... HELL, I would come off better.All in all.... THE MOVIE SUCKS!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"not very innocent propaganda","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  When I saw this movie, I had to ask myself what purpose does it has? Is this an action movie, war movie, or what else it could be? Well, let's suppose it's an action movie. I don't see justification in pickin' up a war template for it, because it's full of serious missconceptions of truth, and building up such heavy fiction on a real basis is at least irresponsible! I'm sure that a lot of people who were never in this kind of situation could easily believe that crap. Action movies are about fun, occupying viewers with less or more believable acrobatic content. Well, I don't see any fun in justifyin' here and there american pushing noses into other country's business. Much-much-much-incomparable-much better movie that appear to be same genre Black Hawk Down, suffer totally unnecessary 10 minute end, that escapades in same really not naive propaganda. Few main characters are splitting their simple brains in self-analyzing-why-do-we-fight-for? nonsense, in the end giving a birth of bulk of not so original and believable reasons. Of course, these are the messages for the viewers that still have doubt in righteousness of USA foreign politics. I just don't see why not to leave to US Government or military to make such movies, and why is Hollywood mixing in them at all? Icing on the cake is comment at the end about heroic rescue of LT Scott O'Grady. What is it for? It only makes me question the truth behind the real incident! Let's presume it's an war movie. Well, this is more simple to discredit. Ask any real military adviser, and he will find whole bunch of nonsense in action. My favorite is the mass graveyard scene. Vicious Serbs made a massacre but are too sensitive for the smell of decomposed bodies, while mista Silk Nose- SuperCowboy - LT Burnett is diving among them like they smell as his lunch at airplane carrier! Not to mention that vicious ( but incredibly stupid ) Serbs, are too stupid to burn the graveyard and fry LT Burnett with it. In the end of this summary, I am Serb, and I really almost didn't understood the word that vicious Serbs are saying! And what I understood was said in very naive and literary way, which leads me to conclusion that main vicious serb characters are not serbs at all, which makes this movie really one sided story. If You wanna watch a real war movie that concerns ex-Yugoslavia, watch Pretty Village, Pretty Flame , by Srdjan Dragojevic. Most of the people from that area agree that this is the best movie about it. But, I guess that some of the audience won't like it, because it's an anti-war movie in fact. "},{"Title":"not very innocent propaganda","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  When I saw this movie, I had to ask myself what purpose does it has? Is this an action movie, war movie, or what else it could be? Well, let's suppose it's an action movie. I don't see justification in pickin' up a war template for it, because it's full of serious misconceptions of truth, and building up such heavy fiction on a real basis is at least irresponsible! I'm sure that a lot of people who were never in this kind of situation could easily believe that crap. Action movies are about fun, occupying viewers with less or more believable acrobatic content. Well, I don't see any fun in justifyin' here and there american pushing noses into other country's business. Much-much-much-incomparable-much better movie that appear to be same genre Black Hawk Down, suffer totally unnecessary 10 minute end, that escapades in same really not naive propaganda. Few main characters are splitting their simple brains in self-analyzing-why-do-we-fight-for? nonsense, in the end giving a birth of bulk of not so original and believable reasons. Of course, these are the messages for the viewers that still have doubt in righteousness of USA foreign politics. I just don't see why not to leave to US Government or military to make such movies, and why is Hollywood mixing in them at all? Icing on the cake is comment at the end about heroic rescue of LT Scott O'Grady. What is it for? It only makes me question the truth behind the real incident! Let's presume it's an war movie. Well, this is more simple to discredit. Ask any real military adviser, and he will find whole bunch of nonsense in action. My favorite is the mass graveyard scene. Vicious Serbs made a massacre but are too sensitive for the smell of decomposed bodies, while mista Silk Nose- SuperCowboy - LT Burnett is diving among them like they smell as his lunch at airplane carrier! Not to mention that vicious ( but incredibly stupid ) Serbs, are too stupid to burn the graveyard and fry LT Burnett with it. In the end of this summary, I am Serb, and I really almost didn't understood the word that vicious Serbs are saying! And what I understood was said in very naive and literary way, which leads me to conclusion that main vicious serb characters are not serbs at all, which makes this movie really one sided story. If You wanna watch a real war movie that concerns ex-Yugoslavia, watch Pretty Village, Pretty Flame , by Srdjan Dragojevic. Most of the people from that area agree that this is the best movie about it. But, I guess that some of the audience won't like it, because it's an anti-war movie in fact. "},{"Title":"Be smart if you like no-brainer action flicks, and rent this.","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I must admit, maybe I had too much in my hopes for this flick. The trailer made it seem interesting, it had actors I respected, and lets face it I wanted to see some good old American's triumphing over evildoers. Now if that sounds like I enjoy stupid action flick, trust me I do. Cliffhanger and Broken Arrow sit on top of my guilty pleasures list. But there comes a time when I just have to draw a line at how much stupidity I can take, and Behind Enemy Lines takes the cake in that department. It is without the doubt the stupidest, loudest, lamest excuse for a popcorn flick I've ever seen. The story which at first seems to want to make a serious statement on American intervention in foreign wars slowly degrades into a chase film of the lamest kind. Not only do you get the tried and true villians suffering from can'thitthebroadsideofabarnitis, but the film ramps up the morallizing in the last half where most of the time is spent disobeying orders and flying illegaly into a foreign land and rescuing Wilson. Theres even another annoying subplot involving said character wanting to resign from the navy because he feels that he isn't doing enough good to make a difference? Can you guess what happens in the end. For those with the eyes of hawks who have seen the Dennis Quaid film Savior, look closely at the massacre flashback scene and tell me if those people or the footage itself looks vaguely familiar. Next annoyance are the action sequences themselves, which are cranked up so much, and over edited to be mind boggling. Its not enough that the action is sped up but the director seems to think that shaking the camera alot will add to the suspense. Shall I even go into the scene where Wilson having donned the garb of an enemy soldier valliantly walks past the enemy soldiers, then not ten feet away unmasks and starts to run away. No wonder none of those guys can shoot him if they don't see his unmasked persona running from them. And dont even let me go into the scene where Wilson runs through a mine field setting off explosions left and right without a recieving a scratch while three soldiers are blown to smithereens. Does the movie have a redeeming quality? I do think so. If anything is good its the performances by Owen Wilson and Vladimir Mashkov. Wilson seems to have this every man way that suits his character more than if he had been played by a muscular action film hero. And Mashkov's tracker seems to be one of the cooler action villians I've seen. He speaks when he needs to, but most of the time is quiet and remorseless which sets his character apart from the usual loud obnoxious villians we're used to seeing in films like these. Folks do yourself a favor. Theres a film out on video and DVD now called No Mans Land. Its a thousand times better, with great characters, and story that depresses the viewer only because the subject isn't one for a happy ending. Personally I felt depressed after renting this because I had been suckered into renting it. "},{"Title":"pretty good, but....","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Intense, beautifully shot (with a bit too much look-what-I-can-do-with-cgi-and-flashy-camera thing going on sometimes) the major gripe I have with this movie, as with most other war-time movies with americans in it, is that they become very patriotic at times and that is just bad! But anyways, Hackman plays nice (of course) and it is nice to see Owen Wilson doing other stuff than the comedies he does so well. He is getting better and I like him more and more "},{"Title":"INTENSE ACTION, GREAT PHOTOGRAPGY B+","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Why must a lot of users bash this film. This film shows what USA, is about, we care about fellow USA troops.This movie has it all with excellent photography, great action, but does lack some script.I would recommend this film, and I am going to buy it on Tuesday April 23 on DVD.I would suggest anyone who wants great action, with great acting, and anyone who would like to see USA kick butt, to buy this DVD>***NOTE*** This film came out around the same day SPY GAME came to theaters, i thought SPY GAME was the worser film out of the two.I dont know why a lot of people would rather see SPY GAME, then BEHIND ENEMY LINES. "},{"Title":"Suspense and action till the end !!","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie very much and i will add this one without hesitating to my DVD-collection. The film has everything action fans desires. The special effects were really well done and the story has high quality to make it a suspenseful and in the same moment a rememorable war movie. I hope we will see more such good films from director John Moore. BRAVO !! All the actors played also good. I gave 8/10. "},{"Title":"Realistic flaws behind, this movie is an excellent thrill ride!","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  *Some minor spoilers ahead*First off, if you're expecting an recreation of the harrowing true tale of Capt. Scott O'Grady being shot down in Bosnia, this isn't it (I've read O'Grady's book, so I know a lot of about military evasion tactics).  There are situations that scream, Yeah Right! and situations that have HOLLYWOOD written all over them.  However, with all that aside, this was probably the most entertaining film that I saw in 2001.  This is a film that grabs you by the edge of your seat, and takes you away from the stresses of life for two hours, all the while giving you an explosive good time.Owen Wilson plays Chris Burnett, kind of a whiny pretty boy pilot who questions his current duties as a Navy Recon pilot.  He basically wants more action in his tour of duty, and after disobeying orders and being shot down, he sure gets it.  The special effects are top notch in this film, in addition to the wonderful FX which even has the whizzing of bullets hitting rock before you hear the gunshot.  However, most of the action scenes after he gets shot down either have a hint of unrealisticness, or reek of it, however, this is the kind of movie we pay to see for heartstopping thrills and excitement, not historical or real life accuracy.  On that plane (no pun intended), it succeeds very well.  Owen Wilson, a great, everyday guy actor does an excellent job as Burnett, and Gene Hackman is great as his typical role of a commander in charge.  The movie's plot is also surprisingly intelligent, though, in Capt. O'Grady's book, he says the first thing they teach you is never to wave a weapon in the air when a rescue craft is hovering to pick you up.  (Though, O'Grady jokes that he does this while being rescued from Bosnia,) Burnett, clad in enemy fatigues fires a full magazine in the air when an allied helicopter arrives, that kinda thing will get you friendly fire in a heartbeat.  There are at least three other scenes that imply that Burnett was not paying attention in survival training 101, or that maybe Hollywood needs some new technical advisors.  Anyhow, this is a solid action flick, literally filled with suspense, and has a great, action packed finale.  I would definitely recommend this film. 8/10. "},{"Title":"OK","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I thought this was really an OK war movie starring Owen Wilson and Gene Hackman. The effects were brilliantly made, Owen Wilson passed as Lt. Chris Burnett who was shot down with his pilot behind enemy lines in Bosnia. Gene Hackman continue to do decent roles but when is he going to do something extra, again?If you're looking for some true action and good effects, watch this one. "},{"Title":"not bad at all","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Ok, I agree that the plot is out of sight, and that the Americans are winning as usually, BUT - folks, THIS IS CINEMA!!! Why do we all seem to forget that? People need some peace of entertainment on Friday night, and after a hard week we all want to relaXXX. So why not go for it? Let's leave the high cinema for the day, when one is in mood to see something serious and enjoy it then. But, when you feel like wanting to forget everything for two hours and just have a thrilling popcorn ride, go ahead - it's that worth.Even the hardest critics have to admit, that the FX rock here! Finally, a word in defence of Gene Hackman - he ain't got much to do here, however, what he DID, was GOOD, as usually, when this actor appears on the screen. Owen Wilson acts good, too. So I give it a firm 4/5 (or 8/10).  "}{"Title":"not too bad","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  This was an ok action movie about a young American navy pilot who gets shot down in Bosnian territory and the subsequent rescue mission and chase scenes. It is very predictable, but other than that was a decent movie.** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Ignore the story","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  OK, maybe the story isn't the most incredibly piece of manuscript ever created, but the filming is absolutely stunning. Some of the things you see here, like when the F-18 gets chased by two missiles, is gobsmackingly filmed, and you've never seen something quite like this before.Some will say this is a stereotypical good guy vs bad guy story. Well, the war in former Yugoslavia is a touchy subject, so I'll choose to ignore this, and just enjoy the way it is filmed, because you have a truly amazing film here, if you view it through the glasses that the intended you to.9/10 for being an incredible action movie with a great atmosphere. Like I said forget the plot when you see it.  "},{"Title":"Not too bad","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I was not disappointed by this film, keeping in mind that it is American, and definitely not a history lesson.I really went to see it because of Gene Hackman, but I was surprised by Owen Wilson's fine acting, and some great photography.I was, however, not surprised at all by the ending, which was far too predictable, patriotic, and just too American.This is definitely not the best way to make a movie of the Bosnian war, but it could have been done much worse. "},{"Title":"Why we fight 2001","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Watch the Why we fight-series from WWII. This is exactly the same. A film to get americans to understand why they are/were involved in Bosnia. Good, US-propaganda. And in addition, quite boring. So if you want to see US propaganda anno 2001, watch it. If you want to see how much the US cares about what they fight for, watch it. Otherwise, keep off... "},{"Title":"Rotten story, nice special effects","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  When I saw this movie i thought that it would be something very American with heroes and badguys and I was right. This movie is about navy pilot/navigator Lt. Chris Burnett (played by Owen Wilson) who is stationed in former Yugoslavia. When he's on a mission he and his partner makes the mistake to fly into a demilitarized zone to take pictures. Some Serbian soldiers(war-criminals) sees them and shoots them down.When they land the soldiers find them and Burnett's partner gets murdered. Burnett manage to escape and send a message to his Admiral (Gene Hackman). Now they must find him before the Serbs do.Bad things about this movie*The story is very politically incorrect. Serbs and Muslims are depicted as ugly, dirty, mean smoking monsters who kill for fun.*NATO is a bunch of cowards hiding behind mamas big, diplomatic skirt. They never get their hands dirty.*Of course USA never does anything wrong (But why where they shot down in the first place?). Good things about this movie*The special effects are very good (it's almost like a commercial).*Owen Wilson is a great actor. He really is!*The movie is kind of entertaining! I give it a 5/10.    "},{"Title":"By overdoing the filming techniques, this film gets old, real fast","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  The cinematography of this film starts out very interesting, but then gets very old and quezy in fact.  Story line is a little dead and the realism of this movie just down right blows.  Owen Wilson is one of my favorite actors, but with this film, I dont know what he was thinking. "},{"Title":"Careful you dont miss the point...","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  (Minor Spoilers) This is the type of film that you can easily overlook the point of. There is no 'message' or historical lesson involved, the references to a pilot being shot down in the Bosnian War were all from the media not the film's creators. The fact that the bad guys in this are barely referred to in nationality, and likewise the good guys are barely mentioned as Americans, is underlining the films posistion. This is a good old fashioned good vs evil film, that today's market was in sore need of. It is also purely an 'action' film, which further excuses the occassional inaccuracies and bravado. This is not the two-a-penny war film which we see all the time, but a hark back to the days of the bad guys not shooting straight, and the good guys coming up trumps. Approach this film in the right mindset, and you have an excellent chance of enjoying it. "},{"Title":"Forgettable Action Movie","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I'm sure Owen Wilson would be the first to admit that he isn't the perfect or the ideal action hero, and in Behind Enemy Lines, he certainly proves his point.Within the first few minutes Wilson is turned into the comic actor he is into a cardboard cut-out out of place.  I guess this fish-out-of-water idea would have been good if the whole plot and action was actually watchable, but it wasn't.Wilson, who plays some US Navy Airpilot describes how he's bored with war with no enemy or something, and raises some good points about war and what it is about, and its purpose.  He even jokes about the spriling cost of peacekeeping over the war-torn region of Bosnia.Wilson, who wants out, is drafted into a fly-over the neutral zone (no, we haven't wandered into an episode of Star Trek, though you wish you had), and notices some bad serbs committing genocide, and is prompty shot down.With political nonsense on a battleship with the we don't care what happens, so long as we get our 'boy' back attitude of the American commander played by Hackman - Wilson is left to fend for himself - whilst being chased by BMPs, and enemy soldiers.Whilst this could have been good, it soon turns into a rekindle to an 80s film - big explosions, gunfire and the hero doesn't even get shot - regardless of how close the enemy are to him.The greasy haired sniper is quite good to watch, but he doesn't move like a sniper, stamping on every twig or ditch, making a noise as he moves along, chasing Wilson down.Whilst the notion of genocide and war crimes are well highlighted, the holes in the plot and the film make it forgettable and unmemorable.Rating 4/10 "},{"Title":"Above average action-thriller","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Good action scenes and suspense-filled climaxes make this movie quite enjoyable. It is also aided by a strong performance by Hackman and Owen Wilson playing Lt. Burnett believably. The use of camera techniques and special effects are very good, however some unbelievable scenes and a propaganda ending bring down the movie from being 8 or even 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Something Different","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I think this film has something to offer everybody. The story line and basic plot where out of this world. The format was great and locations used where excellent. The acting was at its best and i must say that i think this is one of Owen Wilsons best films, he plays his part well and does the movie justice. Something different for the family, one to watch 8/10. "}{"Title":"Action packed film but has some weak spots","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I liked Behind Enemy Lines but it had some very weak spots towards the end of the film, there were some some corny scenes wehre you stand up and scream Yeah, right!. Other than that there is lots of action and suspense in this film and it is entertaining. Owen WIlson is the main star with the most screen time but Gene HAckman ha some good scenes as well. If you're looking for an action packed film and are willing to overlook it's obvious weaknesses than check this one out. "},{"Title":"Gripping, interesting til the end!","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  While this film didn't get as much hype as Black Hawk Down, I think it is far superior. The story here is told much better, in so far as I care about the main character. Over the film course, the audience has gotten to know him, and as a result, this makes his journey through hell, a gripping / engaging one. Owen Wilson is great as the stranded pilot, having to use all his wits to stay alive in truly unfriendly territory. Well worth a watch! "},{"Title":"Hollywood revisionism at its very worst","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Imagine the following formula* Hotshot pilot disobeys orders.* Almirant angry.* Pilot is downed, and is chased by hundreds of non-US soldiers. Since they are not US citizens, they are stupid.* A non-US citizen forbids the search and rescue mission of a US citizen.* Fire, shots, heroism. The hero is saved on the last second, and everything blows up. Voilá! You have 99% of Hollywood war movies. And this movie. Which happens to be one of the worst I remember watching in the last 2 years, at least. How come Gene Hackman is associated with this?Now, let's get things straight. I don't have anything against US citizens. I have the pleasure of having many american friens, and they have always been more than excellent. It's Hollywood as a whole the thing I have problems with. Their revisionist history (from the Pearl Harbor travesty, modified so as not to anger the Japanese) to this latest fiasco is stupid. A guy actually shouted Bull****! during the movie. I wonder if he knew the events that were supposedly portrayed during the film didn't bear any resemblance to reality. I don't think so; he shouted because the movie is stupid. Battlefield Earth stupid.All I know is that Hollywood keeps cranking up ridiculous flicks where non-americans are one step above cruel, sadistic retards, and as long as this trend continues, I won't have no respect for the guys working there.What a waste of celluloid this film was.  "},{"Title":"Really, really silly!","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Okay, the initial missile chase and shoot-down were very exciting and well done. After that it was all down hill.The scenarios were totally unbelievable, the characters were paper-thin stereotypes, and the script was built by numbers. Gene Hackman must have been asleep when he accepted this role, and remained so throughout the film. It's just as well, since he didn't have to learn any new lines for it -- they were just lifted from every other war movie that has ever been made.***SPOILERS FOLLOW*** It's totally amazing how someone is not even slightly out of breath after having been dropped out of a plane, fallen several hundred feet down a dam, crawled through a field full of rotting bodies, and run miles through freezing terrain dotted with landmines, pursued by 50 bad guys in jeeps and tanks. And tell me how you can, in 30 seconds flat, completely undress a dead man and yourself, then dress him and yourself, while being surrounded by gunfire and bombs? I guess the other fellow must have been still alive when he agreed to swap his clothes. Oh, and by the way, how come you see the ejection seat frozen in snow and ice, but only 20 feet way the snow has completely melted? And that sniper (the bad guy) needs to get a new job since he can't hit anybody that's more than five feet away from him. He should probably get himself a jeep too since the 50 guys that always show up two minutes after he gets somewhere on foot never let him ride in their vehicles.If this had been a comedy, or a Bond-like action movie, then okay. But trying to pass itself off as a war drama about serious issues? give me a break! "},{"Title":"A realistic story, based upon real political problems in the area.","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  In this movie, a short overview is given of the complexity of the Balkan conflict. This complexity does not only exist in the conflict itself, with its different parties, but also in the way in witch the various IGO's have tried to solve it. The motion picture gives some good examples about the problems that may arise in current NATO command structures and its relationships with fighting parties in the area.Although not every weapon and technique employed is completely accurate (such as the impact of the bullet at the dam; since the bullet travels at speeds higher than the speed of sound, the impact should precede the sound of the arriving bullet), most is quite correct.The action is great and realistic, but is also displayed in a real world scenario. Perhaps it is wise to study the problems in the Balkan area a bit before you go and see this movie; it will make the experience more profound and meaningful. "},{"Title":"Not another war movie!","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Ohh wel Behind enemy lines... the movie is so unrealistic so stupid screenplay is bad camera movement very annoying, one guy saves the world thing... after my opinion this movie ripped off alot off things from other movies like matrix,saving private ryan and some other... its very bad, dude wheres my car was 10 times better... anyways after watchin the movie for like 30 minutes its just going nowhere. movies tryin to be funny tragic with alot of hollywood special effects but it turns out so crappy. Owen is a soldier whos trapped behind enemy lines and trying to escape, and enemys (serbs) like in every movie enemys are mean guys wit ak47 unshaved tired looking and killing everything that moves... but they cant kill owen no he can escape, he can dodge bullets,granades.. and so on in another words movie is waste of time, if u wanna great war movie go see Platoon. "},{"Title":"Hollywood War Effort worth a medal","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  In Behind Enemy Lines you've got a movie that showcases the Navy's F/A-18F Super Hornet.  You've got Owen Wilson as Lieutenant Chris Burnett, a navigator struck down over Bosnia...who resorts to living among the dead and running a gauntlet of land mines to keep himself alive.  And between Burnett's amazing crash sequence and the thrilling end, we're introduced to Admiral Reigart (Gene Hackman), who is forced to choose between rescuing his downed pilot or preserving a peace process that doesn't seem worth saving.  Put it all together and you've got a showcase that screams the all-American military theme- Leave No Man Behind- and wraps it into an outstandingly patriotic package.Yes, it can be argued that Behind Enemy Lines is your standard, run-of-the-mill action adventure movie involving the United States military.  It also has Navy jargon that might leave some confused.  (One movie-goer behind me in the theatre continually questioned the meaning of feet dry and was flustered, it seemed, by the use of the Phonetic alphabet) The directing was irritating, to say the least.But Behind Enemy Lines was a great movie.  Wanna know why?  Because it doesn't star Bruce Willis or Arnold Schwarzenegger...and Owen Wilson will never be confused for Tom Cruise.  (I certainly could never picture him as a superhero out to save the world)  So as Wilson spends much of the movie running for his life, and looking angry, concerned, scared and very much alone, it made it that much easier to digest. And we don't know whether to root for Lt. Burnett, at first, when it appears that he has lost faith in his purpose as a Naval aviator.  You might get to see a lot more of me soon, he tells his father on ship-to-shore call just before Christmas.  Burnett, of course, is  contemplating leaving the Navy because of a lack of things to do. (The pilots aren't logging many flight hours, and eating jello and launching footballs off catapaults on the flight deck appear to fail at holding his interest)  I'm proud of you, is his father's only reply- 7 years into his son's tour.So with that fact and the Admiral's refusal to hand in his resignation letter, Burnett sits in as the navigator on a mission over the Bosnian countryside...and that's how the mayhem begins.  And the movie, while short of a masterpiece, uniquely brings to light a conflict that has gone virtually unnoticed by American citizens.  We get lots of neat ground and air combat, some insight into the military's chain of command, and legal jargon that would fit nicely on an episode of CBS's JAG.  And while Behind Enemy Lines doesn't answer every question, it works nicely as an education tool.  It also serves as comfort food...to know that we have highly-skilled and well-trained men and women on the highest alert possible to protect our country and snuff out the bad guys.  "},{"Title":"Worth seeing in the theater...","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Obviously the highlight of the movie is the F-18A/SAM scene...lasts about 2.5 minutes, well done.  Aside from that, the ending was wayyyy over sensationalized...even for me! That is, in 10 minutes, everyone bad got taken care of and all is set right...I was disappointed in how they rushed the ending. "},{"Title":"very well done","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I thought that this movie was very well done, on the whole.  The camera work and special effects created feelings of tension and excitement not often seen in big-budget action-dramas.  Some parts of the script were a bit corny, like the Gene Hackman clip from the TV commercial where he announces that he plans to put his men in harm's way, but the chase scenes were exciting enough to make me overlook the corn. "},{"Title":"Great Flick!","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of my favorites this year, beating out Shrek by a small margin created by that heart-stopping flight-evasives sequence.Going into the theatre, I was expecting an okay action movie but instead I got much more!  This was a GREAT action movie (and my being an action fan gives this movie a few more points).  The acting was top notch, even Wilson gave a better performance than I thought he would; the special effects were brilliant and the camera angles made it feel more realistic.  I don't understand the people who didn't like the camera running behind Wilson because I found it brought me into the film.  Instead of sitting in a theatre, I was running through the Yugoslavian tundra with Lt. Burnette.The best thing, though, is that this movie is extremely heavy on the artillery!  When the Serbs are shooting at Burnette, they aren't just firing rifles but they have cannons, WITH proper sound effects!  At the end, the final battle is breath-taking, a real masterpiece of filming.Overall, this movie was a great action flick - the story doesn't go too deep, its fairly predictable without being overly so, the acting is great (a plus for action-flicks) and the direction wonderful.  If you like Action movies, then this is for you.  If you prefer something with a storyline then go see Harry Potter, you panzy ) "}{"Title":"Like Hackman's recent `Heist' and Redford's `Spy Game,' `Behind Enemy Lines' is another `B' film enjoyable enough on a dark winter day but not great enough to outlast the endless conflict in an inscrutable M","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  `O ye mortal engines, whose rude throats Th' immortal Jove's great clamor counterfeit . . .'Shakespeare's general, Othello, couldn't have better described the sounds and energy of `Behind Enemy Lines'-the planes, tanks, and guns of the mightiest army on earth are gleefully displayed, along with the patented Gene Hackman sneer, for the pleasure of beating the hell out of bad-guy Bosnian Serbs (even the movie can't adequately clarify who's who in that mighty mosh-pit of hatred).Satellite technology imaging the movements of the hero and his pursuers is downright hypnotic; Owen Wilson is believable enough as the `Most-Dangerous -Game' kind of guy for me to accept his headlining the film over the durable Hackman.The film is not entirely a showcase for technology it pounds home one of the enduring themes of western civilization, that the individual is worth more than gun ships and careers, that saving one life is more important than saving face against the world's weighty politics.Because director John Moore comes from commercials, I expect he'll eventually figure out that literate audiences long ago lost their patience with chase scenes where the hero evades innumerable rounds of ammunition or where a trained assassin can't kill a target squarely in the crosshairs. I need not even comment on the outrageous stereotyping of the Bosnian bad guys.  When Moore clears his head of cliches, he'll be a commendable action director.However Cinematographer Brendan Galvin, who has 3 TV credits and 2 other small films, does impressive work here-he bends the color into black, white, and gray in ways that reflect my own impression of the bleak, desolate, and ravaged landscape revived by television today in our Afghan conflict.Like Hackman's recent `Heist' and Redford's `Spy Game,' `Behind Enemy Lines' is another `B' film enjoyable enough on a dark winter day but not great enough to outlast the endless conflict in an inscrutable Mid-East.  "},{"Title":"Do you like action movies?","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Who needs professional critics anymore?  After reading a few of their reviews, Behind Enemy Lines does not seem very worthwhile.  In fact, the movie is no Harry Potter.  Is that a problem?  Beneath the allegedly demure cliches of the film is exactly what many moviegoers have waited for -- a great action film.Yes, the structure is formulaic, but so were all the great action flicks of the 80s.  Who can deny such a classic theme as good triumphing evil?  Nazis and drug lords are exchanged for a new enemy, the Serbian army, and our hero is a distraught, young Navy pilot, weary of laissez affair politics.  Sure, these types of films ask for a suspended sense of reality, but that's the reason that we go to the movie theaters.Leaving plot summaries behind, the film brings new life to the genre without abandoning the constant conflict of the old action film.  In this film you'll get a lot of bang for your buck, as well as a lesson in good ol' American isolationism.  See it and remind yourself how action films were once so wonderfully made.  "},{"Title":"Not really based on LT Scott O'Grady....","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I was fortunate enough to view this at the world premiere at Naval Air Station North Island, where the Navy premiered it for San Diego Sailors.Although one would think this is 'loosely' based on the incident a few years ago where an Air Force pilot (LT Scott O'Grady) was shot down in enemy territory and later rescued by our forces, that's really where the similarities end.Wilson's character (LT Burnett) is a Navy flight navigator who has become disillusioned with the Navy and is contemplating resigning his commission. Hackman plays an admiral who is the battle group commander for USS Carl Vinson.While flying a routine reconnaissance mission, Burnett and his pilot (LT Stackhouse) see something they're not supposed to see and do something they're not supposed to do (as something like this would probably get you court-martialed).  As a result, the enemy (in this case an Eastern European rebel group), shoot them down with a surface-to-air missile.  The flying scene where their plane is being chased by the SAM is intense, riveting and heart-stopping and probably one of the best in the movie.  They eject and find themselves deep inside enemy territory, struggling to survive.  Once on the ground, it becomes a game of cat and mouse between them and two rebels who want to make sure the Americans are dead.Meanwhile, back on the aircraft carrier, the control room has lost radio contact with the pilots and realize something is wrong.  Hackman wants to send in a rescue team, but his efforts are thwarted by political reasons and a foreign embarked admiral who makes it clear that no rescue will take place.  The interesting parts are the relationships between the two admirals, the two rebels and the two pilots.Wilson does a fine job in an action film, as most of his previous films have been light comedy.  As a result, he comes off as an all-around normal guy thrust in an unusual situation, and not some muscular action-hero that would have no problem in a situation like this.Although somewhat predictable, the action was non-stop and suspenseful.  "},{"Title":"proof Owen Wilson can act","Date":"1 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" I've had this title on DVD for quite some time so it was just a matter of getting around to watching it again. I'm starting to see here just how much of a challenge it is to make a movie and not make some type of mistake in the process. I've got more respect for Owen Wilson and Gene Hackman than before. Hackman was pretty good in Crimson Tide but I thought he was even better in Behind Enemy Lines. I really liked how he stayed by one of his men even though the man (Wilson) did something he wasn't supposed to do and that's fly over enemy territory. There wasn't even much that should have been re-done or corrected. I'm not sure how Wilson switched uniforms with a Bosnian soldier at the end. When the 'victim' was shown to the Bosnian General near the end, it was revealed that the victim had a stamp on his hand which proved that he was not American. Meanwhile Wilson was able to escape and eventually set himself up for rescue. One thing I like about Wilson is that he is proved at playing all sorts of different roles. Among them are Wedding Crashers, BEL, Starsky and Hutch, Shanghai Knights and Zoolander, You, Me and Dupree, The Big Bounce, I Spy. He strikes me as one of those guys who can be involved in a movie about just about anything. If you haven't seen BELs yet and can appreciate Wilson as an actor, you should definitely enjoy this one. "},{"Title":"Good action Movie","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Typical American movie where Yankees are good and the others bad guy's,in this case Serbs. I read somewhere that this movie was inspired by true event that happened during the Nato attack on Serbian troops and positions in central Bosnia. From the Hollywood point this is a good quality movie full with action scenes that will keep your attention for a 106 minutes.But from a historical point of view it's far from truth, When the plain was taken down by a surface-to-air missile, Serbs knew precisely the location of the pilot, but they had orders to stay away from,their mission was simple, take the plane down and continue with defense.Some jokers kept the pilot's tracing device and ride with him for day's through Serbian positions, enough to keep US Navy Rescue team busy for 6 day's,while the pilot was completely lost. When Scott O'Grady was invited to the White House for a private lunch with Bill Clinton, he burst into tears in public at the drop of a hat and told NBC that he felt as a scared little bunny in the Bosnian forest. So much over heroic action that we saw in this movie... "},{"Title":"I'm behind this movie","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" The title of this movie was enough to give me a very good idea of what type of movie this was going to be a war movie. I typically avoid war movies because humans will perpetually be at war with each other, so if I want to see war, all I have to do is turn on the news. It still was an action movie so I couldn't resist watching it. The only questions with me were would this be a Rambo/Commando type movie in which the lone American hero would shoot his way out of foreign territory? Or, would it be a movie in which diplomacy triumphs, and words and pacts would end the confrontation over bullets and bombs? Well, the answer was no to both, but it was much to my delight. Lt. Chris Burnett (Owen Wilson) certainly didn't shoot his way out of the rebellion held Bosnian territory, but he did use guile, guts and wits to find a way out. Sure, the movie was a bit patriotic and somewhat slanted towards American heroism, but it was nothing too over the top. Not only was Behind Enemy Lines a suspenseful action packed piece of entertainment, it also reminded some as well as enlightened others upon the ethnic cleansing that was going on in Bosnia. This was a surprisingly solid movie. "},{"Title":"Good movie!","Date":"19 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" In War There Are Some Lines You Should Never Cross,I like it. I have watch it two times to get deep into. Actually I am not a fun of this type of American army movies... they are all basically boring to me. Same patterns all the time. About the family, about the wifes, kids, proud nest, etc.. The same is with this movie Ending is complete waste of the time.O common, ex Yugoslavs (the Serbs) are so easy to destroyed? They are so similar to Vietnamese's? They have been one of the strongest army in Europe those days. OK, this guys have using the black uniforms, but in the Bosnia at that time they have been practical the same like full green.OK, the point is, they have hit ONE American plain. Wow -), at least somebody did in Hollywood movies.There is one missing part in this movie, beginning should start with satellite map of the Adriatic cost? Where the 'American flote' ask for NATO permission to pass in to the Adriatic channel. Example an Italian Nato base? Anyway Yugoslav's are not in Nato, they had they own army.-- country Flag MUST BE shown! Sea borders are a bit deferent--Second thing The spotter? The snapper guy, that 'guy' actually have been a world champion somewhere in 80'... So should be a beck scene with it??! Where it explains. Also there is one bad scene I have notice when the Serbians hunt the American solder, they shout forward, but the bullets goes up the hill? O common, so pose to be based on the real story. Song atomic bomb is great, mostly when I see techno music with action together I know the movie has no material . but in this movie music fits!!'''so if cheap American patriotism is your thing -- with a side of BS to top off the sundae -- then you will greatly enjoy this movie (in case people care, serbs have actually saved more American pilots in history than anyone else -- which is why movies like this really tick me off)'''I have copy this from one of your post. It doesn't meter, but they have safe a lot of Jewish http//www.imdb.com/title/tt0085215/ -- my full recommendation for this movie.I give 9 points. I hope I gave u something to think. By the way as I know Bosnians like the rock n' roll music -).p.s. very very realistic war fights u can see in this movie. no doubtSincerely, D "},{"Title":"Blatant  propaganda","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" During the 1990s an American pilot is taking pictures in an area of Bosnia where he shouldn't be and gets shot down and then the navy moves heaven and earth to try and rescue him. SPOILER - The movie is OK till the last half hour when hundreds of Bosnians are killed to rescue the pilot. In the background we have this rousing super-martial music in effect telling us America is good and great and has the right to murder whoever it wants. Movie was made in 2001 and thus prior to the holocaust in Iraq so I'll cut the director a little slack. Back them many Americans did not realize that America is a terror nation run by psychopaths.Broken-nosed Owen Wilson does a good job as the pilot on the run and Gene Hackman is his usual solid self as the aircraft carrier admiral and the man who has to decide whether to obey orders or save his soldier. "},{"Title":"Big boreeee.........","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" i wanted to watch a good war movie and asked for saving private ryan. Unfortunately i got this. the first scene was pretty interesting, but then the film dragged and dragged till the final scene. i bet anyone who gave a good report for this nonsense has not seen the film seriously. they might have seen it over a case of beer, so that by the time they reach the end of the film they would be drinking the last one. it seems that the movie is based on true life. but that doesn't help the quality. might be heroic in real life, but movies need plot, not just heroism. I agree with most comments criticizing the movie but i don't understand why the movie is compared with rambo. rambo trilogy is not fit for Oscars for certain, but they are good movies. may be coz it is the trend today to make fun of stallone movies. anyways i've enjoyed the earlier stallone movies like rocky and rambo and some of those later instalments too. and i'm pretty sure that they are not bad movies. they might contain heroism, but stallone is not in the mold of tom hanks. He was more of a mass hero and he had to live up to them as well as the studios. agreed that he always tend to make sequels but there is also the fact that he has amazingly stuck to his characters and their development is worth mentioning in all movies. So i think comparing movies like BEL to rambo is great injustice. For that matter, this movie is not worth comparing to any others. From my part, I strongly recommend not to see this movie. If you are so particular about watching a war film, saving private ryan is the best i've seen so far. "},{"Title":"Who wrote this thing??","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" I just know that I've run across this movie about 5 times because it was run, and re-run again on FX in the past 2 weeks. I finally set down to see what it was, and was at once elated to be sitting down and watching a really bad movie that I didn't have to think about. It was exciting, it was adventurous, sure, but I was sorry to see Gene Hackman in such a crappy role. It wasn't his fault, it was the writing!! Just plain bad...David Veloz and Zak Penn should be tarred and feathered for such a bad adaptation. And who cast that Joaquim de Almeida? Was he supposed to be a believable American officer? Not saying people from other countries can't make it up the ranks, but they generally don't fall in and out of their native accent so intermittently!! I was also happy to see Owen Wilson put in a different role, and hope he gets another chance, because he deserves a better script... "}{"Title":"A film in the spirit of Goebbels.","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" In the history of propagandistic film-making this scrapes the bottom of the barrel. Probably financed by the Pentagon this is the 'story' (I use the term loosely) of an incident where an American pilot is shot-down over Serb controlled territory in Bosnia. All the Serbs are portrayed as evil bastards, the UN as indifferent wimps and the Americans as heroes and champions of the war. This has all the subtlety and style of a drunken rhinoceros' seduction, and would make Goebbels proud (and Leni Riefenstahl wince)! Owen Wilson's performance as the pilot should make the Academy consider giving Tom Cruise an honorary Oscar for Top Gun. There are films that are so bad they are good, but then there are films like this which is so bad you want to gauge your eyes out! Only for viewers incapable of critical thought. "},{"Title":"About as stupid as The Naked Gun. The difference? The Naked Gun was supposed to be!","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  It's not unusual for an action movie to start fast and go downhill within 45 minutes of air time. Such is the case here. While the sometimes talented Owen Wilson has at times been fun to watch(see Shanghi Noon and the even better sequel Shanghi Nights for proof)he is simply not convincing as the hero. Things get more powerfully silly when the bad guys (who appear to have the vision of Stevie Wonder) fire rounds of automatic ammunition but are unable to lay down Wilson but he can't miss with his handy pistol.This movie should give the Zucker Brothers ideas for the Naked Gun 4. "},{"Title":"Fake","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  The story plot was great although the special effects was good, it could never happen. I thought this was one of the fakest movie ever made in history. Don't get me wrong, I like Gene Hackman. He is one of the best actors who ever lived. I was quite disappointed in the visual effects. He runs away from thousands of tanks and troops and lives? I find that a little unlikely to happen. The acting was good but it was overall not a good movie. It was impossible and I don't recommend it to anyone who  realizes real warfare. "},{"Title":"a joy-ride of a movie","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Forget about the story-line, and just focus on the action-packed sequences which are among the most thrilling I have seen for a long time (especially the part where the jet piloted and navigated by our two heroes is being pursued by two heat-seeking missiles).Enjoy for what it is worth. "},{"Title":"Not great, but better than I expected.","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  **Warning! Plot Spoilers Ahead!**Behind Enemy Lines is a loose retelling of former POW Scott O'Grady's survival, ahem, behind enemy lines in the Bosnia-Serbia conflict.  As a military adventure story, this movie has to be separated from such recent ultra-realistic films such as Black Hawk Down and Saving Private Ryan.  If you're expecting something like that, you'll be disappointed.  If you're looking for an enjoyable way to blow a couple hours, you'll find this flick to your liking.When I first saw the trailer for Behind Enemy Lines, I couldn't help but laugh at the thought of Owen Wilson as a serious dramatic action-hero role.  And initially it is difficult, as we are introduced to his Maverick-like character through a series of jokes.  Once the movie takes a serious turn though, Wilson properly tones down the humor, proving his versatility and allowing us to accept him in this departure from his norm.  The always good Gene Hackman provides the other primary character, a part similar to his Crimson Tide military man, and a role he can do with ease.  He and the rest of the cast fulfill their assignments, presenting the standard list of military characters.  No character is developed particularly well, but in this sort of movie, audience familiarity suffices where that is absent. Much of this flick resonates with Spy Game, from earlier in the same year.  The music choices, pacing, and the various editing techniques are reminiscent of Tony Scott's methods.  The arsenal of jump cuts, zooms, and other edits that director John Moore employs border on the annoying, but since the pace of the movie never relents, the quick-hit editing is acceptable.  The overall production value is beyond acceptable, actually quite good.  All of the sets are fully realistic, from the aircraft carrier to the forested terrain.  In many movies of this ilk, the art design is largely overlooked, but nothing here distracts from the movie, as the look is arguably the highlight of the pic.  I particularly liked the movie's solidly effective cinematography, which featured a washed-out blue hue.The special effects are good too.  An early fighter jet sequence is surprisingly enjoyable, and the various military action are told well.  Yes, Wilson probably would have been hit by one of the million ammo rounds fired at him; but like I said, this isn't a movie to be commended for its realism.  It is to be commended for quality production, without which this movie could easily have fallen apart.  The all-around good work contributes to the effective patriotic manipulation of this movie.  Nothing in the formulaic plot is all that surprising to anyone who has either followed the strife in the Balkans or ever seen a movie of this genre; but in this post-9/11 era, a simple and decently told heroic American tale such as this is a welcome source of entertainment.  Those outside the United States might have a different take on this flick, but to its target American audience, Behind Enemy Lines fits our ideals of a military adventure movie.   Bottom Line Despite being unabashedly American, very good production value and solid efforts from all involved make this military popcorn movie (a strange combination indeed) worth a viewing. 6 of 10.   "},{"Title":"So-so action flick","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  ****************  May include SPOILERS  ****************I just saw the movie and thought it was nothing special.  The only part that I truly loved was the beginning sequence in which the pilot and navigator's aircraft was being pursued by missiles.  Although a bit unrealistic in how it was carried out, it was still very, very awesome and memorable.  For that alone, the movie was worth watching.  As soon as the navigator started being pursued by Serbian forces, the movie took a dive.  It was still viewable, but only because you wanted to know how things would turn out.  My god, this movie was so stereotypical and downright ignorant in the portrayal of the opposition, that it makes me wonder how anyone could praise it.  I mean, if you're going to make a movie, at least get your facts straight.  How hard can that be??  The Serbian soldiers had on uniforms w/ Croatian insignia, for god's sake! There's a lot of similar mistakes throughout the film. Anyhow, by the middle of the film, you start to lose interest in the welfare of the navigator and also start to wonder how long it will take before they rescue him in some uneducated, valiant attempt that probably puts many, many more lives at risk than necessary.  You also begin to wonder when the climax will occur, and then you realize that it already happened, right at the beginning during that whole missile sequence!  Yes, that would have to be the most exciting moment, even though the climax is technically supposed to be when he's rescued.  Sad, isn't it? "},{"Title":"Excellent action film, some great things to be seen.","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  When I first heard of this film I thought What is Owen Wilson doing in an action flick?  But, I've got to give him credit for trying something new, and I thought he pulled it off quite nicely.  Not only that but he gets work with Gene Hackman, that can't be a bad thing.Overall, I thought this film was excellent, the story is very good and well done.  The action sequences are exquisite, particularly when the jet gets shot down, a true adrenaline rush!I think a few minor tweaks here and there would have made this film truly excellent.  There are FAR too many of the spinning around the character(s) type of shots, very dizzying and used WAY WAY too much.  Why would Chris Burnett (Owen Wilson) take off his ski-mask type disguise thing (whatever it's called) while still a few feet away from the enemy?  I know what the director was doing and trying to show the audience, but don't insult our intelligence, we darn well know that's Chris Burnett.  The only other problem I had with the film is some of the strange editing and camera work.  Sometimes is looked cool but I feel it sort of took away from the realism of the film, but there were times where I really liked the quick camera shots or jump cuts.The cast was fairly small, or at least there is a short list of truly important characters.  Owen Wilson pulls off a very nice performance for a first-time action star, no complaints there, he even throws in a little comedy here and there.  Gene Hackman is great as always, there are a few lines of his I would have changed, but nonetheless, a great role.  David Keith plays a somewhat small role, but fairly important, and does it quite well.  I recognized Gabriel Macht (Stackhouse) in the film, but couldn't place where I'd seen him until I looked him up on this site.  He also plays a small role, but really important to the story, and does a fine job.  The rest of the cast was very good as well.In the end, I thought this was a great action film with it's share of flaws, but very enjoyable regardless.  I would definitely recommend this film to anyone that likes action/war films.  I hope that you enjoy this film as much as I did.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"bad movie","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  One of the worst movies I have even had to sit through. All kinds of unexplained events and situations. Apparently the enemy soldiers are either blind or cannot shoot a weapon. Literally thousands of rounds of ammo shot at the hero and only one or two find their mark. An insult to anyones intelligence.  "},{"Title":"9/10, would be 10/10 without Owen Wilson.","Date":"30 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" This movie is shown a lot on Swedish TV. And i agree with the Swedish TV company and people, its a great movie! Very awesome action scenes, the story is maybe kinda original but it works. About the action scenes, I think many of them i very epic Like the mine scene, satellite scene and so on. And about my title I really don't think Owen Wilson fitted for this movie, or serious action movies whatsoever. A infamous young cool actor would be much better for this character, because Owen have done to much comedies! I think its very hard to take him serious in this serious action movie. Unlike Vladimir Mashkov! Its like he was made for that role. (And if you have played GTA 4, you may noticed that he's much alike the main character Niko Bellic.) And to you that say its unrealistic, just for the record its a based on true story movie.Anyways you should definitely see it! "},{"Title":"Pernicious Twaddle","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Personally, to my moral discomfort and despite knowing better, I kind of enjoy films like, say, Top Gun.  It's fun, and that is as good a reason to watch a film as any.However, I feel that by this point in time (well over ten years after Top Gun) the 'fun' excuse is wearing extremely thin as mitigation for the unleashing of badly-crafted, under-written, stupid and empty firework displays like this.  I'm a guy, I can appreciate Big Gay Death Machines just like anybody else.  I like to see rocket-powered phalluses tearing up the sky to a soundtrack of aggressive music as much as the next man, but I'm increasingly concerned at the nagging argument of my conscience that just because something is COOL! it is not necessarily therefore good, or worthwhile.Behind Enemy Lines is the kind of film I could quite happily see exterminated from the fabric of existence.  Not that it's especially awful, just rather offensive - a perfect example of how to insult an audience.  Despite the cunning disguise of a handful of impressively-staged setpieces this is a lazy, stupid, and ignorant film that apparently sets out to propagate these very same virtues in the mind of a viewer.Did you know that anybody who wants to avoid restarting a genocidal war in which a quarter of a million people have already died is a coward?  Did you know that it's okay to run that risk to save one serviceman who got himself into trouble by disobeying orders?  Did you know its okay to run that risk if the serviceman has photographic evidence of mass graves in a country where mass-graves are fairly thick on the ground and widely known about?  Even though the effort of recovering these photos may actually result in lots more mass-graves which won't be captured on film?   Did you know that Serb soldiers wore Croat insignia?I knew none of this.  Thanks to this film I have been re-educated.  "}{"Title":"American Propaganda","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  After viewing this movie, I was shocked. It came off as a strictly American show of power and pride. One American gets lost and a helicopter goes in blasting away at people. Are the bad guys not people too? This movie was an extreme case of American propaganda. In light of September 11th, this movie was totally unnecessary. The message that I take away from it is that We are American and since you're not we can blow you all up just to save our one man, because we are American and therefore more important than all of you. If this is what American cinema is about, then I refuse to be a part of it and strongly urge others not to degrade themselves with it.  "},{"Title":"One of the best action movies ever, period.","Date":"3 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Behind Enemy Lines is one of my all time favorite action movies. Its DVD is in my archive and I watched it a few times and still watch some scenes sometimes and each time, I appreciate the director. Behind Enemy Lines recalls John Woo movies in terms of style in action scenes, but it is much more better than some John Woo movies in fact (you know, he has started to be disappointing) Behind Enemy Lines is a special movie, if you ask me besides being very very enjoyable and stylish, because it is not just fun, it is very well shot. Firstly, I want to talk about some scenes. There are some scenes that I just love and think that some of the best action scenes ever made! The jet fall scene is the best one, there is no better one. Even if some moments (special effects) look superficial, a great action sequence and a great demo scene too. The mine scene is my favorite, not only in the movie, this action scene is one of the bests ever made too. Each time, I am amazed and impressed. I cannot describe this scene. Then, the shooter comes to the scene and we say wow! This is a cat and mouse game also, even if it is weak in comparison with other cat and mouse games. The scene takes place in front of the ramshackle building is another astonishing action scene, but there is much more than that. The only thing disappointing is the entrapment in the final part. I had expected an interesting or smart or something big, but disappointed. As for Owen Wilson, many people agree that he is not appropriate for an action movie and they say that the movie would have been better without him. I absolutely disagree. He was perfect. He proved that a comedy actor can be better than some action stars. To me, he is better than Mark Wahlberg or better than cold Vin Diesel. Now, it is time for the reviews, the reviews of some people including critics. The extremely frustrating and sometimes ridiculous reviews. This is a movie that critics would give maximum 6. They say that Behind Enemy Lines is an ideological movie, it is a propaganda movie, it is one sided, it shows Serbians as evil and so on... You see, always the same stuff. They say the movie brainwashes us, I ask who brainwashes who? I hate this. And there is one more ridiculous comment from a critic. The movie advertises cola. It says don't drink water, drink cola. Hmm, really? How do those critics's brains work? What about cinema? Do directors who want to make a war movie have to make two movies for each front? No. If there won't be any bad guy, how can you make a movie that is about a pilot whose aircraft is fallen and tries to survive behind enemy lines? Recently I have seen a few action movies like Shooter. It was a very slow paced action movie and also action was mild besides being very less. Therefore, movies like Behind Enemy Lines seem special to me. "},{"Title":"Just read the book.","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Return with Honor by Capt. Scott O'Grady. The pilot who was actually shot down in his F-16, his wingman that night, Bob Wright, came out unscathed. And the rest is history, the movie doesn't follow the true story, but none ever really do. It was a decent attempt though at re-creating what 'kind-of' happened. But anyone that wasn't around when it really did happen has no clue of the real story, all they know is a movie that came out in 2001 that was a half-hearted attempt to tell a true story (one that could have been told closer to what had actually happened that night, say a movie such as Black Hawk Down, which was told in pretty good detail. The book is an excellent read. I couldn't put it down. And I read it when I was about 16, it was published in 1995. So for the real story and the real tale of what happened, pick it up, its well worth it, probably cheaper now. "},{"Title":"Skip this one","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Another Rambo movie with immortal American soldier. Muslim propaganda against Serbian people.A more worthy plot for the movie Behind Enemy Lines would have been the story of the rescue of over 500 American pilots who were shot down over Yugoslavia during World War II and rescued by the Serb national forces of General Draza Mihailovich, instead of the trumped up, distorted tale currently being fed to the American people. Operation Halyard, remains the largest one &#150; time rescue of Americans from behind enemy lines in our nation's history, wrote Major USAF, Ret. Richard L. Felman, former president of the National Committee of American Airmen Rescued by Serbian General Mihailovich.Today, we are seeing the results of U.S. complicity by turning a blind eye to Muslim atrocities and by promoting a Bosnian Muslim victory. The Balkans have been turned over to Osama bin Laden's Kosovo Liberation Army and Bosnia has become the corridor into Europe for his Islamic warriors, the Mujahedin.This movie is nothing that bad propaganda. "},{"Title":"One of the worst action movies of 2001","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Behind Enemy Lines was one of the worst action films of 2001 and one of the worst action films I have ever seen.  It is a rehash of almost every action/war movie filmed in the last decade.The movie starts out very well.  The typical rebel pilot team (ripped from Top Gun) is in trouble with the Admiral of the aircraft carrier and punished with a Christmas day recon flight in their big fast airplane.  During their routine flight they deviate from their flight plan (because they're rebellious, of course) and end up seeing (and photographing) something that the Serbian army doesn't want NATO to see.   They get shot down - probably the best action sequence in the entire movie - then one of the team (I won't tell you, but it's not hard to predict) gets shot and the bulk of the movie sees our lone survivor evading tank and booby traps and men with big guns trying to kill him so he can get back to the ship to get this information to the proper people and make up with his commanding officer.The problem I have with the movie is not in the acting (although Gene Hackman had a much better role as a commanding officer in Crimson Tide),  it's the fact that the plot is utterly unbelievable and disjointed. For example, it's always amazing to see in movies how thousands of bullets miss our hero, but a well placed pistol round saves the day,  land mines and trip wires seem to have an artificial intelligence on who the bad guys are and, as always, even the good guys conspire to get rid the hero.Owen Wilson is a funny actor and did his best to make this movie worth the money I spent to see it, but one would be better off renting Top Gun, Bat 21, Platoon, or catching Black Hawk Down in the theater.  These movies all deal with a similar subject, but in a believable manner. "},{"Title":"a very bad film","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  This crap should never have been made! The story is bad and not realistic what so ever. The script rewrites history and changes it around so that what is left is not linked to any real event taken place ever. It is a mystery why Hackman is in this movie, maybe he too late realized that this movie is the worst he`s made. the acting is bad, especially Owen Wilson in the lead. I cannot figure out why this movie was made and I think it´s sad that money should be made out of a script so onedimensional, saying whats good and bad. And why are always Americans so good and why is always the bad shown as unshaved, mean soldiers with a non English language? Please don´t see this movie, but if you do-bare in mind that not all non Americans are evil! "},{"Title":"Disappointment...","Date":"18 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" At first I gave this film only a 1/10, because I was very much disappointed with the first half. But then I realized that the special effects are really good and change my vote to 2/10, since I really think that is the only good thing in this movie. To be honest, the story is OK, but it could have been done so much better and with less great omissions (just watch closely and you'll notice what I'm talking about). Gene Hackman could have been so much better also and the whole film seemed shallow and overdone in the matter of special effects. They're great, but there's just to much of all that and not anything else that would matter. More Hollywood than even a Hollywood lover like me could take at the time. The biggest disappointment was the local, non-American crew. Every person from Balkans can easily make a difference between the languages spoken here and the bad guys from the movie do not correspond to the language that they're speaking (or the mentality for that matter). They could have as well wore any other uniforms and be called different nation name. At one point my boyfriend and I both asked each other what did the local guy say, because we weren't able to understand our language (that the guy was presumably speaking). All in all, in my opinion this movie is something that I'll forget in an instant, or maybe remember it for the future time, but only because I wouldn't like to make the same mistake again and lose an hour and a half over something like that. Btw, until the end of the movie, my boyfriend and I were both smiling in disbelief. "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" It's Cliffhanger meets Top Gun as two Navy navigators are shot down over hostile territory. After parachuting to what looks like safety, one of them is shot dead, leaving his partner (Owen Wilson) to somehow evade dozens of enemy forces in rough terrain. His only hope is to buy enough time for a rescue effort led by his Admiral (Gene Hackman) to succeed.Behind Enemy Lines is an extreme rush. It's one of those great edge-of-your-seat thrillers in which our hero manages to scrape by time and time again against what from the very beginning seemed like impossible odds. The winter scenery is breathtaking and the acting -- even from the disappointment-prone Wilson -- is top-rate. This one deserves its place as one of the great thrillers of the decade. I watched it with modest expectations and was literally blown away. "},{"Title":"Chaff","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" The first thing to ask is what is the center? With this film, the center is in the camera-work, and the frantic editing. This makes it similar to 'Spy Game,' which had a more consistent nervousness. This one plays with lots of styles, from war correspondent hand-held while running, to the clean choreography of the attack on the F-18. Until the end, very effective.The acting and story are mere excuses. They don't matter and a good thing too -- Hackman is more and more living up to his name. I'm intrigued by Owen. He gives an arythmic, unexpected reading of lines that seems deliberate. In preparation for this, I viewed 'Minus Man,' in which he has the same odd lilt.I am willing to pay for a purely cinematic experience from time to time, and don't mind the hackneyed story. But two things did bother me in this experience. One is that shot of the helos rising from below the horizon. Please, it's just too tired, and led to a set of ending shots that must have been dictated from the financier's playbook. With such a promising beginning, to become so trite is a shame.The other thing is a biggie. There is enough drama in the way war is really fought. The truth is much better than what we see here.Carriers are monstrous machines. We didn't get that. We didn't get the sense of a whole city on board, nor life with planes constantly in the air, patrolling hundreds of miles out just as an umbrella, and the thousands of miles covered with collaboration through control and spy aircraft. We didn't get the sense of the whole battlegroup, 12-20 ships and subs with their own, various lethalities that could have been used. To reduce the whole thing to 3 (invincible) marine helos is pretty lame, and probably shows more pennypinching on the part of Hollywood than the Pentagon ever would have.The chain of communication and command is far, far cooler than what you see here, as is intel. For instance, every cell phone conversation would have been monitored and reported to the field command even as far back as Bosnia/Kosovo, which it should be noted was the saving of Muslim skins.Since so much of the world seems caught up in conspiracies involving the US military, I fully expect someone to claim that pictures like this are part of a disinformation campaign. Elsewise, no one could get things so wrong in such a way that it makes the film less entertaining. This must be the chaff, thrown off to divert attention.I watched this in an audience of Navy pilots back from Afganistan. A real experience, I tell you. "},{"Title":"What a joke!!","Date":"13 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" First and foremost, i give this movie, 2 marks JUST OUT OF PITY! I cannot fathom as to why so much money was spent on making such a worthless flick. Its the usual story of American forces who are out to create heroism in the face of war.Owen Wilson stands out as a complete misfit in this movie. I guess he should act in TV serials or B class Hollywood flicks. Without a doubt, Gene Hackman shows why he is a pedigree actor. His dialoge delivery and voice diction are just perfect.This is the story of a US pilot who gets shot down behind enemy lines. With a whole army and a murderous vindictive assassin on his prowl, our hero Owen Wilson does all sorts of stunts to keep himself alive. Missiles and bullets are flying around and seem to hit every target except our hero. Isn't that a joke? For a moment, i wondered if i was watching a run on the mill Indian flick where the hero evades ''hundreds of bullets'' and still comes unscathed. Since i watched this movie on Channel 2, the maximum loss that i endured is my sleep. I shudder to think of those folks who went to the cinema and paid exorbitant money to watch this movie. On the whole this movie is a complete let down. "}{"Title":"Not bad at all...","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those movies that I would see at the DVD shop and not buy it.  Why, because I have not heard of it from the media.  But because I have a pay for view movie channel it was played.Verdict?  Not bad at all.  The story is no Shakespeare, but it is pretty good for an action movie.  I was impressed with the two main actors and how they acted their roles.  What I especially liked about the movie is the mixing of really interesting effects with a story.  This movie reminds a bit of Crimson Tide or Enemy of the State and if you did like those movies then you will like this one.I think the critique of this movie is a bit over the top. "},{"Title":"Bat 21 in a different country","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Very exciting film, giving the viewer nothing new in the way of a story. I was on the edge of my seat all the way through especially during the SAM attack on the airplane. Hackman gives his standard fine performance as the Admiral willing to scrap his career for one of his men, and Wilson does a commendable job fighting and running across dangerous ground. Thumbs up.  "},{"Title":"I didn't know this was a true story, makes it even better","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Behind Enemy Lines =================This is an interesting movie set in the time  around the Bosnian Serb conflicts and it starts  out with an American plane doing a photo  reconnaissance mission over the countryside where  they get shot down by Serb forces. The pilot and  his navigator eject and land but the navigator is  killed, That's where the core of the movie starts  as a chase ensues to keep him alive both by his  actions, and by the people outside on his aircraft  carrier who he is in  communication with. If you find this movie is a bit of a touchy topic  then you might not  want to see it, but if you  like a bit of suspense and a bit of action and  a story that was in fact true then you are going  to simply love this movie..6/10 "},{"Title":"Nothing wrong with this movie.","Date":"11 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Thr negative reviewers must be watching a different movie. Yes it's not going to win any awards for originality. But it's still a great movie. Big fan of the cinematography used, nice hand-held footage that is not over the top. The acting is good, the action is good. There is nothing really to dislike about this movie. I think Owen Wilson did a commendable job in this movie and while he normally does comedies, I think he fits the role nicely. The bad guys are dis-likable too, not comical or over the top. It may not be everyone's cup of tea, but I thoroughly enjoy this movie. Worth watching. "},{"Title":"As a chase film, suspend belief and reality and just enjoy!","Date":"22 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Having just seen this 2001 movie and read several of the negative comments, I can understand that anyone viewing it with first hand knowledge of the Bosnian conflict or the US Navy might dismiss it, but as I have neither of these I just watched it because Gene Hackman was in it and I expected a decent thriller. From where I sat in my armchair I just watched it and became completely hooked on what I found to be one of the best chase movies I've ever watched and I do love chase movies (ie The Naked Prey, Chato's Land). The aerial scenes are spectacularly filmed and I found the tension thoroughly gripping throughout. I watch films on the whole from the point of view of the director and writers endeavouring to entertain us. Reality very often has to be put aside because I know from a film maker's point of view, it doesn't always translate to entertaining viewing, so facts get corrupted for the benefit of a good night out. I can accept this, although many critics have trouble with it. (ie another movie I loved Braveheart). So Behind Enemy Lines goes into one of my favourite films I've watched recently. Usual superb acting from the now retired Gene Hackman and a surprising decent turn from lead Owen Wilson. 9 stars from me. Loses one star for not being able to kill Wilson's character with the huge arsenal of weapons available. "},{"Title":"Good story, well acted but based upon a war marked by western stupidity.","Date":"9 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Reasonable story with good acting but based upon an absolute rubbish Hollywood leftist political viewpoint. If you knew anything about this war you would really know who the baddies were as they left heads upon stakes and are still doing it but let us all believe the Hollywood lies and not worry about truth. The background war will go down in history as one of NATO's most infamous episodes as did the war criminal witch hunts afterwards, all one sided of course. We must always be politically correct and to hell with truth and honour. What is so ironic is that the supposed enemy here have stopped fighting long ago but the supposed goodies are still murdering people all over the world and Hollywood and Obama say ...nothing. Such is the leftist alliance. "},{"Title":"Suspenseful throughout","Date":"26 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" In BEHIND ENEMY LINES, Owen Wilson is shot down in Bosnia and hunted by the Serbian army. Gene Hackman plays an admiral willing to sacrifice his career to rescue Wilson, but all does not go as planned. Like BAT*21 before it (also starring Hackman, but in the shot-down role), LINES makes a concerted effort to show us one man trying to survive in an extremely hostile landscape, during a war to boot. We all saw the Serbs gunning down ethnic Albanians on TV and read about their atrocities. This film brings that all-too-recent war back to life. The special effects are absolutely eye-popping, although how Wilson survives hundreds of people shooting at him is a bit much to take. A great ending, similar to that of BAT*21. See both films to compare and contrast, especially to witness how far special effects have come in a few short years. "},{"Title":"Completely ludicrous, but pretty amusing.","Date":"7 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" My Take Exciting gung-ho heroics in a video game-thin premise. It's hard to buy Owen Wilson as the action hero. He's no Bruce Willis, he gets to serious and lacks much comic relief at some point. He's not Arnold Schwarzenegger, he isn't that robust or buff. But lets face it, he stars in BEHIND ENEMY LINES, a fast-paced cold war thriller which is not new in formula, but is very competent when it comes to action. Even if Wilson isn't exactly the most reliable action hero, he does a fine job looking good in the military uniform and getting mud all over his face. Director John Moore uses dozens of fancy shots, death traps and daredevil jet scenes to elevate the predictable plot, and manages to pull it off. Although some of the slow-mo shots are corny and some of escapes are expected, the film is competent enough to have me entertained. You might too, depending on how much ridiculousness you can handle for a serviceable 1-and-a-half hour or so. Wilson plays Chris Burnett, a Navy navigator who is shot down by enemy troops during a reconnaissance mission over Bosnia. The pilot is shot, and now their after him (and guess who gets away). While he (repeatedly) escapes his pursuers, his commanding officer (Gene Hackman) tries desperately to bring his boy back. Tracking him down is a ruthless enforcer (played by Vladimir Mashkov) and a dozen other soldiers who happen to be foolish enough to miss him more than once.There are dozens of overused clichés in BEHIND ENEMY LINES, and I don't have to count for you. They are visible and evident enough for the frequent movie-goer who have seen dozens of other escapist movies. But there are still dozens of other really good stuff here. The action is competent and the the pace moves in crackling speed. The aerial sequences were pretty good and the location is very appropriate to the films war-tor atmosphere. Mr. Moore has overdone some of the films cinematography thinking it's cool; perhaps knowing exactly what happens in these cool action sequences couldn't have been too much to ask for. BEHIND ENEMY LINES is pure Hollywood hokum. It's ridiculous and almot laughable in spots (especially when Wilson's character nearly cheats death several times), but amusing enough not to be boring.Rating *** out 5. "},{"Title":"Don't take it seriously","Date":"25 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" An American pilot is shot down behind enemy lines and his co-pilot if killed leaving him to run alone. His commanding officer works to get his man back in one piece.Action war movies have this weird thing about them. Action movies are meant to be fun, war movies meant to be serious, so how do you take this hybrid genre? The best answer is just as an action movie. Like Die Hard is not a cop movie, it is an action movie with a cop backdrop for the hero since the hero has gotta know how to use guns. Here the military backdrop serves mainly to cook up some nice pyrotechnics and action scenes. And that's fine, but it has to be understood that way. If you take this film seriously, then you'll seriously think this film is a piece of super corny patriotic crap. But as an action movie it works well. Tense action, good special effects, and a likable hero. Basically place it on the shelf next to 'Where Eagles Dare' (which is a favorite of mine) and 'The Guns of Navarone.' It is not as good as those classics, but it is that type of movie.The one real problematic scene is when the hero hides in a ditch which he soon finds out is really a mass grave and the film gets this serious moment of how awful the Balkan War was, which has no place in an action adventure. But other than that, the action is solid especially when you consider John Moore as a first time feature director. --- 7/10Rated PG-13 for violence and intense action. Ages 13+. "},{"Title":"Anti-American Bias","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Many who visit this website, some of them Americans, take it upon themselves to vent their rage at any sort of favorable portrayal of Americans in general. I've had a gut full of this crap, so I've decided to throw it back in your faces. Let's review just some of the accomplishments of the Greatest Nation on Earth, shall we? 1. Established a representative Republic unparalleled in the history of mankind. Did this by fighting off the most powerful military force in the world at the time with a ragtag, underfunded, and badly trained army. Wrote the greatest document ever written establishing the rights and liberties of its citizens.2. Survived possibly the bloodiest civil war in human history, remaining intact as a nation afterward.3. Beformentioned war brought about a new age of invention and the industrial revolution.4. Fought in two world wars, always on the right side. Without its presence, either of these wars would have been won by a fascist regime, thereby changing the course of history. No, Britain could NOT have defeated Hitler (see Dunkirk) without US help. IN FACT, Britain would have ended up a German protectorate. Any of you clowns from Britain, France, Luxembourg, Norway, Finland, Italy, Denmark, Germany, Japan, China, Australia (yes, you too), Indonesia, Greece, Malta, Belgium, etc who can't face that fact are just deluding yourselves. And that's just too damned bad. By the way, Europeans, when you're tempted to crow about how damned great you are, remember the Berlin Airlift and the Marshall Plan. And British military prowess? Google the words Operation Market Garden and see what comes up.5. Developed vaccines which have rid the world of most of the deadly diseases which killed off humans for thousands of years. Other inventions/developments include the internet, the microchip, an automobile that people actually wanted, an airplane that actually flew, a half dozen moon landings, and countless others.6. While being led by a B-movie actor and amiable dunce, ended the threat of nuclear annihilation by a dictatorial, evil communist state.If you don't like any of what I've said here, I don't give a rat's ass. "}{"Title":"Very Good War Movie","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" You must see that behind the commercial making script lies a very good war movie,that can sweep you of the seat at every turn of events and places you right in the middle of the action.The soundtrack also fits the period of the movie.You must not think about the ticket you payed to see this movie but think about the price a nation had to pay in this war.There are scenes that i agree they do not fit well,like the one with a shiny new Mitsubishi parks on a meadow,we don't see no traces of mud on it like it was car washed few moments ago...not buy-able.All in all a very good movie about the Serbian war of the 90's. Go out and rent it or see it if you have the chance ( not for Americans because they won't understand it ) ). "},{"Title":"Classic RED,WHITE and BLUE movie","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" I don't understand why so many here are bad mouthing this movie. Maybe it's all the pinko egghead European enlist losers that hate real Americans as much as they hate their patriotic European brothers and sisters. BEL is like Black Hawk Down and Rambo 1 and 3 ( the second was too unrealistic to enjoy), exposing the harsh realities of war and genocide. While I don't care for many of Owen's movies like the extremely historically inaccurate Karate/Cowboy movies,I liked this one a lot. Two American pilots go on a reconnaisse mission on Christmas Day.  Son of a b*&^h. Do you see this? He put us on holiday mission. God D$%m it. Well look at the bright side, at least we get to fly. Yeah, during the one good meal of the year. It's almost like he doesn't us. No, No, Not Me,you. Not me, You. I'm an Marine. We handle the serious stuff. You, You're a Navy pilot. Your role is to eat Jell-o. You don't get to pick your fights , they come to you. I get it, but at least give me a fight I understand.... I mean it's a joke. Everyone gets to think they will punch some Nazi in the face at Normandy and those days are long gone. Now I realize I'm going be eating Jell-o. Are you going to eat that by the way? First you complain about the jell-o and now you want to eat everybody's Jell-o. Due to a malfunction in their intelligence read-out, They fly over an unauthorized De-Militarized zone that is Military active. The area was deemed off limit because Nazi-like Serb forces are using the area to hide their genocidal victims. Unknown to the American pilots, the pictures they take are of graves the Serbs didn't want America or NATO to find out about. Before long, the Serbs fire two SAMs at the pilots's jet and the Americans know they are under attack. After ejecting, one American is killed execution style, the other must survive a genocidal army and a genocidal sniper and recover the photo evidence he took. While the ending scence was kind of far fetched, the movie is semi-based on a true story. Althrough even the typical Hollywood ending didn't make this movie too-unrealistic to enjoy. Besides, most movies have much more unbelievable scenes than when Owen is bullet proof at the end. While not Oscar material, it is a Red,White and Blue American classic. "},{"Title":"Art vs Action?  Action wins by KO","Date":"31 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Some people have mentioned film as an art, OK, yes it is. Others have called this movie propaganda. Eh. Not really. Its a money maker. The Government makes nothing off this directly, but Fox makes the green.Lets get down to it. This movie is good. I love it and can watch it every week. Its just good action! Film is supposed to entertain, and this does. Lots of shooting, lots of explosions - thats what we all want sometimes. The movie is good fun action, the way i feel about SWAT and Terminator 3. They're not great movies, but they are great fun.As for the politics of this movie, please. They needed a conflict to set the story in. This is not trying to make a point. Its trying to entertain.Someone talked about Black Hawk Down showing Americans just fighting someone who looks different. Uh. Black Hawk Down was an accurate account of what really happened. A bunch of Americans (a lot of us are white!) went down in Somalia (a lot of them are black!) and the Somalians under command of the local warlord were sent to kill the Americans. The director did not decide to make them black to make it different. They were black. Most of the rangers were white. Thats how it was in the actual battle.As for Serbs vs Croats and their respective accents, I can't tell the difference, thats my ignorance.The ending. The ending is fun! He is not being chased by 70 snipers. There is 1 sniper. And yes, there is a tank and a perhaps 2 or 3 platoons of men (between 60 and 90 or so). But its not like he is running and they are shooting at him and missing. (Yes that does happen) But lets not forget the American task force! There are a bunch of Huey's cruising around laying down heavy fire, the Serbs are under constant attack, your aim breaks down. In war, its not like you hit someone every 5 shots. They have statistics that show its more like 1 casualty per 400,000 rounds or something. I thought the end was entertaining and fun.Patriotism? OK, it is patriotic. Yay America. But this film isn't like oo America is the best ever. Well, maybe at war. But it isn't saying that America is some peace loving god country. Heck, part of the beginning dialog is about how they want to fight. Also, the US Naval Commander ignores all sorts of orders and NATO opposition. It just shows what America has proved over and over again. We will not leave our people behind NO MATTER WHAT. Time and time again, America proves that. No matter who tries to stop us, we get our men back.(Ok, maybe some exceptions, ie, USS Pueblo incident and USS Liberty. Look them up, very interesting) Closing point. This movie is fun and entertaining. 8/10 entertainment value. Re-Watchable! "},{"Title":"A waste of wonderful sets","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Whoever thought Owen Wilson could carry a major action film should be shot. He would have ruined even a good action movie, and this is not a good action movie.  I can't think of any living actor more totally lacking in charisma or more irritating to listen to (where does he GET that nasal whine?).  He's a godsend to his supporting cast; my eyes naturally long to go somewhere, anywhere rather than settle on Wilson, so the bit players get a lot more attention than they otherwise would.  Unfortunately, a lot of this film shows Wilson out in the wild by himself, so my eyes cannot escape this thing, this sorry excuse for an actor, that is on the screen.But the converse applies also; if Wilson would have ruined even a good action movie, not even a strong leading man (say, Joaquin Phoenix) could have saved this movie.  There is only one good action set-piece, the missile attack against the Hornet fighter-bomber.  For the entire remainder of the movie, we are subjected to Wilson stumbling through one stupid situation after another.  Wilson skylines himself while trying to communicate with the carrier crew; a sniper misses him even though he is a perfect, stationary target; at another point a whole freakin' ARMORED COMPANY misses him with everything from small arms to 20mm cannons at a range of about 250 yards -and he isn't even taking cover!  These stupidities are important even for a lowbrow action movie from which you expect no brains the action scenes need to make you think, `Wow, isn't he good!' not `Wow, God looks out for fools and drunkards.'Even the redoubtable Gene Hackman can't contribute much to this movie. With the best will in the world, it's impossible to miss the fact that Hackman is too old to lead young, strong men into combat.  He belongs behind a desk, where his mind can save their lives; behind the controls of a chopper, he's apt to cost them their lives.Worst of all, John Moore invests the military men he intends to glorify with a large dose of that most unmilitary of traits self-pity.  Every character gets his turn to whine - and yes, I'm afraid `whine' is the word - about the political rules that make their lives tougher and more dangerous. Get this, warriors WARS ARE FOUGHT FOR POLITICAL GOALS.  A war without political goals is mere pointless murder.  No warrior has the right to expect the country to which he pledges his life to let him endanger GOOD policies (stopping genocide in Bosnia, for instance, or destroying al-Qaeda) in order to save his own skin or his comrades'.Only one thing in BEHIND ENEMY LINES is consistently good.  I have never seen a clearer portrayal of the immense devastation that civil war wreaked on the Balkans.  Nathan Crowley presents us with a bizarre, surreal moonscape of broken, twisted metal, wrecked vehicles, destroyed buildings and ruined works of art.  The sets hauntingly render the sheer waste and sense of loss.Militarism is not merely the exaltation of the military virtues courage, honor, loyalty, discipline, and teamwork.  If it were, militarism would be a good thing.  But true militarism is more than this.  It is the belief that the nation exists to serve the professional military forces, rather than the other way around.  And in this sense, BEHIND ENEMY LINES is a militarist movie in the worst sense of the word.Rating ** (an extra half star for the sets)Recommendation  Watch on TV, but only if you appreciate fine production design.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Flick","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I liked this flick. I like Owen Wilson and i thought John Moore did a great job with the special effects. I liked the plot too. Id say a 9 out of 10. I cannot believe the 6 it has so for. What are people thinking, I think this was one of the better war movies that has come out lately. "},{"Title":"Great flick!","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  The movie was a bit slow in the beginning and some of the dialogue is hard to understand.  I personally don't like movies to have so many subtitles, BUT... this is an outstanding movie.  Great special effects, good story line, good acting and editing. "},{"Title":"worth the wait","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I have been waiting to see this movie for a while now and now I have finally seen it.  I was not in the least dissapointed.  I loved the action and the storyline.  What made this movie so appealing to me was the fast camera work and the special effects the director had for the weapons was great.  Gene Hackmen did a wonderful job and the other guy(I forgot his name) did a great job as well.  I never new he did action movies.  He was pretty impressive.  I liked this movie also because of the simple plot.  A pilot trying to survive.  I give this film two thumbs up!  "},{"Title":"One of the Best Action Flicks 0f 2001!","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Wilson is a Navy pilot who finds the Navy to be too dull.  With only two weeks before he is out, he goes on a Recon exercise and his plane gets shot down in Bosnia by a group of Serbian military.  On the run for his life he tries to escape the Serbians as they hunt him down.  Well scripted, excellent camera work.  Probably Wilson's best and most mature rule to date.  Hackman is on par as usual.  Incredibly intense scenes of action makes this the best action thriller of the year. ***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Outstanding!","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  This was one of the best movies I have see lately .I strongly recommend this movie to anybody who enjoys action and suspense.It was the perfect blend of comedy,suspense,and action.Owen Wilson was incredible by far his best role to date.I think this movie is OUTSTANDING. "},{"Title":"Nice Surprise","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  This film was a very pleasant surprise. I went into the theater expecting a dumb action movie, but found a very intelligent modern war movie with subtle personalities and emotions. I'm a big Owen Wilson fan, and he didn't let me down. He's one of the most believable actors working today. Of course, Gene Hackman's no slouch either as a conflicted admiral with a difficult political problem. A must-see for war movie and action movie buffs.  "}{"Title":"The Best War Survival & Escape Film Ever Made","Date":"12 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" wow i mean it i have read the reviews but why people and critics hated it well who cares about them i saw this movie years ago i guess in 2004 but recently i bought behind enemy lines trilogy disc and this is the first film in the series and the best directed by John Moore starts Owen Wilson & Gene Hackman,it is based on a real life incident in 1995 for the people who are complaining about moving camera,goofs and other stuff like its propaganda or bad acting just stop it if your watching new films releasing like iron man or cgi stuff in 2013 better look at this film its films like these you wont see them today,i do say this was flawed but totally entertaining.the plot2 navy guys one is a pilot and second is the navigator Chris Burnett assigned to look at a area but they take pictures of the site with the plane the enemy launches a SAM attack the plane gets shot down in Bosnia Serbian forces approach and kills the pilot,with no help from American navy Chris Burnett is on the run for his life and hunt begins.there is also a sniper guy who i really liked in the film he is a total bad guy but awesome.there is a video game called commandos Bel this is not based on that so be careful.the castthe rest cast did good including Gene Hackman but Owen Wilson oh god who would have though he could do a great action film,he does mostly comedy films but this is his career best film i can say,the emotions he showed he is a solid actor.this is the most serious film he ever donei don't know why people hate this there are two sequels to this film and trust me they are failures compared to this film its a film that is unforgettable if you love top gun of tom cruise make no mistake about this i can officially say john Moore is a better director then tony Scott this film got everything its made with a lot of passion you can see when you watch it yourself,and as for the climax it maybe cheesy but this film is a complete package of entertainment.My Rating is 10/10 Behind Enemy Lines 2001 is one of the best war films ever made so do not miss this its a must watch film. "},{"Title":"Behind Enemy Lines","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Behind Enemy Lines is one of the best war/action movies ever made.I watch this movie just mostly cause there was nothing else on.To my surprise the movie is really good.Owen Wilson and Gene Hackman made a great team in this movie.Behind Enemy Lines has a very good story.The acting is well done with a lot of drama.The music is great with a lot of well done music.I was never bored with this movie, it's so well done.Overall, if you're looking for a great war/action movie, then Behind Enemy Lines is for you.I give Behind Enemy Lines 9 out of 10.Great movie. "},{"Title":"War is hell","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Wow, what a different and action packed film! Director John Moore has given us almost 2 hours that keep us at the edge of our seats. As far as war films go, this is a very enjoyable and satisfying movie. The flying scenes at the beginning of the film and at the end are just short of spectacular. For a while we just couldn't breathe. Owen Wilson has not been a favorite actor of ours, but here, he's very effective, perhaps goaded by playing opposite of one of the American cinema icons, the great Gene Hackman. It shows that with a good director, like John Moore, a story such as this takes epic proportions where a milquetoast navigator like Wilson, turns into a man of integrity, and since he has seen war right in front of him, his concept of the US Navy changes and he becomes a better man from this experience.   As thrillers go, this is full of action. It is worth the admission price only to see the principals, Wilson and Hackman at their best. "},{"Title":"Lieutenant Chris Burnett (Owen Wilson) top naval aviator flying F/A-18 Superhornet jets into combat. Gets shot down Behind Enemy Lines.","Date":"9 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Lieutenant Chris Burnett (Owen Wilson) is a top naval aviator who is frustrated that fragile geo-politics have kept him from what he knows best flying F/A-18 Superhornet jets into combat. 'We're watching, not fighting,' he tells Admiral Reigart (Gene Hackman), who thinks Burnett hasn't really learned what it means to be a soldier.During a routine reconnaissance mission, Burnett photographs something no one was meant to see and is shot down. Trapped behind enemy lines, Burnett struggles to survive the relentless pursuit of a ruthless secret police enforcer, a deadly tracker, and countless hostile troops. With time running out, Reigart makes the wrenching decision to set aside the rules of the tightly-controlled world in which he operates and risks his career to launch a renegade rescue mission to save the life of one soldier. "},{"Title":"A brilliant movie!","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" You may call me bias, as Owen Wilson is my favorite actor, but this movie was superb. The special effects were really good, the storyline was great and the acting by Wilson, Hackman and the other cast members was spectacular. When watching this movie, I really felt like I was there in those situations with Burnett.Seeing Owen Wilson in such a serious movie was very different, but he managed to pull it off amazingly for such a usually 'funny-man'. He was really good as Lt Chris Burnett and was great at portraying those situations, like the scene with the mass grave. Gene Hackman was also brilliant as Admrial Leslie Reigart. I would certainly recommend it to all those who haven't seen it. "},{"Title":"Excellent Action Thriller","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" From the start of this movie to the end is a ride in a Special Effects camera. The acting is on top, Oscar quality. Owen Wilson, usually a Comedic Actor, pulls off a great Action Star ability of top quality along with Mega Star Gene Hackman as the driving force. For pure action on action, this can be compared to the first thirty minutes of Raiders of the lost Ark, the first thirty minutes of Swordfish. Movies that move you and hook you in from the first few minutes on. The excellent and unique special effects begin in the first ten minutes of this film and continue to roll throughout. From slow motion scene after slow motion scene, you are witness to FX in the highest quality possible. A heart pounding, can't leave your seat Movie of the highest caliber. I gave this a well-deserved 10. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie Deserving a View","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I am very picky about my action flicks, especially military action flicks, and Behind Enemy Lines seems to hit every note just right. Every scene follows fluidly and logically, and there is an air of realism that permeates the film. The plot involving the corruption of the multinational leader is portrayed very realistically. The cinematography and editing and acting are all excellent. It never seems to pander to a younger audience. The action sequences are compelling. This is a standout movie deserving a watch. "},{"Title":"A true story.","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Well okay, it's not realistic in the way that Owen Wilson survives 10430954 attempts of killing him by Serbs. But the film shows something else except the friendly and mighty US Navy. It shows the real situation in Bosnia. The Serbs want to kill an American soldier because he has seen more than he's allowed to see. But wait, they will never confess it. They say that Bosniaks killed him. So, what is the point here? 1) American soldier survives because he's smart, nimble and he has US Navy behind him. 2) Serbs are bad. Full-stop. 3) War is bad. Full-stop. 4) Bosniaks drink Cola and love Ice Cube, so they are normal )I agree that it would be far more realistic and true if he gets killed at the end, but well, Hollywood is Hollywood. ) "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" great film the cast all play their parts superbly and you feel and believe you are actually there and that your going through everything that Berick goes through.GREAT, I LOVE IT!!! Not fake at all, the actors actually stepped in to the lives of those they played and brought all the emotions through perfectly. This film is in my top ten or maybe even my top five! Watch it and I'm sure you will agree, you have to own this movie over and over again its so good, so go get a copy!!-I strongly recommend it; you won't be disappointed. A true masterpiece the rating out of ten can not be right, this movie should have a rating of at least nine point nine. As soon as it ended I wanted to watch it again, just so I can follow Berick in his extraordinary adventure and share his emotions again. It is amazing how he survived and he is a true hero that should never be forgot!-FACT. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Boy, I'm not quite sure what everyone's problem is...because I thought this movie was excellent! I think it's a little ridiculous that people are calling it an insult to those who served there because it's a movie...not a documentary. Of course they're going to change things...I wasn't watching for educational value. If you're looking for an absolutely correct portrayal of the war in Bosnia...look elsewhere. If you're looking for great action with not too much gratuitous killing, then watch away. I can't even imagine how people thought it was a waste of time...it was exciting and the acting was great (got to love Gene Hackman). I gave it a 9, a far cry from the many 1's you'll see from others...great movie! "}{"Title":"one of the better action films of recent memory","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" Owen Wilson is Lt. Chris Burnett longing to see some action during peacetime as a Navy navigator, after his commanding officer Admiral Leslie McMahon Reigart (Gene Hackman) sends him on a routine mission Burnett gets what he wanted in spades. Now alone behind enemy lines after seeing his fellow Navman get shot at point blank range after their plane is shot down, he seeks to find a way out of hostile Serbian territory, back on base Reigart contends with military brass while trying to help him. I can deal with some lapses of logic if the film is engrossing enough. And this movie IS thrilling and captivating enough that I enjoyed the ride. Not a great action flick, best one of the best of recent memory. It's not wrong to love a patriotic American action movie. God knows that there's sadly fewer and fewer of these type of films out there.My Grade A DVD Extras Commentary with producers John Davis and Wyck Godfrey; Second commentary with director John Moore and editor Paul Smith; 6 minute Behind The Scenes featurette; 7 extended and deleted scenes with optional commentary; Pre-Vis Ejection Sequence with optional audio commentary; Trailer for Minority Report Easter Egg Highlight the star above the Pre-Vis Ejection Sequence word in that menu to find an alternative scene and an intro to said scene "},{"Title":"Pure fun at the movies","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Too many people criticize this film. They just don't get the point though, it's a pure fun movie. It's patriotic, and when it's over, you are left with a good feeling. Sure, I'll admit the ending was a little too over the top, even for a fun movie, but aside from that, the movie is great. It's packed with action, heroics, and Owen Wilson unleashes a new side of himself. He also brings some comedy to the Navy, much to the despite of Gene Hackman's character. Rent this movie on DVD, or better yet buy it like I did, and just have some fun for once. "},{"Title":"Extremely Intense, and unpredictable!","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  This movie was great!   I loved the very clean quality to the scenes. The actors were very natural in this movie,  and I knew Owen Wilson would do a great job  as the lead.  I have hopes of becoming a  Film Director one day, and this will be one of  the movies in my mind when I'm Directing.   I am definitely going to be seeing this  in the theatre more than once!!!Go see it!!!  "},{"Title":"Good movie!","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  This was a good movie with lots of action. I also liked the music which I thought was as effective as the music in TOP GUN. Some scenes are a little unbelievable, but it's an action movie that's meant to entertain. You can't enjoy a movie if you are going to criticize every little thing that is not completley realistic. If that were the case, almost all action movies would be considered terrible. Just sit down, open your mind and enjoy it. I thought Owen Wilson did a good job and Gene Hackman is always good. Some people didn't like the shaky camera work, but I think it was meant to make you feel like you were running with him. I have one last thing to ask. What's with the anti-American comments? Nobody made you go out and rent a movie that is obviously about Americans.  "},{"Title":"a goof that has not been added","Date":"3 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" the film was top notch ,it had everything a movie needed and though heavily criticised in goofs they seemingly missed one out,as one goof says,the movie was set in 1996 and when they lost the football to the sea at the start they yell WILSON this is sure to be a quote from the tom hanks film castaway(2000) which in fact they wouldn't have known about until 4 years later. not a goof or trivia but the mines most featured in the film were heavily distributed throughout bosnia and kosovo unlike convetional mines they fire a string in to the air which will set it off however if someone is to stop the string form reaching 1 metre the death can be averted.they're blast radius is around 5 metres and when burnett runs through the tripwires he would have definitely been blown up due to the mines being both sides. overall the movie brilliant to watch and i would recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"Behind Enemy Lines","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" This movie was a great way to show people some effects that was based on true events....well mainly to really show what the Serbs did to the Bosnians.....and also how they lied and always said they didn't do it .....sure there were some bad things that were fake......but all those graves that were shown in the movie really existed.....7,000--8,000 innocent Bosnians were killed and buried in the mountains of Srebrenica near Zvornik....every time i see this movie (which is a lot of times) it just take me back Home and makes me remember the war. ( i recommend this movie to everyone )its a great way to show people who don't know nothing about Bosnia and the war that happened....and to show them some things that happened during the worst times in Bosnia.. "},{"Title":"Excellent and fast fun, but a bit shocking too","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" One of the better action movies I have ever seen. Something like Rambo with a human touch ) American soldiers have been showed as always, as heroes, but not some other Nato forces. Anyway, Serb soldiers have been portrayed really well, this is maybe a first war film that shows thrutfully who really was a bad guy in former Yugoslavia.Slavic actors chosen appareantly are neither Serbian, Croatians or Bosnians but Russian and Polish actors, hence strange pronunciation of quasi Serbo/Croatian/Bosnian/Yugoslavian language.Anyway, the film was really interesting to watch, not many films are made this way. Acting and storyline should not be taken to seriously, but some of the story and facts were spot on (Serbian massacres).The best thing about the film is that is full of action, naive (as most of other Hollywood war films),shocking, and it feels like it lasts 60 minutes, not 2 hours. Some good camera work too! Good! "},{"Title":"One of the best military movies nowadays","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"15 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" This is an excellent movie based on facts about the terrible conflict that devastated the Balkans. An evil faction of the Serbian Army who participated in the genocide of Bosnian people attacks an American aircraft which was patrolling the air space.The great American actor Owen Wilson, playing a courageous American fighter pilot is shot down after a realistic and truly efficient set of special effects that will leave you speechless.And what a brilliant soundtrack all the time. It is not a secret that the movie alone is a clear example of what an American fighter pilot can do take care of local people, give signal calls to friendly troops and take photograph evidence of the Bosnian genocide. It was heart-breaking to see the mass-murderers Serbians killing all that innocent people. Thank God the Americans stopped that terrible war and Milosevic's Hitler-style plans. This movie reminds us how important is to keep freedom and the real cost of it. Gene Hackman plays the Admiral who has to take the most important decisions in the most difficult moments. As a great US NAVY commander he will do what it needs to finish the job. The UN, as usually is irrelevant and unable to take any simple decision, even if thousands of civilians' lives are pending on it. If it wasn't for American leadership, the war wouldn't have finished.All in all it is a must-see movie for everyone who is intelligent and wants to learn some history. Of course, only serious and intelligent people will understand this superb movie. "},{"Title":"Aren't films made to be entertaining? This is a film that does","Date":"1 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" I get a lot of moaning from people that the film isn't realistic and that everything about the movie is incorrect ( not wearing ear caps on the flight deck ) but I'm like; so what? Let us remind each other that films are made for entertainment. A good movie should, in my opinion, a movie in which you can truly immerse.We all know what happened in Bosnia at the time and we all know the war crimes that have been committed there. I do admit, the ending is too unreal, even for a movie. But the rest was actually pretty good. Think about the director's style, acting work and so fort. I was actually impressed by the unique zoom, fast forward style of the film. Overall I would give this movie an 8 / 10.Well worth it. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable movie to watch, although at times it feels like Rambo","Date":"13 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" You know, I think this movie actually is really good, although it is not perfect.Basically, the movie is about an American pilot and navigator shot down over Bosnia. The pilot gets killed, and the navigator is forced to take all measures necessary to escape Serb troops that are looking for him.Of course, there are some parts in the film that sound completely out of the ordinary, such as when Burnett (the main protagonist) is able to dodge hundreds of bullets chasing him.However, in the film, there are many scenes that show grim events that have occurred in the Bosnian war that devastated that nation in the early 1990's, and they show them in pretty good detail in most cases, such as a scene which shows a mass grave and Serb troops who spot it look appalled at what they see. Another is when an abandoned factory was booby trapped with mines. In real life, Bosnia still contains large numbers of mines left over from the war, even though the war ended 15 years ago.Bottom line, the movie is really good in my opinion and it is worth your time to watch. Like I said, the movie isn't perfect. But you won't be disappointed. "}{"Title":"Good film","Date":"23 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" It will be a propaganda film, but patriotic talk of a true story, remarkable scenes dynamics, the attacks against the Slavs. And 'some' surreal in some scenes, but ultimately can be fine. I do not understand why we need to criticize the story really happened, fear the reality? I do not know who say, is a film vedibile. Cmq I am tired of reading your stupid opinions, this is a zoo, a caravanserai, here anyone can write what he wants, I bet that you have put Rambo 10 but goes. Write what you want, ultimately each of us is to judge what he wants. Even the most ignorant and illiterate, have made a miserable 7 titanic. Goodbye! I broke boxes. "},{"Title":"Probably the best DTS DVD I have....","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Awesome film, dramatic DTS sound track if viewed on DVD(R2) though you need to have decent Audio Vision kit to do it justice.Interesting extras incl. extended scenes. I buy DVD's for the films not the extras but for once they do add something.Probably the best DVD I have. "},{"Title":"BRUTAL,BREATHTAKING,BRILLIANT!!!","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  What a movie!I dont think i have ever enjoyed a war/action movie as much as i enjoyed Behind Enemy Lines. This film had everything you could ask of a movie. Brilliant acting,fantastic special affects and a storyline that has you gripped from the first minute to the last. I wasnt expecting a 10 out of 10 movie although i had read some good reviews when this was released at the cinema . Those reviews were totally justified.If you are into action and adventure movies i will personally promise that you will love this film. Owen Wilson is the navy pilot who gets shot down over Bosnia while taking pictures of Serb atroicities and Gene Hackman plays the ships admiral who has to make the decision if to rescue him against NATO orders or to jepordise his career to save his pilot. Although Wilson is not a houshold name he pulls of a brilliant performance as does Gene Hackman. A MUST SEE MOVIE ! 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Great action movie","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Behind Enemy Lines is a really cool action movie.  Owen Wilson plays a man who was shot down behind enemy lines with his pilot.  His pilot gets killed by some Bosnian guy and now, Owen is on the run for his life.  With the help of Gene Hackman and friends, he will try to get out of enemy lines alive.  the performances in this are really cool and all of the fight sequences are top of the line.  The plot is based on the true happenings of a man by the name of O' Grady (I think).Overall the movie is really cool and I enjoyed it for the most part.  Rating 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Superb! A must-see.","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  This one keeps your attention from beginning to end. -And it's disappointing that it ends when it does only because it's so extremely entertaining and edge-of-the-seat captivating. My wife had to leave the room when an execution looked like a possibility and later she was physically jumping up and down for 30-40 seconds.  "},{"Title":"excellent film","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I especially enjoyed the direction on this film, I really felt i was there...What a stunning directing debue for John Moore, I hope to see more great from him. "},{"Title":"One of the best films of the year","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  This is an amazing film.  Don't let the detractors who claim it has too many war-movie cliches or that the ending is too patriotic sway you, see it for the nonstop, unyielding, unstoppable action and suspense.  Not only did I learn a great deal about the conflict in Bosnia, but I witnessed the interaction of one of the great acting masters (Gene Hackman) with a young actor who continues to surprise with his depth (Owen Wilson).  The asymmetrical directing style works brilliantly in this movie; it is never staid, and is always inventive.  Behind Enemy Lines was somewhat reminiscent of Run Lola Run in that once the story gets going, it simply does not stop. A deceptively simple script that manages to push all emotional buttons. Tell me that you're not moved by the developing bond between Wilson and Hackman.  Tell me you're not gripping your seat when the F-18 is shot down. Watch this movie free of prejudice and you'll have a smashup great time.  "},{"Title":"Well Done!","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  First of all, the movie was very good. It would be even more entertaining if you could speak any Slavic languages (there are many dialogs by Bosnia and Herzegovina's killers). There are so many true moments, especially about war. It is my understanding that not many Americans can really value this movie, since they seem to have very little information about the war crimes in Southeastern Europe.The movie was so carefully made that I could read Russian labels on the Surface-to-Air missile equipment. Of course, it was funny that Lt. Chris Burnett was so lucky and didn't get shot or hurt. This was the only minus of the movie. If you expect to see a boring 3 hour movie about war, you should see something else. Behind Enemy Lines is modern, dynamic, and very well done. "},{"Title":"A great war action thriller","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  At a these unfortunate times, we need a movie like this. I was originally reluctant to see this because I thought the film would just focuses more on the action than on the story line and acting. It didn't. The movie great acting, especially from Gene Hackman. A lot of the action sequences, you didn't know what was going to happen, and the movie kept me interested. I am just surprised that the movie got a PG-13 for the violence and language.10/10 "},{"Title":"This is what action movies are all about.","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  For all of you people that complain about plots in action movies get a life. This was made for action fans and it delivers. The effects were pretty good and Owen Wilson did much better than I thought he would for an action hero. If you love action movies do not skip this one in theatres. "}{"Title":"Excellent Patriotic Movie/Outstanding Production!","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I was invited to see this movie by some friends who wanted to see it.  I was skeptical, since I had seen the trailer and it didn't look that good (from my viewpoint). Owen Wilson as an action star??? Well, I couldn't have been more mistaken.  This movie was very well done, and Owen Wilson did a superb job of playing the All-American hero.  The action was somewhat realistic, the opening flight seen intense, and the plot suspenseful.In an era where the United States has such a critical role in world dynamics, it is good to see the many facets of overseas nation building.Let's put it this way, the theatre was so packed I had to sit in the very front row at the far right side of the theatre and I still loved it!  "},{"Title":"best actor in the world","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  this movie is the best i have ever seen. Owen Wilson plays the part of Chris Burnett excellently. i love him in all the movies he has stared in. but behind enemy lines that's the best of them all. i nearly cried when i thought he was going to be killed near the end. the scenes are brilliant and i enjoyed ever bit of the movie. i only wished i typed when i had the chance.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I am retired USAF Special Operations person.  I have seen a lot of S**t and I love this movie.   Never had much use for the Navy when it is not wartime, but always respected them each and everyone.  Great story, great script and long live the USA. "},{"Title":"Non-stop action!","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Before you sit down to watch this movie, get your popcorn and soda together and make sure you disconnect your phone. You don't want to miss a single second of this movie.The movie starts a bit slow but then it picks up. Owen Wilson does a great job of playing Lt. Chris Burnett. He and his pilot fly over Bosnia (which is a demilitarized zone) during the war. They get shot down and Burnett has to fight for his life. Gene Hackman gets Adm. Leslie Reigart right. The action while their plane is in the air is very well done. I could tell they used CGI and models but that whole action sequence was very believable. All things considered well shot, performed and edited. A must see. "},{"Title":"Great action and awesome camra work!","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  We just rented Behind Enemy Lines and I think it was a very good film. Pretty good acting and very intence action with just totally awesome camra work! Gene Hackman has always been a great actor and once again he was very good but Owen Wilson`s acting to ME has always been questionible and I knew this movie required a serious role for him and I didn`t think he could pull it off. Wilson did pull it off and now I he can be a serious guy when he wants to. David Keith was good but I just wanted him to have a bigger role but that is really the only disappointment in this movie. This has great photographey and the end was excellent. There hasn`t been a big battle scene like that in quite awhile! I recommend any fan of,Hackman`s,Wilson`s,Keith`s,and/or any war movie fan to see this great movie! "},{"Title":"a strong cast where real issues are addressed","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  the commander gene hackman portrayed  as an officer who was totally behind each of his men. the movie had good air and ground effects that will test your home theater system. totally riveting from start to end. "},{"Title":"The point is its an action movie","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  I've noticed how many people gripe how this movie is very cliched and very predictable. The point is, its an action movie, and as an action movie Behind Enemy Lines does a very fine job at it. If you are trying to find some thought provoking themes, or a great story in this film, you are looking in the wrong direction. Behind Enemy Lines is primarily an ACTION movie, one where you can leave the theatre entertained and thrilled, as opposed to how you feel when you leave the theatre after watching a drama.I highly recommend this movie to anyone looking for a great action movie that isn't as lousy as many cliched action movies of before. It does not involve a sappy love plot which i was thankful it didn't have, and the way it does its action scenes is very original and does not have the hero walking around guns blazing, a la a schwarzenneger flick. "},{"Title":"Good Movie, great stunts, good story, great acting","Date":"16 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" This movie was good plain and simple. I used to love watching this movie when I was younger and this motivated me to become a navy pilot back then. Now I have a different interest but it was fun for the mean time. Luke Wilson, he's alright kind of annoying, is a navy pilot along with his friend goes on a holiday mission and gets bombed. Then the story actually starts. The scenes with the planes taking off and landing were fascinating. The parts when they were on the ship were kind of cool too. The parts with the plane getting chased by the missile and before that just them cruising along in the skies just looking around were fascinating to me. The cinematography and battle sequences were pretty cool. It was intense at some parts. The main villain was awesome, he played his part perfectly, and his ferocity in finding Luke Wilson and killing him was intense as well. This movie was really good and I really recommend it. It is old, but still not a bad watch.MPAA rated this PG-13, and I also rate it PG-13 as well, but my opinion why it is rated that is because of battle sequences and language. So pretty much I recommend it for all ages 13 and above. "},{"Title":"This is a freakin' fictional M-O-V-I-E...not a documentary. Duh!","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":"  Judging from the commentary available via this website, Behind Enemy Lines has suffered unfairly at the hands of the critics and public alike. The film is a non-stop action flick built around a thin story about a Navy F-18 navigator (Wilson) who ejects behind enemy lines somewhere in war torn Yugoslavia and is pursued by a rogue force of Serbs. Most of the flick is dedicated to the pursuit while the carrier battle group commander (Hackman) finds himself embroiled in politics which prevent him from effecting an extraction of his downed pilot. The film is a good action shoot with lots of pyro, firefights, stunts, effects, etc. which is built around a lukewarm dramatic thread and laminated with the trappings of Hollywood action flix. The film is just good old fashioned entertainment in spite of the many naysayers who seem to think it's everything from a documentary to a CIA propaganda plot. A good watch for Americans who want to see American rescue Americans while wasting a small army of bad guys....whoever they may be. "},{"Title":"Behind Enemy Lines","Date":"20 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, War, Drama","Review":" From director John Moore (remake of The Omen), I had an idea of the concept, and I knew one of the lead stars, so I was going to at least try it. Basically naval flight navigator Lt. Chris Burnett (Owen Wilson) is bored of reconnaissance missions, and while flying with co-pilot Stackhouse (Bad Company's Gabriel Macht) they head off course over Bosnia, and they inadvertently film evidence of war crimes. They also end up being shot down, and while injured Stackhouse is executed in cold blood, Burnett manages to get away before this, and he is now on the run from the army trying to get to a safe pick-up point. Admiral Leslie McMahon Reigart (Gene Hackman) is the man determined to help him get out alive with directions over the radio, Reigart risks losing his command if he keeps going, but he does not care. Also starring Charles Malik Whitfield as Capt. Rodway, Joaquim De Almeida as Admiral Piquet, David Keith as Master Chief Tom O'Malley, Olek Krupa as Miroslav Lokar, Vladimir Mashkov as Tracker Sasha and Marko Igonda as Bazda. Wilson seemed a bit of odd choice, since he normally does more comedy, but he does do okay, while Hackman I can agree is a little two-dimensional, and maybe if the script has been as interesting as a few of the action moments, this could have been a more admired wartime drama. Okay! "}]